00:00:00.920 - 00:00:01.540, Speaker A: Enjoy.
00:00:07.070 - 00:00:25.326, Speaker B: Everyone. Can you hear me okay? Yeah. I'm mit Ergonov. I'm a co founder of draw protocol. And I'm sorry, it doesn't change. Okay, that works. And today we're going to speak about how we unlock liquidity for the modular economy at drop.
00:00:25.326 - 00:01:29.440, Speaker B: We believe that abundant liquidity is super important for the ecosystems to flourish. So we're going to explore three things. Can you go to the next slide? So we're going to explore three things. First is what is the most successful example of the ecosystem built around an abundant liquidity? Second, about what are the things that we can learn from this successful example and how we could use it for the modular liquidity. So what is, what is this more successful ecosystem? And it is, yeah, not changing still. Can you go to the next one? What is the most ecosystem, most successful ecosystem built around abundant liquidity? That's ethereum. And go to the next slide.
00:01:29.440 - 00:02:45.520, Speaker B: Yeah, that. So ethereum is obviously super successful. So let's dive into its story and see how it evolved. Ethereum started as a proof of work chain, and then Defi Summer happened on Ethereum, and Defi summer was the period when a huge lending borrowing market was created on Ethereum. That was before staking launch. And staking was launched with very significant UX difficulties. So you have 32 ETH to start staking, you have to spin off your own validators.
00:02:45.520 - 00:03:25.896, Speaker B: It's pretty prohibitive. So when LST started on Ethereum, they solved a super important UX problem, and that was a very important part of their success. But they also clicked into the pre existing DeFi ecosystem that was like perfect fit for an LST. And leverage looping became a killer use case for lsts on Ethereum. That created a lot of growth by default, and that's how the ecosystem evolved. And it resulted on the next slide in basically three super important things. First, it's high capital efficiency.
00:03:25.896 - 00:04:33.950, Speaker B: People now leveraging multiple different DeFi tools could get very reasonable yields, around 10% APR with good risk, risk profile, let's say. Then the whole app ecosystem around it is really booming. There are multiple billions of TVL, millions of active users in the ecosystem, and all of this doesn't come at the cost of security. So staking ratio on Ethereum is pretty high now around 30%, and it keeps growing and growing. So all these factors are aligned about joint incentives. All the players in the ecosystem, validators, users, builders of the applications, are aligned around growing liquidity in the ecosystem, using ETH as a main asset and basically building the success together so what we can learn from this success on the next slide, what we can learn for the modular economy from Ethereum success on the next slide here is basically the answer. How we can replicate it and how we can basically create a similar dynamics around here and using exactly the same tools as in ETH and next slide.
00:04:33.950 - 00:05:00.520, Speaker B: Basically, we don't. And we don't because all these factors of Ethereum success were in fact path dependent. So there was no defi somewhere on tier. Staking is very simple in all the cosmos, SDK chains and defi is pretty small compared to Ethereum. So we really need to go in a different way. Module economy is unique. We need to create unique ways how to grow it.
00:05:00.520 - 00:05:49.794, Speaker B: So let's think first principles and analyze what are the desired outcomes that we need for celestia. And as we saw in Ethereum, we need high capital efficiency, so high yield for tier holders. We need the validators whose incentives are aligned and high staking participation. And we need app builders that have easy access to liquidity. And let's look at the current state on the ecosystem on the next slide. And it's basically opposite to it because 70% of Tao is currently locked in staking. And there is very little incentives for anyone staking TNL to use it for other use cases because they are just not as appealing.
00:05:49.794 - 00:06:21.620, Speaker B: And this is a problem because once this liquidity is locked, it's not used in the apps. The apps are sorrowing. Therefore the whole defi ecosystem is not as appealing as it could be. And therefore there's still no incentive for the users to unlock the liquidity. So how do we solve this incentives problem? Let's explore how we can do it on the next slide. So for the modular liquidity, let's think about incentives alignment on the next slide. There are three main categories of the participants.
00:06:21.620 - 00:06:53.760, Speaker B: There are validators and their roll up builders and app builders. So let's on the next slides, look at the tier holders first. So what do they need? They need basically high yield. And currently the yield that they're getting from staking is kind of the optimal solution for them. So let's explore how we can get incentives around liquidity to get them even higher yield on the next slide. And the idea is that this is where LST is really coming into play, that there are two sources of yield. There are staking yield, there's defi yield.
00:06:53.760 - 00:07:49.984, Speaker B: Once you combine them, launching a derivative based on the stake token, you can now get even higher yield for the token holders. But the issue currently is that the Defi ecosystem is pretty minimal and therefore it's not just appealing for the people to participate in these use cases. So how do you solve for that? We need to kick start it and basically create a flywheel effect around the key applications that are used in TiA. And there are multiple ways how this flywheel, and we'll not dive into this conversation, but feel free to come talk to us at our booth and we can explore some of these examples. But the basic point is that you create tightly integrated use cases around defi that are using tier and stake tier as a token, and therefore you incentivize unlocking liquidity. So that's one incentive sold. And on the next slide, there is second important group to care about, which is validators, what validators need.
00:07:49.984 - 00:08:32.048, Speaker B: They essentially need a growth opportunity. And validators make money when the whole ecosystem is successful. But the current situation is when 70% of tier tokens are with the validators. They're kind of interested in, let's say, maintaining status quo. So let's explore how we can use liquidity to change these incentives so that validators can participate more in the ecosystem growth. So on the next slide, here is the solution for it. So imagine there is a situation where a validator can still maintain their relationships with their community, with their stakers, but make their staked asset liquid, so that for the token holders, it's an opportunity to participate in the ecosystem growth.
00:08:32.048 - 00:09:31.340, Speaker B: And that's possible if you integrate it into the LST protocol, so that validated position can become liquid without sacrificing the delegation for this validator. So once this is possible, validators can directly participate in the growth of the ecosystem. And the stakers do not have to choose anymore between their preferred validator and providing liquidity to the apps. So that's the second incentives result. And on the third one, maybe the most important one on the next slide is the app builders. So app builders in the sovereign economy build sovereign roll ups, and they care about sovereignty means control of their stack, control of their environment. They care about liquidity access, and they care about participating in the value that is creating on the roll up very directly and currently.
00:09:31.340 - 00:10:33.556, Speaker B: Talking of lsds, theoretically that means I in the world of 1000 roll ups, every sovereign roll up could have their own LST because that's the most control that they can have over liquidity. But that also means that the liquidity gets very, very fragmented and that kind of defies the purpose. So on the next slide, the possible solution for it is joining roll up liquidity with the large liquidity pools, which works as following when a token on the roll up that can be custom representation of the token that is native to the roll up, that is customized to the use cases that are present on the roll up and the roll up builder have full control of this liquidity. But when the token is bridged back, it can participate in the large liquidity pools. And therefore we can solve for liquidity fragmentation as well. So this is the third group for which we solve the incentives. And on the next slide, that's the future that we are building towards.
00:10:33.556 - 00:11:06.010, Speaker B: So we have these three key groups of the participants of the ecosystem. There are t holders, there are validators, that are roll ups that are working together to grow the ecosystem and participate in its success. That's what drop enables. And on the next slide, that's how we envision this blooming ecosystem with abundant liquidity, with many happy, huge success. So we invite everyone to work together with us on this. And yeah, feel free to talk to us on our booth, how we can work together on it. Thanks.
00:11:20.150 - 00:11:56.600, Speaker A: Okay, thank you, Amitya, for this great presentation. We'll go, I think, straight into the first panel of the day, which is about migrating to Celestia. I think this is one of my favorite panels of the entire summit, so I hope people will be watching this one. We have Mike from Lyra, we have Kenny from Manta, zon from Nisha, Victor from hash flow, and Ikita from barter and moderated by Ishida from Astra, of course. So a lot of portfolio companies here on the stage from us, which we always like. So, yeah, give it up for this panel.
00:12:16.510 - 00:15:22.220, Speaker B: It and one.
