00:00:00.560 - 00:00:48.154, Speaker A: Thank you very much. I'd like to thank the organizers for having me here. And I must say, it's good to see so many of you after the pandemic. So I'm going to be talking about ongoing joint work with my collaborator, Max Anse Mehran. And as the project is largely theoretic in nature, I'll start by introducing some of the familiar characters. So, for li theory, well, I'm going to start throughout this talk. G will be a connected, semi simple linear algebraic group over the complex numbers.
00:00:48.154 - 00:02:03.974, Speaker A: I'll denote its Li algebra by the corresponding german letter. Okay, and then, very standard observation to make in this context, I have the killing form, and it's non degenerate and g invariant. And as such, it affords me a G module isomorphism between the adjoint and co adjoint representations. So this is as g modules. Okay, so in particular, I'm going to identify these throughout the talk, and I'm going to transfer the Poisson structure on the dual over to the original thing. So by means of this, my g is Poisson. Okay, so a little bit more li theoretic data that I will need is the following.
00:02:03.974 - 00:03:24.924, Speaker A: So what I'm going to do is I'm going to take some conjugacy class of parabolic subalgebras. It could be just the Li algebra by itself, or it could be all Borel subalgebras or something in between those two extremes. So c will be a conjugacy class of parabolic subalgebras of my li algebra. And of course, because they're all conjugate, they're going to all have the same dimension. Let me just call that d. So my d will be the dimension of any parabolic subalgebra in this conjugacy class. Okay, well, what can I say then, about this from a geometric standpoint? Okay, well, it manifestly sits inside of the Grassmannian of d dimensional vector, subspaces of the Lie algebra.
00:03:24.924 - 00:04:19.998, Speaker A: And because it's a conjugacy class, it's actually going to be an orbit for the action of the group on this Grassmannian, and it will actually be a closed orbit. So this inclusion is as a closed g orbit. Okay, so in particular, this c is going to be a smooth, projective, homogeneous variety for the group g. So we have all that structure at once. Okay, so c is a smooth projective and homogeneous g variety. I probably shouldn't write below this, right. Okay.
00:04:19.998 - 00:05:36.324, Speaker A: Okay, so that's point number one that I wanted to make .2 is the following. So this c has an intrinsic geometry of its own that I just described, but with a couple of standard ly theoretic choices it can be made a little bit more tractable to work with. So let's suppose that I choose some parabolic in my conjugacy class and I integrate that to a parabolic subgroup. Okay, well, then these choices are going to give rise to an explicit description of c. In particular, they're going to give rise to an isomorphism from this partial flag variety g mod p to c. And of course, how is this going to work? Well, it will send the equivalence class of something in here just to the adjoint action on this fixed parabolic subalgebra.
00:05:36.324 - 00:06:37.994, Speaker A: And this will be an isomorphism of g varieties. Okay, so I'm going to go back and forth between the sort of more intrinsic description of this and the GMoD P description that you get by making a couple of choices. Okay, so for part two, then the li theory is essentially done. What I'd like to do is move on to Groton, Dieck Springer resolutions. Okay. All right, so what's the basic setup for this? Well, what I'm going to do, I'm going to start down here just with my grasmannian. Okay.
00:06:37.994 - 00:07:30.468, Speaker A: Now over this we'll set the tautological bundle, okay. And I can just pull that tautological bundle back to c just under the inclusion map. Okay, so I have c here, it's included in here by iota, and I'm going to look at its pullback of t like this. All right, like that. And I'm going to call this g sub c. Okay, so what kind of structure have I defined? Well, I've just pulled a vector bundle back. It was a g equivariant vector bundle before on the Grassmadian.
00:07:30.468 - 00:08:20.424, Speaker A: So it's going to be a g equivariant vector bundle over C. So all of this implies this is a g equivariant vector bundle over C like that. But I guess even more concretely, we know what a fiber of the tautological bundle is. It's just over a point, namely a vector space. It is that vector space. And so what that means is this pulled back guy is just going to have the following incidence description. It's going to look like all pairs, p comma x.
00:08:20.424 - 00:09:03.544, Speaker A: My parabolic is in my conjugacy class and x is a point in that parabolic. Okay, so just very concrete like that. Now, before I move on, let me just say we did, after making choices identify this c with g mod p. So what does this g sub C look like as something sitting over g mod p? Well, it's actually very, very simple. It's just this associated vector bundle like that. Okay. Okay.
00:09:03.544 - 00:09:58.574, Speaker A: So very, very concrete. Any questions so far? Okay, so now what I'd like to do is just to emphasize that while I've presented g sub c as something over c, um, it's also as legitimately something over the Li algebra. Instead of projecting to the parabolic subalgebra, I can actually project to the point in the Li algebra. So I'm going to call that process mu sub c. That will be a, be a map from gc to g, and it will just send p comma x to x like that. Okay, very simple, very intuitive. This map is going to be surjective.
00:09:58.574 - 00:11:29.284, Speaker A: It's going to be a projective morphism, or proper, if you prefer, and it's going to have generically finite fibers. So it's just a very, very slight modification, if you like, of the original li algebra. So this is rejective projective and has generically finite fibers, okay? But more fundamentally, it is the means by which to recognize some more geometric structure on this g sub C. As you might guess from the notation, it's a moment map for something. So it's not too, too hard to show that there's a unique G invariant Poisson structure on this variety g sub C, for which this mu sub C is a moment map. Okay, so I'll write that down. So there exists a unique G invariant Poisson structure on g sub C, for which mu sub C is a moment map.
00:11:29.284 - 00:12:59.458, Speaker A: Okay? And so it's this Poisson structure, this unique one, that I'm going to want to work with for the rest of this talk, okay? But you might say, well, this g sub c, if I make appropriate choices, it is just a g equivariant vector bundle over g mod p. And so what does the Poisson structure look like as a Poisson structure on the total space of that g equivariant vector bundle? Fair enough. So I'd like to kind of discuss that in two steps. Okay? So for the first, my group always comes with two commuting actions of itself, one by left multiplication, one by right multiplication by inverses. Okay? So what I have always is g times g acting on g. Okay? Now, when I quotient the thing on the right by some subgroup, I'm going to lose some of this action. In particular, let's see what happens when I mod out by u.
00:12:59.458 - 00:13:36.256, Speaker A: So here, here, my u is going to be the unipotent radical of that parabolic subgroup that I just chose. Okay. All right. So I'm still going to have this left g action, but I'm going to lose some of the right g action. Instead, what I'm going to get is pull p mod u acting on this. So that's as much symmetry as I can reasonably expect to preserve. Okay.
00:13:36.256 - 00:14:08.604, Speaker A: And, well, so from that, I can just take the cotangent lift of this action. Right. So what I'm going to get is g times p mod u, and that will act in a hamiltonian fashion on the cotangent bundle of g mod u. Okay? Yes. U is the unipotent radical of p. Exactly. Yep.
00:14:08.604 - 00:14:58.824, Speaker A: Okay. But this p mod u action is going to be free, turns out, not too difficult to check. So I can take a, I can take a geometric quotient by this p mod u action. What I will get is no longer symplectic, but it will be poisson, and it will retain a hamiltonian action in the Poisson sense of the left copy of the group g. So what I'm going to have is g acting on the quotient t star g mod u mod p mod u. And this is going to be hamiltonian, but in the Poisson sense. Okay.
00:14:58.824 - 00:15:42.494, Speaker A: All right. On the other hand, what can we say about this quotient variety? Well, we can say the following. Let's see. So t star g mod u, mod p mod u. Well, the cotangent bundle, I can just write that in associated bundle notation, and that will simplify things a lot. So what is this going to be? It's going to be g times sub u of the cotangent space at the identity cosette. And now that entire guy mod p mod u.
00:15:42.494 - 00:16:15.404, Speaker A: But this dual space is really just the annihilator of the unipotent. Well, the annihilator of this nil radical, which is the original parabolic. And I've quotiented by u here. So when I quotient by p mod u, that's just like quotienting by p. So overall, what we get from this picture is just g times p of p. Like that. Okay.
00:16:15.404 - 00:17:17.480, Speaker A: All right. So in a nutshell, what do one and two give us? Well, we produced a Poisson hamiltonian g variety, and then we identified it with this associated bundle. So it's telling you that this associated bundle is naturally a Poisson hamiltonian g variety. So this g times p is a Poisson hamiltonian g variety. Okay. But then we had this. Where is it? It's over there.
00:17:17.480 - 00:18:15.796, Speaker A: We had this identification of g sub c with this associated bundle. I just said g sub c was Poisson. I just said this was Poisson. And so that identification that I just wrote down will hold on the level of Poisson varieties as well, it turns out. Okay, so it's not too hard to show that the isomorphism from this associated bundle to GC, that this is Poisson. Sure. No, no, no.
00:18:15.796 - 00:19:18.164, Speaker A: It would be the holomorphic Poisson structure. Yes, holomorphic, yes, exactly. Okay, so again, you can choose between the intrinsic realization of the Poisson structure on G sub C by this proposition right here, or, if you're okay, making a few choices and identifying G sub C with an associated vector bundle with that Poisson structure that I just defined, you can get the same Poisson structure in G sub C. So depending on what application you have in mind, one might be better than the other. Okay, so let me now make a couple of just very, very general comments about what this G sub C looks like. Okay, let's see. Well, this could be interesting.
00:19:18.164 - 00:20:07.244, Speaker A: Well, it works for the most part, I'll manage. Yeah, that's okay. Just persevere here. Okay, so let me talk about a couple of special cases here. Okay, so for the first, again, I could just take my conjugacy class to be the li algebra sitting by itself. Okay. So I could just take c to be that.
00:20:07.244 - 00:21:01.552, Speaker A: Okay. And in so doing, what I've done is I've just recovered, in a kind of fancy and pretentious way, the original Poisson structure on my li algebra. But what I'd like to emphasize for the sake of what is coming next, is that this is a highly irregular poisson variety. It has all kinds of different symplectic leaf dimensions. So let me just emphasize that. So this has symplectic leaves of dimensions. Okay, well, what's the generic symplectic leaf dimension? It's the dimension of the li algebra minus the rank of the Li algebra.
00:21:01.552 - 00:21:46.734, Speaker A: So these are the big symplectic leaves, so, of dimensions. Well, dim g minus rank g. Okay, I can have that. And then I am also going to get one of dimension dim g minus rank g minus two. I'm always guaranteed to have that. And you might ask, do I get every even number going down to zero? The answer to that is no. So I'm not going to belabor this anymore, but it will eventually go down to zero.
00:21:46.734 - 00:23:52.680, Speaker A: Okay. In contrast, though, what I could try to do is I could try to take the other extreme conjugacy class. We call this one b, and this will be all Burrell subalgebras like that. Okay, what am I going to get in this case? I'm actually going to get my g sub C as a regular Poisson manifold, uniform symplectic leaf dimension. So in this case, g sub c is regular and has symplectic leaves and has symplectic leaves of dimension dimension equal to this generic symplectic leaf dimension. Okay? So morally, if you like this g sub c, in the case I'm taking all burrells like some kind of regularization of the Li Poisson structure, it says, well, I'm going to compensate for the fact that I have all these different symplectic leaf dimensions. I'm going to build a space that resembles the original one as much as possible, but takes that generic symplectic leaf dimension and makes it the uniform symplectic leaf dimension.
00:23:52.680 - 00:24:41.624, Speaker A: So that's not the sense in which this is going to be a resolution. So this g sub c is often called a groten Dick Springer resolution. That's, there's a, you know, there's a kind of an algebra geometric setting underlying a lot of this, and indeed, you're not going to be resolving the singularities of the lie algebra. I could have told you how to do that quite some time ago, but in this talk, I do want to think of it as some kind of like Poisson regularization of the Li Poisson structure. Okay. And hopefully this, oh, this is much better. Okay.
00:24:41.624 - 00:25:35.474, Speaker A: So I'd like to move toward reduction. And for that I'm going to need to integrate this g sub C to a symplectic groupoid. And it turns out that there's a standard way to do that. So it's a proposition not too, too hard to prove, is that there exists a canonical symplectic groupoid. Let me call this g sub c. Okay, Gc, like that. That actually integrates this Poisson variety, g sub c.
00:25:35.474 - 00:26:59.964, Speaker A: So integrating g sub c, okay, now I could sort of define it intrinsically for you, just like I defined c, just like I defined g sub c, etcetera. That would take a fair bit of work. So I'm just going to say this out loud and not write it down. So you'll remember that after suitable identifications, this g sub C was the associated bundle g times subparabolic parabolic subalgebra that we had identified with a quotient of the cotangent bundle of g mod u. The question is, how do you integrate the cotangent bundle of g mod u mod this group. And the answer to that is you take two copies of the cotangent bundle of G mod U, one with the opposite simple structure, and you do hamiltonian reduction at level zero with respect to the diagonal p mod u action. That space will now have two projections down to the cotangent bundle of G mod U, mod e mod U, and those will be the source and target for a simple groupoid structure.
00:26:59.964 - 00:28:19.544, Speaker A: So in that guise, you can describe the symplectic groupoid very, very cleanly. But I don't really want to get into writing that down because it's a little bit tedious. Okay, so now kind of towards reduction, I'd like to discuss a little bit of a framework that we're going to need, and it will be decidedly schizophrenic in its, its presentation. We'll see what I mean by that in a minute. So part three is going to be reduction along a sub, okay, so I'm going to want this exposition to be fairly, fairly general. So I'll try to accommodate all at once both the algebraic category and the smooth category in a transparent way. So here, submanifold will be one option, or sub variety would be another option.
00:28:19.544 - 00:28:55.774, Speaker A: Okay. Okay, so what's the general setting for this? Well, I start with a symplectic groupoid. Okay. And I want it to act in a hamiltonian fashion on some symplectic variety or manifold. So I'll call that m over x. Okay. And this, I want to be a hamiltonian g space for this symplectic groupoid.
00:28:55.774 - 00:29:47.094, Speaker A: Okay, well, the base space necessarily is going to have a Poisson structure. Let me adopt some notation for that. This is the Poisson structure. Okay. And then inside of my Poisson variety or manifold, let me take a sub variety or submanifold. So I'm going to take s contained in x. And what I want from it is to be smooth, so automatic if we're working with submanifolds, not if we're working with sub varieties, but anyway, smooth and locally closed.
00:29:47.094 - 00:30:34.034, Speaker A: Okay, what can I do with a setup like this? Well, I can look at the part of the cotangent bundle of x that annihilates the tangent bundle to s. Okay. Perfectly good thing sitting inside of t x. But I can also intersect that with the inverse image of t's. You're my Poisson structure. Okay, what kind of thing is this? Well, I'll call it l sub s. And, well, it, it's manifestly sitting over s as some kind of collection of vector spaces.
00:30:34.034 - 00:31:28.804, Speaker A: And from the way I've set everything up, there's absolutely no reason to believe that these vector spaces will all have the same dimension, and often they don't. But when they do, we call s pre Poisson. That's a definition. Okay, it's a definition. And this is due to cateno and Sempon. Okay, it's that. S is called pre Poisson if the fibers of this pie have constant dimension.
00:31:28.804 - 00:32:18.224, Speaker A: So s is called pre Poisson if PI has constant fiber dimension. Okay. Okay, so I'm not going to write these down, but what are some examples? Well, a point in x, fair enough. That's not too hard. Constant fiber dimension is pretty automatic. Any Poisson transversal will be an example. Any Poisson submanifold, sub variety will also be an example.
00:32:18.224 - 00:33:24.714, Speaker A: And there is a certain sense in which a generic submanifold will be pre Poisson. So the condition is not quite as restrictive as it would seem to be at first. Okay, so the question is, what do you do with such a thing? Well, so let me just assume that I have a pre Poisson submanifold or sub variety. Okay, I can take a look at this ls. Okay, now it has a chance of being a vector bundle, but it's a little bit more than a vector bundle. Okay, so this is a proposition. And due to cateno and sambon, that, well, I take a look at my ls.
00:33:24.714 - 00:34:00.634, Speaker A: It sits over s. This sits inside of the cotangent bundle of x. And like that I should put subset. Okay, this ls is not just a vector bundle, but it's actually going to be a li sub algebroid of this guy. So this is a lie. Subalgebroid. Okay, well, so you can ask then for something to integrate this.
00:34:00.634 - 00:35:18.744, Speaker A: And that will, very roughly speaking, be the notion of a stabilizer subgroupoid associated to this pre poisson thing. So, definition, again, due to cateno and zen bond, it is that a stabilizer subgroupoid is a li subgroupoid that integrates this li algebraid, plus an extra condition. It has to be isotropic too. Okay, so a stabilizer subgroupoid, stabilizer subgroupoid four s is an isotropic Lee subgroupoid. Okay, so I'll write it like this. It will sit over s like that. S is a subset of x.
00:35:18.744 - 00:36:16.788, Speaker A: This is my symplectic throughpoint here. Technically, this h sub s is not required to be a subset. It just has to be in the smooth category anyway, immersed, and maybe not injectively. So I'll just write that there's a map here like this. But most importantly, it has to integrate this Lee subalgebroid. So, integrating, integrating l sub s. Okay, now the question you might ask is, well, if I have a given pre poisson s, am I guaranteed to have a stabilizer subgroup void at all? There's one guaranteed to even exist in the smooth category.
00:36:16.788 - 00:37:09.052, Speaker A: The answer is yes. And in fact, you can do better. You can guarantee that there will be one, which is source connected, multiple source connected ones, in fact. So I'll state this as a, a theorem. That's cateno Zambon again, which is that this s will have a source connected stabilizer subgroupoid. And let me just give it some notation like this, h sub s. I'll put source connected here, and then sitting over s like that, okay? Not unique, has no reason to be unique in general, but it will exist.
00:37:09.052 - 00:38:12.524, Speaker A: The algebraic category, you have to be a little bit more careful. Often in the context of examples, you have a particular s, and then you just end up writing down specific stabilizer subgroup, word for that. You don't appeal to existence theory. Okay, so what can I do in this situation? Well, I can take a look at this stabilizer subgroupoid like this, okay? And what it will do is it will act on the inverse image of s under the moment map for my hamiltonian g space. Okay? And I can quotient by this, I mean to take the source connected one here. So let's just take that quotient. So mu inverse of s modulo this source connected guy.
00:38:12.524 - 00:40:04.984, Speaker A: Um, and this, um, at least as a topological space, again, in the algebraic category, you have to be a lot more careful than I'm being right now. But at least as a topological space, this will not depend in any way on which source connected stabilizer subgroupoid um, you picked. And so, um, I'm going to suppress that choice, and I'm going to write this just as kind of suggestively like that. Okay? All right? And then this topological space, or algebraic thing, under some of the standard hypotheses, regularity conditions, as Rayer mentioned, is going to be symplectic. Okay? So that's a theorem that was joint with Maxance Maybrand, which is that this guy, m double bar sg, is symplectic under standard hypotheses. Okay? So for those standard hypotheses, think in the context of Marsden Weinstein reduction, you would often assume that the stabilizer subgroup is acting freely and properly on the level set. There are sort of analogous conditions to this in that setting.
00:40:04.984 - 00:41:31.104, Speaker A: Okay? And I should say that this sort of construction was designed to encompass some of the existing symplectic reduction construction. So it was designed to encompass Marsden Weinstein reduction, Kami Weinstein reduction for groupoids, symplectic cutting, symplectic implosion. But what really got us onto this particular definition was that it encompassed a recent construction due to Ginsberg and Kashdan for more Tachikaua varieties in TQFT. And that was some kind of, if you like, a quotient by an abelian group scheme. It didn't really fall under many of the coisotropic reduction techniques that had been in the literature before. So let me just illustrate very, very briefly how this comes about. Okay, so last part is a little bit of more Tachikawa theory.
00:41:31.104 - 00:42:44.204, Speaker A: Okay. Okay, so now I'm back to like section one of my talk where I introduced a bunch of lead theoretic gaps, gadgets. So inside of my li algebra, what I'm going to do is I'm going to fix a constant slice. So it's a fundamental, a distinguished type of fundamental domain with the adjoint representation on the set of regular elements of the Lie algebra. And in particular a very, very nice example of a Poisson transverse, okay, let me take its preimage inside of this grotendig Springer space. So I'll call that s sub c, and this will be the inverse image of this constant slice. That'll be a sub variety of g sub c because s was a Poisson transversal in the Lie algebra.
00:42:44.204 - 00:43:43.004, Speaker A: This is going to be a perfectly nice Poisson transversal, but inside of this growth index sprinter space. Okay, now I'm going to do something a little bit ad hoc looking. I'm going to introduce, make use of some integer parameters. Okay, so just bear with me as I write this down, but I'm going to look at all things of the form alpha one, alpha m plus n and then beta one up to beta n plus m or m plus n like that. So I'm going to look at all such things in, well, my gc m plus n. And just to emphasize the role Poisson geometry is going to play here in a minute. I know it's kind of artificial to do this here, but I want to think of this second copy as having the opposite Poisson structure.
00:43:43.004 - 00:44:28.734, Speaker A: Okay, so what conditions do I want these to satisfy? Well, I want the last m of these to coincide with the first m, sorry, n of these, and I want them to all coincide with an element of this Poisson transversal. So the condition is that alpha, let me see, n plus one equals equals alpha, m plus n equals beta, one equals beta n. And I want this to be inside of my sc like that. Okay. All right. This is not going to be a Poisson transversal anymore. We lost that.
00:44:28.734 - 00:45:54.418, Speaker A: But it is going to be an example of something that's pre poisson. So let me write that down. So it's a proposition that if I take a look at this s sub c m n sitting inside of this product Poisson variety, this is pre Poisson for all m and n. Okay. So in particular then, by what I just said, I can now consider reduction with respect to this pre Poisson sub variety. And what would be an appropriate setting for that? Well, let's just take a simple that I told you, that integrates this generalized Grotfen Dick Springer resolution. Let's take m plus n copies of that.
00:45:54.418 - 00:46:53.244, Speaker A: Okay? So that's going to have quite a lot of symmetry. In much the same way as the cotangent bundle of g has left and right hamiltonian g actions, this is going to have left and right hamiltonian actions for this symplectic groupoid right here. So I could consider, among other things, reducing this by gc m plus n. Technically, I should take this one with the opposite structure like that, and then, well, I can just reduce that along this pre Poisson guy like that. Okay, now I'm working algebraically here, and so technically, I have to be a lot more careful than I'm being about how this is defined. It's not just a sort of naive quotient necessarily. You have to take some care.
00:46:53.244 - 00:47:27.424, Speaker A: But anyway, it can be done. And I'm going to call this Mt more Tachikawa for m n. This is, I should say, not necessarily symplectic. It's generically symplectic, always Poisson. And it's a scheme as I've defined it. So it may not actually be an algebraic variety. Okay.
00:47:27.424 - 00:48:22.718, Speaker A: All right. So the main result then is just as follows. That's not the issue. The issue is that even if I just take c to be the li algebra sitting by itself, um, the coordinate ring of the coordinate ring you would want this guy to have may not be finitely generated. So that's not even known type in type a. I think Ginsburg and Kazdan, also, Braverman, Finkelberg, Nakajima, have an argument that it is finitely generated. But in general, li type, this is not known to be true.
00:48:22.718 - 00:49:46.306, Speaker A: So we have to just say it's a scheme for now. So it's a theorem joint with Maxons, part one that if I just take c to be the li algebra sitting by itself, then what I've called mt m comma n, these are the more catchy Kawa variety schemes constructed by Ginsburg and Kashdan recently. These MT MNC are the more tachycawa variety schemes. I have a crutch constructed by Ginsburg Kashdan. Okay. And the whole point of that was to, if you like, verify the more Tachikawa conjecture, which is about the existence of a TQFT valued in a certain category of holomorphic symplectic varieties. And if we knew that in this case that the coordinate rings were actually finitely generated, then we would have a genuine TQFP.
00:49:46.306 - 00:51:25.966, Speaker A: But we don't know that yet. But if we just take c to be the burrells again, well, then the situation gets a little bit easier. These MT M ns, they're actually going to be smooth symplectic algebraic varieties. So this issue of finite generation, or the question of finite generation, can be solved quite easily in this context. So the MT MNC are smooth symplectic varieties, and they actually solve, in the affirmative, an appropriately tweaked version of the question that Morin Tachikawa asked. So I will be a little cryptic about this, but I will just say they define a tqft valued in a, I'll put this in quotations, a one shifted Weinstein symplectic category. Okay.
00:51:25.966 - 00:51:31.994, Speaker A: And I don't want to be too much more precise. And more to the point, I'm a minute over time, so thank you.
