00:00:00.490 - 00:00:40.290, Speaker A: Hey everyone, Dorn here to give you the developer news you need for the near ecosystem. This is Nearbytes near. Today on the agenda, we have information on the Nearcon 2022 hackathon Cybertractions, the Near Lakes framework's new tooling support for Python users, a major update for workspaces updates, the near developer documentation page, and near's push to decentralize its wild offering. Let's get started. Registration for Nearcon's IRL hackathon is open. Sign up to participate in a 40 hours hackathon happening at Nearcon in Lisbon. Teams can choose to build one of seven tracks following the themes of the conference, from the future of finance to governance and sustainability.
00:00:40.290 - 00:01:18.126, Speaker A: Pick your track and participate for awesome prizes at the event. All proof hackers get free tickets in your con, but teams that submit a project will not only guest type in a varying amount to cover expenses, but if they get in the top ten, they can also pitch their projects live to VCs and founders in the Hackathon's Dragon Den. Check out the description for a registration link and more details. The data platform team has released a new near Lake Framework for Python. You can now build your own indexer using Python to consume and use data from the near blockchain using the small library companion. Find the GitHub repository in the link in description below. A major update for near workspaces, RS and JS Mac users with M one chips can now use the near workspaces testing suite thanks to latest release that brings m one compatibility to the tooling.
00:01:18.126 - 00:02:08.402, Speaker A: If you're not familiar with near workspaces, this testing suite will allow you to write tests once, run them both on near testnet and a controlled near sandbox local environment via rust and JavaScript and provide a variety of functionalities such as local node simulator with the ability to move forward and backward in time, account creation and funding, your own test suite, and the ability to pull information from the testnet or mainnet for experimentation and more. Check the link in the description below to visit the GitHub link to try out near workspaces today, the near Devreld team has released a major upgrade to near Org's developer documentation pages UI. This was done in effort to make locating content easier and quicker for developers and make sure our resources are up to date. For those who want to develop on near, please go to Docs nier.org to check it out and we'd love to hear your thoughts and feedback. So as you explore, feel free to hit that blue feedback button on the right hand side of the page to let us know what your thoughts are. Last but not least, Nier is pushing to decentralize its wallet offering.
00:02:08.402 - 00:02:38.558, Speaker A: The Nier foundation has shared its plan to encourage a migration out of the foundation built wallet or wallet on your into ecosystem built wallets. This induced the creation of the open source wallet selector, a wallet plugin that will help decentralize application projects to integrate all the ecosystem wallets. More information on the blog post is linked in the description below, and that's all we have for you guys today. Thank you so much for watching. Remember to like subscribe before you go and visit near or to get more information about the near blockchain and visit near at Chet to connect our Discord channel. Remember to go and buy your Nearcon 2022 tickets. I want to see you guys there.
00:02:38.558 - 00:02:40.700, Speaker A: Thank you all so much for your time and have a great day.
