00:00:10.330 - 00:00:50.166, Speaker A: Okay, so I have a few presentations that I'm going to give. We're going to start out talking about decentralization. Then we're going to go into token launches, and then we're going to talk about corporate structure. And really, I think that the key theme across these three, right, is going to be kind of what is different about building in Web Three as compared to building a typical startup ultimately building in Web Three, building a company that's going to ultimately decentralize takes you down a very different path than what your typical tech startup goes down. And there are a lot of pitfalls and a lot of dangers that come with that. There's a lot of regulatory uncertainty. And so a key part of my job is basically helping our portfolio kind of navigate those challenges.
00:00:50.166 - 00:01:45.886, Speaker A: And I think even if you're not building a decentralized protocol and are ultimately going to decentralize, these presentations should be valuable for you because ultimately, if you're building within Web Three, you're going to be interacting with companies that are decentralizing. And so you're going to want to understand the context for what that means for them, what direction it means they're headed in, and then also it'll help you kind of figure out which companies are kind of bullshit and which ones aren't. My background here, before I came to Andreessen, I was a partner at Latham and Watkins, which is one of the bigger international firms in the world. I was head of its Blockchain and Cryptocurrency Task Force, which was about 80 lawyers around the globe. I got started in 2017 working with Consensus, then started working with Paradigm and a lot of VC funds. I ended up working on uniswap's token launch back in 2020 and kind of had represented a ton of companies across the space. And since I've been at Andreesse and I've basically been working with our entire portfolio, basically helping them navigate a lot of the challenges that come up in this space.
00:01:45.886 - 00:02:34.266, Speaker A: So I promise I will keep it as light as possible on the actual legal stuff and we'll talk about more of the practical realities of kind of navigating regulatory uncertainty. All right, so the first presentation is going to be generally on decentralization, right? We're going to cover why it matters. We're going to cover some frameworks for how to think about it. It is a very voluminous topic, and so we'll kind of try and break it down to make it a little bit easier for you to approach. Then we'll talk about some tools that can help you achieve decentralization, some timing how you roll it out. I think you guys have probably all heard of progressive decentralization, so we'll talk about that a little bit and then we'll go into some models and basically show how this stuff kind of has been used in practice thus far, as well as kind of where it's headed. All right, so why it matters ultimately, a lot of people can give you a lot of different answers.
00:02:34.266 - 00:03:45.278, Speaker A: In my mind, I think decentralization matters. It's the key tool that's going to allow us to democratize the Internet because it turns web three systems into public infrastructure, right? That is a key difference from what we have in the current world, right, where we have a bunch of centralizing networks that are all kind of accruing benefits to the companies that run them. So with decentralization, with kind of operating internet infrastructure as public infrastructure, what are the key benefits? One is it promotes decentralized or it promotes competition, right? Ultimately if you're able to create credibly, neutral and composable internet infrastructure then people will be able to build on top of it. And as a result of that it will lower the barrier to entry for people building Internet businesses and services. And as a result of that we should see greater consumer choice, more diversity in kind of the offerings that people can bring to market. The next is safeguarding freedoms, right? So there's a lot of kind of this is more of a hot political topic. But really when it comes down to it, one of the key challenges that we have right now is with giant centralizing networks that are run by corporates that gives them enormous power to censor people to gatekeep and to infringe on their personal liberty.
00:03:45.278 - 00:05:01.098, Speaker A: And so one of the ideas is behind decentralized internet infrastructure is that that power will be removed away from accruing to centralized corporate entities. And as a result of that we should see greater kind of liberties. A great example of this is just Twitter and everything that we've seen since Elon has taken over and it turns out that the censorship that's gone on is probably not as fair or transparent as people would expect it to be. Finally, the third benefit is that you actually can design systems that more equitably reward stakeholders, right? Currently with corporate networks like Twitter and Facebook and Instagram, those companies run those networks and as a result of that all value that is generated by those networks, those companies are bound to make sure that that value maximizes and accrues to their stockholders rather than kind of people within the ecosystem. And so as a result of that, that's why we see enormous take rates kind of applied on corporate networks, on web two networks. So as a result of those three you get this dichotomy and I think Chris Dixon probably would have gone into this in his presentation with you, right? You get these corporate networks versus blockchain networks. The corporate networks look more like Disneyland and Disneyland's great, but it is a very curated experience.
00:05:01.098 - 00:05:47.270, Speaker A: It's not vibrant. There's a lot of homogeneity, there's not kind of a lot of different experiences and no one would kind of go to Disneyland to set up shop to build a business. If you tried to protest in Disneyland you'd probably be thrown out and ultimately all value is ultimately accruing to Disney stockholders. You compare that to blockchain networks, right? And with the promotion of competition basically allowing people to reward stockholders or I mean, any stakeholders, and the ability to safeguard freedoms, new York is a more vibrant place. It is not a curated experience. And ultimately we think that is what the internet was originally intended to be like and what we want it to return to. All right, so let's go into some frameworks.
00:05:47.270 - 00:07:04.322, Speaker A: So I think decentralization is a very large problem and one that is incredibly difficult for builders to kind of tackle. So if we break it down into kind of three different frameworks, I think it'll help people think about it. So the first one is technical decentralization. And what we mean by this is really just the ability of blockchains and smart contract protocols to they are our computers and they can make firm commitments and so they can allow for a trustless and autonomous ecosystem in which people can compute and transact in a disintermediated fashion. And so when you think about this, the kind of baseline, the hurdle for achieving technical decentralization really is going to be dependent on kind of what protocol you are developing. If for a blockchain like Ethereum, the technical decentralization is very challenging because ultimately it's quite dependent on the assets ETH being distributed to validators and them not being able to attack the system and basically everything kind of maintaining itself. Whereas if you look at a simple smart contract protocol, if you were to just deploy a smart contract and make it immutable, then you could very well argue that it was decentralized, technically decentralized, right away, because ultimately no one can actually then step in and change that smart contract or take funds out of it.
00:07:04.322 - 00:08:00.082, Speaker A: So as a result of it, it is kind of a moving hurdle depending on kind of the protocol that you're building. The second piece is economic decentralization. And here we're really talking about when you start to introduce digital assets to web three ecosystems, all of a sudden you have a much more complex product around whether or not the thing is decentralized. So for instance, in the case of Ethereum, again returning to that, ultimately the ability of the system to use its own digital assets to reward people, providing services to the system, and then you transact in ETH, all of that creates this decentralized economy around Ethereum. And as a result of that, that economy, your goal is to try and keep that economically decentralized. Otherwise if all of the value kind of accrued to one person or was able to be manipulated by an individual, that would jeopardize the security over the overall system. And then the final kind of category is legal decentralization.
00:08:00.082 - 00:09:42.998, Speaker A: And so what we mean here is that decentralization ultimately has the ability to obviate some of the risks that are associated with transacting in assets or in using computers. And as a result of that, what we would say is that where decentralization actually obviates risk, you don't need to apply laws that are meant to accomplish the same thing, meant to mitigate that risk. So to give you a good example, in finance we have a lot of laws. Our whole legal system is basically designed around trying to mitigate the risk of one individual having to trust another with money, right? And so as a result of that, we have a lot of laws around intermediaries and kind of rules around how they're able to act and protecting kind of consumers from conflicts of interest that those intermediaries might have. But in a peer to peer system like what you can have in Blockchain, you don't need intermediaries. And as a result of that, it's not necessary to apply intermediary based legal regimes that are meant to address the risks of intermediaries to a system where there are no intermediaries. So what that comes down to specifically with respect to digital assets, is securities laws, right? So securities laws are and again, this will be the most legal part of the presentation, but securities laws are basically meant to restrict kind of how people engage with securities, right? Securities are a subclass of assets that exist and typically what they do to basically address risks around those assets is they apply disclosure requirements, right? And what they're trying to do there is basically create a level playing field where anyone can invest in securities and be on the same kind of footing as anyone else that's investing in those.
00:09:42.998 - 00:10:41.990, Speaker A: And that's a key thing because otherwise you would end up with market manipulation. People would be taking advantage of other people and as a result of that you wouldn't have efficient capital markets. And the way that our system generally looks at it, right, is that it's most likely to have significant information asymmetries when you have managerial efforts that are driving the value of a given asset, right? So as a result, securities laws are really kind of meant to address kind of situations where assets are based on the value of assets are based on the managerial efforts of others. So if we just think about kind of the difference between Apple stock and oil, right, this will make this point clear. So stocks, shares and companies are the most common securities that most people have kind of interacted with over the course of their lives. And if you think about Apple's stock, there is a reason why Apple's stock is treated like a security. Ultimately, Tim Cook right, has access to a lot of information that might affect the value of Apple stock, right? They know how many iPhones they've sold, they know how many they've produced.
00:10:41.990 - 00:11:34.874, Speaker A: They have all of this information that is otherwise not available to the general public. And that's also true for some of their largest distributors as well as for some of their suppliers. And so as a result of that there's a significant information asymmetry that arises from the management decisions that Tim Cook and others have made. And so as a result, in order for Apple's stock to publicly trade on markets they're obligated to disclose to the public all of the material information that might be relevant to the price of that asset. And so as a result, that's why we have they're called ten KS and eight KS and all of this disclosure regime that basically shares are subject to right now compare that to the price of oil, right? Oil is not a security, it is a commodity. And as a result of that it is not regulated in the sense of whether or not you can buy or sell it. And so ultimately the way that we look at oil is that all the information about oil and what the price of oil might be, is publicly available.
00:11:34.874 - 00:12:38.670, Speaker A: Now there might be organizations like OPEC that change the amount of oil that they're going to produce and that might have impacts on the price. But you're not talking about the fundamental kind of information asymmetry that exists with respect to shares and stocks. And so as a result of that, what we kind of conclude is that if a web three system can essentially eliminate significant information asymmetries and it can eliminate reliance on managerial efforts, then we say that the system is sufficiently decentralized such that securities laws are no longer necessary to apply. So the idea is there is that if you can assure that both of those things are the case, then the risks that securities laws are meant to address no longer apply and as a result you don't need to apply them. So that's pretty complicated. And when it comes to legal decentralization, founders are often very confused and the rules are not clear because the SEC hasn't set them out in a manner that's very clear. But ultimately this is all just kind of a spectrum of decentralization and all kind of one component of it, right? To be technically decentralized you can't have a management team that can manipulate the ecosystem.
00:12:38.670 - 00:13:32.590, Speaker A: If Vitalik could basically reverse transactions on Ethereum, we would all say that that's not really technically decentralized, that the system's not decentralized at all. That type of managerial power would be something that would also be problematic under legal decentralization. Same thing is true as economic decentralization. If all of a sudden you could change the way that Ethereum worked, where all of the value accrued to me, right, then we would say that it's not economically decentralized and we would also say it's not legally decentralized. Because at the end of the day, if I could just change where all of the value is accruing then that would significantly impact the price of ETH and my ability to change. Where the value accrues would ultimately be asymmetric information and managerial efforts that are dependent on or that relate to the price of the underlying asset. So ultimately legal decentralization is technically necessary to actually achieve decentralization in total.
00:13:32.590 - 00:14:28.814, Speaker A: It's not just kind of a new concept that's being layered in that just relates to US securities laws. At the end of the day, fundamentally, in order to build decentralized systems, you need to have kind of this layer of legal decentralization built in. Okay, so now we'll talk about some tools of decentralization. So this is a very kind of simple model that I put together of kind of just comparing a web two system and a web three system. And really what we're looking at, the key kind of difference here, right, is that in a web two system you have a lot of proprietary intellectual property, whereas in web three systems you have very little. And as a result of that, it makes it inherently easier to decentralize because there are less things that you are actually protecting, there are less things that people are reliant on you continuing to bring to the ecosystem. So if we break this down, we can talk about how the various kind of components of web three systems influence the overall decentralization.
00:14:28.814 - 00:15:21.618, Speaker A: As I was talking about earlier, blockchains and smart contracts can help achieve technical decentralization just based on the fact that they allow for trustless computing, right? And so as a result of that, they kind of form a foundation for technical decentralization, but they also affect the other elements of decentralization. So one of the things that we were talking about, right, compare the Ethereum to Apple stock. Apple knows exactly how many units it's sold and how much money it's made over a given quarter. And as a result of that, that's significant information that would affect the price of Apple stock. And as a result of that, they have to disclose that information to the public in order for their shares to continue trading. But Ethereum is very different, right? Every single transaction that happens on Ethereum happens on chain. And so at the end of the day, anyone can just see what the actual revenue is of Ethereum at any given time over the course of a year.
00:15:21.618 - 00:16:28.982, Speaker A: So you don't have that potential for significant information asymmetry around the economics that underlie the asset value that actually exist. And so the nature of blockchains and smart contracts being very transparent ultimately means that that enhances the overall legal decentralization. And then things like them being open source data portability and composability all kind of lead to more economic decentralization. Because ultimately what it means is those are all tools by which that take away from the ability of any single centralized actor to manipulate the decentralized economy that forms around an ecosystem. So just for instance, if you create a system where everyone is in control of their own user data, then those people can just move to another network if they want to. They don't have to remain within your ecosystem because they actually own that's very different from what we see in corporate networks now, where if you want to take your followers from Twitter to another platform, that is obviously not possible. So ultimately, all of those things help to accrue economic benefits to the users of a network as opposed to a person that owns a network.
00:16:28.982 - 00:17:23.590, Speaker A: And as a result, they do enhance economic decentralization. So digital assets then, are the other tool that you basically can really use to create and form your own decentralized economy, right? The real difference between a Web Two network and a Web Three network is web three networks are open rather than closed. And so in a closed network, all value and network effects are basically accruing to the people that run that network, whereas in an open network, all of the value is accruing to the people that are using that network. And so that's what digital assets really allow you to do, right? And as a result of that, you're basically enhancing the overall economic decentralization of the system. And that, again, is kind of a key piece of the overall decentralization. And then decentralized governance is kind of a final tool that ecosystems can use to enhance their decentralization. And this really kind of crosses all three of the various frameworks of decentralization.
00:17:23.590 - 00:18:52.758, Speaker A: So decentralized governance can increase the security of a system by ensuring that no single individual actually controls the system. It can increase the economic decentralization of a system by ensuring greater incentive alignment across users and contributors to an ecosystem. And then it can help with legal decentralization because the very act of kind of pushing decision making to a distributed, distributed group of people means that there's ultimately going to be less reliance on managerial efforts by a small team. All right? So decentralization timing now here the kind of key thing is that decentralization is ultimately not a binary state, right? It is a spectrum. And as a result of that, it can take a significant amount of time to achieve, right? And that creates a fundamental problem, right? You start with basically a paradox where if you need to decentralize in order to use digital assets, but you need digital assets in order to decentralize, you have a chicken and egg problem, right? And that is a key challenge that a lot of companies face in this space. And it's one that our securities laws do not do a very good job of providing for as they don't really kind of take into account that if you're ultimately trying to decentralize that, you then get more flexibility around kind of your ability to stay within the rules. So what that means is that progressive decentralization is a concept that people have developed around basically.
00:18:52.758 - 00:20:55.834, Speaker A: How do you kind of achieve ultimate decentralization when you're trying to kind of navigate the uncertainty that's created by securities laws and the uncertainty that's created just around not having a robust and secondary market for your assets? So really what progressive decentralization comes down to is it's a balancing act where you're basically balancing the decentralization of the system, the product development and the community building, right? And we'll talk about this more in the context of token launches and when to time your token launch with respect to those three kind of elements, then progressive decentralization, like a key component of involves incentive design, right? One of the key areas that we look at when we're talking about decentralized systems is how many other people are building within that ecosystem, how many other people are contributing. And ultimately, what we haven't kind of seen yet but what will happen in the future is kind of autonomous and automatic incentive mechanisms to basically enhance the overall decentralization of systems. So right now what you see in a lot of ecosystems, right? So for instance, like a lot of layer ones like Aptos, Avalanche, Solana, a lot of them have built up ecosystems by basically incentivizing developers to come into those ecosystems and develop smart contract protocols on top of them. And mostly those have been structured as grant programs that they give out to those people. But fundamentally that kind of structure is a little bit the antithesis of decentralization, right, because it does mean that you're then having someone that's in control of kind of funding the overall development of the ecosystem. And so what we should start to see going forward is more kind of autonomous, automatic incentivization of developers and people operating within ecosystems as that way you can remove that kind of layer of centralization of grant programs and stuff like that and just have it happen automatically. And then finally risk mitigation.
00:20:55.834 - 00:22:10.334, Speaker A: There are various things that we help a lot of companies work with to try and kind of mitigate the overall risk of navigating this uncertainty, right, of this chicken and egg problem around decentralization and securities loss. So if done poorly, the progressive decentralization leads to stagnation and the death of your project. So it's a pretty important topic, right? And the idea is that ultimately as you decentralize, it becomes harder and harder for that core management, the core team, the initial development team to actually continue developing. And as a result of that, if you haven't set things up properly, you're going to have this significant drag in securities laws, risks around kind of your continued development within the protocol. And so as a result, you see this a lot where companies kind of launch their tokens a little bit early and then they struggle to kind of develop and iterate because they didn't have product market fit and then projects slowly die over time. Now, if done well, the exact opposite happens. If you progressively decentralize in a way where you're incentivizing third party development, then the more decentralized you become, the more development that's actually going to take place by third parties.
00:22:10.334 - 00:23:17.530, Speaker A: And as a result of that you can kind of see exponential growth and that's what you would see, right? If you look at kind of the way that Ethereum works now, there's way more development happening on Ethereum than that could ever be possible if it was just a single centralized company that was running everything that was being built on top. And we see that not just in kind of right, that's not just Ethereum, but if you look at the App Store, the same thing could be said there, right? I mean, ultimately that platform has enabled thousands and thousands and thousands of people to develop applications and run their own businesses on it. Now, the problem that we have with that kind of model is that Apple takes an enormous take rate because they own that network. But at the end of the day, the idea is that as a centralized company you're never going to be able to develop more than you would be if you built a platform on top of which other people could develop. And so the whole point of progressive decentralization is basically unlocking a pathway where you're incentivizing decentralized development and building out the ecosystem so that doesn't just rely on you. Okay, models of decentralization. So here is a model of decentralization for a blockchain network and this obviously looks pretty simplistic.
00:23:17.530 - 00:24:41.960, Speaker A: So the thing I would say though is that there's a lot that goes on here, right? So when we look at whether or not a blockchain is actually decentralized, there are a ton of things that go into the analysis and these are a series of questions that one could ask. I've labeled all of these in a way that kind of look at whether or not we're talking about it as technical, economic or legal decentralization. But if you look through these you can see so how diverse is the validator set? So this is something that you're going to care about because ultimately if the validator set is not decentralized, then someone would be able to come in and basically take over the network by getting a number of different validators to go along with them. And as a result of that, the entire security of the system is jeopardized and you would say that it's not decentralized. Then if you look at who is contributing to the protocol well, so this really matters because fundamentally if the protocol is developing over time and it is dependent on kind of new versions being released or upgrades being released over time, then it really matters, right, who is actually contributing to those things. Because the economic value of the asset of the system is going to be dependent on whether or not those targets are met. And so as a result of that, you want to have kind of a decentralized group of contributors very much like what Ethereum has now.
00:24:41.960 - 00:25:57.230, Speaker A: And what you would say is that obviously you have to look at kind of how meaningful the contributions are. I think if you looked at the change from proof of work to proof of stake for Ethereum everyone. That was obviously a monumental achievement. But at the same time it's not like it led to a significant rise in the price of Ethereum. And so ultimately the upgrades that are brought to market over time and their impact on pricing is all something that factors into whether or not the system is decentralized. So just a couple of other technical ones, right? How many nodes are accessible that just kind of relates to how people interact with the chain, how advanced is the product roadmap? Again, this is similar to who is contributing to the protocol and what direction is it ultimately going in and is there any kind of point of centralization there? Who controls decentralized? Governance is obviously a very key one, right? At the end of the day, if a single individual or group of people acting together were able to kind of co opt governance to do what they wanted, then it would be hard to say that the system was actually decentralized. And so you can see that with things like optimism which has on chain governance.
00:25:57.230 - 00:27:03.086, Speaker A: If token holders went rogue or some token holder was able to acquire enough tokens to then attack governance, they could essentially, let's say, take the entire treasury and award it to themselves, which would obviously be very detrimental to the price of the token as well as the security of the network. So as a result of that, we would say that that kind of both factors into the technical and legal decentralization of the system. Now, I think that one of the key questions here that I would focus on is how many builders are deploying protocols to the network, right? And I think that that is ultimately a fundamental component of the decentralization of any given blockchain. So with Ethereum, there are thousands of developers that are all deploying protocols to Ethereum. And as a result of that, the amount of developer activity really is a strong signal that Ethereum is decentralized. Particularly because the price of ETH is significantly based off of the overall economic model behind the token. And the more transactions that go up, the more ETH is burned.
00:27:03.086 - 00:28:09.506, Speaker A: And as a result of that, that has a significant impact on the overall economic model for Ethereum. So as a result of that, the number of builders that are actually participating in this ecosystem is kind of critical. So if we go from this model to the next, we can see a little bit more complicated structure, right? So here we have a smart contract protocol that has been deployed to a blockchain and then it runs an application on top of that and then that interacts with users. And so we'll add in kind of a Dow as well that oversees kind of a treasury. So right here, now this model itself does not look that decentralized, right? And as a result of that so let's say that you had just a. Single client application built on top and that was the only way that people could interact with the protocol and it was the only way that that actual value was driven to the digital assets. Well, that point of failure with the single client or app would end up being a point of centralization that could undermine the decentralization of the overall ecosystem.
00:28:09.506 - 00:29:01.340, Speaker A: So we see this model was kind of a lot what people used in DeFi, really in a lot of the kind of first DeFi protocols and applications that came out. So if you think about Uniswap or Compound, the primary application and client that people use to access those protocols, Uniswap.org or Compound finance, right? And those are run by the initial development teams that develop those protocols. Now, the reason that we ultimately get comfortable that that kind of application being run by the development team doesn't create problems from a decentralization perspective is because those applications are quite simple. They're not like very robust and rich experiences. Basically they're just kind of explorers that allow you to interact with the underlying smart contracts of the protocol. And as a result of that, they can be replicated very.
00:29:01.340 - 00:30:13.110, Speaker A: So what we saw with Uniswap and with Compound, with a lot of other DeFi applications is that despite the fact that the team was at first the only team that was running a front end to those protocols, hundreds of other front ends kind of popped up. So with respect to Uniswap, there are tons of dex aggregators, there are tons of other websites that basically enable you to interact with the Uniswap protocol. And then things like MetaMask has a direct swap feature that routes to Uniswap's protocol. So as a result of that, you basically have a very rich system of applications and clients that popped up. And if Uniswap the company was to shut down their application, it wouldn't really change what is going on with the protocol because ultimately people would still be able to interact with it through all of these other interfaces. Now, this model really kind of is based on the premise of a thesis that's called the Fat Protocol thesis. And what that idea is, is that in these kinds of ecosystems, all of the value really accrues to the protocol itself and not to the client application layer.
00:30:13.110 - 00:32:08.970, Speaker A: And what that means is that ultimately the application and client layer is very commoditized and that's exactly what has happened with Compound and with Aave and with Uniswap and a bunch of other DeFi protocols. Now, the problem with that thesis though is that if all value is accruing to the application, to the protocol layer, then how do you actually generate real businesses to be built on top of those protocols? And that fundamentally becomes a very important question, particularly in DeFi because ultimately we are very likely to have regulatory compliance obligations at the application and client layer. And if you have regulatory compliance obligations at the client and app layer, then you need to be able to run a business when you're running that client and app layer. Otherwise, if you have no ability to accrue revenue, then you're going to have no ability to actually engage in regulatory compliance, which costs money. And as a result of that, the fat protocol thesis just doesn't work in a system where you actually need to have regulatory compliance. Or when I first started, Anne Andreessen DFI understood this model, understood why DFI was decentralized. But the thing that I couldn't wrap my head around was like, well, how do you go from this type of structure to a much richer ecosystem where the app client layer looks more like the applications that we have in Web Two, right? Uniswap's front end is very different from Facebook's App or Instagram or Twitter, right? And as a result of that, it's very unlikely that you would kind of find client and applications that were basically replicating that you would be able to find clients and applications that were going to be able to be built and replicate those types of rich experiences without an economic model that then supports them to be built and continue to operate.
00:32:08.970 - 00:32:51.902, Speaker A: So as a result of this, this model just doesn't really work for the grander vision of what Web Three is. It doesn't really work for what's going to happen when regulatory compliance obligations start getting applied to these protocols. And so what we need is kind of a better model that is going to allow for those things to happen. And the model that that is is just this. It's basically incentivizing diversity at the client application layer so that you can decentralize that whole layer, right? So now if you look at this, you have a smart contract protocol that's deployed to a blockchain. The blockchain is decentralized. The smart contract protocol.
00:32:51.902 - 00:33:41.806, Speaker A: Let's just, for ease of use, let's say that it's totally immutable. Now, if you only had one client that was a rich Facebook like or Instagram like client, again, that would create a point of centralization that would undermine the decentralization of the entire ecosystem. But if you're able to incentivize multiple different clients to kind of operate within this ecosystem, then all of a sudden you do have a decentralized layer. As I was saying, with DeFi, that kind of happened organically and naturally because it was very cheap and easy for people to build their own front ends. But with these more rich and robust ecosystems, that's not going to be the case. And so as a result of that, what we need to see is we need to see actual incentivization of that client layer being built and it needs to happen autonomously. So let's think about just a comparison here of, let's say, OpenSea to Uniswap.
00:33:41.806 - 00:34:07.318, Speaker A: If you go to OpenSea, that is a much more robust website for people to navigate and use. They have all of the images. There's a ton of different assets that are listed and compared to uniswap, it's just much more robust. And their operations reflect that as well. Right. OpenSea has a massive trust and safety operation. They file SARS reports.
00:34:07.318 - 00:34:47.942, Speaker A: They do all of these things where it is a business that is built on top of their protocol. The protocol that OpenSea kind of runs their marketplace on top of is Seaport. And so if you were to think about, okay, well, how do they actually go about decentralizing, it really wouldn't work if, let's say that there was a token. If all of the value of that token was then generated through sales of NFTs that were coming through Opensea's marketplace, right? Because now OpenSea could say, well, we're just going to turn off our marketplace or we're going to change something about our marketplace. And that would create information asymmetry it creates reliance on managerial efforts. And as a result of that, it wouldn't be decentralized. But if Openc if there's 2.5%
00:34:47.942 - 00:36:00.986, Speaker A: commission on every sale, let's say that that all went to the token. If Openc then had other marketplaces that were built on top of Seaport, that would be how you would start to decentralize. Now, that's a very counterintuitive kind of approach because it means that you are essentially incentivizing people to be your competitors, right? And as a result of that, it's a very kind of odd business structure to approach because it means, again, that you're incentivizing and basically enabling people to compete with you. But fundamentally, that is really the only way to kind of achieve decentralization within these ecosystems. And what I would say is that fundamentally, what we believe is that that will lead to a bigger pie than if you just kind of retain it yourself. So the idea is, if you are OpenSea and you're running your own marketplace, well, there are a thousand other entrepreneurs that might want to run an NFT marketplace and they might want to do things very different from you, right? And as a result of that, incentivizing them and enabling them to do so ultimately will lead to a greater value accruing to Seaport, the infrastructure that you built. And as a result of that, there's a race and a real kind of economic value to developing that infrastructure.
00:36:00.986 - 00:37:03.390, Speaker A: But at the same time, you do need to be able to incentivize kind of competition to build their own ecosystems on top of. So we'll see that we're already starting to see this with Farcaster, where people are building their own clients and applications to interact with the protocol. And we'll see it more and more when it comes to these more robust protocols and the ecosystems that are being built on top of them. And so this was a fundamental kind of piece of where we expect things to go. It also has a lot of knock on benefits with some other pain points that we're experiencing within Web Three. One of the things that Porter will talk about tomorrow is just decentralized governance. And what kind of this abstraction does by creating a multiple client layer is it allows you to kind of practice governance minimization at the Smart Contract layer because what this does is you can basically push a lot of the decision making that otherwise you might want to have your community make to the client layer.
00:37:03.390 - 00:37:58.386, Speaker A: So, for instance, let's just again, using OpenSea as an example. If you wanted to have multiple different marketplaces, and you had a marketplace where people didn't want you to show some type of artwork because it offended who and whatsoever, or they just didn't want that kind of material on there. Ultimately, that is something that they could easily achieve, because someone could just build a client that doesn't have that kind of material in it. Whereas if you tried to do that at the Smart Contract layer, then you would be introducing censorship at the Smart Contract layer and that would fundamentally kind of undermine a lot of the values of the technology. So this is kind of the direction I think that we're headed. And it's key, right, figuring out kind of that incentive mechanism. The only place that we really saw this within DeFi, I think, is a protocol called Liquidy, where the team actually built their protocol and didn't launch a front end whatsoever.
00:37:58.386 - 00:39:22.830, Speaker A: But they did turn on an incentive mechanism where basically, anyone that built a front end, they would receive a small percentage of kind of earnings of people that use that front end in interacting with the protocol. And so that is exactly the type of thing that we expect to now see with these more robust ecosystems. Now here's another model that we'll look at where this basically takes what we just talked about, but then adds on a layer of complexity. So one of the things that will happen if you're talking about let's just again, sticking with the OpenSea example. If you have an ecosystem like that, how do you actually create or an environment where competition in clients and applications can arise? How do you basically set people up to build their own marketplaces and operate them? Well, one of the things that you could do is you could build a white label version of a marketplace and enable anyone to use it, right? And as a result of that, that would help people do it, help people set it up. But there are other ways that you can also do this, right? So if there are significant regulatory compliance burdens, you could create a decentralized actor within the ecosystem that just provides that. So every single marketplace that's built on Seaport could have access to a trust and safety team that basically operated on behalf of all of the clients.
00:39:22.830 - 00:40:53.354, Speaker A: And so as a result of that, you can create these incentive structures where people use shared intellectual property and shared products and services by teams to basically overall kind of lower the barrier to entry for people to build within these ecosystems. And if you lower the barrier to entry for people to build within these ecosystems, you're ultimately going to end up with greater diversity at the client and application layer. And what that does then is overall enhance the level of decentralization. And so this area I think is one that is going to be continuously explored where we're seeing this a lot, right? If you think about in the context of video games, this is something that really comes up because if you're trying to decentralize a video game there are various components that can't really be decentralized immediately, right? You have the underlying game engine and how that operates. And so as a result of that you can kind of imagine worlds where the video game operator licenses the game engine and everything that you need to basically play the game to the Dow that oversees an ecosystem and then people are able to build within side that game. And so I think that ultimately from here you can extrapolate out to a lot of different models. But the key premise I think that we're trying to focus on is that if the economic engine that ties to a digital asset has a point of centralization, then fundamentally there's going to be problems under securities laws.
00:40:53.354 - 00:41:50.080, Speaker A: But also that is something that jeopardizes the overall decentralization of your system. And so what this kind of approach to decentralization does or focuses on is really about building redundancies at every single layer of the tech stack. And you build those redundancies and you want to have them be autonomously and incentivized to come into place. And so by using on chain incentive mechanisms like token rewards or by distributing the fees that are accruing to the protocol, you can basically set up an ecosystem where that decentralization should happen naturally over time. And when we talk about progressive decentralization, having those systems in place where people can permissionlessly come in and build on top of what you've already built and have an actual business model that's associated with it, it leads to a much more powerful opportunity for decentralization to exist than if you don't have those in place and are trying to do it manually. So that's it questions.
00:41:50.770 - 00:42:09.730, Speaker B: So my question is, as you mentioned, that the progressive decentralization is very important, but then what's a good timing for that when a company is ready to should be ready to convert, to start to become decentralized?
00:42:09.890 - 00:43:10.378, Speaker A: Yeah, I think that the overall guidance that we tend to give our portfolio companies, right, is to wait on the decentralization piece as long as you can. There are a lot of different pressures that come into it and we'll talk about it more in the token presentation. But decentralization is a very hard project to undertake and it then becomes very difficult to find product market fit, post decentralization. And so one of the things that we always encourage people to find is to find product market fit. Right? And only after you've kind of done that to then really engage in the process of decentralizing. Now there are various tools and again we'll talk about it in the next session that you can use to try and basically dip your toe in the water towards decentralization start to get some of the benefits of token. Incentivization, but at the same time not kind of committing you to a path that you're not going to be able to kind of reverse course from.
00:43:10.378 - 00:43:40.562, Speaker A: Right? I think one of the hardest things is that once you have a token out there, you're kind of trapped into a paradigm that you otherwise can't depart from and there's a bunch of securities laws pressure that comes into play. So as a result of that, the decision of when to issue a token is probably like there are things that you can do to decentralize ahead of that and then the issuance of a token. There are a couple of things that we do to kind of lengthen the time horizon that you can have to have a little bit more control.
00:43:40.696 - 00:43:45.054, Speaker B: So does this mean the decentralization has to be tied to a token launch?
00:43:45.182 - 00:44:05.690, Speaker A: Doesn't have to be tied to a token launch. But really I think it all depends on the protocol. I think it's very hard to decentralize without having some type of token because ultimately if you don't have a token, what is the mechanism for control of the ecosystem. And so tokens are a key component of decentralizing.
00:44:06.430 - 00:44:16.190, Speaker B: Thanks for the answer to add on follow up question is could you analysis for OpenSea, do you think they are decentralized too early or too late?
00:44:17.570 - 00:45:05.360, Speaker A: Considering the blur kind of yeah, we'll get into this in the next presentation as well. But I think for OpenSea I don't think that they've gone about it the wrong way. I think that they've built it the right way. I think that it takes a really long time to build a really good product and building a website and then kind of engaging in decentralization theater is what we say, right? Where you say, oh, we're really decentralized. But then you're not actually not having product market fit, still needing to build a lot of different things, like doing all of that and kind of pretending that you're decentralization or decentralized is not a good path. And I think OpenSea has done a very good job of kind of not decentralizing too early, which is one of the probably the biggest mistakes that people make in this space.
00:45:05.810 - 00:45:43.350, Speaker C: Wanted to talk about the information asymmetry you talked about and how in Ethereum and maybe other tokens that doesn't exist but wanted to get your thoughts on kind of like the gray zone know, there's like a foundation behind. Like there's a case where Elon Musk is like pumping doge and that's kind of, in a way, information asymmetry I think as a founder, how can we think about creating the right management systems so that we do have that input but we stay legally?
00:45:44.110 - 00:46:24.290, Speaker A: Yeah, and we'll talk about that more in the corporate structure presentation. But basically I think there's really two different approaches that you can kind of take. Right? I think that on the one hand, if you look at things like uniswap, v two is still one of the most successful DEXes that's out there. V three is obviously like the most successful dex that's out there. And both of those protocols are in place. They're immutable, they can't be changed. And as a result of that, there's not really any possibility of information asymmetry coming into existence with respect to how those protocols are kind of functioning.
00:46:24.290 - 00:47:45.774, Speaker A: And I think if you notice there's been no setting of expectations that the team that is behind Uniswap is working on other things that are going to drive ultimate token value. I think the key thing with respect to Uniswap and its token relates to the fee switch being turned on, right. And as a result of that, that is the kind of key component to what will the economic model be behind that token. But it's much more about that and what that model looks like and people's use of uniswap than it is about the management team kind of building new products for the uniswap ecosystem. And so as a result of that they've struck a nice balance where I think it would be very unreasonable for someone to say well, I expect Uniswap to do this and it's going to make me money. Whereas if you think about Apple stock, that's exactly the way that people so one way is to basically be done with a product and have that product out in the public, right? And then the other way is trying to kind of really foster decentralized development post having decentralized initially. I think one of the hard parts there, that pathway I think is much harder, right, because what we've seen is that it's very hard to get other actors into your ecosystem to develop, particularly if you don't have an economic model that incentivizes them to do so.
00:47:45.774 - 00:49:05.802, Speaker A: Because like for instance, why would I build on top of your ecosystem when I could just copy your code and go deploy it myself on another chain, right? And as a result of that, those incentives to kind of people to build copycats and all of that has really undermined the possibility of decentralized development. And so I think what we need and what I'm stressing here is better incentive models to kind of incentivize third party actors to build within your ecosystem. And if you can do that, the more that you can get third parties to build in your ecosystem then the more flexibility you have to also build because now you're just one kind of piece of the puzzle rather than the only piece hi, thanks for the great talk. I have a question around business models for these clients or front ends. Does it usually come from the protocol revenue or maybe end users of these clients paying like SaaS fees or other type of fees? And where are some of that are the most accessible? Sure, it's going to depend on the protocol, right? But I would say that in the context of, again, let's just use Openc. If you think about right now, when you engage in a transaction on Openc, you pay a 2.5% commission, right? So the Fat protocol thesis would say that basically all of that value should accrue to the protocol, right? So the protocol gets all 2.5%.
00:49:05.802 - 00:49:58.394, Speaker A: But as I was saying, that doesn't really lead to a scenario where people are going to be able to build the application layer on top of it and have it be decentralized. Openc has a ton of employees. A lot of those are engaged in regulatory compliance like functions. And as a result of that, if all of the value accrued to the protocol, then the only way that OpenSea would be able to continue to run its business is if it had a token and then all of the value came through them through the token, which doesn't really work because again, you'd have centralization, right? So we have to kind of find a happy medium between the Fat protocol thesis and the other alternative, which is all 2.5% goes to the client layer, right? And if you were to do so, instead of 2.5% going to the protocol, let's say all 2.5% went to the application, but if you did it that way, now the protocol has no actual revenue and there's no network effects that are accruing to it.
00:49:58.394 - 00:50:52.506, Speaker A: And that opens up interesting possibilities of also centralization, right? If you have one marketplace that is then responsible for 75% of the economics that are coming through the system, well, now it's going to be sucking away all of the money that is basically coming into the system. And so as a result of that, the kind of opposite extreme of having everything go to the app layer doesn't really work either, right? So you need to find a happy medium where let's just say you did 1% to the protocol and 1.5% to the application, right? And then what that would allow you to do is a, it incentivizes people to build businesses on top of the protocol and create their own marketplaces. But in addition, what it allows you to do is it allows you to have a lot of diversity at that client layer because maybe you run a marketplace and you say, well, we're getting 1.5% for every transaction. We're going to give our users 0.5% of that and maybe I'm running one and I'm going to say, well, we're going to give them all 1.5%,
00:50:52.506 - 00:51:38.538, Speaker A: right? And so all of a sudden you have this very diverse kind of an opportunity for various different business models to kind of operate at that app layer. And as a result of that, you should basically end up with a lot more choice and diversity for people to choose from. And then you would also give native tokens to this client so they can also get some value from the protocol. Exactly, right, yeah. The whole thing is about incentive alignment, right? You want builders to come into your ecosystem to build and you want them to be aligned with other builders in the ecosystem to grow the overall pie. And so that's what I mean by a centralized business is you're taking a pie and you're growing it yourself and you're keeping the entire thing. Right? And the idea is that if you do that, you're upward bound about how big that pie can get.
00:51:38.538 - 00:52:09.170, Speaker A: Whereas if you only are going to take a slice of that pie, that actually might be better than taking all of the smaller pie. If you can grow the pie massively, then you take a slice of it and you'll end up economically better. And that's know one of the guys on our research team, Scott Commoners, wrote an article basically about the economics between when it actually makes sense to decentralize from an economic perspective and when that will lead to potentially greater growth that would then yield better economic benefit to the person that built the protocol.
00:52:09.250 - 00:52:27.050, Speaker B: So I have a question about if all the revenue accrue to the protocol and then the protocol distribute say, like cash or in token to a foundation or developers that are building on top of the protocol, is that considered legal?
00:52:28.750 - 00:53:04.534, Speaker A: Yeah. And we'll actually speak to this in the next presentation. But in terms of the design space and what you want your token models to be, I'll get into this. But ideally you shouldn't be thinking about tokens as a proxy for equity. Right? And so you shouldn't be designing systems where the tokens basically function like equity does in a shareholder world. So you don't want a system where basically the system accrues revenue and then it dividends it out to token holders. Right.
00:53:04.534 - 00:53:32.654, Speaker A: Because ultimately it's very hard to argue that that should be treated from a regulatory's perspective different from tokens. And so as a result of that, we try and stay away from those systems and it really actually limits your overall the utility that you can drive to an ecosystem if you kind of adopt one of those models. And so I'll walk through in the next presentation some different design choices that people can make to really, I think, think outside of the box of kind of what equity does.
00:53:32.772 - 00:54:08.458, Speaker D: Hi, Brandon here. Thanks for the fascinating talk. So we have a protocol called Share and we have kind of the permissionless smart contract layer in addition to the application layer. And we believe in kind of that redundancy model that you talked about by having multiple clients. That being said, I feel like one takeaway from the talk is that a prerequisite to meaningful decentralization is achieving a dominant enough position such that there's economic value that can be distributed to people that want to build on top of that. And so I wonder if in this case, in the end, is the elimination of trust really an anti pattern? Because you need founders to get to a point where there's value and then make a conscious decision to decentralize even though they actually don't need to.
00:54:08.624 - 00:55:40.250, Speaker A: Yeah, well I think it's a very critical decision, right, and I don't think it makes sense to decentralize in every instance. Right, and honestly that's what a lot of companies in this space struggle with that decision. Decentralization is very hard, involves a bunch of regulatory risks and ultimately is that pathway worth it for the end goal? If you built a system that has a legit business model and is earning money, what are the drivers for actually deciding to decentralize and taking on all of this risk? And I think that what it comes down to is I don't think that every single blockchain network is going to be an open one. But I think that the way that we think about it is that ultimately open networks are better than closed networks. And so as a result of that, I think we tend to maximally believe that opening your network is ultimately going to be the thing that drives the most value and that as long as your network is closed, it's always going to be somewhat constrained. And so as a result of that, I think it's too early to know whether or not that bores out successfully or not. Right, but I do think that fundamentally if you're running a closed network you don't have a token, you're not decentralized, there's always going to be the risk to users of that platform that you ultimately start to extract more value over time just like the corporate networks of Web Two did.
00:55:40.250 - 00:56:21.990, Speaker A: And so I think we often struggle internally, right? Like how much do people, like everyday users actually care about decentralization? Right? And I think that users care a lot less about it but I think that people that are building on top of these platforms are going to care more about it and I think that we start to see that with a lot of the Web Two stuff, right? People are kind of aggravated over the fact that the take rates are so massive. Apple's App Store has been one of the most successful projects ever, right, but at the same time people you can starting to see cracks in kind of the lack of trust of these institutions and the fact that they're taking enormous take rates and continuing to kind of flex on builders.
00:56:22.490 - 00:56:45.118, Speaker D: Yeah, I think that's spot on to me like a big part of the promise of Web Three is that compatibility across the app layer. To where you have some of the web two players actually saying, you know what, you can achieve the same UX using the thing you already know. But it just seems tough to get them to actually adopt the decentralization primitives without first achieving a pretty dominant position in the market.
00:56:45.204 - 00:57:36.030, Speaker A: Yeah, look, I think that's fair. I also don't think that it's necessarily bad to build a centralized business that has product market. I think it's a good idea to try and find that product market fit and then struggle with the decision to whether or not to decentralize. I think if you look at OpenSea, I think that they've obviously built a very successful business but the longer you go, the harder it is to then change the course of the direction that you're going in to then decentralize. Right? Because if you start to build out internally organizations and organizational structures that are very centralized and are dependent on centralization have hierarchies and all of these things, it's then very difficult to say, well, oh shit, now we want to actually decentralize. And so as a result of that, I think it's beneficial to kind of build with decentralization in mind. But obviously the commercial realities and practicalities of that are very challenging.
00:57:36.530 - 00:58:14.442, Speaker C: I want to ask about the client kind of level and the monetization there. There's another good question. I just kind of wanted to go on top of that. You mentioned there's, for example, Liquidity and others that are taking percentages of the revenue, but do you think it's maybe similar to royalties in a way and how those are like users? If I'm trading maybe millions of dollars, I'll go to the front end that doesn't have that percentage and is there potentially like a race to the bottom or is there more of like, do you think there's enough defensibility around basically front ends to justify that?
00:58:14.496 - 00:59:31.810, Speaker A: Yeah, well, so I think what I would say, right, is that that is exactly why I think commoditization of that client layer is problematic, right? Because if the protocol does not reward the client for having a transaction routed through it, then you're always going to end up with a commoditized client layer. Because fundamentally, there's no business model in like, oh, who gets to? Route the most transaction through right now. Or you put it on those front ends to charge their own fee on top of whatever the person has to use to trade through. And so as a result of that, I do think in that scenario you end up with a race to the bottom where it's like whoever just charges the least fee, right? But if you flip it and you have fees accruing directly to the client layer, then those clients can basically figure out what business model works for them to basically how much of that money can they pass on to the user versus how much do they need to keep in order to actually have a user experience that people are going to want. But I think if you think about Uniswap, for example, there hasn't been a lot of robust, rich clients that have been built on top of it. Right. There's no robust framework for people to use.
00:59:31.810 - 01:00:14.590, Speaker A: It's all kind of like Uniswap's very simplistic application that people can have replicated across the ecosystem. So as a result of that, I think that without having protocol fees going to clients, you're always going to end up with that most simplistic, cheapest situation. And I think that's incredibly problematic when it comes to regulated businesses, where we obviously are going to see that within DeFi, and then it's going to become a question of what types of regulations are going to apply to, let's say, Farcaster applications. Right. There are privacy regulations and stuff like that that are going to apply. And so it's really hard to see a world in which those applications can actually survive if they don't have a revenue stream. Yeah.
01:00:14.660 - 01:00:30.774, Speaker C: So then I guess you're saying that the protocol should incentivize clients to, I guess, be built for it, and then in that way they basically can then make better clients and also even incentivize marketing by basically giving funds to whoever can route the most users to it. Right?
01:00:30.812 - 01:00:57.182, Speaker A: Exactly. Again, let's say your CPORT, if you're taking a let's say the protocol is taking a 1% fee and passing 1.5% off to the client layer, I guess the question is, is the protocol better off taking 2.5% and the number of transactions it generates? Or if it takes 1%, gives 1.5% to the client layer, are you now going to generate more transactions such that the overall value to the protocol is higher? Awesome.
01:00:57.236 - 01:00:58.254, Speaker D: Well, thank you so much for that.
01:00:58.292 - 01:01:06.010, Speaker A: All right. It was greater.
