00:00:11.610 - 00:00:31.638, Speaker A: All right, so hi everyone, I'm T, I'm the CEO of Maltese. My voice is a little bit broken. I went to the dejan yesterday. So I'm glad to see you all here. It's very hot. So thank you for making the effort. So if few words on Maltese, on what we're building.
00:00:31.638 - 00:01:17.282, Speaker A: So we build corporate cards and financial software for the web3. So the idea is to help entrepreneurs and finance teams automate the crypto and they use the payments and close their books faster. Today is not about Maltese though. We wanted to experience a new, to experiment with a new format. Usually we talk about the future of finance, we talk about DeFi, we talk about integration, some more technical stuff. So we thought that for the first time we would just talk about basic things. Very basic thing, going back to the basic of just building a project, spinning off a Dow, and try to share some of the good practices, some of the tips that a lot of Dow core team contributors have been sharing with us over the past week.
00:01:17.282 - 00:01:56.626, Speaker A: We are super fortunate to be working with about 150 Dows right now. And you'll see that most of the things are again, very basic. But they will, if you're starting a project, they will help you avoid costly mistakes, they will help you save time, they will help you well, maybe get a bit of sleep. Let's do it. Well, I guess I miss the introduction. Okay, so yeah, the truth is, when you're starting a project, it's all about building. Building.
00:01:56.626 - 00:02:37.758, Speaker A: It's fun. You onboarding, new people, new contributors. You guys are reinventing the future of the web, the web as it should be. But as soon as you start growing a little bit, running a Dow is not as sexy as we all thought it would be. And I guess the first thing, and I'm going to start with the least sexy of all things legal. For a long time I thought that being a Dow meant to avoid at all cost, being registered, there are more and more frameworks today that help you do so in a very cost effective way. So why should you register in the first place? Well, very basic stuff.
00:02:37.758 - 00:03:22.522, Speaker A: You might work with contractors, and those contractors, at some point they will need an invoice because themselves has to feel taxes, right? So they will feel, for example, in the US. What is called a W nine. So if you're working with them and you pay them over $600 a year, you have to declare something. But I guess the real reason here, because nobody wants to pay taxes in the end, the real reason here is protection. As soon as you start registering your Dow, your project, you have to realize that when you're running a Dow, every single contributor, every single member of the community that touches token might be liable at some point. We are working in a space where innovation is constant, where we are always moving fast, breaking things, evolving in a very gray area. So you never know what's legit today and what can be or what cannot be legit tomorrow.
00:03:22.522 - 00:03:53.430, Speaker A: So, again, having a legal entity, whatever it is, and we can talk about it later, means you can be protected, you can protect your contributors, you can protect your stakeholders as a whole. We have some examples of jurisdictions. Of course, I'm not a lawyer. Don't expect to receive legal advice here. Those are just frameworks that we see more and more in our space. The most common one right now is to get an LLC. So that's called a Dow LLC in Wyoming.
00:03:53.430 - 00:04:23.220, Speaker A: It's pretty easy to do. The only thing that is a bit cumbersome is that you may have to declare, I mean, you have to fill what is called a QAnon, which is basically tax feelings. It's taking a lot of time because it was designed for investment funds. At first, there's a new thing popping out, which is called unincorporated nonprofit first. Sorry. For example, Wyoming. You have companies like organizations like MakerDAO who are registered there.
00:04:23.220 - 00:05:11.566, Speaker A: Unas is a new status that I recently came across with, for example, Concash. So Cameron told me about this a few days ago. The beauty of this is that if you're not considering making profit and distributing dividends tokens to your stakeholders, you can build this kind of very lightweight you can register with these very lightweight status. You don't even have to do extensive fillings because this is an association. Of course, if you start your project before decentralizing, you might go with a very standard C Corp in the US. This is what we're starting with as well. This is very common for tech startups, and you might consider spinning up your dao and moving to Wyoming or others after a while, of course, Europe.
00:05:11.566 - 00:05:58.490, Speaker A: This presentation was designed mostly for people in the US. I'm sorry, but you do have a lot of options in Switzerland. The Crypto Valley, for example, is a place where in the De Zugier, a lot of companies have special benefits there, and they're trying to attract more and more DAOs. So the framework is pretty favorable there. Of course, as I said, I'm not a lawyer. You need to do your own research, and I strongly recommend you guys to dig further in. Lexdow Discord these guys are doing an amazing job at just compiling whatever legal statues you can have at basically finding ways for you guys to build your Dow in a very robust way so that you can focus on building without taking too many risk.
00:05:58.490 - 00:06:15.702, Speaker A: They're amazing. You don't have to do this alone. I would suggest it even. I have to say I hate lawyers. But at some point you have to talk to them. We can make intros so that you don't burn all your cash and picking the good ones. You can also consider trying tools like Caddydow, so we have a partnership with them.
00:06:15.702 - 00:06:43.546, Speaker A: So basically the beauty of this tool is that they help you set up LLC in a few seconds. The whole process has been productivized. It's really powerful. So it's a good way for you guys to get started at minimum cost. Of course, we can make intro there too. Now we are jumping to another topic that we hear a lot. And again, this is not an expert talk, so we're just sharing basic tips.
00:06:43.546 - 00:07:16.134, Speaker A: So what do we mean by treasury management? It's basically about holding your funds. Hopefully you got some funding. You should some tokens, for example. It's about planning the way you're going to spend them with your teams. It's about organizing the spending and controlling it, making sure that you're here for the long run. Of course you have to do it. It's a very pompous word, but you have to make sure that you're not burning your cash on petty projects.
00:07:16.134 - 00:07:51.650, Speaker A: To make sure you're enduring, you're here to stay. You need forecasting, you need to know when you run out. And for this, the first thing we recommend is actually a safekeep using the right tool to set your wallet. You'd be amazed to know how many Dows just start with a MetaMask wallet. We literally talk to people holding millions on MetaMask wallets. We strongly recommend Multisignature Wallets. The reference to the space is the Safe well, Gnosis Safe we're just rebranded in Safe Multisig for those who are not familiar.
00:07:51.650 - 00:08:24.110, Speaker A: It's basically a smart contract. When every transaction has to be approved by a set of other signers within the wallet. You can make sure that funds are never used in an undue way. Wallet hygiene. So that's another topic we see a lot and we help people with. So again, crypto means thousands of networks, thousands of assets, multiple networks, multiple wallets. You want to make sure that at some point you keep a spreadsheet where you have all your wallets at the same place, where you know who the signers are, at least with a key or with some IDs.
00:08:24.110 - 00:09:02.700, Speaker A: This is the best way for you to understand where the treasury money goes. Start with a spreadsheet. We can share templates to help you started. We'll publish a blog post on this. When you start growing, you can start using tools like Maltis. We basically get all the transaction in a very nice way and we give you an overview of the spending per team, per category, so that you always understand what's going on with the funds. Bookkeeping is a nightmare, but maintaining clean book will change your life.
00:09:02.700 - 00:09:31.602, Speaker A: This is something we learned the hard way. We started like a lot of people. So even though we are not a Dow, I can share this experience. It took us, I think, nine months to record the first transaction we ever did on a spreadsheet. And we did it because our accountant and our investors just literally demanded it. It took us like two weeks to set things out. So you want to make sure that you do beekeeping, which is basically very simple.
00:09:31.602 - 00:09:58.522, Speaker A: It's about tracking your transactions, about recording them on a ledger, a spreadsheet for example. And it's about making sure that if at some point you have to pay taxes because you are registered, you can do that. And of course it's something that happens in Web Two, but in Web Three as well, we're not exempt. The key thing is not really about a tool. God, it's so hot. It's mostly about discipline. It's a mindset.
00:09:58.522 - 00:10:37.210, Speaker A: We hate it. We want to focus on building cool things. But if you don't start with a spreadsheet and if you don't start recording every single transaction you do, you're going to end up again like us, or like a client of us, of ours, for example, who had to hire external consultants because they didn't even know how much they spent on gas fees. How much they had spent on gas fees over the past three years. It took them three weeks going through every single transaction or ether scan because they didn't have the discipline to record those transactions at first. So my strong recommendation is just do it. Take a single spreadsheet.
00:10:37.210 - 00:11:21.400, Speaker A: Just start with basic stuff like name of the wallet, name of the signers, basic categories like hey, is this something related to marketing? Is this something related to DevOps, QA, whatever, just do it and do it consistently. If you are doing more complex stuff, if your volumes of transactions are increasing, if you have more and more flows of funds, I would recommend to go. So a first step will go probably with tool like Maltese. So that's the kind of stuff that I showed you, where you record your transaction, you keep them clean, you have categories and all. If you do more complex stuff, you start interactive with more exchanges. For example, you can use tools like crypto. It's a bit more advanced, more designed for accountants, but you can still use it.
00:11:21.400 - 00:11:56.942, Speaker A: Cointracker is one of the best tools out there to understand what you're supposed to pay in terms of taxes. And of course, if you're doing crazy D Five shit, you might want to talk to an accountant at some point. We're working with amazing accountants that we can recommend to, that we can refer to you guys to who understand the specificity of Web Three. I wouldn't say they're native web Three, but at least they get it. That's a huge start. So next I wanted to talk about something a little bit different. So again, this talk by no means is exhaustive.
00:11:56.942 - 00:12:22.854, Speaker A: It's not about all the challenge you could face as a Dao. We just handpicked a few of them that we thought would be a little bit different. What we usually hear in these kind of conferences, hiring. So you have a Dao, it's up and running. You're building an amazing protocol, everything's in order. But managing stakeholders in a Dao is extremely confusing. You have so many different types of stakeholders.
00:12:22.854 - 00:12:48.850, Speaker A: You have the core team, you have core contributors, you have Pud leads, you have treasury leads. We don't even know how to call them right. Every single Dow has a different taxonomy. You have contractors of course as well. Hiring the right people can be extremely difficult, extremely hard. And for a long time I thought that hiring in a Dow was very different from hiring in Web Two. Not that much actually when you think about core contributors.
00:12:48.850 - 00:13:39.038, Speaker A: And I'm going to show you an example of Decentraland where they have a very robust process that you can get inspired from to help you pick the right people to build your project the first thing before hiring the people. And again, that sounds obvious, but we've got a lot of people who never did it. You need to define your needs so that could go with a governance proposal. We have some examples with Pocket, for example, that we can share. They write extremely precise job description for every single contractor, every single proposal and they match those two and you have to build a pipeline. We did the math, we talked to a lot of people in the space and usually it's about hiring is only about 10%. Sorry, finding people through Japas is only 10% of the people they hire.
00:13:39.038 - 00:14:21.860, Speaker A: Everything comes from the network, everything comes from the community. And the best way the things, the strategies that work the best are basically to incentivize with native tokens people from your community, to refer the right people and to get them in your pipe. And then in the process I'm going to show so a few words on a process. You need one, you need one. Usually it starts with a proposal with outlining the process, you get it approved and from there you can have multiple different stakeholders joining this process. We'll write a post on that. I should have maybe should have added more details on that, but I'm just going to describe the process at decentraland, which I think is one of the best out there.
00:14:21.860 - 00:15:09.810, Speaker A: So first there is a candidate, of course there is a referral so that's somebody from the community who's actively joining the process. Then you have a team lead. So I'll talk about team structure a little bit further. But you have a team lead so usually a core contributor. Then you have a team member so that's somebody who has the same skill set as the people you want to hear you want to hire and can vet those skills. They have reference contacts so that's former contributors who work with this potential new hire in other Dow, other projects, for example, what surprised me the most was the fact that they have what they call a nature facilitator. So just like in Web Two, you have somebody like a core contributor whose role is simply to make sure that the process goes smoothly.
00:15:09.810 - 00:15:44.342, Speaker A: And then you have a community witness. So that's simply somebody who will make sure that the whole process is done in a very caring way, respecting the values of the Dao. So as you can see, you have seven people involved in a process so it's really not open buffet in the end. And successful DAOs all have these kind of processes that they implemented very soon. I wanted to talk very quickly about Coordinate. I don't know if you guys are familiar with this tool. I think that was built by the former founders of Yearn.
00:15:44.342 - 00:16:20.662, Speaker A: At first it's basically a way for you guys to once you hire the right people, you have a thriving community. You want to understand what people are working on. You want to be able to map and visualize the flow funds when you incentivize them, for example. And Coordinate is an amazing tool for this. It was built exactly for this build a map of contributions, making sure the right people are getting incentivized the right way, making sure the right people are working with the right teams. And which leads me to another point I wanted to touch base on which is the structure. So I'm going to take two examples here.
00:16:20.662 - 00:16:49.620, Speaker A: So idle finance and linksdao. So idle finance is basically a yield rebalancer and linksdao built the first membership community around the golf course. So totally different usually. So the way they did it. So first they started without any structure, without any organization. But soon they realized that was a tall nightmare. Nobody knew what they were working on.
00:16:49.620 - 00:17:35.230, Speaker A: And so they came up with this setup where so they spin out a lab which is a C Corp. They have a foundation which is in Wisconsin, they have co founders in the labs which are all domen experts. And then they set up like multiple dows. So usually each of these sub dows having a multisig, every single dow is called a pod or a league. They have community leads who are elected by the community and who are building their own team. Everything gets vetted and approved by the community, of course through governance proposals. And all of these subs DAOs usually report to a master Dao, which is very often the treasurer one.
00:17:35.230 - 00:18:15.078, Speaker A: So the big multi SIG of the Dao. So that's kind of the way those guys structured this whole organization. I think maker is doing something similar. So you would have a Dao for HR, you would have a Dow for marketing, for example. You would have a Dow for whatever the project is. And it's been working super well since they implemented this. And the last thing that we talk a lot about, idle, I think I need to be careful with time is one of the misconception as well is that we're just building stuff and we don't need metrics.
00:18:15.078 - 00:19:07.206, Speaker A: And I'm going to show a few examples of metrics that we believe every dow should track. So what do you mean by KPIs? By metrics it's very simply a measurable value that can help you demonstrate how effectively a Pod or effectively a league is working, is achieving the key objective as a Dao. It's also a nice way for simply to align the team, the community contributors behind a single common goal. Few examples here that we can share as well. So the first example is about marketing. So that would be the kind of kind of matrix you could track as a marketing league, a marketing Pod. You can have stuff around voter participation.
00:19:07.206 - 00:19:52.460, Speaker A: Of course this is a key one, how active people are in the community. Of course you can have product one if you're building a product, an application on top of the protocol, protocol one. This is something where probably people are most familiar with it's basically how much money people just lock, for example, in a protocol. And the one I like is really about burn rate, but I'm biased of course, because I'm building mutes. But it's really about burn rate, cherry size, token appreciation, in and outflows. Those are the basic things that people like idle or links for example are tracking on a weekly basis. We do recommend to track these metrics, we do recommend to usually start with a proposal to align everybody behind those goals, those KPIs and to share them.
00:19:52.460 - 00:20:35.500, Speaker A: One of the key missing thing in the early days of DAOs was the fact that nobody knew again how effective the team was and whether people were actually reaching the objective of Dao. You can start with very simple dashboard, could be a spreadsheet. You can go with June, which is an amazing team, which is a very more complex tool but really exhaustive. So you can basically map and share any kind of data you want. Maltis is more for financial data. We built a function to export very easily spending breakdowns for example by team, by categories, by Pod. And of course it's all about monitoring, reporting and improving and you need metrics to do that.
00:20:35.500 - 00:21:05.940, Speaker A: I think this is it. We wanted to keep it short again, we wanted to keep it super basic. This is the first time we're giving this presentation. We wanted to experience with a new format. So we'd love some feedback to make it better so I can save the community better. If there are some topics that you guys want to dig because we do acknowledge that this is pretty shallow, we are happy to dig them with to dig those topics with. You guys should thanks.
00:21:07.830 - 00:21:10.690, Speaker B: You mentioned the structure with the subdoub.
00:21:28.750 - 00:21:29.980, Speaker A: Okay, yeah.
00:21:30.990 - 00:21:59.620, Speaker B: Awesome. So you mentioned the structure of the subdos, which is I think I've seen also in several Dows that they use this kind of structure, which is quite modular. And I, like do you know think that they are also setting up legal entities for each of the subdos that are separated or how, in terms of the interface with the legal world, how are they doing that layer of separation and that layer of interfacing with the physical world?
00:22:02.230 - 00:22:34.190, Speaker A: So that's a really good question that we discussed with Idle again a few weeks back. So right now there are two options. You usually have people who are really trying to incorporate or register every Dao and subdao. Basically each time there's some flow funds, they're trying to make it legit. Could be in different jurisdictions, by the way, depending on the mission of the subdao. Then you have other people who only register those with flow funds. So I think that's the case for Idle.
00:22:34.190 - 00:23:17.590, Speaker A: They have two DAOs registered, they have the HR Dao and they have the Treasury Dao. HR Dao because they are contracting directly with people so they want to make sure that they have some kind of a node detail and they are doing things legit and treasury because they are managing like huge volumes. So they want to make sure that if there's a noted they can be compliant as well. And the rest of the Dows, I think they have subdaw about ethics. So for example, this one is not registered. Thanks guys. When you talk about.
