00:00:00.240 - 00:00:20.358, Speaker A: Hello, everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Deliberate Refuel, where we got the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Sasano. Tis the 26 February 2024. All right, everyone, let's get into it. So kicking off today, it's two and a half weeks, or less than two and a half weeks before Denkun goes live on the Ethereum main net. So I thought I'd recap why I'm most excited about EIP 4844.
00:00:20.358 - 00:01:06.970, Speaker A: You know, what do I think are the most awesome things about it? And it turns out there's actually a lot like, obviously, you guys know that EIP 4844 has been kind of like, trotted out as this scalability solution for rollups, and it definitely is, but it does come with more than that. So I put out this list on Twitter today where I said that AIP 4844 adds a new transaction type to Ethereum called blobs that is purpose built to enable cheaper fees for rollups and L2s. And I think that purpose built section of what I said there is the most important because, yeah, it has been purpose built for. For rollups and L2s. And I know that I've said in the past that it can be used for other things such as, you know, inscriptions, and I'm sure people are going to be using them for that and other such things like that. But it's been purpose built for roll ups and L2. It's like, that's the whole point of them.
00:01:06.970 - 00:01:53.690, Speaker A: And I think over the longer term, then the roll ups and roll ups, I guess L2s generally are going to be the only kind of entities using them because the inscription stuff doesn't really make much sense. I mean, the blobs expire after 18 days, right? So it doesn't really make much sense to inscribe something since the whole point of inscriptions is to have something that lasts forever. That's not going to happen with, with blobs. Right? And then I say blobs have their own separate fee market, which means they are unaffected by fee spikes of non blob transactions on layer one. This is something that I don't see talked about enough, and I actually think this is the main highlight of blobs generally. Yeah, okay. The scalability stuff's awesome, of course, but I think that this is more of a scalability boost, or at least something that is more important to the wider Ethereum ecosystem than blobs themselves.
00:01:53.690 - 00:02:37.858, Speaker A: That blobs themselves because of the fact that this is the first time I believe that ETH is going to have what starting to look like a multidimensional fee market, which is what Vitalik has written about before. And it's basically this concept of local female markets. Now, I know some other chains have them, most notably Solana, but I think Solana's implementation is definitely different. They have this kind of notion of hotspots, and it's definitely, and definitely they are metering things in a different way to what Ethereum is. I think Ethereum is taking a simpler approach here, where essentially blobs have their own separate fee market with their own gas price, and everything else has. Has the normal fee market that we're all used to. And in practice, the way this would work is, let's say that gas, or the normal gas, not the blob gas, is at 20 gray, and then that spikes up to 100 way.
00:02:37.858 - 00:03:04.546, Speaker A: Well, today, because roll ups use cool data, which is part of the normal gas market, that means roll ups are affected by this gas spike. You know, they have to basically pay the 100 gray gas fees. But when blobs are introduced, and if these roll ups are using blobs, then the blob fee market would stay at whatever it was at the time. So if the non blob fee market goes up to 100 way, the blob fee market would stay at. If it was. Let's just say if it was at five, it would stay at five. There would be no connection between the two markets.
00:03:04.546 - 00:03:37.722, Speaker A: And that, to me, is really awesome, because it means that roll ups no longer have to deal with layer one fee spikes. And we all know that layer one fee spikes mostly due to random things like NFT mints and meme coins and stuff like that, right? So roll ups no longer have to deal with that sort of stuff, which is great. I think that's one of the best features of. Of blobs, if not the best feature, honestly, and it's not talked about enough. So that's why I wanted to bring it up today. Now, of course, as I mentioned, blobs expire after 18 days, which means that the increased storage burden on ethereum full nodes is very minimal. So that preserves decentralization.
00:03:37.722 - 00:04:22.450, Speaker A: This is the. The real superpower of blobs, I think, in terms of how it scales without sacrificing decentralization is that it is purpose built for roll ups, right? It creates a new separate fee market. But then on top of that, because of the fact that blobs are basically adding more storage to the network, we didn't want to kick people off the network for storing them. And because basically, if you're storing like historical state of blobs, there's only a few use cases for that. I mean, obviously the biggest one is data analysis, being able to analyze what happened on the chain in the past. But also I think taxes is another big one when people want to go back and see what transactions they have for taxes. But most people do that through third party services, right? Like Etherscan and other such things, they don't do it running their own archive node, for example, for ethereum l one.
00:04:22.450 - 00:04:59.826, Speaker A: So the same is going to be true of these l two s. And the blobs. The blobs are just going to be stored by their service providers, and then they'll be able to serve up that information to people who need it. Whether they charge for it or not is up to them, of course. And the beautiful thing about blobs is that they're, they're a one of n trust assumption, which means you only need one honest party to be storing that data. And that honest party can bu, which is awesome, right? But the fact that they expire means that we can get a lot more scalability out of them than we otherwise would have. Because it means that after 18 days, a full node, a normal full ethereum node, will just purge this from, from its database, and then you won't have to have increased kind of node requirements.
00:04:59.826 - 00:05:44.346, Speaker A: But if we didn't do this, there would be increased node requirements. I don't know the exact math off my head, but blobs do add a pretty significant amount of storage to the database. I think it's in the terabytes per year or something like that. And because they expire, that is obviously very manageable there. And then on my next point I said, you know, increasing the number and size of blobs is trivially easy and can be done at every hard fork going forward. And this again falls into what I was saying about them expiring. Because they expire, we can just keep increasing them as time goes on, as more people get kind of like comfortable with blobs, as the network becomes comfortable with blobs, and as we see that there's more need for them, because obviously at some point they'll, they'll become saturated, then we can keep increasing them at every hard fork.
00:05:44.346 - 00:06:32.930, Speaker A: And there also is a way, I believe, to do this without a hard fork. Not sure if that was implemented. I remember I highlighted that Terrence from pry Labs had written something called EIP 4844 plus, I believe, which was essentially being able to increase the size, I think, of blobs, maybe not the number of blobs, but the size of blobs without having to do a hard fork. So again, that would be very, very cool to do it, to be able to do as well. But the fact that we can do it at every hard fork in a really trivially easy way, all it is, is adjusting a couple of, couple of variables is a huge, is huge, because that just gives extra space to these roll ups, drops their fees potentially even more than what we'll see post Denkun. And then we can do that at every upgrade after ten kun goes live, of course. And then finally here I said EIP 4844 lays the groundwork for full dank sharding with data availability sampling that will enable even greater scalability for L2s.
00:06:32.930 - 00:07:23.312, Speaker A: So the holy grail really is data availability sampling with blob expiry. So what essentially this would give us, because the blobs expire, we get to preserve decentralization, as I, as I described. And on top of that, you have the fact that with data availability sampling only a subs, a small part of the I guess like node operator set needs to hold a small part of the total, the total data that's being produced by these blobs in order to satisfy the data availability commitment up to 18 days or whatever the blob expiry is set to at that point. That enables us to essentially increase the size and number of blobs substantially. And I don't know the exact numbers off the top of my head, of course, but substantially. And this, this potentially gives us a 100 to 1000 times scalability increase for, for rollups, of course. And then couple that with things like the verge and statelessness.
00:07:23.312 - 00:07:54.632, Speaker A: I think Vitalik spoken about this before. We could see 100,000 plus transactions per second on these roll ups combined, which would be very, very cool, of course. But obviously TPS isn't everything, and not all TPS is created equal. As I've talked about before, there is the whole kind of notion of the fact that I believe blockchains are a root of trust. So there is going to be a lot of compression going on at these roll ups to kind of like compress down to l one and so on and so forth from there. But yeah, that's a quick recap on EIP 4844. Why I'm so excited about it, why it's awesome.
00:07:54.632 - 00:08:28.224, Speaker A: It is not a small upgrade, that's for sure. It is a large upgrade with a lot of implications for the network. And I'm just super excited to see it go live on March 13, obviously as part of the Denkun upgrade because of the fact that we finally get to see what kind of, I guess, what kind of cost reduction we see on these roll ups because we have only speculation to go off right now. We don't know. It's impossible to know because we have obviously blobs running on testnets, but that's a testnet environment completely different to what it is on Mainnet. So we're not going to know until it's live on Mainnet. But it's shortly coming, you know, less than two and a half weeks, as I said.
00:08:28.224 - 00:09:01.800, Speaker A: So we'll know sooner rather than later. All right, so speaking of Denkun, there's another EIP that I wanted to highlight for you guys. And I did think that I did forget to highlight this because I thought that this EIP was actually going to be part of Petra. I actually didn't even realize it was part of Dengkun because I've been so focused on 48, 44 that I didn't even realize this EIP was coming as part of a Denkun. So this is EIP 4788. Now, of course it's probably something that I don't think I've ever mentioned on the refuel in the context of Denkun. I think I've mentioned that a while ago in the context of what it can enable.
00:09:01.800 - 00:09:43.584, Speaker A: But essentially what this EIP does is it improves communication between the execution and consensus layers of Ethereum, basically creating an enshrined oracle. This enables trustless communication between the CL and the EL, which has a huge impact on staking pools like rocket pool. No longer will they have to rely on a third party oracle to pass information such as the status of a validator from the consensus layer to the execution layer. It may not seem like it on the surface, but this is a huge unlock for Ethereum staking generally. I'm very excited to see this Eip go live with Denkun. Now, I just want to break this down a bit further for you guys because you may be confused about why this is so exciting. So a lot of you will know that currently within Rockerpool there is this Oracle Dao that I am personally a part of, and there's a bunch of other members that are part of it.
00:09:43.584 - 00:10:33.720, Speaker A: Now, this oracle Dao, the whole point of them, or at least most of the point of the Oracle Dao, is to pass information from the consensus layer to the execution layer so that rocker pool can work. Part of that information is something like validator balances or when a validator is exited from the validator set, you know, if they're part of the rocker pool system there. And the reason why that has to be done via a trusted oracle or a group of people that are part of a trusted oracle is because we don't have that communication between the execution layer and the consensus layer. With this Eip, we will have that communication. Now, I don't think the Oracle Dao is being a sunset, you know, immediately after Denkun, I believe Rockerpool has to upgrade their system in order to take advantage of this new EIP. But that will happen. And then most of the duties that the Oracle Dao is doing today will be able to be done trustlessly because this oracle is now enshrined in the protocol.
00:10:33.720 - 00:11:14.504, Speaker A: It basically means that there's no need to trust this Oracle Dao, which is awesome, obviously. And this doesn't just apply to Rockerpool, it applies to basically any service out there that uses this. I believe that Lido even uses this as part of their kind of system and a bunch of other services out there. Don't quote me on that, of course, but I mean, there's currently no other way to pass information around now from the consensus layer to the execution layer around things like validator balances and the status of a validator. So, but there will be with IP 4788. So I actually consider this IP to be the second most exciting after ERP 48, 44. And as I said, the reason why I hadn't highlighted it yet up until this point is because for some reason it slipped through the cracks and I didn't realize it was becoming part of Denkun.
00:11:14.504 - 00:12:03.762, Speaker A: Silly me for focusing too much on 48, 44. But hey, it's awesome that this is coming with, with Denkun. This means that we can have more trustless staking pools here. And then there are two other aips, I believe coming as part of Petra, or at least slated for inclusion as part of Petra, I should say, which are going to enable trustless withdrawals for validators, which essentially means that instead of having to trust a service like a staking pool, for example like rocker pool or Lido, to withdraw the validator for you when you request a withdrawal, you can now do that well after it's, after the EIP goes in in Petra, you can do that trustlessly using the execution layer. So just sending a transaction on chain and then you'll be able to exit it and they won't be able to stop you from doing that. So yeah, a bunch of huge upgrades coming to staking over the next couple of upgrade, next couple of hard forks, I should say. So.
00:12:03.762 - 00:12:35.216, Speaker A: It's great to see that playing out there. All right, another research post from Mike Neuter. Man, this guy's on fire. He's been putting out research posts around a bunch of different topics for a while now. And if you guys haven't actually watched the the Ethereum video roadmap update episode on Bankless with Mike and Domothy, you should definitely go check that out. They're both gigabrains, and I learned a lot from them listening to that podcast that I didn't already know, of course. But Mike published this post alongside someone called Max Resnick, who works at Special Mech, who's the head of research there.
00:12:35.216 - 00:13:38.450, Speaker A: So what this post is, it's all about concurrent block proposes in Ethereum. Now, of course there's an abstract at the top for you to read, and there's also the whole post for you to read. But essentially, from what I read from this post, is that why you would want to do this is basically to, I guess, like increase censorship resistant guarantees. And I think that by doing that, obviously, coupled with things like inclusion lists and a bunch of the other stuff that we have with censorship resistance or working on with censorship resistance, it really does strengthen kind of Ethereum's CR properties pretty substantially, I think. You know, I posted this in the Daily Way Discord channel the other day, but essentially, you know, graystroke, someone who's very active in the daily Gray discord Channel, is very passionate about privacy and very, very passionate about censorship resistance. And he was kind of, I was having a back and forth with him about inclusion lists and where we kind of like agreed and disagreed. And then he was talking about things like stealth addresses and encrypted mempools and how those things are really interesting, and those things are more interesting to him than something like inclusion lists.
00:13:38.450 - 00:14:08.422, Speaker A: And those things are both being worked on in the context of Ethereum as well. I mean, I highlighted stealth addresses, I believe, last week on a refuel. There's a paper that was put out by Tony and colleagues there and then encrypted mempools shutter network. I've highlighted a bunch of times before as well. So these things are in development. So we have inclusion lists, we have stealth addresses, we have encrypted mempools, we have epbs, which isn't really about censorship resistance at its heart. It's more about just like getting rid of the relayer role, because the relay role in the mev boost pipeline is just shitty for a number of different reasons.
00:14:08.422 - 00:14:45.610, Speaker A: But it does have the added benefit of potentially, and most more likely than not improving censorship resistance on Ethereum. And now we have this concurrent block proposes kind of idea which should increase censorship resistance even more. So we have like four things that I just named. There's probably more than four, to be honest, but there's like four things right now that are being worked on in parallel in order to improve Ethereum censorship resistance. And as I've discussed before, I think I discussed this on last week's, one of last week's episodes. The whole point of a blockchain is censorship resistance in my eyes. Like, if you don't have that, then you may as well just create a centralized database and you'd be much better off doing that.
00:14:45.610 - 00:15:31.780, Speaker A: There's no point having a blockchain if it is not maximally censorship resistant in my, that's my true belief here. Because really at the end of the day, like, that's the value you get for giving up all the other stuff that a blockchain is really shitty at, such as, you know, being, being fast, being cheap to use, so on and so forth. You give up all of that and you basically purposely shoot yourself in the footage in order to gain that censorship resistance property. So yeah, as I said last week, that is the most important thing. And I'm really, really encouraged to see just how many things are being worked on in parallel to improve ethereum censorship resistance because it has been tested, you know, since OFAC sanctioned tornado cash back in August of 2022, I believe. I think it was August 8, 2022. And the reason I remember the date is because that's my anniversary with my fiance.
00:15:31.780 - 00:16:02.638, Speaker A: It's kind of funny how, how that fell on the same date there. But yeah, August 8, I believe 2022 is when tornado cash got sanctioned. And since then there's just been a massive kind of amount of attention being been put on censorship resistance on Ethereum. And I think that the common belief amongst, you know, a lot of the ethereums is that since you, persistence is the most important property. It is what we should be optimizing for, and that's what we're doing with a bunch of these things. So anyway, you can go give this research post a read. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so.
00:16:02.638 - 00:16:46.390, Speaker A: All right. So a couple of weeks ago, I believe I spoke about how Rocketpool is currently undergoing some massive changes and that Rockerpool is going to have a quote unquote revenge arc over the next twelve to 18 months. And I highlighted the upgrades back then that were coming or that were proposed. Now whack on Twitter today put out a great thread all about the new tokenomics proposal for Rocketpool and for the RPL token. Now, I've touched on this before briefly, but Wack does an excellent job breaking this whole thing down in his thread. I'll link it in the description below, but I just wanted to put this on your radar because I know there are a lot of RPL holders amongst you guys, and I'm one myself, of course. But like I don't, you know, try to encourage anyone to like buy or sell or try and trade RPL or any, or really any token uh, besides ETH.
00:16:46.390 - 00:17:28.074, Speaker A: I guess. Like it's kind of hard for me not to, to come off like super bullish on, on ETH and, and for me to not to kind of like come off as me encouraging you to buy it, which I'm not, by the way, but like my, I think my bullish energy is contagious. Contagious. Um, but the reason why I highlight this is because for a lot of rocket pool node operators, it's been, or I guess like you could say all rocket pool node operators, the most frustrating thing about the system has been that you needed the RPL token to be used as collateral when spinning up mini pools. And I'll be honest, like, it's something that, it's frustrated me as well, because whenever the RPL price falls, you become uncollateralized and you have to add more RPL to become collateralized again. And you know, it just, it kind of like, it kind of like catches you off guard. I think.
00:17:28.074 - 00:18:20.266, Speaker A: I think the first time I figured it out, it's like, okay, wow, I didn't expect that to happen and it caught me off guard. And I think that's true of a lot of people. And it also severely limits the growth of the rocker pool ecosystem. Now, of course, this proposal and a bunch of others are trying to tackle this, that Rockerpool have, have put out, the rocket community have put out here, which is great to see. And I believe that this will also enable things like staking without the RPL token. And the way they're trying to, I think, change the tokenomics of the protocol is that they want to remove that RPL requirement while still preserving the value flow to RPL, the token. And from people I've spoken to about this and some of the comments that I've read, it seems that the current proposal that wack is talking about in this Twitter thread basically addresses that and basically is actually even more bullish for RPL and drives more value to RPL than the current state of the tokenomics of the rocker pool protocol, which is obviously the main goal of this.
00:18:20.266 - 00:18:41.566, Speaker A: You know, you don't want to be taking value away. You want to definitely be adding value while still preserving what makes rocket pool awesome, which is having a wide, diverse and decentralized node operator sets. So if they can do that, I mean, that's the holy grail right there of staking pool. So I'm rooting for them, of course. You guys know I've been an absolutely massive fan of rocket pool for a while now. All the RPL that I own is held on Cecil E. So you can check that there.
00:18:41.566 - 00:18:59.176, Speaker A: I'm not planning to sell that anytime soon or anything like that. That's just sitting there as part of my Odao bond and whatever I needed for mini pools, of course. But yeah, I'm bullish on rocket pool. I'm not going to make any comments on the token. Like, as I said, I don't like doing that. But I'm really bullish on rocketball. I'm really bullish on these upgrades that are coming to them.
00:18:59.176 - 00:19:39.288, Speaker A: They are still the biggest staking pool by far on Ethereum right now. They still got the most node operators by far. And we should definitely be kind of like, we should definitely be supporting them as much as possible because we obviously want to increase the decentralization of the Ethereum network, and the validator set of Ethereum and Rockerpool is at the forefront of doing that. All right, moving on to a big announcement, I guess. Yeah, it's not, it's technically an announcement, but it's more of a kind of proposal from the Uniswap foundation. So they've proposed a new governance proposal to turn the fee switch on for uni holders. Now of course, this has been a long time coming.
00:19:39.288 - 00:20:13.626, Speaker A: This has been something that's been speculated on by people for a very long time now. And basically what this means is that it would, it would reward uni holders who have staked and delegated their tokens with fair revenue from the actual protocol. Now of course this had a very positive effect on the unitoken. I believe it went up like 80% a day or something, which is absolutely crazy. But I think that just shows how like offside people were on uni and like, the fact that a lot of people were probably shorting it as well. Just kind of funny to see that kind of price movement off of something like this. And I think that when you look at kind of uni as maybe the.
00:20:13.626 - 00:20:35.692, Speaker A: The flag bearer of defi, or especially on Ethereum and l two s, then people look at uni is like the flag bearer of kind of token value accrual. And even though Uni has really just been, I guess, like a quote unquote useless governance token for all of its life up until. If this proposal gets approved. Right. Um, it's still worth a lot. Like, I don't know, I think it's fully diluted value. After the pump is.
00:20:35.692 - 00:20:49.100, Speaker A: Is worth over like 10 billion. Before the pump, it was like five or 6 billion or something like that. So it's still worth a lot. Right. Even though it didn't have a fee, a fee switch on and have fee accrual to it. But now it might. It might.
00:20:49.100 - 00:21:32.080, Speaker A: I mean, it's not. It is just a proposal. As I said, it hasn't been approved yet, but the fact that this has been proposed by the Uniswap foundation itself, um, which is, I guess, like separate to Uniswap labs and the Uniswap protocol. But I mean, separate in name, I think, like, they will work very closely together, of course. But what I wanted to talk about specifically was not so much his proposal, because I do think this proposal will probably get passed at this point. But what I want to talk about is, for the longest time, it was believed that Uniswap didn't want to do this, or at least like, the core Uniswap kind of people didn't want to do this because of regulatory fears. Like, obviously, if you do something like enable a fee switch on the unitoken, and then people who hold unitoken get value, basically.
00:21:32.080 - 00:22:06.066, Speaker A: I guess you could call it a dividend, so to speak, the SEC wouldn't like this and basically say, okay, well, here there's a profit sharing kind of agreement in place here. That means that uni is a security, right? And they go after uniswap labs and so on and so forth. So there's one or two things that could have happened. Now, first thing is that they've just said, screw it, we're just going to do it anyway. And if this SEC comes after us, then so be it. Right? But the second option is more interesting, or the second kind of possibility is more interesting here. Second possibility is that the core uniswap people and the VC's that back them and hold a lot of uni for some reason.
00:22:06.066 - 00:22:59.692, Speaker A: I don't know why, but they feel now feel comfortable with doing this, and they feel comfortable enough doing this that the SEC won't target them. And this then opens up the Pandora's box of, okay, if they feel this way, then what does the regulatory environment in the US look like right now? Like, has it actually changed enough for tokens or for, I guess, like teams to enable fear capture on their tokens? Because if that is true, if that regulatory regime has changed in the background and we're just not aware of it yet, that is a huge unlock for DeFi. That is a huge unlock for tokens generally that are built, or I guess like DeFi, that's built in the US, tokens that are issued out of the US. And that means that logically, at some point in the near future, us users shouldn't be barred from airdrops anymore. We might be able to bring things back like icos. Right. I'm thinking far ahead, but that is if the second possibility plays out.
00:22:59.692 - 00:23:55.496, Speaker A: And the reason why I think that that second possibility isn't something that is a kind of low chance of actually playing out or something that's a relatively high chance of playing out is because of the reasons I've given before around the sec approving a spot. ETH, ETF I really do think that the Democrats in the US are going to try to do everything they can this year to win as many votes as possible and to cause as little drama as possible within and to make, and to make themselves look as good as possible to obviously the US people, because this election is critical for them, right? It's critical for them. They really do believe it's critical for them. They believe it's critical for the country. I mean, I'm obviously not in the US. I don't know the whole politics around it, but it's obvious that this is one of the most, if not the most consequential elections in us history, right. At least from what I've read about this, at least from kind of people I've spoken to that live in the US, that is, that is the environment, that is the kind of vibe that is the, I guess, expectation at this point.
00:23:55.496 - 00:24:32.518, Speaker A: So if they are trying to do whatever they can to keep people on side, to keep people voting Democrat, right, instead of going over to the Republicans, then it stands to reason that they could, in fact become more friendly towards crypto in order to win those votes, right? And by doing this, there's a few ways they do this. One is they stop going after crypto projects with, like, those frivolous lawsuits like the SEC has been doing. Right. And I think that the SEC hasn't brought any of those lawsuits for a little while now. But, I mean, they can in the future. And if they do in the future, then maybe my kind of thesis goes out the window there, or my theory goes out the window there. But there's, that there's an aspect to it.
00:24:32.518 - 00:25:21.110, Speaker A: If they withdraw their lawsuits against Coinbase and Kraken, maybe not binance, as I've just said before, Binance is a separate issue here. But if they withdraw the lawsuit against Coinbase and Kraken over the whole securities trade, unregistered securities trading thing, that is a huge signal as well. Basically saying that, okay, well, the SEC has basically given up on trying to have a war on crypto and declare everything a security, which means that Elizabeth Warren gave up, which means that Biden's administration generally gave up. So that would be a massively positive signal, and that would all but guarantee that the eat spot atfs would get approved. Like, as I've said before, I think it's very, very political. So it stands to reason that at least leading up to the election, we should see a friendlier regulatory regime. Even if they don't want to be friendly, even if Elizabeth Warren absolutely hates crypto, even if Gensler hates crypto, you know, that doesn't matter.
00:25:21.110 - 00:26:14.554, Speaker A: What matters is what they need to happen in order to get those votes. And I think that they know that the crypto industry, at least now, is huge, is big enough to win massive lawsuits against the SEC, to spend the money to win those lawsuits, I think at this point, they've kind of realized, and now that tradfi is involved, too, like Larry Fink and who's obviously a massive Democrat supporter and donor, I think that they're just really going to not try to piss off the crypto people now. Even if they hate us, even if they hate everything about crypto, even if they still think it's about money laundering, him and so on and so forth and whatever, I think that. Oh, and also in the face of Elizabeth Warren's bullshit about Hamas using crypto, right, that was debunked everywhere. I think in the face of that, they've slowly realized and come to terms with the fact that they need to have crypto kind of money. And people on side, they obviously want to have Larry Fink on site, and he's really big on crypto right now. It's not just about the spot ETH ETF or the spot Btc ETf.
00:26:14.554 - 00:26:41.264, Speaker A: He was talking about tokenization. Like he wants to incorporate crypto into their entire stack there. So if we do all of that and we wear our tinfoil hat a little bit. Right? I think I'm getting a little bit, wow, tinfoil hat right now. But if we kind of consider all that, I do think it stands to reason that the hostility towards crypto from the SEC, from the democrats should subside, at least for this year. If they win the election, who knows what's going to happen then? Do they go like, turbo fuck crypto again? I don't know. Right.
00:26:41.264 - 00:27:15.840, Speaker A: Maybe at that point it's too late for them to kind of change their stance there, but it really does feel like there has been a shift here. Whether that it's, it's happened in the background and will stay in the background, I don't know. But I'm sure that there's going to be more positive stuff going forward. And as I've iterated before, as I've talked about before, I'm just going to reiterate my stance here. I do believe the spot ETH are going to get approved. And again, that is another huge win for crypto on the regulatory front. And I think that this proposal getting passed for Uniswap is a big win as well, especially if it passes in the SEC doesn't go after Uniswap or Defi teams generally.
00:27:15.840 - 00:27:51.358, Speaker A: I think they already probably spoke to these teams. From what I've read before, of what I've heard before, they already spoke to these teams about this and they probably think that, wow, okay, these teams have a lot of money. They have the backing of really big vc's, and we've already lost in court a bunch of times and it makes us look really, really bad. And Tradfi now wants to get involved with crypto. I don't know. It just seems like something that would be a completely stupid thing to do at this point is being hostile towards crypto, especially if you are trying to win an election as big as the one that's coming up in the US. I think that because of all of that, we're going to see some friendlier kind of stuff going forward.
00:27:51.358 - 00:28:17.306, Speaker A: But anyway, that's my tinfoil hat. I'll either be wrong or right. Maybe after this refuel I'll go on Twitter and see that the SEC has sued another kind of project in crypto or something, and I'll just go back and try and edit. Nah, we're not gonna edit this out of the video. I never do that. But I just, when I think about it, I'm just like, yeah, the dots all connect here. But I don't know if I'm wearing a tinfoil hat and looking like Charlie Day from it's always sunny in Philadelphia, that mean where he's looking at the board and there's all this just kind of stuff that he's connecting together.
00:28:17.306 - 00:28:38.006, Speaker A: It means nothing. I don't know if you guys have seen the episode. Basically there's not nothing going on. It's just like him being crazy. But maybe that's me, or maybe I'm right on this. Who knows? I think I was one of the kind of like only people saying that there was 100% chance that the BTC spot ETF's would get approved for a long time as well. I was constantly saying, I'm like, this is, you know, 100% is going to get improved by Gen ten for this, this and this reason.
00:28:38.006 - 00:29:01.306, Speaker A: And I think I'm one of the only people that are saying it's going to the eight spot ETF's are going to get approved by May 23. And if I'm wrong about that, I'll own it, of course, and I'll say I was wrong about that. People can make fun of me, whatever, blah, blah, I don't care. But if I'm going to kind of believe something, I'm going to state it publicly and I'm going to put my weight behind it. So my weight is still behind that. But we'll obviously have to wait and see how that plays out there. Anyway, I want to get through the rest of this stuff before I go over time here.
00:29:01.306 - 00:29:40.142, Speaker A: So I've talked about Int Max before. It's a, it's a project that I'm actually an angel investor in. I should disclose that, of course, but they're basically focusing a lot of their efforts on plasma now. For those of you who don't know, plasma was this scaling solution that was really big in like 2018, 2019, and it eventually became roll ups. And originally optimism was known as Plasma Group, and now we're at the forefront of this. But plasma recently has been making a comeback with int Max, I think, being at the forefront of developing it. So today they've introduced or announced something called Plasma Next, which is the first completion of plasma and the de facto resolution of the impossibility of stateless blockchains.
00:29:40.142 - 00:30:01.158, Speaker A: They continue. We have been able to eliminate the online requirement from plasma. This can be verified in both the paper and the code. Now, of course you can check out this ETH research post for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But I mean, what's really cool about this is that for a long time people thought plasma was like unworkable. It was dead, it had no use.
00:30:01.158 - 00:30:31.390, Speaker A: You know, we're just going to do roll ups. But it turns out that that's not the case. And Vitalik actually wrote a post about this recently. And I think that once Vitalik is putting his weight behind something, and once smart people like the Inmax team is putting their weight behind something, I think people should start to pay attention more here because it's not no longer just like a research can we do it thing. It's okay, we researched that and turns out we can do it. Here's how we do it. And this is what's described in this, in this research post here we should definitely go check out.
00:30:31.390 - 00:31:24.728, Speaker A: So, and I think it's been enabled by zero knowledge proofs. I mean, dude, dude, I say dude, guys, zkP's like, I actually can't even begin to describe like how a transformational zero knowledge proofs are to basically everything in this ecosystem. And the fact that they've been around for decades and had no practical implication meant that for decades they sat in like university research land where they weren't getting funded. Like there was no getting funded to research this stuff outside of, within universities. And the funding was obviously not that great there. But since we obviously are scaling via rollups now, and since the advent of ZK rollups, the ZKP, or zero knowledge technology generally has gotten billions and billions of dollars worth of funding now. And we have some of the coolest stuff coming out of all of these funding efforts, including plasma next, including a lot of the technology that's being worked on to enable ZK evms and ZK roll ups and ZK proofs are generally there.
00:31:24.728 - 00:31:56.184, Speaker A: But we're basically going through a huge renaissance in cryptography and you know, being led by, by ZKP's and living led by snarks and snarks and stuff like that. That's all enabled by crypto money. It's all enabled by the fact that people want to fund these things because they obviously think they're going to get a return on their investment. And this will not have happened if it wasn't for crypto. So that to me is really, really bullish overall. But yeah, if you want to learn how plasma next kind of has fixed this kind of dilemma that plasma had for a long time. I think it's been five, six years at this point.
00:31:56.184 - 00:32:26.630, Speaker A: You can go check out this post. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, last up here, I'm just going to do a little bit of a mini bullish rant. So I put a tweet out today where I said EIP 1559 went live on August 5, 2021, which was towards the end of the last bull market. The merge and subsequent massive issuance reduction of around 90% for ETH happened on September 15, 2022 in the heart of the bear market. Now ETH will be net deflationary for the entire bull market. Buckle up.
00:32:26.630 - 00:33:05.602, Speaker A: So the bullish rant starts now. Basically, I'm going to try and get through this without rambling too much, but the reason why I tweeted this out was because I read someone post something in the daily way, Discord Channel camera, who it was who said that this will be the first bull market where Ethereum has been full proof of stake. And then I thought about that, I'm like, okay, well, okay, that's obviously true because Ethereum didn't come full proof of stake until the merge. But then what else did we have that was not part of the whole bull market? Well, of course, Erp 1559. Okay, well, what are the both of these things together enable? Well, they enable a net deflationary ETH while still providing a yield for ETH stakers. Right. Because we still issuing new ETH, we're just offsetting it with the burn.
00:33:05.602 - 00:33:49.894, Speaker A: So just these two things alone now exist, have existed in the bear market, and now it will exist for an entire bull market and will exist for every bull market going forward. Like, I just can't help but think what that's going to do to the price, guys. Like, I mean, I know I've given my target fifteen k to twenty k, and these are the reasons that go into that. But like, the more that I just kind of look at this stuff and the more that I think about it and just reiterate it in my own mind, and the more that I kind of break it down and then I think of everything else, like restaking and L2s, increasing the network effect of ETH and institutions and the ETF's and so on and so forth, I just get so stupidly bullish. I know. Like today, obviously, ETH is over three k. At current time of recording, it's about $3,060, which is obviously a big deal because being over three k is a big deal.
00:33:49.894 - 00:34:25.010, Speaker A: It looks like ETH wants to keep running to like 4k on this run in particular. But, but I think when I just kind of go through all those bullish catalysts that have just not been, have not existed in other bull markets, we didn't have restaking, we didn't have Espot ETF's. I mean, to be fair, we don't have them yet, but if we get them in May, then, yeah, we'll have them for the bull market. Right. We only had ERP 1559 towards the end of the last bull market because the bull market ended on November 2021, which is only a few months after August, of course. And we didn't have the merge done in the bull market. That was done in September of 2022, which really was the heart of the bear market.
00:34:25.010 - 00:34:56.938, Speaker A: I mean, it was like a couple months before FTX blew up and then the bear, and then that was the bottom, basically. But now we have all of this stuff that we just haven't had before in a bull market. So that is basically, I guess, the main reason why I think ETH can go to this cycle and then beyond that, over the long, long term, I believe it can go much higher than that, of course. But you just, you just take that altogether. And then the only assumption that you really need to make this is, this is the beautiful thing about the Ethereum investment thesis at this point. The only assumption that you need to make at this point is if a theory I'm, as an ecosystem will keep growing. That's it.
00:34:56.938 - 00:35:14.806, Speaker A: You don't have to assume anything else because let's assume, let's say the ethereum ecosystem will keep growing. Everything else is a downstream effect from there. Let me spell it out for you. And this will be the final part of the bullish ramp because I've gone over time here. If you. The ethereum ecosystem keeps growing, what does that mean? Well, it means a L2s keep growing. More and more people get on boarded.
00:35:14.806 - 00:35:30.286, Speaker A: More and more people buy ETH and use ETH. Right. So ETH network effect goes up. Okay, cool. So how does that downstream to everything else? Well, of course, more and more people are going to stake their ETH. More and more people are going to restake their ETH. More of this activity on the network means that more fees are being burned as part of ERp 1559.
00:35:30.286 - 00:36:00.250, Speaker A: Right. And that means that we're going to be net deflationary. Still, that is a meme that people kind of talk about and people kind of shill and people kind of highlight as a value driver. So from there, we've already got like all these value drivers that are capturing the value of an increased ethereum kind of ecosystem. Increased theorem growth, increased ethereum network effect. So as I said, all you need to do is assume that Ethereum is going to keep growing as an ecosystem, and then everything else falls into place, because you know for a fact that ETH will capture that value. I just gave you the value drivers there.
00:36:00.250 - 00:36:24.104, Speaker A: I mean, ETH fees and burning ETH uses collateral ETH staking, ETH restaking spot ETH, etf. I didn't even mention that. Right. You know, as I said, like the, the net deflationary nature of all of this, like, as long as you, as long as Ethereum keeps growing as an ecosystem, eve benefits from that no matter what. There's no, there's no way to stop this as well. Like what? AIP 1509 is not getting removed from the network. We're not going back to proof of work.
00:36:24.104 - 00:36:53.880, Speaker A: Restaking is not getting removed from the network, and if anything, it'll get enshrined in the network. You know, staking is not going away. Its users money is not going away. Its users defi collateral is not going away. Right? Once ETH gets a spot eTF, that's not going away. So, like, as I said, all you have to do is if you assume that the Ethereum ecosystem keeps growing, ETH captures that value, and in turn, logically, the ETH should go up over the long term. That's my entire investment thesis, really, in a nutshell, because as I said, that's the beautiful thing.
00:36:53.880 - 00:37:10.822, Speaker A: That's the only assumption you need to make. There's no assumption around value accrual, none of that. We know exactly how ETH accrues value. We're seeing it play out right now. ETH is a massive asset. Guys, I could, I know bitcoin is already obviously really big, but ETH is a massive asset compared to everything else. Like, exclude bitcoin for a sec.
00:37:10.822 - 00:37:50.552, Speaker A: Obviously, bitcoin is much larger than ETH right now, which I believe the gap will close over time, but right now, bitcoin is much larger than ETH. Exclude BTC from the equation. ETH is just so much bigger than the rest of the ecosystem, and ethereum, as an ecosystem generally, is so much bigger than everything else that you, as I said, the only assumption you need to make is that the ethereum ecosystem will keep growing. And I know I've repeated that like ten times now, but it was something that I've been thinking about a lot lately. And I was like, wow, how crazy is it that you don't really have to assume anything else, you just have to assume that. And how crazy is it that that assumption is not a big assumption either? Because Ethereum is still very, very small in the grand scheme of things, like within crypto. It's, it's a big ecosystem outside of crypto.
00:37:50.552 - 00:38:08.972, Speaker A: It is tiny. It is really, really tiny. It is just getting integrated into the tradfi systems with these ETF's, which is just the tip of the iceberg, because either as an asset, is just one part of the Ethereum network. The Ethereum network is so much more than that. So I think it's a really simple assumption to make. It is not a big assumption to make. It is not something that is risky.
00:38:08.972 - 00:38:34.832, Speaker A: It's not like, oh, it's a 1% chance of it happening. I think there's like 100% chance of it happening, even if you want to put like 99% on it, because obviously nothing is ever 100%, but you put 99% chance that the Ethereum ecosystem is going to keep growing for decades to come. Like, I truly believe that. And if you do believe that, then it's really easy to buy ETH. It's really easy to hold, ethan, even through the wild volatility that we see. And you do believe that ETH is going to one day be a world reserve currency. People will want to hold it as that.
00:38:34.832 - 00:38:47.608, Speaker A: And that's what I believe, truly. But anyway, I know I said I'd be short with the bullish ramp, but I just realized I'm at 40 minutes. That's. That's almost 40 minutes. That's nice. The refuels are getting longer, guys. It must be a bull market, right? Just the final thing here.
00:38:47.608 - 00:39:14.030, Speaker A: I just wanted to give another shout out that I'm going to be at the upside offices in Melbourne on Thursday, this Thursday from 05:30 p.m. Onwards for their meetup. You can get the full details for this. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But if you are in Melbourne and you want to attend a crypto meetup and you know, you're someone who doesn't really care for meetups, I highly recommend attending this one. Not just because I'm going, but because upside always throws an awesome meetup. There's always a lot of people there, a lot of interesting people.
00:39:14.030 - 00:39:28.584, Speaker A: They have, you know, pizzas and everything when you, when you arrive, it's, it's a really nice office with like a balcony and everything. Like. And it looks like it's going to be good weather on on Thursday as well. Definitely come down. Don't miss this one, guys. And you can register. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so, and I hope to see many of you there.
00:39:28.584 - 00:39:42.944, Speaker A: If you are there and listen to the refuel, please let me know. I always love kind of meeting regular listeners. It just really warms my heart. So please let me know. There. But anyway, on that note, that's it for today's extra long episode. So thank everyone for listening and watching.
00:39:42.944 - 00:39:49.264, Speaker A: Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
