00:00:00.250 - 00:00:31.346, Speaker A: You welcome, everybody. We're just going to get started. My name is Kartik. I'm one of the co founders of ETH Global and I'm super excited to be doing this thing today. We have over 100 people watching on just the zoom alone, and this is also being live streamed directly on Twitter and YouTube. So for those of you who don't know, this is part of Hack FS. Hack FS is a month long event that's being run by Eight Global in partnership with Protocol Labs.
00:00:31.346 - 00:01:54.698, Speaker A: And the goal for this event is to offer the developers out here building on Web Three the opportunity to play with what's possible in the Falcon and Ethereum Ecosystem. And all these developers are using the amazing set of tools and technologies available from both Falcon and Ethereum Ecosystem and really experimenting with what's possible by combining storage and the features of smart contracts and programming languages. So for this event in particular, we have over 470 hackers that are working on 230 different projects that leverage all Coin or Ethereum or both participating from 50 different countries spanning 19 different time zones. And it's absolutely incredible that we're halfway through this event and we're finally seeing progress on what everybody's building on and the amount of creativity, the amount of technical prowess, and just the amount of amazing projects that we never thought will be possible in the traditional sense are being built here. And we're really excited to show and share what they will be soon to everybody. But today, this talk in particular is about a topic that is very relevant to where we are now. So we're at the midpoint for this event and wanted to talk about something that is not only just relevant in mainstream media through to some recent events, but also a pretty big theme for what our participants are working on for this hackathon.
00:01:54.698 - 00:03:03.186, Speaker A: So last week, as you may all know, a hacker was able to gain control of many important Twitter accounts and use that opportunity to run a scam. And gaining access to someone else's account has been a very common issue in kind of the modern web and social media platforms in general. Along with things like being banned or being deplatformed combating fake news, influencing other users behavior, figuring out what a sustainable business model is for social networks and of course the ever growing problem that's our favorite angry people on the internet. So for this talk in particular, today in particular, I wanted to talk about something that is very relevant to this topic and that is obviously what a future of a decentralized social media platform looks like. For Hack FS, we have over 50 different projects that are building something that tackle a decentralized version of the social media platform. That's an amazing number of projects that are doing anything from alternatives to medium, Twitter, audio sharing platforms, you name it. We're seeing a lot of them being built right now and we'll see a lot of them ready to be showcased.
00:03:03.186 - 00:03:57.814, Speaker A: Everybody else in two more weeks. And not only that, I guess actually the Ethereum Foundation is also sponsoring the prize for the best Decentralized Social Network as part of the hackathon submission. So we're really excited to see kind of what everybody builds here. So we wanted to use this opportunity to call upon some of our favorite people in this space who've been thinking about what a future of a social media platform is going to look like for quite some time. And what we'll be doing today is we'll be asking them questions about what they think a good alternative is, what the current problems are and how should we think about solving them. And on top of all that, how do we actually think about designing something like this if somebody wants to take on this challenge? So we'll also be doing Q A from all of our Zoom and YouTube audiences. So if you have any questions that you want to ask our panelists as part of their talk, feel free to just write them as questions on the chat and we'll kind of be curating that list and asking them questions at the end.
00:03:57.814 - 00:04:39.670, Speaker A: And without further ado, I'd like to call up Vitalik Butterin, who's the co founder of Bitcoin Magazine, juan Benet, who's the co founder of Protocol Labs and Balaji Srinivasan, who is a ghostwriter. So with that, please welcome all of our panelists on stage. And I really want to thank all of you for being here. So my first question to all three of you is it's a pretty loaded term when we say we need a decentralized social media platform. So what I really want to do is just kind of have each of you tell us what you actually mean when somebody says social media should be decentralized and how do you interpret that as a phrase? And we'll kind of kick it off with Paul G. You're admitted.
00:04:42.330 - 00:05:49.242, Speaker B: All right, hear me now. Good. So when I talk about decentralized media, it's not just decentralized social media, but it's also decentralizing legacy media corporations. Those are tightly related, especially these days, and I think that goes hand in hand. For example, when you talk about decentralizing social media, you're talking about a million hubs and a billion spokes, right? Folks being able to set up federated networks and folks being able to log in people being able to sign their content with private keys using technologies like Staking to help with decentralized moderation, using end to end encryption, of course to secure things. Maybe having the networks be synonymous to reduce the impact of doxing and offline attacks and swatting of that kind. Implementing positive some behavior like having economic interaction within those networks and obviously censorship resistance with technologies like ENS and H s these are all things that we think about when we talk about decentralized social media.
00:05:49.242 - 00:07:01.102, Speaker B: Decentralized legacy media is stuff like decentralized Hollywood for example, AI video allows you to go and make Hollywood quality videos on your laptop. Decentralized publication is sort of going back to blogs but with monetization. So having paid newsletters and then thinking about ways to network them together. For example, there's not just Macedon and things like Secure Scuttle, but also little features like Quotebacks Net which allow you to do Twitter Style RTS except on a blog, which are pretty cool with nice little, you know, decentralized media. Basically also means if you give individuals the ability to Monetize on their own potentially pseudonymously, there is less pressure for them to be part of an intellectual orthodoxy where they have to repeat certain Nostrums to retain their job in an uncertain environment. And you're seeing that on Substac, for example, where folks not only can think independently, but must think independently as they're in a competitive marketplace for subscribers. And so it's a very different incentive structure than the typical, sort know, Brooklyn like East Coast incentive structure.
00:07:01.102 - 00:07:28.140, Speaker B: So that's my kind of kickoff is decentralized social media and decentralized legacy media are very much hand in hand. And in fact, I expect that the successful platforms will actually break down that barrier, that content and code will be kind of thought of as similar. And you're going to combine kind of the evangelism the values of the community with the technology of the community, and that's going to be influential. We already see that in crypto, but I think we're going to see much more of that.
00:07:29.710 - 00:07:39.680, Speaker A: That's a lot of content to dig in and I'm glad that you already prefaced that. So we'll go into a lot more but we'll kind of maybe let Juan share his perspective here.
00:07:42.130 - 00:08:38.740, Speaker C: Thank you. So I think I agree with a ton of what Balaji has been saying. What I would add is I tend to think about media as a think of the memetics of our system, right? So we have a whole bunch of humans who spread out across a globe billions of different processes processing information. You can think of the brain itself as a different distributed system as well, processing information in different ways. We're talking about the main mechanism by which we broadcast information across billions of people, which as the internet wired us all up in the last few decades, we've managed to get really nice fast properties around. Our expectations today are very different than they were 30 years ago alone, right? 30 years ago, 50 years ago, we had a completely different landscape around information flow in the world. There are certain things that are possible now that weren't possible then.
00:08:38.740 - 00:10:05.102, Speaker C: But part of what's happening now is that we didn't bother to put in any way of controlling for manipulation vectors and attack vectors in the entire stack. So we've created a set of systems that can balkanize not around access or thought, but rather balkanize on manipulation targets. So it's very easy for attackers to divide the network, so to speak, and start playing a subsets of the network against each other and causing all kinds of disinformation campaigns and explicit targeted efforts to cause problems. So I think that is a very serious problem where a number of the kind of first order suggestions for most decentralized media or decentralized social media systems will make that problem or is magnitude worse, not better. And so I think in order to succeed here, we have to look ahead of those problems and start tackling those larger issues of how do you get to systems that are attack resistant and that enable some distributed notion of getting to truth and getting to detangle what's intersubjective and what's objective. And this is likely going to get worse as the ML systems perfect in terms of fabrication of information. So there's a lot of conversations around what's going to happen when things like deepfakes and so on get much orders might get better and so on.
00:10:05.102 - 00:11:04.180, Speaker C: And so we have to think ahead of all those ranges of problems and start building the systems now so that they're ready for when this becomes a much bigger issue. We might transition from a period of massive convergence in the world of basically having very few versions of the stories to a world where there's so many different possible different stories that the majority of humans don't even know what to believe anymore and they don't have a good mechanism for achieving truth. And that is a much worse state than where we are now. And that could be precipitated by centralized or decentralized media not taking these problems seriously. So I think verifiability information, getting to intersubjective and objective perspectives, and having a way of preventing authoritarian control and attackers pitting groups against each other, I think those would be the main things that I would focus on.
00:11:04.630 - 00:13:02.066, Speaker D: Yeah, and I think one of the grand narratives kind of in this whole discussion is this idea that the Internet started as this much more decentralized thing, something where you had a lot of different forums, you had a lot of different blogs and there were lots of different things happening in different corners. And that was how things were maybe ten to 15 years ago. And now we've moved toward, first of all, just technological centralization and political centralization that results from that with a very small number of entities and a very small number of countries, governments being able to have outsized control over just the ability to influence what people see and talk about. And then at the same time, there's also this kind of other effect where we've moved from that kind of clustered blog like structure to the thing that I call Twitter, which is the world water cooler. A lot of people remember had the mindset that the old way of doing things led to kind of fragmentation and tribalism and kind of polarization all these bad things. And the thing we need more of is just for different sides of people to talk to each other. And well, guess what? That's Twitter, right? And Twitter is this wonderful battlefield where you've got tech people, social justice people, right wing people, US people, russia, China, India people, and all of these different tribes that often really disagree with each other and just yelling at each other and it's not at all clear that the result is better, right? So I guess the way I see this movement so one of the kind of words that I like, this is James Pitts, an ethereum validation person I came up with.
00:13:02.066 - 00:14:08.938, Speaker D: This is instead of thinking about cyberpunk, we think about system punk. So system punk ideology would basically say that the goal isn't just to kind of create spaces where people can do things and assume that that's enough. The goal is to kind of think about things like what you're incentivizing, what you're showing, what you're creating selective pressure for, and to kind of understanding that different kinds of rules can have different consequences. And what we need is, first of all, just more experimentation. And experimentation can't happen if there's only two or three places where anything is happening. And we also just need people building these platforms to kind of have this more explicit understanding that that is what they're doing and that it is sometimes actually kind of hard to figure out exactly what it is that we're trying to target and a more decentralized approach. There's a lot of different ways of doing it.
00:14:08.938 - 00:14:49.750, Speaker D: We can think about taking existing social media approaches and then kind of pushing them in a more decentralized direction. You can think about starting with the starting point of everyone having their own blog and then adding different decentralized blockchain based or other whatever components and just creating this playing field where if you want to kind of basically kind of unbundle it and kind of think about storage of the content, user interfaces, incentives, kind of choosing what users see as separate problems and trying to just make it easy to tackle all of those issues individually.
00:14:51.050 - 00:15:30.520, Speaker A: That's great. I think all three of you touch on some sort of similar themes here. But maybe just to kind of ask it more directly, is there in particular like a thing you disagree with on how existing social media platforms currently run and the problem that all of them face? So in Abology, you've spoken a lot about Twitter in the past and what does it mean to exit it? But what exactly are some of these problems and kind of moreover, just do you think the problems that we have right now with these social media platforms only kind of happen at a scale when they cross the threshold of number of users? Or are they going to persist just because of how things are done when a single company is responsible for managing a network that huge?
00:15:31.210 - 00:16:43.918, Speaker B: Well, so one thing I want to say, by the way, is that building something like Twitter or Facebook was extremely difficult. Right. So I respect the folks involved as entrepreneurs because I know how hard that was, and it's easy for us to sort of sit back and poke holes in it and whatnot. But if you just think about the customer acquisition alone, if you're on a website and you're sending up 1000 people a day, that's only 365,000 a year, right? If you're talking about the scale that they're at, even signing up a million a day is 365,000,000 a year, and it'd still take you ten years at a million a day to get to where Facebook is at 3 billion people, roughly, which is insane to think about that, right? Like the scale of these operations, right? So it's very technically nontrivial. There's no way they could have done it decentralized. They were the winners of a very challenging winner take all kind of thing. And initially the value proposition that they gave of basically free global calendaring and messaging and publication and groups and like 50 other functions, right? Photo albums, all of this type of stuff.
00:16:43.918 - 00:17:47.970, Speaker B: That was an amazing price relative to the status quo of the 90s, when photo albums, printing them and sharing them and sending them to 1000 friends was certainly not free, low on long distance calls and calendars and party organization, all this stuff. But now we've moved into a realm where people have kind of gotten over that initial huge consumer surplus of making all these expensive things free. And they're focused now on many of the downsides, which include, okay, we've put all these people online and they're all attacking each other. In many ways, the laws of Twitter, the code of Twitter is more like the laws of physics. It just kind of governs how particles colliding to each other at high velocity on Twitter, as opposed to the laws of a state where there's some expectation of positive behavior. I know that Twitter has some stuff in terms of moderation, but you can't really hit 911 and call the police in real time. It's like you file a report and two weeks later somebody might look at it or what have you.
00:17:47.970 - 00:19:11.194, Speaker B: They do not have great tools for real time policing beyond blocking and so on, right? So it's essentially this sort of thing where they've optimized for engagement, as many people have observed. And engagement could be a burning building or somebody getting beaten on Twitter, right? So I think one major reason this happens is you have 300 million people on Twitter who are not aligned with each other, right? I mentioned this before sort of sarcastically, which is that Twitter is actually now the government of the United States and of Western civilization. No matter every blue check, every elite in the US. And the world may not have much in common, but they get on Twitter for likes and faves and followers. And if their ethics are poor, or if they're incentivized just the right way, which many of them are, they'll just attack somebody on Twitter for the likes, and they will use it as kind of a real time poll. People talked about online voting and the problems with online voting. Well, there's an election happening every day, every hour, every minute on Twitter, right? And it's like gladiator, thumbs up or down, right? And this is literally how policy is happening, right? It's actually kind of crazy, right? There's many good things about Twitter, but it wasn't built to be a government.
00:19:11.194 - 00:20:24.370, Speaker B: However, politicians absolutely do use it as a focus group. They absolutely do use it to determine what is popular and unpopular. They will shy away from positions where they're attacked on it and so on. So Twitter is not always real life, but it will be, and it becomes real life, right? So when we start thinking about this stuff, we're like, okay, we now have kind of passed the age where we've got large assemblages of people online. We need to start introducing a things for explicit governance, opt in governance where when you come into a social network, you're not just clicking through some terms of service you might actually want to sign, like a DocuSign or something like that or truly go through a slower growth process where you're kind of shown the rules of this community and then B, have that stuff enforced by not just digital kinds of things and moderators, but also decentralized enforcement mechanisms like smart contracts. On a somewhat related note, I want to talk about Juan's Point for a second and give the mic back to Juan, which was about lots and lots of different stories. And other folks have said this certainly non novel observation to me, but we're going through multiple, simultaneous revolutions, right? We've got the printing press like thing.
00:20:24.370 - 00:21:01.054, Speaker B: We're also going through an industrial revolution because of robotics. We're going through a dating revolution because of tinder, and so on and so forth. There's a bunch of these things happening at the same time. And so I think it is going to be a fracturing of the world. You are going to have something where the Internet is splintering nations, it's unbundling nations, and then it will eventually rebundle them with a bunch of migrations, I think, towards city states. And I think we're just at the beginning of a period of significant Internet mediated chaos and like, foundation. I'm not sure if it's going to be ten years of this or 100 years of this.
00:21:01.054 - 00:21:44.778, Speaker B: We might just be at the very beginning of this stuff. And so one of the things that means is Global Truth, where I think we end up with this is we factor things into oracles and advocates. So that's kind of a meme. Let me talk about that for a second, then hand it over. Oracles are cryptographically signed feeds that are incentivized for the adjudication of prediction markets, right? So all of everybody on this call knows what they are, but the thing about them is they're a generalization of what's already happening. Many articles are sports, articles are wrappers around box scores, financial articles are wrappers around ticker symbols. Many political articles or other articles are wrappers around tweets.
00:21:44.778 - 00:22:25.786, Speaker B: So in each of these cases you have verbal content that is generated from the prompt of machine readable data, like a feed of data. Okay? And so you could generalize that and talk about arbitrary feeds of data. These cryptographically signed feeds and Claros is actually having a court case on one of them now, which is a feed of coronavirus deaths. Right? So that's oracles. And then you also have advocates. And advocates are just explicit advocates for a cause. I've got an article coming out where I talk about values text like a robots text, a values text file that declares the exact causes in the sense of keywords that you are advocating for.
00:22:25.786 - 00:23:02.520, Speaker B: And that's now machine readable. That's what you're trying to boost the sentiment of over the long run, over five years. And then you may cite the facts that are available in various feeds, but you're an unapologetic advocate. For example, you're just a technologically progressive activist and you want to use fusion energy to stop climate change or something like that. And now you just factor it cleanly right there's. Machine readable oracles with the facts and then everything else is narrative and you don't try to say that, oh, it's a fact if it's not cryptographically signed and hashed and stamped on chain. All right, so let me hand over the mic.
00:23:03.050 - 00:23:48.354, Speaker C: Yeah, I like where a lot of that is headed. I think that there is a massive problem in just establishing truth. So the entire scientific process, for example, takes quite a long time to even validate certain very precise and specific claims about certain kinds of things, right? And even the rigor level of scientific process sometimes even lets certain fake things through. And the reproducibility crisis in bio is like a huge second year super familiar with that. I think what we're entering is a period where the importance of truth is getting massively magnified because of how decentralized things are. Things are way more decentralized today than they were 30 years ago or 50 years ago and they're going to get much more decentralized. And so that puts a massive premium on truth.
00:23:48.354 - 00:25:26.158, Speaker C: And what backs those oracles is a really hard question in that. Yeah, I think there can be incentive structure schemes to get there, but even beyond that, that just produces an intersubjective truth. I think we need to get into a much deeper hooking into all kinds of verifiable facts about reality, right? So people make claims all the time that are factually verifiable, and yet we don't have a very natural good process about establishing the validity of that stuff. And yet we walk around with supercomputers in our pockets and we could be having that, right? So there are projects working on this kind of stuff of putting certain kinds of hardware modules so you can stamp pictures and video as not being tampered with and actually being taken at a specific point. Things of that nature will help, but I think we need to kind of vault ahead and leap ahead. Using tech like GPT-3 is a good, great concrete example of something that we could be using to start understanding the web of claims and then trying to assess whether or not those claims are actually true or not. So all kinds of NLP tech could be used to detangle the kind of natural language web that we're forming and establish what are we actually talking about, what are the claims being made and how close are those to truth and how much evidence there is for these things? And I think moving media away from A, I often think that we program things with ASCII or UTFA, but it's kind of like this crazy world where you're manipulating characters and that's code and ideally you would want to be in a much more structured environment.
00:25:26.158 - 00:26:31.740, Speaker C: And yet when we pull back and we think about how we do everything else in humanity, we're still kind of talking about human language moving through all of this computing medium and with no structured representation yet. Right? And I think we're vastly outpacing our building of tools for just the spread of human word is maybe misplaced. Maybe what we should be doing is structuring conversation massively and building systems that allow kind of the incremental effort and work that people are putting in to build to really good scaffolds of claims and really good scaffolds of narratives, as you're describing, of what might actually have happened or might happen in the future or predictions and so on, and turn those into testable and falsifiable claims and then stories. Right. Stories are really useful and really valuable in terms of motivating individuals and groups and so on. But being able to distinguish those from being able to distinguish a story from an actual factual claim is extremely important and we're losing that ability at the moment and I think it's just going to get worse over the next few years.
00:26:33.710 - 00:26:39.100, Speaker A: Vitagi, you have anything to add from what Balsi and Juanza said? If not, we can.
00:26:41.570 - 00:26:44.880, Speaker D: I feel like on that question they've covered it pretty well.
00:26:46.530 - 00:27:52.450, Speaker A: Great. So kind of just from synthesizing what all three of you have said, I think there's kind of really two categories that sort of stand out. The first one is we'll have a decentralized alternative that sort of tackles some of these problems, whether that's fact checking or just prevents people from being banned, so to speak. And you kind of have these two camps where you have on one side a decentralized alternative that succeeds at sort of being feature parity with Twitter or Facebook and can attract mass audiences and you just kind of have a massive network that has the scale and the audience to really compete against the incumbents here. Or you have a version of a social network that's alternative to this, where the audience is actually a minority audience that kind of wants to remain there and they want to have sort of monopoly on their own niche. But just kind of have the ability to sort of say whatever they like without actually facing any problems that they may get from. However moderation is done on the other platforms.
00:27:52.450 - 00:28:14.890, Speaker A: With these kind of two camps out there, which one do you think is more likely? Do you think we'll have a world where we actually get a massive enough social network like Twitter in terms of size, that is actually decentralized and solves a bunch of problems that we have with these platforms, or only a certain amount of people will move there and they'll attract only their followers and they just kind of remain in their small communities. But we'll have many of these communities.
00:28:16.030 - 00:29:44.966, Speaker D: I'd say we're probably going to see a couple of different things at the same time. I think social networks that are highly decentralized are going to be a kind of minority niche interest at least for some time but you could easily see paradigms that at least kind of push things significantly in the direction of being more decentralized. But make some compromises for practicality, like even just moving from Twitter to even things like Substack or some people moving to personal blogs or kind of anything in between. That's a trend that I could definitely see kind of happening in the short term, but at the same time it's definitely not a push all the way to what you could realistically call it, a fully decentralized social network. So we'll see a lot of those things happening at the same time. And I definitely also think that in general we are going to see the pendulum kind of swing back a bit from the world water pooler to something that's a bit more fragmented with a bit more kind of room. For sub communities to be more closely connected to each other and not be kind of put into collisions with the outside world every day the way that Twitter does.
00:29:44.966 - 00:29:47.094, Speaker D: But that could happen in a lot of ways.
00:29:47.212 - 00:30:06.510, Speaker B: It's funny that you call it the world water cooler because I think Twitter in somewhat different way as kind of like the World War zone. But you're right, it's a mixture of both a library and a civil war. It's actually kind of amazing how both those are tightly related.
00:30:07.330 - 00:30:22.500, Speaker C: Yeah, we had a few of those scares this year alone, right? A number of World War scenario type scares directly on Twitter, while we also expect the kind of water cooler style conversation to happen in the exact same medium with exact same people and so on.
00:30:23.830 - 00:30:37.206, Speaker D: I was just so surprised. That the Twitter hacker didn't do anything more interesting. You could do so many fun things to the Tesla stock price, to getting countries that's a bitcoin well, it could.
00:30:37.228 - 00:30:52.170, Speaker B: Just have been misdirection. We don't know actually what happened. Actually. There were evidently eight accounts. I'm not sure if you saw this, but there were a bunch of accounts, at least eight non verified users whose DMs were downloaded.
00:30:52.510 - 00:30:53.306, Speaker D: Interesting.
00:30:53.488 - 00:30:53.834, Speaker B: Yeah.
00:30:53.872 - 00:31:18.978, Speaker D: Twitter itself, I did not. That's interesting. And I guess what can the hacker do? Like, the hacker can okay, scam people for some bitcoin, make some immediate tweets, quietly introduce some racist tweet into a politician's history that pretends to be from 2014 downloads. There's definitely a lot of things that are clandestine.
00:31:19.154 - 00:32:04.740, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, the thing is actually, that part is something that's pretty interesting, which is something that we take for granted. The reason that tweets are cited in many news articles is people take for granted the fact that Twitter.com did not edit them. Right? And so you basically are like, okay, who said what, when? And often where you get from Twitter, so long as you trust Twitter.com as effectively digitally signing that content. Now that we have GPT-3, now that we have some serious possible hacking of Twitter, like, serious on a level that's actually kind of embarrassing for them as a service, even. Again, I'm friends with some of the folks there, but kind of sucks for them.
00:32:04.740 - 00:32:42.720, Speaker B: It becomes something where you start to go to a higher level of security, especially for politicians and folks who have fingers on a nuclear trigger or a missile of some kind, one mechanism. And again, this is sort of Monday morning quarterbacking, but if you had private keys, like a key based style thing on every phone and you had to have a digital signature with every post, that would be something where you couldn't just hack it centrally like what happened. Because you would need files that were locally on every device. Right. So I think that we definitely do need to implement stuff like this.
00:32:43.250 - 00:33:24.400, Speaker D: You know what, I'm still sad we don't have authenticated screenshots. The technology is totally there, right? If you want to screenshot parts of a web page, why not just have the server figure out exactly what it would look like and just digitally sign it? But instead, you can do things like if you just screenshot someone's tweets. I did this as a joke about a year ago, I think someone made a tweet quoting me and saying something that I didn't actually say, and I replied back with, don't trust any screenshots that you see on the Internet. Tweeted by Abraham Lincoln in September 1861.
00:33:25.250 - 00:34:11.478, Speaker C: I think you need a Verifiability chain there. You need to treat it like the entire provenance of the thing. If it's a screenshot and you're just looking at pixels, there's an impossibility result there. But if you start thinking about grabbing Dom elements and looking at the entire trace of all of the interactions, then I think that'd be a great hack, by the way, and somebody in the hackathon could actually build that in a week or two. One thing that I think is pretty critical to return to your question, Kardik, this question around. Will there be one or many systems? I think we all agree with Vitalik that there will be many different experiments and we'll have some big ones and some small ones and so on. My impression is that we're headed towards a much better future where the data structures are going to be decoupled from the UIs.
00:34:11.478 - 00:35:18.180, Speaker C: So today when you think of Twitter and you think of Facebook, you think of completely vertically integrated things where the data, the mechanisms, the identity, all of that is bundled into one simple system. And that's the result of the race that biology was describing. They had to move so fast to get there that they had to just beat each other to the market and had to build everything themselves. We're now starting to have the mechanisms and the protocols for moving around all this data in a distributed way. And so you can have things like all the data of something like Twitter be presented with many different clients and many different UIs that tune for different sorts of things and that move information in a different way. And I see this kind of middle of the road kind of thing where there will be many different systems built on top of the same information graph. And so there'll be just one information graph that's massive that different applications are going to pull different bits about and different kinds of assertions, right? So you could think of interweaving all of these important Verifiable claims alongside the media that you attach on posts and all of that kind of stuff.
00:35:18.180 - 00:35:47.638, Speaker C: But I think there's a bunch of tooling that needs to be built for the next year or so before those can get good. I think a concrete challenge for folks in the hackathon and beyond is build a toy social media, decentralized social media thing that has three or four completely different UIs for it, but uses the exact same data structures and the exact same identity. And so you can now start playing around with what will that look like and how do we start introducing different kinds of Verifiability?
00:35:47.814 - 00:36:46.346, Speaker B: By the way, just on that topic, I think something that is massively still underappreciated by folks outside our space is the extent to which something like that already exists in the sense that Coinbase and Binance and blockchain Info and BTC.com and so on are all different layers over the bitcoin and ethereum blockchains, right? Like these are data structures that are updated and then you have different views on them. Some are block Explorer views, some are exchange views, some are wallet views, and so on and so forth. And one way of thinking about the innovation of blockchains is they're quote a database. Yes, but they're a database with an unlimited number of simultaneous clients that have root privileges. They can all read the entire thing. And your idea of having six different interfaces, there's another great paper, by the way, from ten years ago that I think is worth sort of dusting off and revisiting out of Stanford.
00:36:46.346 - 00:37:28.506, Speaker B: It's called Mr. Privacy and their proposal was essentially to use email as a transport layer, but to build totally non email looking interfaces on top of email so that you would use MBOX files locally and you'd use SMTP or IMAP or whatever as a transport layer between. But you could render it totally differently. Like every click of a mouse for a like or something could initiate an email, for example, right now, eventually you'd want to optimize that. But as a V zero, that's not a completely stupid thing to do because there's a thousand tools for working with email data and whatnot. So that's kind of a way of talking about what you're talking about.
00:37:28.528 - 00:38:54.534, Speaker A: Juan absolutely. We've seen flat files as data structures emerge as well in a lot of other cases too, but not to kind of spend too much time on this thing. But actually Twitter had an API that was open for everybody to use and we actually had multiple Twitter clients that had their own different features and view layers. But kind of just the nature of the business prevents from that sort of defragmentation. So I know we already kind of talked about or I was going to ask, is user fragmentation or content fragmentation a bad thing? And I think we found relative already have sort of answered that it's not really a bad thing because the sum is net positive here. But maybe just to touch on the fact that assuming that those two camps exist really a lot of fragmented communities or the other sort of slide which is a massive alternative that is, in a way feature complete to existing things that you already know. What exactly do you think is kind of the reason or the incentive for somebody to switch over to the alternative here? Kind of the common sort of phrase I'm coming from is, and I'm going to take the other side of this argument is why do I care about being banned or being deplatformed? If chances are like I'm one out of 10,000 people who actually suffer from these things and I should not have any problems, what's my incentive to actually look at these communities or alternatives? And what do you think actually gets people over the hump of trying something out that's not the common platform?
00:38:54.732 - 00:40:08.960, Speaker D: I would say one simple dumb answer is just like there's a lot of things that you might want to say that kind of Twitter the format doesn't let you say tweet storms are much more limiting than writing a blog post, potentially. Also you might not want whatever you write to be kind of very easily kind of quoted and kind of spread around the echo chamber. Obviously anyone can go and screenshot it, but even just the fact that it takes an active screenshot and cut and paste effort instead of just clicking a retweet button might be an improvement enough. And also just the fact that if you control your own platform, then you have a lot more ability to customize and you even have a lot more ability to customize. What kind of discussion happens around your content? There's definitely a lot of people for whom none of those things kind of really matter too much. But a new paradigm doesn't have to appeal to everyone immediately. I think as long as it offers concrete benefits to some people at the start, that'll be enough to get it started.
00:40:09.410 - 00:41:17.060, Speaker C: I think we're also in a period where building the right thing is more important than getting a bunch of users. Meaning it's not that hard to get a lot of people to try things out. The Internet is so big now that you can find 1000 to 10,000 users to try something. You have to put in effort and so on. But the pathways are there and if you have the time, you can make that happen. The bigger question from my perspective is what is the right thing to build and do you have all the layers? We're talking about so many different things here and pretty significant tech team will have to work quite a while to build out a lot of the things that we're talking about, at least to work in the same really nice seamless way that we're used to from the current interfaces. And so I think a very high leverage position here might be think of how to decouple these systems and make the work of one group, interact with the work of another group, right? So the unbundling that we've been talking about in terms of separating the layers, think about the data structure separate from the UIs, separate from the mechanisms, separate from the incentive structures, all of that kind of stuff.
00:41:17.060 - 00:42:29.100, Speaker C: If we can build good systems that decouple these so that one group might come along, bundle some set of pieces together, turn that into a good product and then get a lot of adoption around that one product, that will enable us to reuse a bunch of the work that's happening. The fact that if you want to go and build a social network right now, you have to go and replicate everything, all of the work that Twitter has done, is kind of crazy, right? And you can't even really compete with the level of product quality that a team like that has simply because there's large groups of people working on optimizing every single aspect of that interface in mobile across a bunch of different platforms and on the web and so on. And so it's a huge garantron task if we want to actually get something to be broadly used and be really good. I think we have to focus on building the right thing, make sure that it's the right thing, and then put a bunch of effort on that. And so I think it starts with separating the pieces, getting layers right, and then making it very easy for teams to come together, try experiments, make good products, and once we find a really good one, then put a lot of energy behind that, behind that. So I think it's a lot of experimentation for now, as opposed to saying, hey, I have my one version, I want to try and get as many people using it.
00:42:30.110 - 00:43:29.950, Speaker A: No, it's great. So I think there's like two other main pieces I want to cover here. Before we move on to the questions, a big theme here is that from what you just said, Juan, this sort of sets us up, right, for the part where there's clearly two groups here from our audience, from the hackathon and just in general, like the large participants here. One is somebody who's thinking about solving this problem and the other party being somebody who wants to use a solution that solves this problem. Of I want to actually kind of just take aside here for like if I'm, like a provider who's making a service that solves a lot of these issues, what exactly should I be thinking about? And kind of what are some of the solutions that I think need to be kind of worked on? So I just have a handful of questions I want to ask and I want to just see what you think are the right approaches to something like this thing. The first one is in a world where I have to make an alternate decentralized version of my platform. Are AI and ML algorithms still useful in terms of helping people discover content? Or rather, you actually think Twitter's discoverability is actually a useful feature?
00:43:31.810 - 00:45:33.266, Speaker D: So I think to answer that, AI and algorithms can definitely be valuable, but one kind of nuance that's really important is who's running the AI and who's choosing the AI for whose benefit. So the two natural paradigms are either I'm running an AI client side that can kind of filter content for me, discover content for me, help me write things or whatever, or the other alternative is that there's some AI. That's run inside of some centralized platform like Twitter and that kind of just makes somewhat decisions on whether prioritization moderation or whatever else on our behalf. Right. And the challenge with centralized AI is basically that if it's not open source, nobody's going to trust it, but if it's open source, then it's exploitable, right? The problem is that what we want out of content on the Internet is just so subjective that you can't easily just create a kind of tight formula and you definitely can't create a classifier. There's even an entire science of adversarial AI that basically is dedicated to kind of taking existing classifiers and kind of coming up with ways of basically breaking them and make something that's just a dog with like 45 pixels changed a lot convincingly like a cat. They're kind of stuck in kind of that trade off, right? And the interesting thing is that we have a science that's pretty much exactly about this question of can we create algorithms that are unexploitable? And that science is called mechanism design, right? And so if we look at mechanism design where we basically say we have algorithms and these algorithms even provide incentives to participants, and a lot of the time the way that that approach ends up working is the central kind of logic ends up being relatively simple and ends up being kind of relatively static.
00:45:33.266 - 00:46:58.100, Speaker D: But then there's kind of all of these potentially people potentially bots, potentially some of both are kind of swimming around at the edges and kind of contributing all of their information and inputs. And you have basically this design where all of these kind of intelligent actors around the edges have some kind of incentive, where if they provide good feedback, we're good as ideally, hopefully kind of directly defined by providing value to the users, then they get rewarded and if they don't, then they might get penalized. That kind of approach even just blockchains themselves are kind of a good example of that paradigm, right? Like you have a very simple mechanism at the core. If you create a block that's part of the chain, you get two ETH plus transaction fees. If you create a block that's not part of the chain, you don't get your two ETH and you burn a bunch of money building the block. And so if we can make things look more like that, then that would be one kind of example of a way out of that conundrum that lets us have things like AIS without having them be either kind of unaccountable secret police or just get completely exploited to hell. As soon as someone runs an adversary ML thing on it.
00:46:58.100 - 00:47:02.100, Speaker D: This is still one of those areas where we need to think more about.
00:47:02.630 - 00:47:28.074, Speaker A: That makes a lot of sense. And maybe what I'll do is I'll just round up in these questions because I have a lot of soft parts for this theme as somebody who wants to build a service like this. So maybe for one, what would be an actual good sustainable business model for building something? If I'm offering this as a service, whether it's open source or hosted or preferably not hosted, what can people do if they're offering this to somebody else?
00:47:28.272 - 00:48:19.802, Speaker C: Yeah, I think we're seeing a lot of very good experimentation with business models. Like, I think Substack is a great idea and we have seen that a number of folks are actually making that a viable business model. So there could be something like that I think for the platform developers you can go a bunch of different routes. But I think these days it's not that expensive to develop things at the beginning. So getting some funding to develop this stuff and get a team together to actually try a bunch of experiments and find the right thing, maybe decouple that from the business model, meaning figure out the structure first and explore a bunch of different business models. But if you kind of raise funding in kind of a startup style sense of hey, here's our business model, here's what we're going to go build and so on, people will be very locked into that. And so I think right now I think we need to see a lot more experimentation with different business models to go after options.
00:48:19.802 - 00:49:21.950, Speaker C: Some ideas include using tokens to mediate the processing, right? Like mediate use a token native to the platform itself and the developers can grab some of that token as part of throttle developing the platform. It could also be, in the substac sense, taking some portion of the revenue that publishers end up making. I think that ads are not going to go away. Ads are such a massively valuable business and ads solve this discovery problem, so ads aren't going to go away. Can we come up with a much better, higher quality, more humane way of doing ads that don't leak all of your information to a ton of parties? That might be like a very interesting, valuable thing to do. If somebody figures that out, then that could be plugged in into a bunch of different systems. I think a lot of the business models are going to be similar to the existing ones, just kind of translated into this new world where you get to play with incentive structures.
00:49:24.210 - 00:50:09.630, Speaker B: I think something that's very promising is tasks where there's more and more traction for bounties. Certainly we did this with Earn and I think it's pretty successful with Earn, but also with Gitcoin. Those are gained traction on Twitter, bounties, those are working. And one way of thinking about it is with an ad you have to pay the platform for a user's attention. With a task, you pay the user directly for their attention, right? And that's just a better model if you can make it work. The thing that historically has made that difficult is doing small payouts to millions of people with different banking around the world and so on and so forth. And crypto now makes that possible.
00:50:09.630 - 00:50:17.700, Speaker B: So I think that's one potential thing that could scale to billions or even trillions in payment volume over time.
00:50:18.710 - 00:50:43.500, Speaker A: No, that's great. That makes a lot of sense. We're seeing that as a theme in general and this also scales really well to smaller communities. So maybe a question for you Balgi, is as somebody's thinking about making a service that solves this problem, how should they be thinking about sort of moderating and customer support? And just in general, like managing a community of users, what responsibilities should they take or actually what are the ways to think about handling those issues?
00:50:43.950 - 00:52:19.206, Speaker B: It's a great question. One thing I tweeted a while back is maybe centralization is also underexplored in the design space, right? So in the sense that we talk a lot about decentralization, that's very important. But Elon, for example, has 40 million followers and what if he could ask them to do something? What if he could tell them to do something or else they wouldn't be able to follow him anymore, right? And or offer an incentive to do that thing, right? There's different levels of request and so on and I think you can imagine different communities that have very digital communities that have very different subcultures. Like for example a productivity cult where to log in each day you actually have to take a selfie of yourself working out or something like that, right? So I think that you're going to see more kinds of tools like this for kind of not just moderating speech but behavior, whether it's staking, whether it's frequency of posting, whether it's quality of posting, whether it is type of content. I think we're really underexplored in terms of mechanisms for both centralized and decentralized moderation. And if we go to this model of a million hubs and a billion spokes and give tools for folks, ideally you have kind of some central server that's very easy to deploy and configure like the Linux of social networks basically and Mastodon and others are kind of like this but they're not yet there. You may need to integrate crypto with it.
00:52:19.206 - 00:52:23.818, Speaker B: I think then you start to get a lot of experimentation and kind of.
00:52:23.824 - 00:52:59.000, Speaker A: Just to flip this side on what this may look like for end user who's using a platform like this. Does this kind of flip the model of consuming content where I now need to know what I need to follow and who I need to follow? Like kind of going back to the way anyone from substacks to 20 years ago or even ten years ago, how RSS were dominant. I kind of knew who I wanted to follow. I want to just look out for the new content that they publish. Is this kind of the world we default into or do you still think, either of you still think that we'll just still kind of rely on the same distribution discovery mechanisms to find new content? That's interesting.
00:53:03.830 - 00:53:48.400, Speaker C: I think curation is always going to be an important invaluable part of the picture and I think curation will be both machine oriented and human oriented, right? So there will be curation that happens from people curating, other groups and there'll be individual curation that you do on top of that and then there'll be all these algorithms that drive content your way because it's a market problem. At the end of the day there'll be a lot of different options and solutions, and we'll get a good evolution to finding out the right thing. Meaning a successful platform has to solve this problem. I'm not too worried about content discovery that much, in that there'll be good mechanisms for it in a successful platform. We'll have to figure it out.
00:53:50.610 - 00:53:58.210, Speaker A: I guess, maybe like Baliji. Do you think that this type of alternative favors content creators more than consumers?
00:53:59.030 - 00:54:41.538, Speaker B: I think actually people have asked, how does decentralized media get going? And substack and paid newsletters, I think, is how it starts. We attract the power users, the folks who crucially are migrating off of centralized social media for varying reasons. But one that's kind of cross ideological is the lack of control over their brand and monetization. And so they're not making money on social media, or they have to invent baroque ways of doing it. They don't know if their content is getting promoted and so on. They lack the control. So you get the migration and defection of the elites, the power users, and over time that will pull others.
00:54:41.538 - 00:55:16.286, Speaker B: Because those elites are able to evaluate technologies, they have an incentive to defect and to leave. Right. That's, I think, one aspect of it. There's another thing in terms of curation, something I've thought about is a feed where you have a few different things. For example, people can only comment or vote up links that are at least a week old. And that actually is a useful thing. There's relatively little news unless it's like a burning building or something like that.
00:55:16.286 - 00:55:43.880, Speaker B: You absolutely must consume today, now. Right. And soon. There's a lot of attention around it, but it's often invalidated by reports. A day or two later, the truth gets its boots on. So that's kind of one method, another method would be to require multiple confirmations to upvote it, whether in a decentralized court system or something like that. So I think curation also there's a lot that we can do in terms of innovation if we just go away from what is just new and popular to maybe what is a little bit older but true.
00:55:45.210 - 00:56:21.718, Speaker A: That's fair. And I guess a question for vitalik. If people are worried about being sort of banned for what they say or there are some beliefs or just not being able to monetize or being able to say something without anonymously rather and having a solution that lets you do all these things? What if we actually end up with a world where the winning platform is four chan? It fits most of these criterias. It's kind of like a network that is somewhat centralized, but also has very integrated moderation. Do you think? How are we actually going to prevent these types of systems from forming and these being the dominant alternative?
00:56:21.754 - 00:57:10.542, Speaker D: Yeah, so I feel like Four Chan type things are the great example of the difference between anonymous and pseudonymous. Right. Four Chan is much more on the anonymous side of the spectrum. And I think the difference is that you can focus on decentralization in the sense of avoiding other people's negative incentives. And that's definitely kind of part of what's going on. But the other important thing is kind of actively creating positive incentives, right? And if you don't have any notion of persistent identity, then you can't have positive incentives because there's no persistence thing for those incentives to hook onto. And there's a lot of ways in which you can have persistent identity, persistent reputation, even in ways that are very strongly privacy preserving.
00:57:10.542 - 00:58:01.380, Speaker D: You can have pseudonyms, but then you could even do crazy things. Like, for example, you switch to a new pseudonym every two weeks, but you would have some zero knowledge proof that links your pseudonym to some older pseudonym and you don't really know which one, but some kind of reputation score carries over, and you could even have negative reputation scores carry over potentially someone unhing. The research came up with a way of doing that in a privacy preserving way. There's a lot of kind of room in terms of designing incentives to encourage actively good behavior. And incentives can mean a lot of things. It can mean like micro payments and monetary rewards. It could mean just reputation and just having more people see your content.
00:58:01.380 - 00:58:24.550, Speaker D: It could mean a lot of things. But there's a lot of things that you can do there that I think are fully compatible with the idea that people should be able to kind of post under identities that are separate from the identities that they can use for personal life and work and so forth.
00:58:25.450 - 00:59:18.010, Speaker A: That's great. And the last thing I want to cover before we move on to the audience questions is a lot of hackers are building decentralized social networks as part of hackathead. There's over 50 projects that are building a decentralized social network as part of their submission. And what I wanted to do was kind of have each of you just list any popular services or frameworks or just in general, like, solutions, you know, for each of these things that people need to solve for and have an alternative to as, like, a list of ingredients that they can use right now to build their project. So I'll name some high level categories and if any one of you, without any kind of me picking on somebody, just kind of name the best solutions, you know, that kind of help with that, that'll be great, and we can move on to the audience side. So first off, I'll start off with identity verification, what are currently really good alternatives that are decentralized and also help with identity verification presence.
00:59:18.910 - 01:00:49.346, Speaker D: I think when people talk about the identity problem and they talk about it as this one big lump, but really there's a few separate problems that are lumped together, right? So one of them is just the kind of persistent access to. An account problem, which is have some Identifier, it could be a long random number or whatever, where if you set up that Identifier, you have the ability to maintain that Identifier for a long period of time and write posts them using it and so forth. And you can obviously do that with a private key. And for example, if you have MetaMask or any Ethereum wallet in your browser then you can just use an Ethereum address as an identity and that basically it is a cryptographic key ultimately. But then the challenge with that is that people can easily forget their keys, lose their keys and you need some kind of backup. And a lot of especially earlier decentralization people kind of don't take this problem seriously, right? And they say, oh no, we should just require everyone, including the grandma that only started using computers five or seven years ago to be able to understand how to use paper wallets and all the security things around them. But I think we do need to kind of take seriously this problem and the problem of basically coming up with ways for people to recover their account if their account gets lost.
01:00:49.346 - 01:02:25.800, Speaker D: And this is something that even Twitter does just or even Google all of these Silicon Valley tech companies somehow do badly, right? Like if you lose your account, you have to appeal to customer service and sometimes they just never respond to you. And sometimes more privileged people can have kind of private channels where they can get listened to more and a lot of other people just don't have access to those kinds of channels at all. And it's just a problem where people think that oh, you can just talk to the kindly human and they'll figure it out, but often it just isn't true. And the thing that I'm always bullish on is social recovery, right? So this is your idea where you have some group of friends like it could be somewhere between five and ten contacts and say any two thirds of them can reset your account, right? And kind of the core of this idea is basically that there exists kind of real world links of links of trust between people. No one kind of literally is kind of a mountain man that literally trusts no one except for themselves and the past versions of themselves that created some private key. But we do have people we can trust and in reality, if seven of your ten friends betray you, then that just means you're really bad at choosing friends. And the number of people with that problem I think is smaller than the number of people that can't trust centralized services.
01:02:25.800 - 01:03:14.850, Speaker D: If we can just make even just social recovery easy to use, smart contract wallets, pickier recovery contacts, you can even make it privacy preserving for Ethereum. There's an EIP for that. I think it might be 2529 or something. I forget the exact number. Then you have an ethereum smart contract account that represents your persistent identity but it's kind of more robust to failures on the human side than a cryptographic key. So anyway, that's like long digression, but I'm a huge fan of social recovery so I think it needs to be relentlessly pumped until lots of people are using it then. So the other half of the identity problem is well, there's two other halves, right? One half is proving real world properties about yourself that are attested to by authorities.
01:03:14.850 - 01:04:20.246, Speaker D: So like proving you're a citizen of some country, proving that you graduated from some university and all of those things and ultimately you can't decentralize those because they just fundamentally depend on a centralized authority. But what you can do is create a kind of common standard and common platform for these attestations to happen. And then the third identity problem is this unique human problem, right? Like basically proving that your account represents a unique human and an account with this kind of tag is an account such that one human can only realistically create one or maybe a couple of them and you can't just create an unlimited amount of them and even if you have a lot of money to burn. And I've written a lot about why this problem is really important for governance. For example, why plutocracy is bad, as I have said on my blog many times. And there's an interesting combination of kind of centralized and decentralized approaches. There's all of the traditional kind of centralized phone number ID, KYC, whatever verifications.
01:04:20.246 - 01:04:46.210, Speaker D: And then there's things like Bright ID that are basically trying to do like social network verification and kind of random interpersonal verification and all of these things. So we're definitely seeing a lot more experimentation in some of those areas. And even Gitcoin grants, quadratic funding is really doing a lot of just kind of pushing experimentation in that. So looking forward to seeing what works and what sticks.
01:04:48.630 - 01:04:49.438, Speaker A: Comprehensive.
01:04:49.534 - 01:05:27.022, Speaker C: Also just some rapid fire technologies to go with that. I think Vitalika did a great job covering a lot of the space of identity problems. And yeah, this is like a huge nest of interrelated issues that are difficult to solve. I think people should check out Uport, that project did a ton of work at Detangling. A lot of the issues around identity should check out Ion, which is an implementation using DIDs which are decentralized identifiers. Did is quickly becoming the way to think about verifiable claims about identity. There's a lot of different pieces of tools and so on that use them.
01:05:27.022 - 01:06:17.790, Speaker C: You should check out, of course you should use ENS and unstoppable domains and handshake and blocksec and all these other kind of domain name mapping to keys, to names, to content things. Those can be extremely useful. Things like civic things like just all the wallet providers, MetaMask and so on. You can use those to store keys and to have pieces of identity I think we needed a return to the idea of persona, which was like this mozilla effort to create identity directly baking to the browser. I think if the operating systems that we had coupled identities for data, closer to kind of the identities for logging into the device, I think that would be a good win. The browser might be the right place to put it or the OS might be the right place to put it. This I haven't seen that much in terms of experimentation.
01:06:17.790 - 01:07:11.940, Speaker C: Keybase is probably the closest thing, so people should check out that and how that works. Unfortunately, keybase is now going into zoom so maybe they'll keep running but potentially it could be thinking about a decentralized keybase type of thing and then thinking of baking that into the browser on the OS that could be a really useful thing. And so then on top of that, I would say three box in terms of coupling identity to content and there's a few other tools, but yeah, there's a ton of these different pieces. Spend some time exploring the space, figure out what you need and then just use what you need. For now, most things are going to end up with DIDs. It looks like the did is like a pretty good convergence point and then just think of a way to hook it into the browser, either through a wallet or something like it.
01:07:12.390 - 01:07:33.850, Speaker A: No, it's a great list and maybe for Balsi. I know you recently published a post on how to set up your own substac through Ghost and I guess the question I have for you is through that process, did you think about what the trade offs were for different other alternatives outside of Ghost? And also if you were to make a list of what was missing and what you would need probably solutions for, what are some of those features?
01:07:34.830 - 01:08:16.760, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean the biggest thing I wanted to do was have people set something up that give them immediate benefit. And a lot of crypto things are cool technologically but they aren't like immediately world class. The obviously best thing to do. It's like you're doing decentralization for the sake of it. Right. I think we're starting to come out of that now where crypto is actually being used for some really interesting projects, handshake and the prediction market stuff and so on. What I would like to see is somebody, maybe a viewer who's looking at this modify Ghost to accept Ethereum subscriptions in particular.
01:08:16.760 - 01:09:12.710, Speaker B: V one would just be to do that and V two would be to make it possible to do dynamic newspapers where you can do bundles of individual Ghost websites and you have a paid RSS feed, for example, where you, let's say, pay some Ethereum to it. You get a custom URL, which is a custom RSS link that maybe just works for you. Or it could be global also, whatever, and you just don't share it without honor code or something like that. You could forward the emails you get from substac, you could repost them but people don't usually do that, right? Just kind of honor code. So you do something like that and then you've got something very powerful which is you have crypto being used for something novel where it's not stripe. That's your only payments mechanism for these kind of paid newsletters. Nothing against stripe but it lacks a flexibility.
01:09:15.210 - 01:09:47.090, Speaker A: No, that makes a lot of sense and kind of with that just kind of also keeping time in mind, I want to move on to the audience questions here. We have a lot of list of questions that people submit us. I'll pick a handful of them and I also want to be respectful of the time of our panelists but kind of jumping in with like a really interesting question we got. The question is the last wave of centralized social media just gave us a lot of new verbs on how we communicate. Whether it's retweets tagging your friends likes and faves as like a speculation. What do you think will be the new verbs for the decentralized social media landscape?
01:09:51.910 - 01:09:54.100, Speaker C: It depends on the name of the product.
01:09:57.190 - 01:10:04.970, Speaker A: Do you think there are any fundamentally new concepts that come in when you have system that is more distributed, so to speak?
01:10:05.120 - 01:10:22.480, Speaker C: I think signal boosting is like a good term that I think we'll start up hearing more either through tokens or through the behavior stuff that biology is talking about. Giving weight to something and boosting it I think will be a term that will stick around.
01:10:24.130 - 01:10:24.686, Speaker A: That's great.
01:10:24.708 - 01:10:24.846, Speaker C: Yeah.
01:10:24.868 - 01:10:51.240, Speaker B: I think also hosting everything associated with operating a hub from hosting to forking a community to banning all the moderation kind of verbs I think come to the fore. These are things that already exist on reddit and what have you, but I think those become more important and you start to see just more folks doing that kind of thing.
01:10:54.090 - 01:10:54.950, Speaker A: Sorry, go ahead.
01:10:55.020 - 01:11:01.020, Speaker D: I was just going to say some verb for let's check what augura or omen say about this question.
01:11:04.190 - 01:12:44.626, Speaker B: By the way, one thing I want to just point out, this is maybe very obvious, but I think it's actually pretty interesting for us. Done right, you could turn so one of the advantages of substac is there's 100,000 people on there who have credit cards and so a new publication has a built in network effect or what have you, right, done right? If you had an ethereum ID with crypto in there, you start to get a network effect among things, where all ethereum users or all bitcoin users can go and sign up for a site, and you have a similar kind of network effect where you would prefer it to be login with ethereum or login with bitcoin, and then you can pay and you've got identity and so on and so forth. In some ways that's an obvious use case, but I think it rotates it a little bit where you just need a community of those folks who will all go and just click to sign up at a site and you start to get a network effect, and then you start getting more products built around that core. And the critical thing there, of course, is that the account and the money are both quote decentralized, so they're not associated with Amazon.com or Substack or what have you, but with a decentralized community. And then you can also have something where you have an Ethereum wallet, for example, or Bitcoin wallet where you are pushing effectively notifications and you get paid, let's say now you get to a future where there's enough apps that they want to go and attract ethereum holders. Then they pay a task to that wallet which is a known purchaser of subscriptions.
01:12:44.626 - 01:13:02.578, Speaker B: And now boom, a little offer or task appears and you can click to go and purchase it. Right? So that's a sketch of something where you can start building a two sided marketplace around holders and account holders on one hand and services on the other.
01:13:02.744 - 01:13:53.090, Speaker A: No, it's really cool. I think one of the other sort of benefits of a system like this is that you actually also know who the audience is that already subscribes to a set of ideas that you already have. And you can even use their existing subscriptions as an acquisition mechanism to offer them anywhere from discounts to repackage content or just given access because you already know their identity. And if you know that they can check for these other two subscriptions, they may have access to more content from you, because that becomes your actual way to understand or really cater something to them. Another couple of companies working on this thing as well. So it's a really interesting concept. Balza, you touched on this thing in one of your earlier answers, but how do you think decentralized social media platforms can handle hate speech and managing fake news? What is kind of a more practical way of doing fact checking?
01:13:53.750 - 01:15:20.430, Speaker B: Well, let me take the second one first. So in terms of fake news that can come from centralized sources as well as random blogs. Like there was a lot of incorrect news reports that were published by the Washington Post, New York Times, Buzfeed, Recode, Wired, et cetera, during Corona that mostly have not been retracted right to their discredit, because if they were honest about searching the truth, they would have done that of their own accord. So it's actually a much more complicated problem. It means that you can't trust any single authority necessarily other than a blockchain or something along those lines that has a proof of work or a similar mechanism, which makes it computationally difficult to falsify something. With that said, I think that tools like GPT-3 show how far NLP has advanced, and I think we could start applying something like that for Epistemology, where you put in a fact or an assertion, rather, and what you get back are essentially knowledge bases that state whether or not that fact is true according to that knowledge base. So for example, you parse all of Wikipedia and you put in an assertion know, I don't know, Ronald Reagan's birthday was so and so date and you get back a true false right according to a knowledge base and that could be wrong.
01:15:20.500 - 01:15:24.000, Speaker C: Some of them typed in you got evidence true false is like very difficult.
01:15:24.610 - 01:15:40.600, Speaker B: Yeah, exactly. That's right. However you want to call it, you can say this knowledge base says that's true. Right. And that's useful because it could differ on the topic of hate speech. I think that's extremely difficult because.
01:15:42.490 - 01:15:42.806, Speaker C: Trying.
01:15:42.828 - 01:16:34.422, Speaker B: To give the most neutral possible answer I can on that, let's say Israel and the Palestinians might differ on what is hate speech, right? And that's something where it's probably going to be community moderation. Ultimately that's going to determine that. Then what gets really tricky is that some community will not want the other community to exist or vice versa. Right. Then you basically have information war between those communities at least. However, the internal logic of a community is going to be something that I think will be prime, namely, is it a functional enough community to maintain an internal moderation policy? And if so, then everybody there has opted in. So there's kind of a consent aspect to it basically like the old Reddit used to be.
01:16:34.422 - 01:17:01.230, Speaker B: And I think a new Reddit will arise where rather than being locked into a Reddit account and having a bunch of subreddits banned or what have you and by the way, I respect Steve and the folks at Reddit. I understand why they're doing what they're doing. But rather than something like that you have that supportable Ethereum account where you can go and log into know Ethereum Reddit equivalent and the moderation is something which know obvious to you when you enter and if you don't like it, you can exit.
01:17:05.250 - 01:18:00.430, Speaker C: Can I respond to that? I know the timing is short, but I think this topic is super valuable and really useful. I totally agree with what Valerie's talking about. I think that there are a number of projects already aiming to do this. You should look at things like the underlay. The underlay is an effort to there's a thing called metaweb in the past that ended up becoming the Google Knowledge graph and that had built the metaweb team, built out, built Freebase. And so Freebase was this kind of database oriented kind of thing and it tried to do like the true false version of facts so that you could connect it to applications. One really important thing is to kind of build a bayesian network of inference behind a claim so that you can get that binary true false but you know precisely what facts you've collected along the way so that when you falsify something, you backdrop the change in belief through the network.
01:18:00.430 - 01:18:50.340, Speaker C: To understand whether something needs to be reverted or not, as what Baja was saying, we need to understand that our perception about things changes, or our understanding of things changes. And when those changes happen, things need to be retracted or need to be adjusted and we need to actually move to a higher knowledge content place. So that group create a new project called the Underlay that is trying to solve it precisely that. It's trying to create a network of evidence linked together with a belief net so you understand what the facts might be and so on. And so using those tools could be done right now to plug them in to various different kinds of claims made in social media. And I think the pieces are there just they need to be put together.
01:18:52.390 - 01:19:16.810, Speaker A: A question for vitalik. Given that with incentive design and just in general kind of how these potential decentralized systems may operate how could you kind of prevent some large corporation from spending enough money to compromise any truth signaling around a fact that they might want to verify or in general, kind of sway the decision of what people think is actually true or not? Or just kind of push their agenda?
01:19:17.550 - 01:20:55.606, Speaker D: I'd say stopping this is a hard problem and it's definitely not a problem that the existing centralized platforms have succeeded at. Can we kind of improve much on the status quo? There's things that we can do, like we can create better reputation systems, try to kind of better distinguish between kind of accounts representing real people and civil accounts, at least even just catch those cases where on Twitter, for example, when you know, who makes a poll and then suddenly 5000 likes appear. There's things that we can kind of do on the margin in terms of just reducing the ability to kind of fake the level of support or the level of popularity or something. And it definitely does kind of will have to involve kind of moving away from essentially treating every account as though it's the same, but then kind of moving beyond that. There's real challenges and it's harder and a lot of it will just involve kind of some kind of active defense. So if someone pushes some position, then it's the responsibility of someone else to kind of actively figure out kind of points to what exactly is wrong with it and for that to get signal boosted and so forth. So I don't think there's one silver bullet.
01:20:55.606 - 01:20:57.626, Speaker D: I think there's kind of a bunch of things that can help.
01:20:57.728 - 01:21:39.320, Speaker A: We'll see no, that makes a lot of sense and something both Juan and Balgi touched on earlier in their answers. But there's a lot of questions that we're getting on kind of what are actually really good business models for these decentralized networks. I mean, tokens are one you kind of said that ads are not going to die. Likely. But do you think that fundamentally the way the onus on the payments and the cost of subsidizing the system being in a way positioned towards the users who are consuming the platform kind of will prevent people to connect positively and interact? Do you think that actually becomes a problem in the network itself growing or are there alternatives to sustaining a network like that?
01:21:41.390 - 01:23:03.058, Speaker C: I think what the current social media world got extremely good at was reducing the friction coefficients around sharing material and sharing content and signing up for the platforms. Those were the main gating factors. And so they built their entire kind of growth teams and so on, oriented around getting more content and causing more content to appear and more people to sign up and all that kind of stuff. And I think what's going to shift now is that we now care a lot more about other friction coefficients. We now care about making it high friction to cause the battles that Balaji is pointing out, that those kinds of harassment and attacks and so on become more thoughtful and more as opposed to just kind of like these devolved arguments that just are basically useless and just dissipate time. And so I think modeling the system and the friction coefficients everywhere might help somebody build a much better system that tunes the incentives the right way. And that includes when you think about a business model that will power this thing, whatever it might be, think of the person coefficients associated with that business model and what parties might be trying to benefit from that business model.
01:23:03.058 - 01:23:52.980, Speaker C: So for example, right now the spread of information and the utility to something like Facebook, of having a very incendiary article is so high because it brings so many people to the platform that they let slide all kinds of stuff that another platform might totally put the brakes on. And that's because that's where the business model is. And so modeling the behaviors that you want to see and what you want to have happen and the friction coefficients around those. And then modeling the behaviors that the business model might engender and the friction coefficients around that. Might yield. It might help you understand what you should really be building and then making sure that what the thing you're building actually fits. That model is a whole other problem.
01:23:53.590 - 01:25:17.934, Speaker B: Yeah, I agree with Juan a lot actually here in the sense of when there are a fight on a social media platform is a pain in the ass and is a negative sum arguably for the world, but even though it's negative some for the world of the various actors that are getting something out of it. Twitter is getting something out of it because it's selling ads, right? Millions of views. It's basically like a boxing match or whatever, right? Both parties have some cuts, but the promoter sold some seats, right? And I think that that term in the equation. If you actually go and write out the game theory of the payoff matrix, you have something. It's it's almost like stealing money in the sense know you're making these two. Parties poorer, but Twitter itself is gaining. I'm not saying it's intentionally like that, but when you are just optimizing for engagement overall else and you've got page views without any kind of moral dimension to it there's an issue there, right? And so I think that where it gets interesting is you start including those missing terms in the equation and asking can we quantify what is happening offline can we quantify what is happening in the world and potentially add some future time orientation to it?
01:25:17.972 - 01:25:18.222, Speaker C: Right?
01:25:18.276 - 01:26:52.310, Speaker B: So I'll give one example that I've been thinking a great deal about which is can we have folks declare their values? Right? So let's say you're funding a new media site. How do you know that it doesn't just descend into cake memes and clickbait, right? Because that's what the news cycle is, right? And everybody who sets up a media site, you have some high fluting idea of what it's going to be. But if you're actually chasing profit and you have to pay the bills, you need page reviews and so you kind of get pulled into the slowest common denominator thing and that's the same as a social media site, right? So what do you do? Well, one possibility is you define like this is one sketch of an idea, feel free to critique it or whatever, but you define a values text file which has the keywords that you are trying to drive positive sentiment for over five years. For example, let's say you're trying to solve climate change with technology. So the keywords you'd be trying to boost would be like fusion energy, smart grid, solar panels, electric cars, carbon scrubbing, whatever, stuff like that, right? And crucially what you could then do is you could take in your values text with these ten or 15 keywords or 100 whatever and then you score it against every piece of content on the site. You take your RSS feed and you pull every post, every tweet, every video, et cetera, and you pull the captions and you score it. And you get a table of keywords by posts.
01:26:52.310 - 01:28:27.898, Speaker B: And each entry is either gray because you didn't mention that keyword, or it's green because you said it with a positive sentiment, or it's red where it was negative sentiment. And the idea is that you also track in the population at large sentiment over time and you see if it's rising from 1% to 5% to 20% of the population. What's the point here? The point here is that you would now have values constrained page views where if you cranked out listicles and Q and A and so on, it would be on fusion energy, right? So your content would be constrained to basically fit within these self declared values and it wouldn't just be sort of the amoral search of clicks but it'd be a cause that you had self defined in advance that you're going to stick to for a period of time, right? And the thesis is that actually creates more value for society over time because it's not just the head snapping memoryless, look over here, look over there aspect of Twitter. You're actually declaring a long term objective that you're going to work towards over years or even longer than that, right? And I think something along those lines of restoring long term value orientation and value creation. So values text kind of has a dual meaning here, right, will hopefully create more wealth in the long run. So like a burning building or a fight gains engagement, but it also destroys value. Creating value should create more short term value as well if you can figure out how to make the maturity functions match up.
01:28:27.898 - 01:28:30.300, Speaker B: So that's something I've thought a lot about.
01:28:31.070 - 01:28:57.220, Speaker A: That's a really interesting concept. I'd love to learn more about that after. Just to kind of ask the last question here and we can kind of conclude this panel for each of you. What's going to be your first post on the new decentralized social media platform of your choice or of your dreams with all the features that you want and what would the first thing you're going to publish there? And we'll start that with Talek. What would you like to talk about when that happens?
01:29:01.990 - 01:29:05.702, Speaker D: What would I like to talk about on the decentralized social media?
01:29:05.756 - 01:29:11.190, Speaker A: Bartri, what would be your first post on that new decentralized platform of your dreams?
01:29:13.370 - 01:29:31.198, Speaker D: I see a comment saying, oh, flame softball question. See the problem is that the vague questions are always the hardest. You get into this mode where you're always afraid of not coming up with an answer that's clever enough and then it just becomes so extremely terrible. Okay.
01:29:31.364 - 01:29:32.506, Speaker C: Rick astley.
01:29:32.618 - 01:29:41.380, Speaker D: No, you broke. I don't know. I mean realistically it'll just be like a blog post about math or whatever.
01:29:43.830 - 01:30:48.214, Speaker C: So I'm going to use the question to give some advice for folks. And so I'll claim that probably not going to do this, but I claim that the post that I would write would be a post about giving advice to people trying to build this stuff. So I would say that it would be a post talking about how media both kind of like the traditional media structures and social media which are kind of like intertwined. We really need to think of them as universal public utilities. So not national utilities, not international utilities, not even transnational really think bigger. Think of something that's kind of humanity oriented and think of the incentive structures behind that and think of building mechanisms and systems that don't put too much stock in any one nation's perspective but enables those nations and those local jurisdictions. To build their own subnets with their own rules and then people should be able to opt in or opt out of those and exit and move between those.
01:30:48.214 - 01:31:49.606, Speaker C: And so I think systems right now are way too overfitting of specific nations that happen to have a lot of power and that's creating really bad structures that other nations are exploiting. And so the nationalism problem that we're seeing play out in media and Disinformation campaigns and side note, go and watch the amazing interviews with Xkgb Spies about the disinformation campaigns. They're amazing. And you can see what's going on right now and relate it to that. That's just straight up. But really think about systems that are resistant to that kind of stuff and think of the role of journalism and of journalists and the people and publishers and so on as vectors for good information that needs to be moved around where good is kind of defined by those subnets or defined globally and in kind of the global version. It's kind of an objective truth perspective versus in those subnets.
01:31:49.606 - 01:32:39.466, Speaker C: It's kind of an intersubjective truth to those groups. And think of the role of those folks in those networks and how to promote really good high quality things to appear. Because it's not about we've shown that quantity can happen and we've shown the problems that happen because of quantity. And so really focus on quality and then also remember that privacy of information is a really critical thing and we've sort of lost that right now. And these systems are accumulating a huge amount of information that will probably come back and haunt a lot of people, meaning the 21st century is long, we're at the beginning of it. And the 20th century also looked really nice at the beginning but turned really bad. And it could be that the 21st century turns really bad as well.
01:32:39.466 - 01:33:50.162, Speaker C: And there's a lot of information online that is easily accessible by a lot of people that could cause a lot of problems. And so pay attention to that and be careful with that and move the world into much more pseudonymous kind of behavior where digital identity is actually decoupled from physical human identity. As much as we can, the pendulum swung too far into making pseudonymous identity disappear. And then I would probably give just a call for just doing this with there's a ton of people that went into journalism because they really care about the truth and they really care about protecting the disadvantaged communities and getting much better quality outcomes for their groups, for their nation and so on. The entire history of journalism is filled with incredible important advances and improvements that came simply because there was a series of articles that caused some important change to happen. And so just recall that that's the point. And that even though right now the entire media incentive structure is kind of messed up both in traditional media and in social media.
01:33:50.162 - 01:34:24.890, Speaker C: And let's figure out how we can return to build a system that promotes that and acknowledges that. Now, anybody can be one of these publishers and journalists as long as you build a good audience and you are good at what you do. And so building a system that can promote high quality outcomes through that I think will be one of the better uses of time that you could have for the next five years. So if you really care about this, stick with it and help build a much better public utility.
01:34:27.790 - 01:34:36.080, Speaker A: And maybe just to conclude with Webology, any advice or your first post on a decentralized platform? What would that be?
01:34:37.250 - 01:34:46.206, Speaker B: My first post on a decentralized sorry, like what would I post? What would be my first post on the decentralized facebook?
01:34:46.398 - 01:34:47.614, Speaker A: Yes. Of your dreams?
01:34:47.662 - 01:34:51.080, Speaker C: Yeah, I hacked the question to quantification for a while, so feel free to do the same.
01:34:51.450 - 01:36:08.560, Speaker B: Oh, sorry, yeah, I didn't have the context. What would my first post be? Probably a task of some kind to get people to start doing productive work so that they would actually create something. I think, just to riff on this for a second, wikipedia is an example of collaborative work on the Internet, and in a Google Doc, you can have multiple people editing at the same time. And operational transformation has been an algorithm for a while in terms of something that you can do to take a bunch of different contributions and link them together. But there's now new things called conflict free replicated data types which actually make it a little bit easier from a programming standpoint to build something like a Google Docs. My point is that I think taking that stuff and merging it with crypto and with social networks, you might have something where the fundamental unit of action is not just, oh, let me tweet something or let me put up an instagram post or something like that. But, oh, let me give a unit of work that's a remunerated unit of work that can be merged into a larger whole.
01:36:08.560 - 01:36:15.834, Speaker B: For example, writing a book in a decentralized way, documenting a code base, annotating something, et cetera.
01:36:15.882 - 01:36:16.238, Speaker C: Right?
01:36:16.324 - 01:36:31.220, Speaker B: So that would be something I'd like to see first post in a decentralized social network that doesn't just give us these benefits of self sovereignty, but actually starts using the internet as a way for us to build useful things online together.
01:36:33.110 - 01:36:57.020, Speaker A: Awesome. I was really hoping you would say keywords from GPT-3 that'll just make the post itself and you just post it. But I'll take that answer too. But with that, I want to thank all three of you so much for being with us and going a little bit over time to answer everybody's questions and being part of this panel. So Talaik Balaji Wan, thanks so much and really appreciate all your time.
01:36:58.030 - 01:36:59.020, Speaker D: Thank you.
01:36:59.470 - 01:37:02.710, Speaker C: Thanks. Thank you. This is a really good, fun conversation.
