00:00:11.000 - 00:00:50.972, Speaker A: Hello. Thanks so much, EtH Prague, for having me. My name is Amanda Cassette. I'm the CEO of Serotonin, which is the largest web3 native marketing and other services firm. Was chief marketing officer of consensys before that from 2016 through 2019. But I'm actually not here to talk about any of those things or to talk about anything that I have bags in or that you probably have bags in. And my excuse for that is on a panel.
00:00:50.972 - 00:01:41.714, Speaker A: Vitalik said this morning that if there's anything that he wishes he could accelerate in our movement, it's the idea layer that asks the big questions. Asking in the 2020s, what is Ethereum doing? And that's what I wanted to ask with this talk, which is really a thought experiment. So thank you so much for indulging me by going on it with me. So it's not just a thought experiment, it's also a trip down memory lane. I started working in this space nearly a decade ago. First learned about Ethereum in 2015, joined Consensys in 2016. Took this photo in Shanghai of Devcon in that fall.
00:01:41.714 - 00:02:29.238, Speaker A: And at the time, we were super excited about Ethereum. We were talking about very specific issues and topics within Ethereum. This is the consensus retreat in Bali in September 2016. Had a lot of great conversations and here's what we were thinking about. We thought we're building a new foundational economic layer for reality, a new global settlement layer. We thought there were going to be payments in tokens like bitcoin and ethics. In fact, the first time I came to Prague in 2018 for Devcon, I went to this spot, which some of you have probably been to, and I bought a coffee and a t shirt in bitcoin.
00:02:29.238 - 00:03:38.236, Speaker A: And it was super cool because we felt at the time like they were one of the first to adopt crypto payments and that there would be many more later and that we would all be paying for pizza or paying for coffee. In crypto. We thought there'd be a unified blockchain identity and reputation. If you remember all the work we put into things like uport at Consensys, you know, that we believe this and that we would all, by this point, have a single blockchain identity as a store of all of our reputation and logins that replaces, like a Google or a Facebook login, then this is probably the most fun. We thought there'd be enterprise adoption through private and consortium chains. So, like private instances of the Ethereum blockchain, remember, like three reals, Corda, the hyperledger, that stuff that there would be blockchain use cases with and without crypto. So we're thinking about supply chain, all these different use cases of blockchain without crypto.
00:03:38.236 - 00:04:14.212, Speaker A: All these big companies, we like blockchain, we don't like crypto. That was the thing then. And then financial inclusion for the unbanked and obviously reality has exceeded many of those expectations. It's been different than what a lot of us thought. And I can't speak for what everybody thought. I'm just kind of covering what I thought everyone thought. But we started thinking about this new foundational economic layer and what we got were the l one protocol wars this race to the bottom of the stack.
00:04:14.212 - 00:05:06.258, Speaker A: That's yielded a lot of infrastructure relative to applications. Once you prove out to VC's that they can get a return on their capital for an l one or an l two, then suddenly everything makes an l one or an l two. And we end up working on this at serotonin because if something isn't differentiated enough as an l one or an l two, we won't work with it because there's no appetite in the media to talk about and to cover it. They want to talk about applications, they want to talk about real use cases and people being affected by these things. They don't want to talk about more infra. So investors are investing in more infra than we can get anybody excited about. Payments and tokens like bitcoin and ETH, payments are happening in stablecoins instead of a unified blockchain.
00:05:06.258 - 00:05:30.816, Speaker A: Identity and reputation. We just heard from Worldcoin. There are a lot of really interesting efforts right now to bring identity in various forms for various reasons on chain like worldcoin disco. But we got a lot of web two style centralized exchange accounts. Ens names are aggregating a lot of this. So we don't have private chains and consortium chains, not really. But we have some.
00:05:30.816 - 00:06:01.046, Speaker A: Some brands adopting web3 through nfts. Some of those were short lived, some of those are building real projects and communities. We get folks like microstrategy putting bitcoin on the balance sheet. We get fintechs this cycle using crypto like the robinhoods and paypals. And then we have Etf's. So we have these nice little wrappers for bringing in a lot of value without actually bringing in a ton of DeFi users and blockchain use cases. A huge amount of where there's product market fit.
00:06:01.046 - 00:06:51.992, Speaker A: And I'm actually not going to focus on that in this presentation is for people already in the crypto ecosystem, serving them with new financial games for people that are already doing things in crypto, which is also valuable and interesting. And speculators are serving an interesting market function. Regulatory arbitrage, defi games, ethereum is this TGE platform democratizing anyone's ability to create a token. But that's really a use case for people that was generated itself by crypto rather than solving a problem that pre existed. Crypto financial inclusion for the unbanked. Now, that's a little bit different, actually. We at consensus went to the UN in 2017, and we're talking about a lot of these ideas.
00:06:51.992 - 00:07:46.344, Speaker A: A huge amount of the world is currently unbanked, and those people want to do various kinds of economic activities. Could it be possible to do some of those things on the blockchain? But this didn't start happening in 2017. It actually really started happening more like 2020. This is a chart of the turkish lira versus the us dollar. And you can see that starting around there's decline, but starting around 2020, we get significantly more decline. Here's the argentine peso declining against the us dollar, and this is accelerating in 2020. So we get a lot of these smaller cap fiat currencies pursuing monetary policies that led to devaluation against the us dollar all at once.
00:07:46.344 - 00:09:03.358, Speaker A: And it makes you wonder if we have this Pareto principle and if the larger cap fiat currencies eventually kind of eat the smaller ones, and everything aggregates to a few vectors, are we going to still have small cap fiat currencies or are they going to start pricing themselves in us dollars? And you can see where's all that market cap going. People in these markets that want to transact and price their transactions in us dollars, what are they turning to in order to do that? Well, the answer, 70% of the stablecoin market and the dominant player in the emerging markets is tether, USDT. Whatever you think of tether, that's the case. And you can see from that graph in 2020 how that started picking up and picking up the slack from some of those markets that got destabilized. And the tether CEO said himself, USDT can become as big as all emerging market fiat currency market caps. In my opinion, putting them all together, that's wild. And so I'm going to do something even wilder that gets us to an even larger total addressable market.
00:09:03.358 - 00:09:52.924, Speaker A: Back of napkin calculation. So we're going to start with the roughly 100 trillion USD denominated global money supply. It's probably a lot bigger than that, right? That's the stated global money supply denominated in USD. Then we're going to subtract the stated circulating money supply denominated in us dollars of the four largest fiat currencies, roughly. So we're going to subtract USA, eurozone, China, Japan, and then we're left with about 20 trillion USD denominated worth of potential stablecoin tam if stablecoins replaced everything but the top four fiat currencies. Obviously a ton of ifs in there. Not saying this is going to happen.
00:09:52.924 - 00:11:11.144, Speaker A: Remember, thought experiment, and this is reported figures, but interesting. So when we think about potential product market fit here, this is where it could happen. When we first went to the UN in 2017, we were talking about how in a lot of emerging markets, instead of copper wire technology for phones, folks were going straight to now five g. And similarly, it's too expensive for trad banks to go into a lot of these areas. It's very heavyweight infrastructure that they have to put in. And so it might make a lot more sense for folks to start transacting in USD, for example, denominated stablecoins in these places, instead of waiting for that kind of heavyweight financial infrastructure to come in, which it may never make sense to. And so this is not the only arena, but kind of, by the definition of this talk, a really interesting arena to explore, where crypto, in the ten ish years I've been thinking about it, has actually found some product market failure for its original stated use case, exactly how it was originally framed.
00:11:11.144 - 00:12:11.604, Speaker A: This is a photo I took photographers me at a gaming conference in Cebu in the Philippines, that people were dressing up for as if it was comic con in the US, if you're familiar with that, and they were learning there how to be discord moderators, how to do quests, how to earn rewards in games. I heard some interesting stories about how during the height of Axies popularity, which is still extremely popular, how people were climbing to the tops of trees to get better service in order to be able to play. And if someone is climbing to the top of a tree to use your product, that is product market fit. These folks are really interesting, and as we build products, it's interesting to know about them and what they're up to. A lot of them don't have metamask or a self sovereign wallet yet. They may in the future. They have mobile accounts with local, centralized custodians.
00:12:11.604 - 00:12:45.488, Speaker A: Everyone has telegram. People are really communicating on telegram. People who started their telegram account in the US don't see this, but everyone that started elsewhere has been pushed a ton wallet, which is a self sovereign wallet inside of telegram. They're basically going for Wechat, but not, you know, governed by any country, fully integrating payments with messenger social apps. People are spending their time playing guild games like Axie. Maybe it's escapism, maybe it's a hobby, maybe it's. Well, there's students.
00:12:45.488 - 00:13:15.424, Speaker A: A lot of the people in these audience wearing those uniforms are students. But people really play these guild games. People do quests and airdrop farming. And possibly there's a hardware thing being added. Again, no bags, but I've noticed these guys jumbo that are making a phone that is an airdrop farming focused hardware phone that's targeting these markets. So that's interesting. And it's not just in places like the Philippines, there are all kinds of markets where these trends are happening.
00:13:15.424 - 00:14:39.816, Speaker A: This is pics in Brazil, which implemented in 2020, these QR codes that let you cash out and do payments in stablecoins. There are currently 60,000 atm's in Brazil that let you transact and take out cash in USDT, basically creating a link between the official fiat currency system and the stablecoin system. And part of Pix. Implementing this helped them become the country's most popular payment method by last year. So we're starting to see this in lots of places. What does it mean? And what does this mean in terms of building into PMF? Building into places where crypto has some PMF? Could this be an important gateway to native crypto and defi after people get onboarded, maybe on mobile, maybe on a local centralized exchange, maybe after people get their first metamask or other self sovereign wallet account, is there a second thing that it makes sense for people to do? And we have to think about these people's lives, right? If your fiat currency has decreased over the last few years, 80% against the dollar, do you care about 4%, 5%, 7% yield? Possibly. Not like you might need to think about different kinds of games, different kinds of next steps in order to target this particular audience.
00:14:39.816 - 00:15:26.904, Speaker A: But surely there is a next step. It can't just end with stablecoin payments. Is this the biggest export of us dollar denomination? All of these folks, instead of denominating their various transactions in their own currencies, are choosing to denominate them in something pegged to USD. And tether itself is buying t bills every time you do a transaction that involves USDT. So that's buying us debt. And I think tether is the largest holder of us debt right behind Germany. So pretty big and that's interesting because China slowed down its buying of us debt and stopped buying as much.
00:15:26.904 - 00:16:08.870, Speaker A: And so there is a need to pick up the slack and now folks in emerging markets using tether stablecoins for payments are picking up that stack slack and buying us debt. And so has blockchain, where it has achieved product market fit in this arena basically become a transport layer for exporting us dollar denomination and the buying of us debt. Interesting. Maybe. Is it a path to telegram dominance? Telegram is where a lot of these users are. It's the 6th most downloaded app. It's on track to have a billion users within a year and now has native crypto components and is Heather the best business ever.
00:16:08.870 - 00:16:40.294, Speaker A: They made 45 billion in revenue in Q one of this past year, which isn't as much as some other of the largest businesses ever. But if you're in the business of exporting the us dollar over blockchain rails, it's a cool business to be in. And if you break down that revenue per employee, they're pretty much ahead of almost everybody. So that's interesting. Maybe. I think it's not the end. We're going to find product market fit in new places in the future.
00:16:40.294 - 00:17:21.990, Speaker A: This was Shanghai 2016, our team at Serotonin, and I bet many of you are going to be heading to Bangkok in 2024. I'm sure we're going to learn about all kinds of new use cases and applications and places where we're actually finding fit in other areas. And maybe some of them will even satisfy some of the original goals and aspirations we had in this movement in various new ways. So this is certainly not the limit or the end and very excited to learn about what those things all are. Super quick on us. This is our team when we were in Bogota a couple years ago. We've grown a bunch since then.
00:17:21.990 - 00:18:02.184, Speaker A: We do marketing also strategy, advisory, legal, all kinds of different services. In web3 we spin out about one software company per year. I wrote a book called Web three marketing, currently out in English but about to come out in Mandarin. It's on Amazon. Please do buy it and read it if you're interested in that. Got handles over there if you want to stay in touch. But mostly, thank you so much for humoring me through this thought experiment, which I hope was fun and interesting and in the spirit of Vitalik's concept of asking big questions and creating an idea layer.
00:18:02.184 - 00:18:02.704, Speaker A: Thanks everyone.
