00:00:02.090 - 00:00:40.566, Speaker A: All right, welcome everybody, to Zora workshop on how the Zora protocol is working. We have Brex Studge Hill with us today that will be running the workshop. We'll just start with a quick reminder that you have to do your staking before the event starts. So if you haven't taken yet, please go ahead and do that before the weekend. That's it. I will let it on to you, Breck, for the workshop.
00:00:40.758 - 00:00:42.620, Speaker B: Awesome. Are we ready to start?
00:00:44.270 - 00:00:45.354, Speaker A: Yes, we are.
00:00:45.472 - 00:01:29.340, Speaker B: Cool. Well, hello everyone. My name is Breck, I'm an engineer at Zora and I'm going to talk a little bit, I guess for the next half an hour, just about some of the motivations and some of the details of what we've built. And I will preface it with, my neighbors have just decided to demolition their house. So periodically there's a bunch of noise. Please let me know in the chat or feel free to interrupt me if I'm not talking loud enough. And also I want this to be pretty interactive casual, so if you have any questions, please feel free also to just jump in and interrupt me and we can address them as we go.
00:01:29.340 - 00:02:32.830, Speaker B: So cool. We'll start off with a few slides about why we built Zora. I think there's no question or doubt that platforms have sort of dictated the way that people interact with the Internet online. They're everywhere, they're omnipresent, they have created. And this is especially true for creators on the Internet. I think we've seen large platforms that have created large social graphs and distribution mechanisms of distribution that have sort of forced creators to play by their rules, that have caused them to forfeit a lot of their ownership and rights to the things that they create online. And so I think one of the main reasons all of us are here and are interested in NFTs is to sort of give the power back to the sovereign individuals or creators on the Internet and take it away from these large platforms that do bad things on the Internet.
00:02:32.830 - 00:04:00.122, Speaker B: And so ERC 721 that was built a few years ago was like this really interesting standard API for the ownership of non fungible assets on the ethereum blockchain. And this created what I would consider a step function improvement to how people can create and transfer the ownership of digital goods on the Internet. And so we've seen some pretty fun projects with CryptoKitties, crypto, punks, hash masks, and obviously the biggest headline these days is the amount of money that Beeples are going for. Sorry, did I hear someone jump in? Maybe not. And ERC 720 Ones are great, but around the time of mid to late 2020, the Zora team sort of gave an honest appraisal of how the state of NFTs was. And I think it's fairly well represented by this chart of there were a number of marketplaces that sat on top of this thin ERC 721 standard that defined the creation of this non fungible token that can be transferred from any account on the ethereum blockchain. But there wasn't this native Monetization built into the ERC 721 standard.
00:04:00.122 - 00:06:04.522, Speaker B: And so marketplaces sort of were built in places like Rarible, Super, Rare, Openc, et cetera, that allow for the facilitation of Monetizing, your NFT, or transferring ownership via another ERC 20 or via ETH. But we noticed that a lot of these marketplaces have mechanisms of platform lock in. They have things such as, like, they enforce exclusivity in creation, they have royalties that are proprietary to their marketplace, or they have platform fees that when a sale is made on their platform, some of it must be kicked back to the platform. Right? And I think it was a really interesting thing for us to see, because we thought this was like we were being ushered into a new paradigm where ERC 721s were giving power back to the creator, where they had full ownership of the things that they created. But these marketplaces were sort of building in many of the same lock in mechanisms and predatory economic models as existing web two platforms. And so it got us thinking, how can we make the protocol layer a little? How can we approve upon ERC 721 to have the value not accrue to marketplaces, but to accrue to the owners and creators of NFTs? And so this is an image that I think was part of a blog post by Joel Monegra back in 2017 called the Fat Layer, or Fat protocol thesis. And if you think of the existing NFT marketplaces with proprietary royalties and proprietary platform fees, a lot of the value that's captured for the transfer or the exchange of NFTs actually accrues to the marketplace and the protocol layer, ERC 721 is actually very thin in definition.
00:06:04.522 - 00:07:11.526, Speaker B: And so I think taking Joel Mongro's initial claim and applying NFT marketplace to it is a fairly accurate depiction of what things look like. And so for us, we were like, how can we make that protocol layer a bit more thick and have the value accrue back to the creator or the owner of an NFT and not to these web two esque marketplaces that are providing services for NFTs? And so that was the primary motivation for creating Zora. And the way that we did that was we unified what we call the media and the market, or we embedded a market inside of the actual token itself. And I'm going to say this once, and this is something that I think is very important to understand, is that Zora is not a marketplace. Zora is not a platform. It is a protocol that pushes and makes that ERC 721 standard thicker or fatter in nature. And so this is a little diagram of what the Zora protocol actually looks like.
00:07:11.526 - 00:08:28.410, Speaker B: Basically, all it does is it's an extension of ERC 721 that embeds all of the royalty logic and auction logic into a single contract that are perpetual in nature and will live with the NFT as long as the NFT exists. And so you can see if you have the existing ERC 721 behavior such as transfer, burn, token, uri, et cetera. We also added in like ask, remove, bid, set bid, accept bid this sort of like very basic market behavior to embed that into the token itself. And we've also sprinkled in a little bit of stuff for gasless transactions or EIP 712 for meta transactions, which I can talk to you a little bit later. Let's talk a little bit about what the Zora market is. The zora market is perpetual. So unlike a lot of existing marketplaces where you have like a reserve price and it must be met and the highest bidder wins and the market closes at the end of the auction, the Zora market is perpetual.
00:08:28.410 - 00:09:33.518, Speaker B: So if I create an NFT on Zora and someone wants to bid on it, I can build up an actual order book of bid liquidity and if I accept a single bid, all of the bid liquidity will remain on the piece of media unless the bidders remove it. So you can think of transferring ownership or accepting a Zora bid as the equivalent of transferring ownership of the order book as well, which is a pretty interesting concept. We think the zora market is also multi currency. So any ERC 20 that conforms or any token that conforms to the ERC 20 standard can be accepted as a bid on Zora. And so if you go to Zora Co today, which is our platform that's built on top of the protocol, you'll see many bids are actually in a number of different currencies like wrapped ETHS. We've seen bids in friends with benefits. We've seen bids in st fame, token, RAC, USDC, Dai, et cetera.
00:09:33.518 - 00:10:50.330, Speaker B: But any ERC 20 can be accepted as a bid on the Zora market it's open. So generally for auctions, the highest bidder is the bid that's accepted at the end of the auction period. But for Zora, the owner of the NFT has full ownership over which bid to accept. So there's an interesting question about bidder identity and the next concept of sell on share that makes the openness of the market very interesting. So a bidder is able to optionally create what's called a sell on share as a part of their bid. And this is something that's, like, generally used in professional soccer for transferring players where when you have a soccer team and you have a high profile player and you want to transfer them to another soccer team, you can specify the transfer fee such that when that player leaves the other team, you get kickback for that future sale. And so we've applied that to Zora NFT such that if I create an NFT and Alice wants to buy it from me, she could specify a 10% sell on share and I would sell it to Alice for the big currency and amount, and then when Alice sells it to Bob, I get 10% of that sale.
00:10:50.330 - 00:11:40.010, Speaker B: And so that's another interesting economic incentive that we've built into the protocol that I think is not used in other market protocols. The other bid share incentive is the creator share. And this is where the royalties come in. So as a creator, you can optionally specify a percentage of equity that you have perpetually on your NFT. So if I create something and I specify 10% creator share, every bid that's finalized on the Zora market or settled on the Zora market, I will get 10% of that. And this is all baked into the Zora market smart contract. And the last and most important thing about everything related to Zora is that it's trustless.
00:11:40.010 - 00:12:23.626, Speaker B: We made the very specific decision to deploy Zora as a smart contract that has zero permissions and zero admin ability. It's very much like Uniswap V One, where it's just code that lives on the blockchain and anyone can use. So you don't have to be a specific whitelisted account to create or bid on Zora. Cool. We've made a number of other updates to ERC 721 that I'm happy to talk about, but if anyone has any questions, I will pause for a second. I see some notifications in the chat. Let's see.
00:12:23.626 - 00:13:02.866, Speaker B: Sorry, I'm going to go down in order. Question from YouTube is Zora the Zoracles? No, we are not Zoracles. I don't know too much about the project, but I know they have a token with dollar sign Zora as their symbol. But we are different. We are an NFT protocol for individuals to create NFTs with a market embedded into it. Question from YouTube. Does Zora support lazy Minting? So to my knowledge, Lazy Minting is something that is used on OpenSea where you can mint something and it doesn't actually get put onto the blockchain until after it's been minted.
00:13:02.866 - 00:14:04.730, Speaker B: We have not built that into Zora co the product yet, but we have definitely gotten that feature request and are thinking about ways that we could put that into the product experience. Let's see. Question from Mark does the creator share only apply when sold on the Zora market? Yes, it does. So this is something that we're actually seeing come up quite often. So like anything, all of the logic for Zora is built into code on the smart contract. And so in order for the royalties to actually be upheld, the bids must be settled on the Zora market to invoke the code to split up that bid to either the creator or for the sell on share. And so if you mint something on Zora but then move to like OpenSea or to Rarible where they're actually listing Zora NFTs and opt to accept bids there, you would not be upholding the creator share because they're not currently settling their bids on the Zora market.
00:14:04.730 - 00:15:02.270, Speaker B: We're actually working with them currently to try to get them to directly integrate with the Zora market so we don't have this trouble moving forward. Let's see, what are your thoughts on standards for cross market royalties? This is an interesting question as well. I think right now our answer is the easiest way to ensure cross market royalties is directly make sure that your bids are settled on Zora market contracts. Because that functionality exists, it shouldn't be a problem. I think right now it's just ensuring that if people are listing Zora NFTs, making sure that in the product, if they're not settling on the Zora market, that it's well known. Because I think currently that's not happening and that's a problem. Let's see, is it possible to create your own marketplace using Zora protocol and get a list of NFTs created through a given platform? Yeah, exactly.
00:15:02.270 - 00:16:24.630, Speaker B: So we've actually worked on building a bunch of developer tools so that people can create their own platform on Zora. So the ZDK is our JavaScript SDK and it provides full functionality in a JavaScript context to interact with Zora. And we also have a subgraph implementation that gives you a GraphQL interface for pulling all the data that's indexed by the Zora protocol. And I think two good examples of platforms that are currently building marketplaces that leverage Zora are mirror the blog writing project and then also Catalog, which is an audio only project that's built on sora sorry, there's a lot of questions. What I'm going to do right now because I want to get through the rest of the presentation is I'm going to keep going through and then I'll get to Q and A at the end. I think I've got another 15 minutes, so keep your questions till the end. So a few other important updates that we've made to ERC 721, aside from adding this market functionality, are the decoupling of content and metadata allowing for updatable Uris.
00:16:24.630 - 00:16:35.962, Speaker B: It says, My Internet is bad, we'll keep trucking. Can you all hear me? By the way? Can I get a nod? Yes. Okay, cool.
00:16:36.016 - 00:16:36.842, Speaker A: Yeah, we can hear you.
00:16:36.896 - 00:17:22.940, Speaker B: Hash integrity and then metatransaction. Cool. So in the existing ERC 721 standard, there's an optional metadata interface that a token can prescribe to and that includes a token Uri. I think the best way to think about it is Ethereum is really bad at storing data. So if you wanted to store like, arbitrary digital content, it would be prohibitively expensive. And so most NFTs are actually they just contain a reference to some content that actually lives elsewhere. Generally it's on IPFS, but if you're unlucky, it could be on a centralized server run by a Minting platform.
00:17:22.940 - 00:18:17.130, Speaker B: And so when you look at most ERC 720 ones, they just have a token Uri and it contains a reference to some JSON. This is an example of the token Uri for Beeple's 5000 days. So one would think that this token Uri would actually point to the IPFS link to the actual content, but it's really just a JSON blob that gives some metadata information and somewhere in the metadata is the actual link to the raw file. And so there's this weird coupling of metadata and the actual content. And when we were going about writing Zora, we were like, this felt really backwards to us. It felt like it was pigeonholed as a part of the original ERC 721 design. So we actually took it out and we very cleanly split the content Uri and the token metadata Uri.
00:18:17.130 - 00:19:21.134, Speaker B: So we kept the existing token Uri to not break how people use Aura and that points to the actual content itself. And we split out another Uri for the metadata where you can have a pointer to the metadata so they're very cleanly split and not part of the same Uri. So here's an example. This is Azora NFT. It has a token Uri that points to this IPFS hash, which is where we'll call it People's 5000 Days Lives. We have a metadata Uri that points to another IPFS hash which has the JSON metadata about the NFT. And so for many ERC 721, once you specify the Uri, it actually can't be changed, which is also problematic because what happens if the IPFS link breaks? You need to have the ability to update it.
00:19:21.134 - 00:20:10.830, Speaker B: Otherwise the owner of the NFT is sort of like screwed. Like that thing is worth nothing anymore. So let's say, for example, this People's thing sold for $69 million to a bidder. And as soon as the bidder gets it, they try to access the Uri, but it's a dead link. Now the NFT is worth nothing because the thing that it points to doesn't actually exist. Okay, so let's add for the ability to add updatable Uris, right? Like people should be able to freely change where the content actually lives in a world where data storage is flexible and it's updatable, right? Well, another problem arises. What happens when the owner of Beeple changes the Uri to the Rick Roll video? That's also problematic because now you're breaking the provenance of the NFT.
00:20:10.830 - 00:21:33.690, Speaker B: And so we decided to this is what happens when you try to get too fancy with your Google Slide animations. So we decided to add the storage of content hashes for each of these things to allow for the Uris to be updated. So when you mint, you actually provide a content hash, which is the hash of the Uri for the thing that you're creating, and a metadata hash which is the hash for the Uri of your metadata. And so anyone, anytime during the lifecycle of an NFT can read the Uri and check its content hash. So in the case that people minted 5000 days with the correct IPFS hash and a content hash and then a future owner updated the Token uri to the Rick roll video, anyone would be able to perform a verification and realize that the content hash and the uri do not match and that this thing is not worth what it should be worth. But then they can also verify that the metadata hash matches its metadata. And so I think this is a very powerful tool to allow for more flexible data storage of metadata for NFTs, but also still not sacrifice the verification and authenticity that the thing that you're buying is the thing that was initially created by the owner or by the creator.
00:21:33.690 - 00:22:42.240, Speaker B: We've actually seen there's the animation. We've actually seen some nice open source tools be built. Sam, I'm forgetting how to pronounce his last name built this thing called Znft V app that you can put in any token ID on the Zora protocol and see if its content hash and metadata hash match up with the existing Uris and storage. And the final thing about hashing and metadata and Uris is that because we're actually storing the hash of each piece minted on Zora, we can now enforce content uniqueness. So if someone mints an NFT that references a hash, that hash can never be reused and can only minted once. So now Zora is this unique media registry for things that are made on the Internet. And there's provably no copies, no fakes, which is a super powerful constraint that I think a lot of existing NFT contracts do not take advantage of.
00:22:42.240 - 00:23:31.742, Speaker B: Cool. And so this hackathon is going to be an incredible opportunity for people to hack and build on a ton of different things in the NFT space. Zora is an open and permissionless protocol for NFTs, so anyone can build web, two marketplaces and galleries, and experience on top of Zora. Anyone can build smart contracts that directly compose with our media contract or our market contract. And we're here to help any of the builders that are interested in building with us. We have a lot of tools at Zora Engineering, so the ZDK and the subgraph that I mentioned, all the documentation lives at Zora Engineering. A bunch of our engineers will be available throughout the days of the hackathon to be able to provide any sort of help via office hours for anyone that wants to build.
00:23:31.742 - 00:23:53.510, Speaker B: And I think we have a sponsor Zora channel in the discord where we're all available and here to answer any questions that you all have. So if anyone has any questions, I will jump into the chat. Also, feel free to just say them out loud so I'm not reading endlessly.
00:23:55.290 - 00:24:20.560, Speaker A: Thank you. Greg, that was really great. I know you do have tons of questions, so feel free to pick and choose what you find as most relevant. And for anyone else who wants to keep this conversation going, I mean, we still have five minutes and we'll use all of it, but yes, do join the discord channel. There's a specific one for ZOA and keep the conversation going there.
00:24:21.170 - 00:24:21.920, Speaker B: Cool.
00:24:23.010 - 00:24:23.326, Speaker A: Yeah.
00:24:23.348 - 00:25:27.480, Speaker B: So I'll just start reading them down, unless anyone interrupts me and has a question live. So a question from Bob is, how many future sales do the shares apply to? All just one, or can that be specified or stacked by serial owners? So the creator share is perpetual. So when you mint and you specify a 10% creator share, all future sales, you will be given your 10% share. The sell on shares, however, is only for the next sale, and that's not stacked or configurable. So if I sell to Alice, and Alice specifies a sell on share of 10% as a part of her bid, I will only get 10% of the sale from Alice to Bob, not of the sale from Bob to Charlie, et cetera. We thought it'd be really cool to have that be perpetual as well, like almost like recursive sell on shares, but due to some constraints with the EVM, it's just like it's not possible to do. And so we mixed that pretty quickly.
00:25:27.480 - 00:26:27.560, Speaker B: Cool. So, question from YouTube, which is a great one, can I define my own market? E. G bonding curve, dutch auction or Zora protocol confined to bids. So, because we've thought about Zora as a primary primitive at the base layer of interacting with NFTs, we intentionally designed the market to be very flexible, very unappinionated, to give full ownership to the creator and the owner. That being said, though, it's super trivial to create any sort of open specific logic that you would want for a more interesting type of auction. So if you wanted to build a Dutch auction, for example, you could build a contract that composes directly with the Zora market and has the Dutch auction mechanism codified in a smart contract. So we're actually seeing this happen right now.
00:26:27.560 - 00:27:16.120, Speaker B: Coldy auctions, for example, are a very commonplace auction mechanism for NFTs, where you provide a reserve price, and once the reserve price is met, it kicks off a timer. And every single time a new highest bid is made, then the timer resets. And Mirror Protocol is building a periphery smart contract for Zora that they'll be using in their product to allow for Colby. So the short answer is Zora is ultimately flexible and unappinionated. But if you want to have specific auction logic, then you need to build your own contract that composes with Zora. And we'll see this happen over time when more and more people start to see the power of being open and composable. Let's see.
00:27:16.120 - 00:27:54.010, Speaker B: So what is Zora's business model, if not a marketplace? Zora does not have a business model. We are open source software. Anyone can use our open contracts that are deployed on the blockchain. Anyone can use our open source tooling. And we've built a product, but there's no platform fees or anything built into that. We're for creators to use. We're here to help empower people to fight platforms.
00:27:54.010 - 00:29:10.126, Speaker B: Let's see. Does Zora support multiple copies of NFTs, like, ERC, 1155 so no Zora is opinionated in that we only are an extension of ERC 721, which means that all Zora NFTs are one of one. For those of you who are not aware, ERC 1155 allows for almost like additions. So you can specify a new thing that's made and then there can be multiple owners or multiple sub token IDs for that thing. But we're just an ERC 721 extension. Let's see. So question from Alexander by composable, do you mean inheriting from Zora Media or market contracts? No, I mean so in solidity land, when you're writing a contract, you can invoke a contract function on any other contract.
00:29:10.126 - 00:30:21.414, Speaker B: So anyway, similar to how in traditional programming, if you import something from Node, you can call those functions. So what you would do is to compose with a Zora contract, you would write your own contract that directly calls functionality on Zora Media or Zora market. Another question from YouTube, which is actually a great one, is can't you defeat the selling share by selling to yourself before selling it for real? So most of the incentive mechanisms in Zora are somewhat not defendable. Right, so you're exactly right. I could specify a selling share as a bidder and then totally screw over the previous owner by selling it to somebody else for super cheap price or negotiating terms outside of the Zora market. We are of the belief that bidder identity is a super important mechanism to combat predatory behavior like this. So as an owner of an NFT, you have complete ownership over to who you actually sell it to.
00:30:21.414 - 00:31:33.466, Speaker B: And so if you sell it to someone who has shown that they skirt out of the Zora market in the past, then it's probably not a good idea to sell to them. But if you see a bid from someone who has shown that they traditionally do things on the Zora market, like you'll get your creator share by selling to them, then generally that's someone that you should be accepting bids from. So I think we'll see like a social graph identity be built on top of our protocol for collectors and creators to make the right decision on who to accept bids from and things like that. Question from YouTube could someone make an ERC 721 version of Zora? Absolutely. I mean, Zora again is open source. Anyone can grab the code, anyone can take the market constructs and build it into ERC 1155. I don't know enough about ERC 1155 to know how trivial or non trivial that would be, but by all means anyone can grab from our ideas and do the same thing to rephrase.
00:31:33.466 - 00:32:02.040, Speaker B: Is there a way to extend Zora to cover other NFT types? ERC 1155? ERC nine nine eight. I'm not familiar enough with either of those two EIPS to be able to give a straight answer, but happy to discuss more in the discord. I think we're actually a bit over time, but there's a lot of questions that I didn't answer, and I'm definitely available in the chat along with some other people from Zora, and we'll be happy to provide any answers to anyone there.
00:32:03.850 - 00:32:19.214, Speaker A: Thank you so much. Yes, exactly. So really huge. Thank you for the presentation. That was great. There's also a lot of questions, everybody on YouTube and on Zoom. Again, go to the channel if you can.
00:32:19.214 - 00:32:23.982, Speaker A: And thanks for attending. The best. Thank you.
00:32:24.116 - 00:32:24.620, Speaker B: Thanks, everyone.
