00:00:13.210 - 00:00:22.030, Speaker A: All right, everyone, we're going to get started with our next speaker. We have Tim Ogilvy, who came to visit us from New York City to talk about his business called staked.
00:00:23.810 - 00:01:10.606, Speaker B: Thanks. Hey, guys. It, I'm generally the glass half full on the talk you just saw. Generally want to talk about how you can earn yield in Defi and some of the cool ways that money Legos are starting to come together, and you can use them to potentially earn yield. So in terms of who we are, staked works with, principally institutional investors, custodians, and wallets to run the infrastructure that helps investors earn yield, either through staking on proof of stake networks. We run on about 30 proof of stake networks today we're gearing up for ETH, two coming hopefully this summer. And we also run a set of smart contracts that help with trustless lending across ETH, DAI, and USDC.
00:01:10.606 - 00:01:57.986, Speaker B: So we work with a bunch of the large investors, try and understand how can I earn yield on the crypto I hold. And so the basic theme that's happening here is crypto is changing. It was an asset that's basically been stuffed under a mattress, and it's changing to enable a lot of productive uses for it. And what we look for and the things I'm going to talk about today are something that generates a yield for you, something that's trustless, so there's no concerns about custody, and they're minimal or somewhat acceptable or understandable risks that you can get behind. And I think general caveat here is these have real risk. I mean, BZX this morning is paying a $350,000 bug bounty. You need to do your own research.
00:01:57.986 - 00:03:03.234, Speaker B: All of this is open source code, and so you should do the research and stay safe. So I want to start and just talk about, like, there are four basic primitives that make up the Legos in how you might be able to generate yield in DeFi. So that's staking, that's lending, that's arbitrage, and it's automated market making. There's some more on the horizon, but these are actionable today that you can actually use and you can start to put together in ways that are interesting. And so what I'm going to do is get into a quick overview of each one of these and then some cool ways people are starting to put them together and how that might look kind of down the line. So probably the core use case of DeFi is the collateralized lending category, where you've got a lender who is supplying assets to someone like compound BZX or DYDX, and a borrower on the other side who puts up some collateral and then looks to borrow another asset. And so generally speaking, those are going to pay out anywhere.
00:03:03.234 - 00:03:50.642, Speaker B: It's all over the map eth. There's a ton of supply and not a lot of demand. Right now, nobody really wants to short eth. And so that's got a very low yield, whereas a lot of the US dollar stable coins are between five and 10%. These are generally because there's a speculator on the other side who wants to borrow dollars, buy eth, and go some kind of margin long position. And so ultimately, while this looks like a really rich rate relative to one and a half on a US treasury, it's kind of peanuts to the speculator who's looking at either a really material gain or a big loss if things go the wrong way. And so those lending markets are pretty active and are kind of the core of defi.
00:03:50.642 - 00:05:18.660, Speaker B: I think what's coming, and I think people will start to see is really another leg on the Defi stool is staking. And staking basically looks like you are lending your assets to the protocol and you have some obligations in that. You got to run a validator behind the scenes, whether that's you're running it or someone like staked is running it, but you're effectively depositing to a smart contract and then getting a yield back that's represented in the new block rewards of people creating assets. And so when ETh staking goes live, the beacon chain is hopefully this summer that's going to look something like this graph in terms of you've got a set of maximum issuance that's going to yield anywhere between 18% on the high end to two to 3% on the low end if everybody is staking their asset. And so I think that creates this dynamic where you have a liquid market. And one of the things you're seeing is that staking and lending are basically two sides of the same coin. And so we've seen the addition of what's effectively a staking yield into dai, which has got the dai savings rate where you can lock your asset up, it's got a very short lockup, but you're effectively staking with dai and compound, which is the kind of de facto lending opportunity.
00:05:18.660 - 00:06:05.650, Speaker B: And dai savings rate effectively move in lockstep so that people can, as the dai savings rate moves up through governance, effectively the lending market has to move to provide a premium. And this is what you see in traditional fixed income and it's what you'd expect. You've got a benchmark rate, and other fixed income instruments get priced at some spread to that. My guess is the staking rates and yields look a whole lot like the risk free rates or the benchmark rates that gets used in traditional finance. And then you are going to price things like lending and other activities based on the additional risk at some premium. That's a spread to those risks. And I think you're starting to see that today in compound and die.
00:06:05.650 - 00:07:01.170, Speaker B: So our third primitive here are the automated market makers, and these are guys like Uniswap or bancorp. You can deposit assets into a pool of assets, and so you become a liquidity provider to the market maker. Maybe you want to put assets into the ETH die pool. Generally, you want to put in at the 50 50 rate, such that in this example, I've got ten EtH and 2500 die in there, which basically creates an automated market for a trader on the other side who can go in and supply 250 die to the protocol and get back one ETH or something. It looks like one eth less. The fees and those trading fees go to you. As someone who holds that asset and deposits to the contract, you get the benefit of those trading fees.
00:07:01.170 - 00:08:05.874, Speaker B: And so this is terrific. It creates a lot of fungibility in the market. It's volatile, though, because when you put assets into a pool, the price will change and your returns on those will change. And so you are actually taking a kind of market position here, and your yield will vary. Last 90 days, the Eth die pool, you've gotten anywhere from between a negative 8% rate to a 20% positive rate, depending on when you put your asset in and how those assets moved over time. And so this is a specific type of decision where you've got to have a point of view that your asset, you can either hold for long enough that you're okay with the price changes, or just sort of ride out, and you believe the fees from trading are going to outweigh your benefits there. And our fourth bit that kind of keeps everybody on the rails in DeFi is arbitrage.
00:08:05.874 - 00:08:48.760, Speaker B: And these are liquidators in places like compound who basically monitor the collateral that's been put up and purchase it at a discount if it falls below the collateralization ratio. And there's a whole host of examples that include rate arbitrage on interest rates and some of the tools around Dex arbitrage. And I'll actually share some examples here. But the core principle is around purchasing and selling something in an instant. It requires capital, but it generally doesn'tie it up for a long period of time. So that's kind of our core tools we have to work with. And where things get interesting is where you can start to combine these.
00:08:48.760 - 00:09:29.378, Speaker B: Know the staking and lending markets are going to get tokenized, as Gavin was referring to. And there are some risks with that, and there are some new opportunities with it. It's going to happen. And when that happens, your new tokenized position effectively creates two new capabilities. You've got the ability to sell it, and you've got the ability to borrow money and use it as collateral against it. And so when you have these capabilities, it all of a sudden unlocks the ability to start locking some of the legos together. And there's some interesting stuff that people are doing.
00:09:29.378 - 00:10:18.100, Speaker B: So for example, curve Phi is basically taking the lending Lego and the automated marketing market maker Lego and putting it together. So curve is a provider. It's a stablecoin version of Uniswap, where you can put in USDC and DAI and get a more efficient way of trading between those pairs. But what they're using is not a underlying USDC or DAI. They're using a tokenized version, CDI from compound and CUSDC. So that what you're getting is the combination of the two. You actually get the lending rate from lending to compound, plus the yields that are coming through from the exchange opportunity.
00:10:18.100 - 00:10:38.130, Speaker B: So what you're looking at today on curve, and this is very early, this is an unaudited, like there are dragons here kind of opportunity, but it's got a 20% annualized yield on a us dollar stablecoin. So a super interesting use of DFI that's starting to combine two of these primitives and create new opportunities.
