00:00:01.520 - 00:00:57.694, Speaker A: Okay, so good morning or good afternoon, everyone. Today I will talk about applications of the memorization of Morpheus result. So this is the result that maybe I can just rewrite the theorem, which. Let me look at the theorem again. So it was about this result here. So last time we stated the result that said that given any proper path analytic morphism, there exists a countable number of commutative diagrams such as this one. So here there is even something about the divisors that I'm not focusing too much, where the sigma lump that the transformations in the source entire, the transformations in the target are finite compositions of local bond zaps and power substitutions, which are semi proper coverings.
00:00:57.694 - 00:01:29.674, Speaker A: So these are was the number one and this is the number two. I'm kind of keeping this notation for one and two. These are the necessary conditions that we had. Like, it's not necessary, but the conditions that we impose over the transformation in the source and target. And then the end result was that our less morph is here. If I learned that it makes the diagram commute, it's monomial, it's what we wanted as simple as possible. So today I want to talk about.
00:01:29.674 - 00:02:43.614, Speaker A: Today I want to talk about applications of this result. And I want to start with a slight reformulation of that result with stronger, slightly stronger, stronger statement under a stronger also hypothesis, which is the particular case when the dimension of m is equal to the dimension of n and the morpheus is generic of rank equals to the dimension of m. Okay, so I'm going to start with part one here. And I'm not going to give a name. I prefer just application one, I didn't give a name in my note. So the result is that suppose that phi from M d to me is a q. Morphism.
00:02:43.614 - 00:03:54.554, Speaker A: Proper morphism. I will discuss this hypothesis about being proper in the, in the next lecture. It can be relaxed morphism of generic rank m, which is the dimension of m. Then there exists countable number of commutative diagrams just before. So we're going to have the md here, the ne, we have the sigma lambda, the n lombina produce phi is a phylogen. Mute. Touch that.
00:03:54.554 - 00:05:05.454, Speaker A: The condition one and two volt, which I recall just was saying that sigma and tau were composition of local boundaries and power substitutions, and the phi lambda and semi proper, semi proper quadrants. And here we obtain something a bit stronger. I'm gonna call it three prime. Phi lambda is locally the identity times zero. So if the dimension of M is equal to M two, which is the dimension of M. Just give me here then phylogenetic is just identity. And here we are going to use an important way powerful institutions to be able to get this kind of normal form.
00:05:05.454 - 00:05:25.040, Speaker A: So this is also connected. It's a version with powerful institutions, local version of. With power institutions or what is called factorization of. If it was algebraic of the rational morph is. But it could be more. It doesn't have to be algebraic in this case. Right.
00:05:25.040 - 00:06:10.304, Speaker A: We just, we just need a generic rank to be m and then the two dimensions to be equal. And it's basically saying that it's not true. You don't need this phylum in some sense, right. You could make this into a triangle. You could just factor the Martians phi by blowing up in the source and blowing up in the target just by a whole column here. Whole triangle of blowing up in one side and blowing up in the other. So this is one of the ramified version, local version of a very general question in the rational geometry, which up until now we only have weak results, important weak results to Abramowicz collaborators who and blood arcic between others.
00:06:10.304 - 00:07:11.610, Speaker A: And in here, I just want to improve this, this weaker statement here using thermal normalization theorem plus power substitutions. So I'm just going to give a sketch of the proof. Okay. So apart from using the, apart from. We can start by saying that apart from applying the monomanization theorem, we may suppose that phi is monomial. Now we may also. We fix the point a in M.
00:07:11.610 - 00:07:43.284, Speaker A: And we're going to argue locally at this point. Now I'm going to make two extra hypotheses to simplify the presentation. But it's really to simplify the notation. It's not really, it doesn't. The arguments are going to be essentially the same, but for a presentation here for our course, I feel like it is a simplifying notations that are going to be helpful. So we assume, and these are really assumptions that I'm making for the proof. Two things.
00:07:43.284 - 00:08:45.224, Speaker A: I'm going to assume that the dimension of n is equal to n. This will avoid me to write a lot of terms equal to zero and avoid having to deal with this term separately. And second, we assume that there exists coordinate systems. So essentially I want to be in the full combinatorial case u one u m of a and x u one x m of t of a such that I can just write one, one. Go. X k is equal to u to the power alpha k. Okay.
00:08:45.224 - 00:09:22.194, Speaker A: Which I'm also going to write in a, in a special way because of this proof. So here for, because it's monoli, we are applying the monetization theorem to start with. And now I'm going to assume that it's really just combinatorial. There's no translations, there's no v plus psi. This is again, just to simplify the presentation notation. And I'm also going to write this as u one, alpha k one, which multiplies. Let's put here a one hat.
00:09:22.194 - 00:09:42.574, Speaker A: So all of the terms besides the u one. Sorry. And here let's put bk. Okay, we're going to just write like this. So these are the terms of u, which does not appear u one. So I'm just taking away u one and all of the bk's. So alpha k is equal to alpha k one bk.
00:09:42.574 - 00:12:13.234, Speaker A: So this is just to simplify annotation. Now how from this kind of situation, which is more or less the general case, do we get identity? So first of all, say the step one here, apart from power substitutions in the source and target, we may assume that alpha k one belongs to zero or one or k equals to one up until m, right? So this does not look very complicated. What one needs to do first of all is we want to take the power substitutions in the target where xk is where the. So let me just write this. So we want to take the power substitution that does essentially this equals to its one. So this power substitution, we expected to make the alpha k here, the alpha k one to become equal to one. But we have the part of the bk to take care of, right? So we actually need to also make power substitutions in the source because otherwise we don't know if these bks are divisible by each one of the ek wants, right? So we also need to make power substitutions of the form UK Q the opposite UK that is sent to UK to the power Alpha K one.
00:12:13.234 - 00:12:37.194, Speaker A: Maybe k is not a good letter. It's confusing. Let's use j u j alpha k one four. So here for k equals two. Good point. So here's for j from true. Again, I have an here.
00:12:37.194 - 00:14:22.414, Speaker A: Well j from true to m. And here we're going to only take the case in one to m such that of course alpha k one is different from zero. Now after this true change of coordinates, we may as well suppose that the step one is saying that the alpha k one is either zero or one. Now the step two we're gonna take, let g be the terms, the subset of one to m be the subset of terms with alpha j one different from zero or change. So it's characterized by this. Now what we can do is that we may suppose, we may assume that the beta j's are ordered for j and j. So what can we assume? This, or we're basically saying that, say that the first one is one.
00:14:22.414 - 00:15:46.984, Speaker A: We're saying that essentially we can assume then either one to the b one divides u one, b two, or the opposite. We're going to have one term which divides the other and divides all of them. And this, in order to get this, we apply local combinatorial resolution of similarities to make it combinatorial resolution of singularities to the ideal given by u one. Here, bj for the j and j. Once you have this, you're going to have that. One of them is going to be the minimal one and therefore it's going to divide all of the others. So in here, I'm also using, I'm using here the fact that the actual proof of this result is an induction in the number of exceptional components.
00:15:46.984 - 00:16:30.974, Speaker A: You. So I'm assuming something kind of strong here, that is that we are always in this, in this case that we have maximum number of exceptional devices. But I'm also claiming that this is just because to simplify notation. So I'm still going to make the induction in terms of the number of the exceptional divisors in order to say that, well, either they're going to be all ordered, well, they are going to be all ordered in any case. But in any other point, we can just apply induction by the number of exceptional divisors that is passing through the point. And we might as well just consider points where the, where there's no v, there's no translation being done. That's what I'm using here.
00:16:30.974 - 00:18:00.644, Speaker A: Now, step three, we blow up apart from making the blow. Okay, so apart from a blowing up. Now let me not write a part, let me just write what you do. We blow up with center c given by the x j equal to zero for j in j. And what happens when you do this is, that's why we order the BJ's, so that now one of them is going to dominate all of the others. So this is going to be a well defined division and we will obtain, but all of the other u one s are going to divide and what's going to be left is just one of them is going to be one, meaning that x one is equal to u one, beta one, and all of the others are just going to be like this. Finally, once we have this situation here, we may apply induction on the dimension over the entries xk.
00:18:00.644 - 00:19:21.604, Speaker A: We apply induction on the dimension of the theorem that we are trying to prove. Oops, I forgot to write step four. Mention we get that x one is still equal to u one, some term that we don't control. But now xk is equal to uk or k equals to two m. And now the step five is just to blow up again the target. We blow up per dimension true centers. So all centers of the form x one x k to obtain finally, x one equals to u one x k equals to uk for k equals to two into two n in order to get the identity as we promised.
00:19:21.604 - 00:19:56.614, Speaker A: So this is the first result. And you see that it's a very combinatorial proof. And as a matter of fact, I wanted to do this proof just to point this out. That is actually like very similar to the arguments that we did when we did local resolution of similarities. And we talked about the combinatorial case. So we can, once we have one of the morphes, we can use this kind of arguments to simplify things in a certain way. The morph is the normal form.
00:19:56.614 - 00:20:53.494, Speaker A: Even more now we're going to use this result, talk about something else. And the second part is going to be q, sub quad analytic functions. So let me start with an example here. Now let me start with definition. A function f from n to r is q, sub quad analytic. This is the object that we're going to talk about if the graph is true quad analytic. This is the definition that we're going to use.
00:20:53.494 - 00:21:42.500, Speaker A: And the example that I want to give is a very simple example, just to show very classical true, just to show that sub quas analytic functions are not necessarily quas analytic, but also to exemplify what we can try to do with it, which is the case of f is equal to x to the power three divided by x squared plus y square, which is a thing which is a continuous. This is a continuous function, which is not, say, infinity. Therefore, it's not going to be quite analytic. It's not analytic. This is going to be analytic. But I claim that this is a super analytic function. And the way to see this, one easy way to see this is by making a boiling up.
00:21:42.500 - 00:22:34.154, Speaker A: So consider the blowing up of the origin that is connected with what we're going to do. And I don't need the visors for this algorithm. Okay. Okay. We consider the blowing up of the origin, and then we're going to have two charts. X equals two, u, y equals to uv. In this case, if we compose in this chart, we get u divided by one plus v squared.
00:22:34.154 - 00:24:19.874, Speaker A: This is analytic. And if we consider the other chart, say x equals to uv, y equals u, then f composed with PI in this chart is going to give us u to the third v, one plus v squared. This is again analytical. So this function here, which was continuous, once we blow up, it becomes an analytic function. And I can make a claim here which is going to be more generally more useful for us. So let f from our useful into our be a function and tow like the blowing up be a proper eumorphism and go into a little bit more such that as composed with tau belongs to q, then f is q still quad analytical. In particular, this claim, since we did a blowing up, it's telling that f is just super analytic, right by the plane that we are making.
00:24:19.874 - 00:25:18.084, Speaker A: And the proof of the claim is very simple. It's just actually a remark about the sets of the graphs. But I just want to make here the idea. So the idea is to consist of the sketch. It is to consider the morph tau bar here that goes from n two dot times r to n times r, given by, well, essentially just tau times the identity. And now we want to see that the graph of f is going to be the projection of this graph of f composite with tau. So the first thing is that, note that the graph of f composite with tau is like you, set and is proper.
00:25:18.084 - 00:25:45.144, Speaker A: Tau was proper. So tau times identity is going to be proper. And now we just need to look at what is the image of tau bar of the set. Altila. Sorry. Of this set. This is going to be, yes, correct.
00:25:45.144 - 00:26:36.974, Speaker A: Of the set y f tau y y, which belongs to n tilde. And this is just gonna give us tau y f composed with tau y. I should have said covering. I'm gonna add this, sorry about this. Y in antiloga, which is in here, I'm gonna use it as a covering, going to be equal to f f of x in n, which is the graph of fucking. So here we need to add, there'd be a proper covering to morphism. Sorry about this.
00:26:36.974 - 00:27:16.406, Speaker A: So in here, we are using the covering, and we get that it's equal to the, to the graph of f. So once we get that, we get automatically that f is q sub quas analytic. Its graph is the projection by a proper morpheus of a q set. Therefore it's cosmetic. Now this general, of course, this example here shows and gives us some idea that, okay, maybe if we just compose by enough points up, we are getting something which is quite analytic. And as a matter of fact, well, you need something a little bit more general. And I'm just going to leave here.
00:27:16.406 - 00:28:09.378, Speaker A: It's example true. We folks arguing if we just consider f of x equals to the model of x, consider power substitutions up, are not going to give us the result. But if you just consider power substitutions, then you're going to get the result. And therefore, the best theorem that we can expect in some sense by these two examples is that maybe even here we show that if there is this proper q Morpheus, then the composition, then f, such that the composition is quasanalytic, then f was originally sub quas analytic. We can try to prove the opposite, that if f is q also because analytic, then there exists this spell. And example one. And example two is showing that probably we need to consider blowing up n power substitutions.
00:28:09.378 - 00:29:42.438, Speaker A: And the theorem that I want to prove now is to give an idea of the proof, not the proof. It's a simple result. So I'm either going to give it a name of two quad analytic functions. Let f and to r be continuous. Note that we didn't ask continuous here, but now we are asking. Then we say that f is q two quadrinolytic if and only if there exists a problem that exists a proper semi, not a proper semi proper, hovering lambda from n lambda to n. And I'll click where the problem.
00:29:42.438 - 00:31:03.084, Speaker A: There are compositions of local bones up and power substitutions search that get something in the class. So, just a remarkable history of this kind of characterization. So this characterization goes back in the analytic case, in the super analytic case goes back to work of Gersten and, and independently of Palaczynski, which appeared. Palazzinski appeared one year after, but more or less at the same time, the proof is a bit different. And so it was for the case of sub analytic functions on the beginning of the nineties. And this result was proved in this setting already by Tamara and Serbi, Mahola and Selvi in 2015. And here we give a new proof of this result with the monetization theorem.
00:31:03.084 - 00:31:44.344, Speaker A: So, let me write the proof. But one of the. Okay, so let me just state this. This side is an exercise. You just need to apply a lemma that we used in a previous lecture that said that any semi proper covering you can transform into a proper covering and then apply the claim. So that's really an exercise just to remember that lemma. And then the other side, which is more interesting.
00:31:44.344 - 00:33:31.540, Speaker A: Yes, the interesting one. So, since f is zero, gamma, f is closed, there's going to be a closed quasi analytic set. So we may apply the uniformization theorem. By the formization theorem, there exists a quad analytic function proper from m to n times r, a proper fluomorphism such that c of m is equal to the graph of f, and the dimension of m is equal to the dimension of the graph, which is equal to the dimension of m. So now let's make a little remark. We're going to consider, so we're going to consider, considering phi is going to be the composition of the projection up until n with psi, right? We're just naming here the projectant to n type c n. Note that f compositive with PI is equal just because of the definition which is given here, and the fact that c of m is equal to the graph.
00:33:31.540 - 00:34:09.124, Speaker A: So it's going to be equal actually with the projection to the real line of psi. And this is the composition of quad analytic functions. So we know that this composition is quasionally. This is an important remark that we're making. We already know that if we compose with this phi as given here, we're going to obtain something quasi analytic. Now, moreover, this phi here is going to be a morphism from m to nice, which is a covering of m, and both of them have the same dimension. So the generic rank of it is maximum is equal to the dimension of m.
00:34:09.124 - 00:35:43.576, Speaker A: Since phi is a covering of n, the generic rank of phi is m. We may apply the first result of today by the first result theorem apply to high. All right, there exists a commutative diagram. So here is going to have rm or n. I'm just going to wrote like this. And here I'm just going to note identity to recall that this was just identity was not even monomial, which makes it commute right, where sigma, lambda and lambda satisfy one and two. And now we are pretty much done because note that f composite with y, which we know is quasanalytic.
00:35:43.576 - 00:36:35.616, Speaker A: So if we compose with sigma, lambda is still quasanalytic. This is also equal because it's diagram commute to f composer with aluminum. Do we know that this one is quasi analytic? We get a result. We get that f composable tau lambda is quasanalytic. This was the result that we wanted. Now, as a last result in this following this kind of systematic approach, when here we talk about sup cause analytic functions. And I want to present to you as an example, which I'm not going to prove, but I'm going to use it later on an important case of a sub quad analytic function.
00:36:35.616 - 00:37:42.604, Speaker A: So something that plays a role and it's quite useful to use later on. So an example that is a form. Maybe I should write it as a theorem. Actually, yes, I'm going to write it as a theorem theorem and I'm going to do it in a so that, let me write it containing rn via q subcause analytic. I'm going to do it over rn just because this way I'm not going to prove it, so I can stay in the most general case. So I'm just going to do it in our end, just so that we don't have the, to define what a metric in a, in general, what would be a quasi analytic metric in a general manifold. And here we can use the Euclidean metric.
00:37:42.604 - 00:38:55.420, Speaker A: So we're going to consider the function, the distance function for dx of little red, which is equal to the distance of x of z into the set x, and we even take n square. In the euclidean topology, e is q. So I'm not going to prove this result, but let me just say a couple of words about the proof of it. So this is kind of an important result. It's going to have a nice application for us just now. But its proof is based on the fiber cutting lemma that we talked about in the fourth lecture. So if I had maybe more time, I would have proven the fiber cutting.
00:38:55.420 - 00:40:19.096, Speaker A: Lemon presented some of its applications. One of them is this result. This result is actually equivalent with the complement theorem that says that if you have a sub quasanalytic set, then its complement is also sub quasanalytic. And maybe the last word that I want to say is that the fiber cutting lemma is one of the techniques that have a very good synergy with resolution of singularities, at lETH Classically. There are many, many results which we can prove by using both of them together. We're going to see one of them, if I have time in the end of this lecture here, another one, the theorem that I want to present, the last one that I want to present as a consequence of the direct consequence of this result, that the distance is chose to quadratic now and the monetization theorem is rectangularization. So let x be a two through quasanalytic set, and suppose that the dimension of m is equal to n.
00:40:19.096 - 00:42:33.814, Speaker A: We're essentially going to suppose it's rn like the result I'm going to state here is going to be local in. Let me just state the result. There exists accountable and semi property hovering of the form par lambda to n where each one of these n lambda is going to be isomorphic and it's going to appear in the statement here to Rn Lambda of class. Of course, a register lambda is a finite composition of local blinds up and power substitutions such that the prime of x is a union of opponent omer n lambda and the proof of this result, or the sketch of the proof. Yeah, let's sketch because let's make the simplifying assumption. Suppose that X is closed. Like if it's not, you're going to make it into a difference of two or excess and end of constant dimension and of constant dimension.
00:42:33.814 - 00:44:45.534, Speaker A: Again, if it's not the case, you can, you can structify work one one case by one term by one one stratified equidimensional part at a time and worked with its closure and everything. I just, I didn't talk enough about subcuas analytic sets to give you full details, but it's essentially the same thing as we do in super analytic geometry. We can reduce to this case, and then once we have this, we consider the distance function dx and we are going to apply, we apply the second theorem of today for the characterization of two quasanalytic functions and local resolution of singularities. So with the charisation of q sub analytic functions, we know that the pullback of d dx is going to be aquas analytic function. And by resolution of singularities we know that the pullback of this is actually going to be a monomial. In order to obtain any proper covering the amorphisms laming the two n such that d of x composed with cow lambda is monomial. Now you see that the point for the distance is going to be zero.
00:44:45.534 - 00:46:33.684, Speaker A: It's going to be related to the point where this guy is actually zero. So there's a little bit of the union of rn lambda finish. So in the last four minutes I did this one a little bit fast, because in the last four minutes I just wanted to connect this with the definable case. We are talking a lot about sub quasi analytic and the topic of the, of the, of the symmetries also tame geometry. There's a lot of courses about ominology. So I wanted to make the connection of this, like how people connect this kind of result with the study of definable sets. So I just wanted to present in a quick way, unfortunately, two theorems which I feel like are quite important here, which is first, denote by RQ the expansion of the real field by restricted few functions.
00:46:33.684 - 00:47:45.534, Speaker A: So I'm not going to give the details, because I want to really just say the theorems. Like I wanted to give more details, but I don't want to. So if we consider this expansion, which maybe by, by other courses, you already know what it is, then there's a theorem, roll line. Spiesiger and Wilkey, we're going to tell you that RQ is minimal, polynomially bounded, model complete, and admits. So for those that are following Garrett's course, you know what it is. Composition. Yeah.
00:47:45.534 - 00:48:50.694, Speaker A: And maybe just like a comment about their proof, the proof of this result is really based on local resolution of singularities and the fiber cut in lemma. It's really a synergy between the two. Like with the fiber cutting lemma, you prove that the result about the complement, then you use with resolution singularities. You have very nice descriptions of your sets, and then from there, to show that it's so minimal, that's the last part of the proof. There's, of course, work to do. But I'm just saying that these two techniques play a very important role. And another result here that I wanted to state here is that the expansion of the structure Rq, the language.
00:48:50.694 - 00:50:12.580, Speaker A: So the language of function is q union with the division. So the division, we may think is local, bones up, and with power substitutions, admits quantifier elimination. And one of the important ingredients of the proof of this result, or a very important technical ingredient of the proof of this result, is the characterization of q sub cause analytic functions that we are giving here. So with this result, we can, and combine with their methods, of course, we can also give another proof, different proof of this result via the monetization theorem, combining with what they have developed in their own paper. Maybe, I wanted to say maybe a couple of words, but it's already sick. So I'm going to stop here, maybe just to say that. No, I'm going to stop, which is related to.
00:50:12.580 - 00:50:29.884, Speaker A: I was going to talk a little bit about the relationship with the reutonization theorem, but let's just stop here for now. So, thanks a lot, everyone. See you all on Friday when we are going to discuss the proof of the monetization result. Thank you, Andre. Thank you. Stop the recording. Thank you.
