00:00:00.800 - 00:00:38.734, Speaker A: The Starknet foundation announced the provisions program during which the stark token will be distributed to nearly 1.3 million addresses. Now let's find out if you are eligible. Head to the provisions portal in the description of this video and be extremely careful to only follow the official URL. There are a lot of scammers out there, especially in the comments section, so beware. Once you've arrived on the website, you can scroll down to read up on the different eligibility types to check your eligibility, scroll down a bit further. Now, depending on your eligibility criteria, youll have to connect either your wallet or account.
00:00:38.734 - 00:01:42.218, Speaker A: So lets start with Starknet users and ECMP recipients here. You can connect your Argent or Braavos wallet by using your browser extensions or you can paste your wallet address here. Also, please be aware that the mobile version of Argent is not compatible with this port. Argent mobile users can visit this portal through the in app browser in the Argent app and follow the steps there. Moving on to Starkx users, you can sign in with Sorare and Rhinofi using your account credentials for immutable X or Dydx. You can use your wallet if you're an Ethereum staker or protocol guild member, simply connect your wallet from this list here or manually paste your wallet address in this field. Quick Disclaimer if you staked via staking pools and providers such as Lido, Binance and Kraken, you will not be able to claim directly through the portal.
00:01:42.218 - 00:02:19.184, Speaker A: Your provider will claim the allocated stark and distribute it to its stakers. Last but not least, Starknet, Ethereum and open source developers can use their GitHub account by signing in or entering their username just like this. Then, after adding your wallet or account according to the eligibility criteria, click go to see if you're eligible for this allocation round. Click on see allocation to get an overview of your allocation and next steps. You can share this milestone on x and be sure to stay tuned for a tutorial on how to claim your tokens. Alright, take care. Bye.
