00:00:20.560 - 00:00:52.588, Speaker A: Excited to talk to everybody today about crypto startups. So to start off, I just want to make an analogy here. Back in the late ninety s, people got really excited about a new thing, the.com startups. And today I think we're at the precipice of a new trend that's very similar and just going to be just as impactful, if not more, the crypto startup. And so if you look back at the late ninety s here, as the Internet was just getting going, there was this surge of investment activity which resulted in this big.com boom and eventually bust.
00:00:52.588 - 00:01:51.460, Speaker A: And over the coming 20 years, really, we slowly saw the reality of what everybody hoped was going to happen in the late 90s come to fruition, to the point where many of the top most valuable companies in the world today came out of that era, Amazon, Facebook and Google. And I think what's happening now is we're at the very beginning of a similar phase for a new type of startup called a crypto startup. Instead of being based on another global decentralized protocol, basically TCPIP, which was good for sharing information globally, it's going to be based on a new decentralized global protocol, bitcoin, on all the cryptocurrencies that have come along with it, which is for sharing value instead of sharing information. So I think in 2018, 2017 time frame, we saw that similar bubble, just like we saw with the.com in 2001. And we're now at the very beginning of that phase of these really big, most valuable companies in the world. They're going to be built on this new decentralized protocol.
00:01:51.460 - 00:02:42.324, Speaker A: All right, so today we're going to cover a handful of things. Let's talk about what actually is a crypto startup. We're going to talk about some of the advantages and disadvantages that they have over traditional startups. We're going to talk about some of the legal challenges because there's a lot of legal uncertainty out there with all these things people are trying to create. And I'll go through an actual case study of a specific crypto startup that's being built now called Research Hub, and then hopefully at the end we can open it up to any questions? Okay, so what is a crypto startup? Well, for me, it's really any startup that is going to use cryptocurrency to either raise money, acquire their early customers, or to build a global audience. And it turns out these are actually three really big problems in traditional startups. A lot of traditional startups actually die encountering one of these problems.
00:02:42.324 - 00:03:23.684, Speaker A: And I think crypto offers a unique and novel solution to each of these, which we're going to talk about. So for raising know, it's really difficult to raise money even if you're in Silicon Valley. But imagine if you don't live in Silicon Valley and you're a normal person, you don't know any angel investors, you don't know any venture capitalists. I remember I went to school in Houston, Texas, and I went out and tried to raise a little bit of money for my early startup idea in college. And the only people in Houston, they'd made all their money in oil and gas or in healthcare, they didn't know what my crazy new Internet startup was doing. They didn't want to write me any checks. And imagine if you're a poor kid, some in the world who doesn't have access to this.
00:03:23.684 - 00:04:11.664, Speaker A: So crypto really has the potential to kind of democratize fundraising and make it available. This alone could actually probably increase the number of startups in the world by an order of magnitude, which would be really good for the world, I guess. One other point I'll make quickly is that a lot of startups, they're contrarian by nature, right? If it was obvious that it was such a good idea, somebody would have already done it. And so you need people who are willing to take a bet on something that's early and probably contrarian. Even Coinbase, which I tried to raise money for in Silicon Valley during my seed round, I tried to raise a million dollars and I could only get 600k, barely. And it was from a couple of angels, it was like people who'd made money at Google and wealthy individuals. A lot of the vcs I talked to at that time, this was like 2012.
00:04:11.664 - 00:05:43.240, Speaker A: They're like, I don't know what this bitcoin thing is, it sounds like scam. So it was really hard to raise money, and even for me in Silicon Valley, and I think it's just ten hundred times harder if you're not here. So the other big problem that startups run into is acquiring their early customers, right? And I think crypto offers some unique advantages here as well. Sometimes we call this the cold start problem, especially if you're a startup that has some kind of a network effect to it, like it's a marketplace or it has some kind of community aspect, like Reddit, or it needs user generated content like YouTube or Twitter or social media. It's really hard to get those early users on your product or even Airbnb or Uber, right, where these marketplaces and so what we often do in startups is we try to get early people to come join our company and we give them stock options to join this crazy new thing. I mean, how cool would that be if we could actually give a little piece of ownership to the early customers who came and helped us build that early community on the, you know, if this was Uber being created again, it's like the early drivers on Uber who signed up when it was tiny, they would get a little bit of Uber token or something, maybe be able to participate in the upside or the early hosts on, you know, I think it's interesting to look at the way that traditional startups have done this just to give you a sense of how hard this problem is. Facebook, the story goes, I guess they hacked the mail servers or whatever at Harvard to blast out an email to everybody, or at Reddit, Steve Huffman, Alexis Sohaney.
00:05:43.240 - 00:06:36.604, Speaker A: And they were just cranking out the posts themselves at the beginning to try to get the first two or 310 people to come join these things. Airbnb, they were like going to the public parks to try to beg people, hey, will you sign up, list your home on our site, know, even scraping Craigslist ads. And so sometimes there's this clever feat or hack, literally in some senses, that has to happen to get these things off the ground. Without crypto, it's a small miracle whenever it does actually happen. And the other way that this happens is you have to piggyback on an existing network effect to get going, right? So PayPal, they managed to get their payment buttons put in people's eBay listings. And so that was like piggybacking off an existing thing or stack overflow. They had Joel Spolsky's blog readership, which was probably hundreds of thousands, and Y combinator had Paul Graham's essays, which were getting a lot of traffic.
00:06:36.604 - 00:07:22.224, Speaker A: So traditional startups have to solve this in some kind of really clever way, leveraging some existing thing. But a crypto startup, I think, can actually offer that token to the early customers to align incentives, just almost like if they were early employees joining the company. And then the last kind of thing that crypto startups can do here, I think, is they can help with international expansion. So it's very costly and difficult to expand internationally, both because of the payment integrations that you need to get working in each country, especially if you're a marketplace, you need to get pay ins and payouts working. But it's also different regulatory environments. You have to get local bank accounts open, you have to figure out exchanges to local currencies, which high exchange rates. Right.
00:07:22.224 - 00:08:11.020, Speaker A: And so it's almost like sometimes people, you have to build your product for iOS, Android and web, like multiple platforms. It's a lot of work. Well, expanding geographically is almost like having to build on 190 different platforms because each country has its own proprietary fiat currency. So crypto enables a global user base from day one. And if you look at companies like Uber, Airbnb, or even Coinbase, it's really amazing. We've spent millions and millions of dollars and many, many years trying to get each additional country live with the regulations and local bank accounts, local payment options that we integrate with one by one. And you even get funny things that happen because the Internet didn't have a native currency until recently.
00:08:11.020 - 00:09:05.888, Speaker A: Mechanical turk is a marketplace where they want to pay out the people who are doing these tasks somewhere in the world, often in developing countries, and the payout systems just don't work there. So they often get paid in Amazon credit. And these weird kind of like shadow economies have developed in some of these countries where people are trading around Amazon, store credit to buy food and go to these crazy links because they don't have a global currency that's native to the Internet. And then sites like Reddit and Stack Overflow, since they don't have these international currencies, they use what I refer to as like karma points, right? Fake points, where you just upvote something and it's not even really worth something. It's not like you're getting equity in the company or monetary value out of that. But people are doing it just kind of for the love of the game. So there's been all these kind of weird things people have had to do because the Internet didn't have a native currency previously, but now it does.
00:09:05.888 - 00:09:43.964, Speaker A: And so I think you'll see these marketplaces, these communities, come together in a way that's just faster than it's ever happened before, because now crypto startups can actually start to give real crypto tokens that has some real value to it, as opposed to just these fake Internet points. Okay, so these are the three things that are kind of unlocks for crypto startups. And I think it's just going to make it a lot easier for the next generation of startups to succeed over the next ten years. And it's sort of like when.com startups first came out, you had to sort of say, hey, we're a.com startup. And some of them even put like.com
00:09:43.964 - 00:10:32.888, Speaker A: at the end of their name. But eventually it's like every startup uses the Internet, right? It's hard to imagine going and pitching a Y combinator or something and saying we don't use the Internet. And now I think the same thing is going to happen with cryptocurrency, where in five or ten years, pretty much every startup that gets created, it's going to use the Internet, it's going to use AI, and it's also going to use some form of cryptocurrency somewhere in that product. So you could imagine a whole new wave of startups being built where every upvote like button, star, follower, et cetera, is powered by some underlying token, not some fake karma points. And the early customers who help build those products are actually going to be able to participate in the upside. So those are some of the advantages that crypto startups have to offer, but there's also some drawbacks. So there certainly is a lot of legal risk.
00:10:32.888 - 00:11:24.120, Speaker A: This is a new area where people are still trying to figure out how to work with securities laws. We're going to talk about that in a minute. And the developer tools around this are getting better, but they're still nascent about how you actually create these tokens, how you manage them, almost like instead of a cap table, you're managing a coin table and lockup periods, and all these things need to be developed. So just a quick disclaimer, I'm not a lawyer, so none of the things you're here today are legal advice. But Brian Brooks, who's also giving an a 16 Z crypto startup school talk, is a lawyer, so he'll cover a little bit more of this in detail, a little history on this. So I mentioned back in 2017, 2018, we saw the first wave of this, kind of like the.com boom bus cycle of 2001, and icos were the first version of that, or initial coin offerings, which sounds strangely like initial public offerings.
00:11:24.120 - 00:11:57.652, Speaker A: And I think this was largely not a good thing for the industry. A lot like the.com boom and bust, there was a lot of scammy stuff. There was a lot of people raising at crazy valuations who never actually ended up shipping a useful product. And so it was a bit of a setback. And recently we've seen people move to ieos, which are initial exchange offerings. It's kind of a slightly better, more mature version of this, still being run largely on unregulated exchanges that are abroad as opposed to in a regulated way in the United States, but more of a step in the right direction.
00:11:57.652 - 00:12:51.556, Speaker A: And then we've also seen something called SaaS, which are, instead of. It's a sort of a play on the word safe, which was a simple agreement for equity. Now it's a simple agreement for tokens. And we've seen some companies begin to try out this path as well. So a lot of this, when you're making a new token and you want to use it in some way inside your startup, you're oftentimes asking yourself this question like, am I making a security? Or is it something that's not a security, which people refer to as a utility token? And to figure that out, people were going and looking at this thing called the Howie test, which described what a security token was. They said it's a contract transaction or scheme, whereby a person invests his money in a common enterprise and is led to expect profits solely from the efforts of the promoter or third party. So that had a lot of pieces to it, which people broke down into these prongs.
00:12:51.556 - 00:13:36.228, Speaker A: I guess if it's a security you needed to have, somebody had to buy something. They had to be believing that there was a common enterprise. A group of people working on this, they had some expectation they were going to make more money in the future, and they were relying on other people to go and do this work. And this was just really difficult to understand. People went through and have been trying a lot of different ways to go figure out this fundraising problem. A lot of crypto startups still do more of the traditional route, which traditional equity raises with vcs and accredited investors. Some have gone and tried doing a saft, which is a new method, filecoin, orchid, and even telegram has most recently done it and run into a little bit of trouble with the SEC.
00:13:36.228 - 00:14:59.368, Speaker A: And so the SEC and that case that's happening now is actually kind of a landmark case where a lot of people in the industry are watching it and seeing is this a viable path forward, or can we make a couple of tweaks to the staff to do it in a way that could be a more viable, well paved road, if you will. And similarly, some other startups are doing what's called a reg, a offering, which is something that came through the Jobs act back around 2015 that lets you raise money from retail investors. So some block stack and you now are taking this approach. So again, I'll let Brian Brooks and his talk get into this a little bit more. But suffice to say, there's still a lot of innovation happening in this space. What the industry really needs to do, and hopefully we, along with everybody, can help this happen is create a well paved road that is tried and true for startups to go out there and raise a little bit of money, whether it's from accredited investors or through a reggae offering, and do it in a legal and responsible way. One good piece of news is that we have started to find a good solution to this problem, or this question of is it a security or is it not? And the way that we've done that is through something called the crypto rating council, which a number of businesses, crypto companies out there, have come together to form this consortium, and they actually look at a rating scale, and they have like a 36 point questionnaire, a legal analysis they'll go through on each coin and come back with a one to five score.
00:14:59.368 - 00:15:30.680, Speaker A: Five being very, very likely to be a security, one being very unlikely to be a security. And like many things, it's not a binary. It's actually a spectrum. And so you'll come back and get these scores on different crypto assets that are out there. So we'll talk about this in a minute. But to me, this has been a big unlock because it allows startups to actually, who are developing a token and writing a white paper to submit it to the crypto rating council to come get some feedback. Almost like the Motion Picture association of America will come back and say, hey, this is a pg 13 or our rating as you're getting ready to go to theaters.
00:15:30.680 - 00:16:15.732, Speaker A: Okay, so let's talk about, well, what do you actually need to go do? Maybe we'll break it down, and hopefully this will give people a way to go create more crypto startups in the world, because that's what I really want to see in the next five years is thousands of crypto startups to be created. So we're going to go through each of these steps. First, you're going to start off by incorporating, and for right now, you still need to incorporate. We recommend. If I were to do it today, I'd probably go create a Delaware C Corp, use something like stripe atlas, which makes the incorporation process a bit easier. There may be a version of this in the future that is actually incorporating in more like an online jurisdiction than a Dao, but I don't think those are quite ready yet. The next thing you're going to have to do is go out and actually fundraise.
00:16:15.732 - 00:16:55.200, Speaker A: So we talked about this a little bit, but you're going to have to figure out which securities offering makes sense for you. So maybe do it like a traditional startup would do. A safe, if you have access to regular accredited investors. If you want to try to raise from retail, you might be able to do a reg a offering. Honestly, this is probably still the most difficult piece, and we're hoping that in the coming months and years that the industry and Coinbase included can help sort of create a paved road for this. But this is still the most difficult part and we do have to say work with council. What you want to make sure you don't do is go raise a bunch of money from unaccredited investors.
00:16:55.200 - 00:17:36.950, Speaker A: Don't market your security to retail people and get yourself in trouble with the SEC. That'll put your startup at risk. Next thing you got to go do is actually build a good product. So this is what people in the ICO boom sort of forgot and there's really no shortcut on this step. Crypto startup can help you hopefully at some point raise money more easily, get your early customers, expand globally. But the hard thing in startups is you got to make something people want, and that's the part where you got to go actually and build your product, hopefully with a little bit of that seed capital that you've raised. But as you're building your product, you can now start to think about issuing your token to give some of these advantages around acquiring your early customers.
00:17:36.950 - 00:18:25.524, Speaker A: There's some tools out there. One of them is called Aragon, which I like. I think it has a pretty simple interface to create an ERC 20 token and set some of the parameters around it. And then of course you can submit your token to the crypto rating council to start to get, or the white paper around it to start to get their guidance about what that score on it might be. How likely is it to be a security? Next you're going to have to actually integrate your token into your app as you're building it. So it might look like Reddit, like up and down points that people are doing to earn stuff by contributing user generated content to your site, or it might be some kind of rewards program, or it might be some kind of governance that people are baking into your app. So there's many different ways that people are going to integrate these tokens, but that's the next step.
00:18:25.524 - 00:19:19.104, Speaker A: And then you're going to have to go out there and launch it. And then only once your product is live and customers are starting to use it, then I would think about actually submitting it to somewhere to actually get it listed on an exchange, somewhere like Coinbase or any exchange out there, because you're not going to want to try to list it until the functionality is actually out there, you've delivered what you said you would and a bunch of people are out there actually earning and really using the token. It's now live when you do want to go list it listing coinbase.com is a little page we've set up for asset issuers and startups to come get their token listed. But again, this is kind of like the last step in the process. All right, so I just want to run through a quick case study here and then I'll open it up for questions. So as I was learning more about this, I decided to go try to help this startup research hub get off the ground.
00:19:19.104 - 00:20:06.064, Speaker A: And there's about 2.5 million academic papers that are published every year, but people only read a couple of thousand of them that really matter. And there's kind of tons of papers, but it's difficult to prioritize and read them because they're not in plain English. And there's probably a version of the world where academic research looks more like GitHub or open source software. That's kind of the vision of research hub. So similar story went out, raised a little bit of seed capital, started building a v, one of this product which lets people submit papers, upvote them, have discussion forums, kind of like an online journal club. And there's a number of features here, just helping distill research into key parts.
00:20:06.064 - 00:20:58.420, Speaker A: And the users can kind of use a token behind the scenes research coin to they earn them every time they get an upvote for something that they submitted. And they also build reputation on the site, which helps them kind of do peer reviews and act as sort of an authority over time in helping curate this kind of research and make it more collaborative. So that coin got integrated into this product, hopefully in the next couple of months. So it's been submitted to the crypto rating council, hopefully in the next couple of months it'll come out live and help attract some of those early customers to research hub, help solve the cold start problem, if you will, to start getting more of that content and community coming and generating together. And of course those will be people from all over the world. Academic, scientific research is a very global phenomenon. It wouldn't make sense to use the currency of one particular country if we want collaboration to happen globally.
00:20:58.420 - 00:22:16.844, Speaker A: So that's an example of the kind of startup that I think could benefit from being a crypto startup. And I just want to say I think there's thousands of ideas like this out there. I mean, you could imagine any kind of startup where you're trying to build some kind of community, have some kind of a marketplace like you could imagine a lot of people are talking about news right now and the truthfulness of it, or what's the highest quality news sources. You could imagine a community coming around to form a product around that, or maybe collaborating to create music online where I'll do the vocals and you do the guitar track or whatever in some kind of collaborative environment, or reimagining the social media apps that are done. Basically had to use these ad based business models because the Internet didn't have a native currency. What if every upvote or like that you got on Twitter or Facebook or YouTube was real currency or some kind of equivalent like that that allowed you to participate in the upside of these startups or marketplaces, or maybe even Wi Fi access points that you wanted to incentivize a bunch of people to put out there in the world. So my hope is that many people will go take this talk, see some of these nascent tools that are coming together around fundraising and acquiring early customers and issuing tokens, and go use it to build that next generation of crypto startups over the next five or ten years.
00:22:16.844 - 00:22:38.820, Speaker A: And if you're interested in pursuing one of these, we put a link here where we'd love to collect a little bit of information from people. We're trying to think about how we can be helpful in the ecosystem to get more and more startups like this launched. So you can check out that link if you want to get more information and updates. So with that, let's open it up to questions and I hope you found the talk useful.
00:22:40.360 - 00:22:47.270, Speaker B: Sweet. Thanks, Brian. We've been doing this virtual round of applause, so we'll get all, everyone clapping there. Thank you.
00:22:48.040 - 00:22:48.356, Speaker A: Cool.
00:22:48.378 - 00:23:23.884, Speaker B: So we have a bunch of questions coming in on the Q A channel, and guys, keep posting. We're going to go until, I think, until we run out of questions or until the top of the hour. So the first question is from Arya. And his question is, clearly, crypto helps align incentives for users and products and creates transparency to the system while providing individuals privacy. However, general consumer usage has just not taken off yet. So what do you think is the biggest blocker for adoption? Is it UI UX barriers to entry, or is it technical?
00:23:23.932 - 00:23:24.496, Speaker A: Or is it just.
00:23:24.518 - 00:23:26.150, Speaker B: There's not a killer app yet.
00:23:27.160 - 00:24:06.696, Speaker A: Yeah, so I think about this a lot as well. And again, I'll make an analogy to the Internet, right? So if you go back to 1998 and the Internet was there, it was just starting to become usable. So a lot of people were using dial up modems, right? There was no broadband. The web browser had just started to get good enough where there was security and privacy and cookies and HTML and CSS tags and even a little bit of Javascript was starting to be created. I forget the exact year that came out, but didn't really get popular, like with Ajax and all that, until maybe early 2000s. So it's very similar. The similarities are striking in crypto.
00:24:06.696 - 00:24:38.804, Speaker A: So I think one of the big things that needs to get solved is scalability. So it's kind of like going from dial up to broadband. Right now, the crypto blockchains, bitcoin can do about seven transactions per second, ethereum can do 25 /second but PayPal is doing 500 a second and visa is doing 4000 a second. So we need to get a couple of orders of magnitude improvement and scalability. There's a bunch of really great teams working on these next generation protocols in lightning network and L2 solutions. And so that's going to be like broadband as an unlock. The second one is volatility.
00:24:38.804 - 00:25:12.560, Speaker A: So crypto has generally been super volatile, which is great for people who want to trade as a speculative asset, but it's not great as a medium of exchange. And so luckily we're seeing stablecoins come out. I think that's another one of the big ones. And then the third one is exactly what you said. It's ux. If you look at the Internet early days, you had just IP addresses that you typed in, and we needed a human readable naming system, like domain names that resolve to IP addresses. And you're seeing that same thing in crypto today, where traditionally people were sending to bitcoin addresses, which are these kind of long things that look like passwords.
00:25:12.560 - 00:25:46.540, Speaker A: They're not human readable, but we're seeing things like the Ethereum name system and human readable names to send to, which I think is a huge unlock as well. And when I say ux, that's one example. But really everything about it, like the wallets, need to be much easier. Reputation systems, knowing the recipient you're sending to, is it a high quality recipient or not? So these are all, there's a technology called wallet link that we've worked on that allows you just to scan a QR and be signed into adapt. So there's things like that that are getting unlocked.
00:25:46.700 - 00:26:21.832, Speaker B: Totally, yeah. I think product design over the last 1015 years of web two services has learned so many sort of best practices that are just sort of starting to emerge in crypto today. And great product designers can apply their expertise, but there's a lot of new behaviors that need to be designed for. And I think getting up to speed is one of the big unlocks. Okay, next question is from Stefan. We've seen network effects give monopoly power to companies like Facebook. Crypto networks accrue value from network effects.
00:26:21.832 - 00:26:23.070, Speaker B: Why is this?
00:26:24.000 - 00:27:08.292, Speaker A: Hmm. Well, I'm not sure we're going to get rid of network effects with crypto. There's some really good books on this. The name of it is escaping me at the moment. But a lot of technology trends work like this. Look at, like, radio and the telegraph and television and the Internet is just kind of the latest example of that where you have some kind of new technology, there's a cambrian explosion of a whole bunch of ideas, and eventually industries kind of consolidate a little bit. You know, I think that is going to happen in crypto, but what's really important about it is that Coinbase is not like, look at visa, right? So the only company that can grant you access to the visa network is visa itself.
00:27:08.292 - 00:27:43.540, Speaker A: Whereas if you take an open protocol like SMTP for email, if you don't like Gmail anymore, you can move to Yahoo. Mail and outlook and all these other options. Right. So that interoperability, that forced interoperability, if you will, is actually a really big win for consumers because what it means is that it's going to keep all the players honest. They're not going to build too much of a proprietary system where you're locked into their network, and that's where you see the really bad behavior. So I think that's a big win as a global open standard for crypto.
00:27:44.920 - 00:27:48.840, Speaker B: By the way, I think the book that you mentioned, it's Tim Wu's master Switch, right?
00:27:48.990 - 00:27:50.970, Speaker A: Yes. Thank you for remembering that.
00:27:51.420 - 00:27:54.452, Speaker B: Yeah. Between open networks and closed networks.
00:27:54.516 - 00:27:55.656, Speaker A: Yeah. Great book.
00:27:55.838 - 00:28:59.630, Speaker B: And, yeah, just to add to one point that you're making, I think one thing that happened kind of recently, I think this past week, that I think gets to this question a little bit, is there's this blockchain, steam blockchain, and it was acquired by Justin sun and the Tron blockchain, which was interesting because first big, high profile case of M A of public networks, and that was announced a few weeks back. But what happened this week was a bunch of community members from the Steam community decided, hey, you know what? We don't want to go along with this acquisition. We want to continue on our own chain. They've all sort of grouped together and are now forking off of the sort of canonical, esteemed blockchain and creating their own. And so I think that's one other way in which these networks being open, sort of empower communities, maybe even in spite of network effects, or it allows the community to sort of respond and try to tackle the network effects that are at play. At play.
00:29:00.000 - 00:29:17.140, Speaker A: Yeah, I agree. That's a really good example of, well, it's both. What happens if you really decentralize ownership of your app, you're not in full control of it anymore. Right. So a bunch of people couldn't vote against you. You could lose control. But it also gives power, as you pointed out, like people can fork.
00:29:17.140 - 00:29:33.290, Speaker A: Balaji Srinavasan has a great talk from Y combinator startup school a long time ago called voice versus exit, and I would encourage everybody to watch that. And there is a lot of power. If there is an option to exit, your voice is amplified a lot in the network itself.
00:29:34.700 - 00:30:00.640, Speaker B: Okay, great. So next one is from James and Stefan. And he says, I think Coinbase is one of the few companies that have grown to the point that not every employee needs to know or care about the current crypto landscape. Maybe they're just focused on internal security, marketing or design. For example, how do you think about hiring and company culture to make sure that you're hiring the best people, whether they are crypto natives or not? And how do you keep culture at scale?
00:30:01.860 - 00:30:37.724, Speaker A: Yeah, it's a great question. We used to use this word at Coinbase, crypto native, but we actually switched and we started saying crypto forward. And it sounds like a simple semantics thing, but I think it actually matters because if you think about it, how many people were really crypto native? Satoshi was. And there was a bunch of people very early on. I was kind of early to crypto. I started looking at it in 2011, but I remember coming into there and thinking, oh my gosh, there's all these people who've been here since 2009 or something. I'm so late to the game.
00:30:37.724 - 00:31:07.560, Speaker A: So it's kind of an exclusionary thing. And for crypto to get to be used by 100 million and a billion people in the world, we need to have a lot more people come in. We can't have this moniker of like, oh, I was crypto native, or I was crypto og or something. So we like to use crypto forward, which just means I'm interested in crypto. I believe in the ethos of it. I want to see it grow in the future. And the other thing that we just, obviously, we hire based on other qualities that we look for at Coinbase.
00:31:07.560 - 00:31:30.140, Speaker A: Clear communication, positive energy, people who are optimistic about the future, people who are interested in continuous learning, like they're really curious instead of committed to being right, and they're humble and people who exhibit efficient execution. So those are the four values that we really look for and everybody that we hire to create some kind of consistency to the culture now that we have more than 1000 employees.
00:31:30.640 - 00:31:44.820, Speaker B: Cool. And of course, I think it's safe to assume a lot of those folks are coming in from other technology jobs. Right. I'm curious, maybe as a follow up question, do you have some sort of like, onboarding program that gets folks up to speed on crypto?
00:31:45.720 - 00:32:24.770, Speaker A: Yeah, we do. So we have an onboarding program for all employees that covers a whole bunch of things, including why we take security so seriously, how to make our products easier to use to get the next 100 million billion people. It goes through our company culture, our company values, sort of like the cadence of what you can expect, how to do remote meetings like this. And we also have separate onboardings for certain functions within the company, like engineering. We have a boot camp that most people go through where they just learn how we ship code and run tests and do security tests and things like that. So they hit the ground running and they can ship code from day one.
00:32:26.020 - 00:32:35.060, Speaker B: Great. Okay, next question is from Paul. He asks, do any crypto startups come to mind that have done a good job of attracting new users by rewarding them with a token?
00:32:36.840 - 00:32:56.440, Speaker A: So I think there's been a lot of early examples of this. I don't know if I would say that they're perfectly executed. Right. Steemit, I think, was a good idea. I think it didn't maybe hit the kind of critical mass that they were hoping for. And a lot of these things come down to execution. Right.
00:32:56.440 - 00:33:47.640, Speaker A: If you go back and look at the history of startups, there was probably ten or 20 companies that could have been YouTube, but YouTube ended up being the one that is YouTube today. I'd have to think more about that. Certainly the early, like bitcoin and ethereum and things like that were incredible at that. And there is kind of like the genius of bitcoin was that it was released anonymously with basically some working source code right there in the paper so people in the community could go implement it. And that sort of helped ensure that it was never considered to be a security because you weren't relying on the efforts of others. There was no other, it was just people all over the world were running their own node and it was completely decentralized. So I don't think that's a practical way to launch for most startups, which is why we need to think of this new path.
00:33:47.640 - 00:33:59.710, Speaker A: That's why I want to kind of help push this idea of let's go do a crypto startup in this new way, because I don't think it's actually been done super successfully to date. There's probably some examples I'll think of later.
00:34:00.400 - 00:34:30.170, Speaker B: Yeah, I think I would agree with what you said, which is I think the developer facing platforms, or those that started developer facing have done it best, bitcoin and ethereum being the most prominent examples. But I do think it's only a matter of time until again, maybe it's a product design issue or a problem space where sort of ownership of the product or service or network ends up being part of the product experience in a really intuitive way, as opposed to purely a fundraising event. Right. And we haven't really seen.
00:34:30.620 - 00:34:51.188, Speaker A: Yeah, that's right. I agree with that. And actually, I mean, the ones that really deserve mention here are some of the recent Defi apps like Compound and maker. I think those have seen a lot of success in the last year. There's real traction there and a lot of money flowing into it, and they've helped decentralize ownership of those coins.
00:34:51.304 - 00:35:06.180, Speaker B: Yeah, those are both great examples. Okay, cool. So the next one, also from Paul, what would have to be true for you to want to incorporate your next company digitally or in a crypto native way, rather than as a Delaware C Corp?
00:35:08.440 - 00:36:12.328, Speaker A: Yeah, that's a good. I actually, I'm very bullish on this vision behind dows long term. I do think the idea of a Delaware C Corp, even though it has such trust because it's been around for so long, is kind of an old fashioned idea on the Internet. Something should be inherently global from day one, right? So I very much believe in that vision of the Dao or Daos generally, and Aragon and apps like that have started to make it much, much easier. Now the question is, you still need to probably hire some people and they are going to live somewhere in the physical world, and so you need to make sure that you're following all the local laws around that and payroll taxes and things like that. So I think there could be today, I think we're still seeing, it's like Delaware C Corp is sort of the parent, if you will, and let's also make our product with a Dow that can kind of have some decentralized governance and whatnot. Or we're seeing people create these foundations in Switzerland or in Singapore, like jurisdictions that are really reaching out to be favorable towards crypto companies.
00:36:12.328 - 00:36:39.452, Speaker A: I think that's great. There could be a moment where that actually flips. And the parent, so to speak, is the Dow. And, well, the Dow is going to vote to put a little bit of a money into this subsidiary, which is the Delaware C Corp, that employs a few local people in the US. And by the way, we also have maybe some subs in other countries for a totally decentralized workforce or something like that. Or even better, maybe would be just not have that sub. And everybody gets paid in the token.
00:36:39.452 - 00:36:55.252, Speaker A: I mean, that's probably the direction that it's going longer term, but the regulatory environment is just so not set up to even contemplate something like that, that it's going to be a little. I'm. I'm super glad that companies are pushing the boundaries on.
00:36:55.306 - 00:37:14.220, Speaker B: So last week, actually, we had Robert Leschner from compound on, and we talked a bit about progressively decentralizing and how they're going through this right now. Right where they have the company, Delaware C Corp, US based, but they're starting to transition to a community owned network. So the DAO is going to become primary.
00:37:15.360 - 00:37:16.110, Speaker A: Yeah.
00:37:17.360 - 00:37:36.340, Speaker B: Okay, cool. Next question is from Luca, and it is USD's current primary use case is to bridge fiat and crypto. However, you're working with center to create this monetization layer for the web, which is this interoperable network of wallets that allows money to flow. Can you discuss the status of the project and its feature?
00:37:37.240 - 00:38:12.780, Speaker A: Yeah, sure. So center is one of the consortiums out there that's working on a stablecoin. We're a member of center, we're a member of Libra. We'd be open to looking at others. So just generally Coinbase wants to be supportive of any crypto token or project out there. We try to really remain agnostic since there's so many great projects out there. I think just aside, as an aside, there's too much tribalism right now in crypto where people are like, this thing is the one true religion versus this, and we all just need to kind of help each other out to grow this ecosystem, even if we have our own preferences.
00:38:12.780 - 00:38:41.192, Speaker A: So that's kind of an aside. So a status update on center. It's going pretty well. So today it's the second largest stablecoin by market cap. It's over 600 million. Now, the number one stablecoin by market cap is tether, by the way, which I think most people are aware has some kind of reputational challenges associated with it. So if you think of it that way, USDCoin is probably the most successful stablecoin out there today.
00:38:41.192 - 00:39:11.276, Speaker A: And it's very simple. It's just backed by a dollar in a us bank account. I'm also a big fan, by the way, of the more decentralized approaches to stablecoins like Dai, which we also have support for on Coinbase. I think in some ways that's actually a really elegant solution because it's more like bitcoin, it's totally decentralized. It's been really awesome to see. Even with all the volatility in crypto prices in the last few weeks, the stability of Dai has been pretty good. I think maybe it peaked at like a dollar six or something on Coinbase.
00:39:11.276 - 00:39:41.340, Speaker A: So it's actually been really stable despite all that. But yeah, center is in the process of adding more consortium members. In some ways it's kind of the opposite of Libra, because Libra has a bunch of amazing consortium members, but the Libra token is not out there live yet, and center has the token out there live. USDCOin, which has 600 million in market cap. It's very successful, but it only has a couple of consortium members. So we're looking to add more consortium members. And again, we're agnostic as to which of these ultimately get used by the community out there.
00:39:41.490 - 00:39:52.736, Speaker B: Yeah, but I would add, I think it's a really exciting on ramp in that you can sort of start to use crypto in a familiar currency, but then potentially transition to this world of new tokens that exist out there.
00:39:52.838 - 00:39:53.612, Speaker A: Agreed.
00:39:53.756 - 00:40:12.820, Speaker B: Cool. All right, so I think we have time for one more, and there's a ton more questions, but we'll try to get answers in the slack later on asynchronously. So this one's from Tina, and it is. How is product market fit for crypto startups different than web 2.0 startups?
00:40:15.080 - 00:40:56.640, Speaker A: Interesting question. I mean, my first reaction is I'm not sure it is different. The way I define product market fit for any startup, really, whether it's crypto or not, is are you seeing organic growth day over day or week over week without doing any kind of paid marketing or anything like that? And what I usually like to do when creating new products is you put your first version out there, it's not very good. Some people look at it and most of them churn out. And then you go talk to your customers, you see what feedback they're giving you, and you come improve the product. And you basically have to do this cycle where you talk to customers, improve the product, talk to customers, improve the product, and basically you just keep doing that cycle. Usually it takes years.
00:40:56.640 - 00:41:38.240, Speaker A: Honestly, most people try it for a couple of months and they give up, which never has helped any startup get off the ground, in my experience. So you have to do that for a long time, longer than you would think. And eventually, with those improvements and talking to your customers and iterating towards the right option, you'll hit a threshold of usability, where the number of people who come in every day, you'll retain some of them, and you'll see the number of active users start to go up instead of just being flat or down. So that's when you know you've got product market fit. And I don't think it's different in crypto. I mean, the only thing that might be different is what I talked about here in the talk, which is it can help you get those early people to come in. And even if the app is not perfect, but they believe in the vision of it or the potential of it, they can see the potential in it.
00:41:38.240 - 00:41:48.710, Speaker A: Even if part of the functionality is there today, they may stick around because they feel like they're helping build it with you and earning a little bit of the upside with you.
00:41:50.040 - 00:42:08.508, Speaker B: Right. Okay, great. Brian, it's top of the hour, and I know it's Friday, and so thank you again for joining us and for the presentation and for all the Q A. We'll let you go. Enjoy the rest of the know. Round of applause for Brian for joining us on this Friday, session five.
00:42:08.674 - 00:42:11.240, Speaker A: Thanks, Jesse, I appreciate it. Bye.
