00:00:00.160 - 00:00:47.254, Speaker A: So much for coming and thanks for the invite and happy to be here. So, yes, I will be here throughout the summer, but I'm excited to be here today to talk about some of our work that we've been doing in glioblastoma, particularly looking at the tumor microenvironment and how identifying potential new therapies using mathematical models. So if you're not familiar with glioblastoma, it is the most common common adult brain tumor. It is also very deadly. The median survival without treatment is three to four months. Because it's the late stage of a tumor, a brain tumor, it's stage four. But even with treatment, median survival is only 15 months.
00:00:47.254 - 00:01:51.814, Speaker A: There hasn't been, since the establishment of standard of care, there hasn't been any change in the past ten years in treatment modalities. And so this is why there are new treatments that are needed. Standard of care therapy for glioblastoma is a surgical resection followed by radiotherapy and chemotherapy. The problem is that the brain, though it is not entirely immunoprivileged, glioblastomas are highly immune invasive. There are a lot of immunotherapies that have been studied in glioblastoma, including immune checkpoint inhibitors, which I'll talk about today, and on clinic viruses, which I will also talk about today. But as you will see, they have not shown great promise, though the OB's, some have, and I'll talk about those. And so part of our work has been to try to use mathematical modeling and some virtual clinical trial approaches to identify new immunotherapeutic targets in glioblastoma.
00:01:51.814 - 00:02:32.090, Speaker A: If you're familiar with immune checkpoint inhibitors, this is just a bit of a background. Glioblastomas can escape immune pressure through the Pd one, Pd L1 axis, the PD one. We have two major checkpoints in cell immune checkpoints in the body or in general, that are used in treatments. The first is CTLA four, which is when t cells are presented through the antigen and they are primed. And the second is Pd L1. Sorry, I'll try to remember to use my pointer for those online, which is when microglia, but also this. Right.
00:02:32.090 - 00:03:21.988, Speaker A: The T cells test cells to see whether they are antigens or not. And presentation of PD one tells the T cell, don't eat meat, but immune check one inhibitors are used to break this PD one, PD L1 binding, telling the T cell that this is a foreign cell. Now, glioblastomas and other tumors have evolved under immune selective pressure to present PD one on the surface of their cells. And so therefore, this is why in PD one, pdl one inhibition or immune checkpoint blockade in solid tumors has been successful for a variety of different tumors. And you would think that it would also be. Oops. Successful in glioblastoma.
00:03:21.988 - 00:03:23.500, Speaker A: I'm sorry, I don't know how to get rid of this.
00:03:23.532 - 00:03:24.784, Speaker B: But for those.
00:03:25.684 - 00:03:52.262, Speaker A: You know what? It's here. There we go. So you would think that they would be. What was I. Oh, yeah, you would think that they could work in glioblastomas, because this is an IHC stain for PD one expression on glioblastomas, and you can see that the brown is the PD one. And there. Sorry, now I'm here, and there's a lot of PD one expression.
00:03:52.262 - 00:04:36.074, Speaker A: However, trials of immune checkpoint inhibition in glioblastoma have not shown efficacy. So you can see here on the right, the left, the Kaplan Meier curve of survival after navilivab, which is an immune checkpoint inhibitor. PD L, one inhibitor. So there were different arms in this trial. There were ICV with radiotherapy and ICV with radiotherapy and chemotherapy. So, standard of care, you can see there are a subset of patients here who did exhibit higher survival, but the majority did not. These patients actually turn out to be.
00:04:36.074 - 00:05:49.154, Speaker A: Have a type of methylation. And so this is like a separated group of patients who do derive a benefit from immune checkpoint blockade, but the majority of patients with glioblastoma do not. And you can see that actually, the ICI trials with or without TMZ, which is the major chemotherapy agent used to treat glioblastoma, have so far failed. And there has been no approval of a new checkpoint blockade for glioblastoma. And so the question is, can we use models? And here I'm going to talk about two different models of combination chemotherapy. So temozolomide, which is the main chemotherapy, like I said, an immune checkpoint blockade, to understand how the immune system interacts with glioblastoma and how the tumor microenvironment can contribute to or be used to increase increased success with immune checkpoint blockade. The first bit I will tell you about was work done by my postdoc, or my former postdoc, Annie Deep, who's now in Germany at Helmholtz, or one of Helmholtz, and he built an agent based model of chemotherapy plus immune checkpoint inhibition.
00:05:49.154 - 00:06:55.282, Speaker A: So this model is spatial. It has glioblastoma cells that can proliferate. They die through natural death or through induced death by t cells that are activated by antigen presentation and chemokine excretion, and their actions are improved by the use of immune check mark blockade. So, in the simulation domain, which you'll see in a second, we also include the infiltration of chemotherapy from the periphery through normal PKPD models, and the action of immune checkpoint blockade, temozolomide in inducing that killing by t cells. And the reason we use an agent based model in this project is because our collaborators have a large cohort of patients on which they have used immune checkpoint. Sorry, imaging mass cytometry. So, this is a new.
00:06:55.282 - 00:07:54.186, Speaker A: A fairly new way of looking at spatial slices that improves upon IHC. And IMC uses essentially, like magnets or, you know, like some sort of that, and can label up to 35 or 40 different signals. And so you get more colors than you would with IHC, which means you can look with better depth and you can be more specific about the type of cells you're looking at. So here are some examples from their recent paper in nature, where they looked at glioblastomas, brain metastases in the core, and brain metastases at the margins, and they labeled a variety of different cells. But you can see here you have different types of microglia. So m one types, or like M two, like, you have different types of t cells, but they can also look at t regulatory cells. They can look at t helper cells and cytotoxic T cells.
00:07:54.186 - 00:08:53.194, Speaker A: So you can really get into detail about where these cells are with respect to the domain. And on the bottom, you can see the difference expression of the different types of cells within each of these samples. These are per patient, and you can see that glioblastomas, in particular, are quite heterogeneous in the expression of different cells that they have in the space that these cells occupy. And we leverage these data to try and understand how these cells are attracted or repulsed from each other. Repulsed isn't the right word. So, the way we did this is by using pair correlation measures. And what this is a measure of is whether you expect clustering based on random diffusion.
00:08:53.194 - 00:09:49.760, Speaker A: So is it more or less diffuse than it would be randomly? So if you have a paired correlation measure of zero, then you have that. This would just be a normally diffusing type process, but if you have clustering, you'll have a paired correlation coefficient above zero. So a positive correlation. You can see here these structures, and you have segregated when you have a value under zero, and we're talking about paired correlation. So we're looking at either glioblastoma with glioblastoma cells, or t cells with t cells, or more particularly, t cells with cancer cells and their aggregation together. What Anudi did was he took a bunch of these IMC samples and he measured the pair correlations between t cells and cancer cells. Here are four representative patients.
00:09:49.760 - 00:10:39.790, Speaker A: You can see that, as I mentioned before, there's a lot of spatial heterogeneity. Some of them exhibit a lot of clustering of specific types of cells towards the middle and out towards the periphery, whereas some have virtually no clustering at all. We wondered what distinguishes these types of patients, and would the different spatial structures impact differently on the effects of immune checkpoint blockade? So, essentially, does the heterogeneity that is present in glioblastoma. And glioblastoma is known to be quite highly heterogeneous. Does that impact on the success of. Of the therapy? Because you would imagine, you can't really see them here, but there are these very, very small red cells there. Those are T cells.
00:10:39.790 - 00:11:04.048, Speaker A: You would imagine that if the T cells have a hard time not finding cells, but if there are clusters of glioblastoma cells have a hard time infiltrating into those clusters, that the effects of the immune check mark blockade would be less, because they are not able to get in there to actually, though the immune checkpoint blockade is there, the T cells aren't being brought into the area where they can be effective.
00:11:04.246 - 00:11:10.704, Speaker B: Their way to intervene externally from blustering.
00:11:14.044 - 00:11:58.832, Speaker A: Is there a way to. Not really, because what happens is the tumor is actually resected. You have tumor that's taken out, and then you have probably cells along the margins. And these cells are quite small, so we don't actually know where they might be. So you can't make an area more diffuse, as far as I know, or that wouldn't be the goal of what they're trying to do. I mean, I suppose you have some disruption because you're getting radiotherapy and chemotherapy, which will then kind of change the spatial makeup of it because you have apoptosis. That's happening from the chemotherapy, but not in a kind of predictive way.
00:11:58.928 - 00:12:13.974, Speaker B: Yeah, I think it would be difficult to predict, break up the oral exercise, but before the clustering happens, if I know that clustering is dangerous.
00:12:16.634 - 00:12:30.214, Speaker A: But this is a late stage. Yeah, it's a very late stage tumor. So by the time the patient is identified as having the tumor, this is already quite entrenched. It's the latest stage of a brain tumor that you can.
00:12:30.884 - 00:12:34.664, Speaker B: So you, Sean, when I showed up.
00:12:44.524 - 00:12:52.584, Speaker A: They're not all these arms. Yeah, they can have some, I guess. Yeah, they're plastic.
00:12:56.524 - 00:13:11.304, Speaker B: These tumors are so rapid, they blast on the multiformer. So within three months, the patient's dead. Yeah. Unfortunately, this is so's question.
00:13:16.404 - 00:13:56.854, Speaker A: Okay, so one way we could test this is by just ranking the patients. For example, if you look at cell fold increases of the tumor in each of these patients, just remember, a is most clustered, d is least clustered. You can see that patient a has the fastest growth under therapy because of just what I said. There's this clustering that kind of acts as a protective measure against T cell infiltration into the tumor. And so we wondered what we could do about this. I'm not going to go into all of the details. This paper is in the journal of.
00:13:56.854 - 00:14:51.614, Speaker A: It's in JPed, Pharmacology and Experimental therapeutics, I think. But our results really indicated that T cell infiltration is low in glioblastoma, which we knew. And the clustering, the spatial makeup of glioblastoma, has a heavy impact on whether treatment will be successful or not. One of the ways we validated this was that in those data, data that I showed earlier, there are, were also brain metastases. So they were long adenocarcinoma brain meds. And what we could find is that in brain meds, actually, ICIS work well. So it's not the fact that the brain is immunoprivileged, it's the spatial makeup of the glioblastoma itself, because brain metastases can be treated successfully with immune checkpoint inhibition, and it has to do with the degree to which they are clustered.
00:14:51.614 - 00:15:51.550, Speaker A: You can see that here, these two patients are two different patients who had glioblastomas, and they had a larger fold increase than those with brain meds, even though they had similar spatial or similar cell counts and these kinds of things. The impact or the take home from this paper was really that t cell infiltration is low in glioblastoma, and t cell action is inhibited by the spatial makeup of glioblastoma itself. So that kind of leaves us with the question, can we actually do anything to treat glioblastoma? It doesn't look like immune checkpoint inhibition will be quite very successful. Luckily, there are other types of immune immunotherapies, and one of them is an oncolytic virus. An oncolytic virus. The first western, or FDA approval was in 2015 to treat late stage melanoma. And just recently, there was an oncolytic virus that was approved against glioblastoma in Japan.
00:15:51.550 - 00:16:33.800, Speaker A: You can see here a representative patient who actually experiences shrinkage of their tumor. The g 47 delta is the oncolytic virus, and you can't see it on this screen, but on my screen, you can see IHC stains of the oncolytic virus killing these cells. I think the spots that you're seeing on the screen live are the cells that are dying. This is glioblastoma. It is now approved. It was approved off of a positive phase two trial. So I think that there are still trials ongoing.
00:16:33.800 - 00:17:06.074, Speaker A: But because glioblastoma is a serious disease, it was approved. We worked previously with a group at Brigham Women's in Boston, and looking at an HSV, one oncolytic virus, and this is also, I believe, an HSV virus, if I'm not mistaken, and it has also shown some efficacy. So this was work from my former postdoc, Adrian Jenner, who's now at Queensland University of Technology. And she. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So, yeah, she just. Yeah, she's doing great.
00:17:06.074 - 00:18:02.264, Speaker A: She also used an asian based model, actually the same one. She developed it to study oncolytic viruses against glioblastoma. Oncolytic viruses infect tumor cells. They lyse the cell, and because of the cell lysis, there's cytokine and emergency signals put out by the cell that then activate the immune system. So you get two for one, you get lysis and recurrent infection of neighboring cells, and you bring the immune system into the tumor or around the tumor cells for increased killing. Oncologic viruses, they preferentially infect tumor cells because they're made to infect specific receptors that are overexpressed on tumor cells. Within the tumor microenvironment, you have stromal cells, which can be a whole cluster of things.
00:18:02.264 - 00:19:05.264, Speaker A: And if the virus gets into those cells in our model, it doesn't replicate, then it's just a sink term for these. And I'm not going to talk too much about these results, but just to say that what we found is that this spatial structure, unsurprisingly, of glioblastoma, also impacts on how successful oncolytic viruses will be in treating them. The more clustering you have, unlike the previous story, the more clustering you have, the better these do, because when you have dense tissue and you can have these infections that are happening locally, then you can kill more cells. When you have very disparate and patchy tumors, then you have the oncolytic virus really has to go far to be able to find those tumor cells that they can infect with the agent based model. This is what we looked at. Here's a dense sample at the end of treatment, and you can't see it on this screen, but I'll circle it. These are the margins originally.
00:19:05.264 - 00:19:56.274, Speaker A: It can really infiltrate, whereas in a sparse sample, this is the margin, and you can see that there are a lot of cells that are remaining. These kind of purple cells on the screen are still live glioblastoma cells. And when you have patchy, which is really how glioblastoma look, which is on the far right, then where those are dense regions, you have clearance of the glioblastoma cells. We have an idea of why immune checkpoint blockade doesn't work in glioblastoma. We have some explanation for why on clinic viruses could work. And so we took this and put it all together. So this is work now from here to the end, from my PhD student, Blanche Montjal, who also gave me most of these slides.
00:19:56.274 - 00:20:57.806, Speaker A: So that's why they actually look very nice. And she took both of these models and put them together. So now you have all of the same things that I explained previously, but you have an ov plus the immune checkpoint inhibition put together. And some of her questions were, how do these. Is there a way to combine these therapies so that you would have increased t cell activation and immune check, which would benefit the immune checkpoint inhibitors, and also that oncolytic virus effect? The first thing she did was, as I showed you previously, she classified each of the patients in our cohort according to what we call immunogenicity. So, essentially the expression of immune cells in their domain. You can see here that all of them are classified according to, first, lymphocytes, CD four positive cells, CD eight cells, and then macrophages.
00:20:57.806 - 00:21:32.178, Speaker A: We identified three representative patients that are called the top one, two, and three who had the most cells, and three on the bottom that had the fewest. And those bottom people basically have no lymphocytes. You can see that even the top people have virtually no lymphocytes in their spatial domain. Again, reinforcing why immune checkpoint inhibition can be difficult. Here is what their spatial domains look like. You can see that you have. Well, you can see that there are increased.
00:21:32.178 - 00:22:05.396, Speaker A: So the yellow cells are the cancer cells and the green are macrophages. And keep that in mind, because that's where I'm going. I mean, I gave you that way in the title. But these patients at the bottom here have more t cells, though they are hard to see in both of these because they are very sparse. Then she simulated a variety of treatments. Just chemotherapy, just immune check mark blockade, just ovs, and then everything with the ov, because it's been shown to be effective. She ran these simulations over seven days.
00:22:05.396 - 00:22:46.184, Speaker A: She gave chemotherapy that is considered to be an oral administration. So there's an oral PK model for how the drug gets to the brain. She gave immunotherapy for 1 hour, which is what was done in clinical trials. And then she gives a single administration of the oncolytic virus at a dose of five pfus, for a total of 10,000 cells. And PFU is just a measure of how many plaques are formed after infection. Then she waited seven days, and she measures a variety of things. Here are the dynamics of these patients, these three patients over time.
00:22:46.184 - 00:23:35.688, Speaker A: You have the bottom three patients and the top three patients who I think these might be. Oh, yeah. So this is why. This is the whole point of this, who are either experiencing growth or complete remission. And we said to ourselves, these don't really make that much sense because the bottom ones are the ones who are getting the most benefit. And also, in seven days, there's absolutely no way that a non clutter virus like this can be killed. So then we wondered, is our model wrong? So is there something wrong with the model? And so what we did is we took, what we realized is the IMC samples are quite small because there's slices of resections or biopsies that are taken from patients.
00:23:35.688 - 00:24:18.120, Speaker A: So there are about 10,000 cells. And 10,000 cells is, like, undetectable. We're talking about ten to the six cells normally or more in. In a tumor. What we did is we built representative patients where we blew up the proportions of the cells. We took the top ten individuals and the bottom ten individuals looked at what proportion of lymphocytes, macrophages, cancer cells, stromal cells they had in their domain, and then represented that in a tumor domain with ten to the six cells. The bottom representative is representative of those bottom patients I showed you earlier, and the top of the top three patients.
00:24:18.120 - 00:25:24.076, Speaker A: Now we have a lot more cells. This is more realistic. And it turns out that our agent based model predictions depend on the initial number of cells. Though we still get this reversion here, which is fast. We now have that the bottom individuals don't respond better than the top individuals, which is what we know would happen, actually, on these patients. One of the takeaways from Bonansha's work was that though IMC is an amazing. It's amazing to have these kind of data for us, but you have to be quite careful about how you use them, because there are some peculiarities of the model that because of diffusion and how much space is being taken up by the cells, if you have not that many cells, everything's going to look like it's going to have some sort of effect because the ratio, or not the ratio, but because the spatial elements determine the efficacy of the immune interactions.
00:25:24.076 - 00:26:19.384, Speaker A: If there's not the correct density, essentially, then you're going to have some issues. What blanche then could look at is how well these virtual patients, we call them, or these representative patients do under each of the therapies. And unsurprisingly, everyone does pretty well if you give an oncolytic virus. So oncolytic viruses do look very promising for glioblastoma. Like I said, there's one approved. We have worked with people who are developing them, and it looks like there could be some efficacy for oncologic viruses with or without a standard of care, but probably they would be, um, used in conjunction with standard of care. Um, and then when we look a bit closer, this is like a very.
00:26:19.384 - 00:27:03.682, Speaker A: There's a lot of info, so I'll just try and summarize. But here are correlations. Um, so purple is a negative correlation, a perfectly negative, and green is a perfectly positive correlation between a bunch of different things. So how many cells initially were in your domain? What are the percentage of lymphocytes? How fast is your, do you grow under chemotherapy, et cetera, or all of the different treatments and a variety of different metrics. So the total initial cell count and all of these same things. And we wanted to know how. What really seems to be quite, or what have a lot of determinant of something that is targetable on treatment.
00:27:03.682 - 00:27:44.924, Speaker A: And it turns out that in the Ov case, the percentage of macrophages that you have is quite important. And macrophages, they're innate immune cells. They're mycoglia in glioblastoma, but they have. They're not similar to lymphocytes, but they have killing actions that make them that can. That can be used, like you might think of a lymphocyte. So Blanche is now working on, and I'll talk about this at the. For the rest of the talk, thinking about how macrophages interact with different treatments and within glioblastomas to impact on treatment success.
00:27:44.924 - 00:28:23.556, Speaker A: When we looked at the IMC data, I mentioned these m one like type and m two, like type. These are kind of really broad classifications, and not one cell is all m one or lm two. It's a gradient. But essentially m one s are tumor killing macrophages. And so they will. They are activated by interferon gamma, which is cytotoxic interferon by GMcSF, for example. They secrete Il six and Il twelve, and they have properties of immune activation.
00:28:23.556 - 00:28:55.304, Speaker A: They're antitumoral and they're pro inflammatory. So they. When you're thinking about tissue injury, m two or m two likes cells are immune suppressive. They are pro tumoral when they're within a tumor, which is why they can be problematic. They secrete things like VEGF and TGF beta and are activated by a variety of interleukins. And so you can see why I was talking a little bit about lymphocytic type properties. In some respect.
00:28:55.304 - 00:29:42.416, Speaker A: What Blanche has done, which looks not as nice as it does on the screen, is to build now a more standard ode type model of all of these interactions. So you have glioblastoma cells that can die through the impact of m one. So those antitumoral macrophages, m one and m two, can switch between these types, m two. Both of these come from resident macrophages within the brain. They have T cell. They can impact on T cell action, so they can inhibit T cells or promote T cell activation. M one s can kill the cells through phagocytosis.
00:29:42.416 - 00:30:28.466, Speaker A: And then she also integrated radiotherapy, chemotherapy and immune checkpoint blockade into this model. And she simulates resection at the beginning. So we really have now a model of the entire treatment cascade of glioblastoma with the major players. There are obviously things missing here, but major players that are impacting on tumor growth and tumor efficacy. What she can do is simulate a real treatment course. She looked at what was done in clinical trials. What's done is there's a diagnosis at some general size, and then there's a resection 21 days later, which is the average time to resection or, sorry, this total thing is 21.
00:30:28.466 - 00:31:09.954, Speaker A: So within 21 days there's a resection. Then there's radiotherapy and chemotherapy that are cycled over zero to six weeks. Then there's a four week break, and then chemotherapy is given on monthly cycles. And this is an oral drug, so we represent the absorption from the oral compartment and then it's transferred into the CSF, and then immunotherapy is given in doses of 200 every two weeks. And there are eight doses that are given. So she simulates this entire cascade. And what she finds is that immune checkpoint inhibition does activate the T cells, so it does do what you want.
00:31:09.954 - 00:31:52.754, Speaker A: However, there just aren't enough T cells around, which is what we were talking about before, or where they are is not effective. And you can see here that there's virtually. So this dashed line is basically the largest tumor, that this is a fatal tumor size. And you can see that the difference between standard of care and standard care plus ICI is virtually nil, which is exactly what I showed you earlier in the Kaplan Meier plots. Just looked at it a different way. However, if you vary the ratio of m two to m one macrophages, here you have all m one cells. Here you have all m two in purple, and the green is the average ratio.
00:31:52.754 - 00:32:35.888, Speaker A: So you see that there are more m two than there are m one. If you can decrease the number of m two s, you do get a big difference in survival time. So this is suggestive that macrophages are a target for glioblastoma therapy. What Blanche has done is something that we've worked on with Kathleen is to look at using a virtual clinical trial to understand the standard of care plus ICI failure, and also to understand macrophage therapy. The way she does this is we have this disease, which is, in this case, glioblastoma. We have the model, which is the model that I've just shown you. And we have a variety of data sources, including our IMC data, that provide us with ranges on these parameters.
00:32:35.888 - 00:33:57.384, Speaker A: And so we can sample from these ranges, create identical cohorts of virtual patients, and look at alternative therapy schedules or alternative therapies to try and understand who benefits from patients, why are patients failing or what leads to failures, and how can we implement something that will be successful in the clinic. So Blanche varied a variety of parameters, some related to the TMZ pharmacokinetics. Because we have population pharmacokinetic models, we know that there are inter individual variability in the pk, but also significant parameters identified through a global sensitivity analysis. In her model, the rate of growth of the glioblastoma, how well the tumor cells are, how antigenic the tumor cells are, and the initial m two percentage. What you can see is that you do get a variety of differences in these parameters. These are violin plots showing patients with the highest or the lowest response in purple and green, and the distribution of these parameters around the population in purple. Here is the worst response, because that's most m two like.
00:33:57.384 - 00:34:36.418, Speaker A: And in green is the best response. And so you can see where these parameters end up laying for the best, or if you add only all m two or only all m one. And so some of them probably aren't that significant, but some of them, there are big differences in the distribution. And so that led us to believe that macrophages are playing a role in the sensitivity of our model to these parameters, and thus potentially in how well treatment could work in responders. The t cells are better activated by macrophages. So probably because there are more m one s. But if you look at, for example, distributions of.
00:34:36.418 - 00:35:16.962, Speaker A: Okay, so I always have to remember how we, how we talk about this, the paint, the lightest is the best response and the darkest is the worst response, which you can see here. So the lighter ones have no, sorry, I said that the opposite way. The light is the worst response and the dark is the best response. The best response has more t cells, but there's no actual difference in their tumor growth rates. When you look at the distribution of patients and growth rates over our patients, there's a slight right shift in the antigenicity of tumor cells. And there are big differences as well in the initial m two percentage. And so hopefully we'll try and remember these in general because we're going to look at a lot of these graphs.
00:35:16.962 - 00:35:59.744, Speaker A: And I always forget the colors, but you can see here, the ones with the darker have a much higher survival time post during, from treatment. So we blanche basically took these kinds of growth curves and converted them into Kaplan Meier survival curves. So reprogramming macrophages, or targeting what are called tumor associated macrophages is not our idea. This is something that has been talked about before. There are four different ways people think about using or targeting macrophages. One is the depletion of tumor associated macrophages. One is to reduce the recruitment, one is to reprogram them.
00:35:59.744 - 00:36:40.664, Speaker A: So to do repolarization of m two to m one and one is to enhance the phagocytosis of tams, we focused on two primarily. One is the reprogramming of tumor associated macrophages, which can be done with cxf one r inhibitors or CD 40 agonists. The way we do this in the model is that we decrease the percentage of activated macrophages with the m two phenotype and we increase polarization. So we force those m two s to become m one s. The second one is the enhanced phagocytosis. This can be done through, there's actually a molecule under development. If I'm not mistaken, that targets the CD 487 srp alpha axis.
00:36:40.664 - 00:37:20.384, Speaker A: What this does in our model is it induces increased phagocytosis of the glioblastome cells by m one macrophages. Because we have a mechanistic model, we can actually target exactly what these drugs would do. The first we looked at was inducing the m one phenotype in these graphs where they're green and blue. The green is standard of care with the tumor associated macrophage treatment. The blue is that plus an ici. So you get an increased outcome and you want to be more negative if this is compared to just standard of care. So one here would be.
00:37:20.384 - 00:37:57.508, Speaker A: One here would be no actual difference from standard of care. -100 would be 100 times more effective than the standard of care. Here you can see that you get a little bit more benefit than the standard of care, and the immune checkbone inhibitor does a little bit more than just the macrophages. This seems to be driven generally just by the initial m two percentage, whatever percentage you have. If you have more cells, you can repolarize more of them, you get a better effect. And so you get about a 20% increase in efficacy if you used this kind of therapy. If you reprogram.
00:37:57.508 - 00:38:28.024, Speaker A: Oh, sorry, I misspoke. So this is just inducing in just the newly formed macrophages, they mostly go m one instead of repolarization. If you then repolarized, you get a bigger benefit than before. Now we're past 20%. We're into the 30%. We still have a little bit more effect if we add an immune checkpoint inhibitor. This again seems to be driven by the initial m two percentage, which makes sense, but also the antigenicity of the tumor cells.
00:38:28.024 - 00:38:35.984, Speaker A: We do statistical tests on these distributions to look for differences. This turns out to be significant.
00:38:36.324 - 00:38:40.560, Speaker B: The order will increase the order of the.
00:38:40.592 - 00:39:08.774, Speaker A: That's a great question. I'm going to get to it. Yes, you know where I'm going with this. So it turns out that if you can make macrophages kill more cells, you're going to do great. Well, you were predicting that you're going to do much better, and actually you might not need an immune checkpoint inhibitor. You get outcome changes of about 95% better. And there are no real differences between using the standard of care plus the Tamil or TAM plus ici.
00:39:08.774 - 00:40:09.838, Speaker A: And here you really, really have a big effect of the initial m two percentage in your domain. And so one of the questions is, how would you give this to patients? And so I'm not going to get exactly to your question. That's something that we're doing, but I will get to how you can schedule these kinds of drugs. So this is the same schedule that I showed before, but now we do two different things. We give this treatment, the macrophage enhancing macrophage phagocytosis with no break, which is probably not doable, or one week on, one week off, or two days on, two days off. And right now we're considering, we had considered in our previous work that once you give it, it's 100% effective all the time, which we know for drugs is not true. Now we introduce just very simple pharmacokinetics where there's an exponential decay of the efficacy of the drug over time, depending on the schedule that we give.
00:40:09.838 - 00:41:11.910, Speaker A: And whether you give it every week or two days on, two days off doesn't seem to have a huge difference, but you do have a large difference between the outcomes and standard of care and inducing the Tamil. We had previously looked at changing the order of how these things are done, because our collaborators asked us the exact same question. If we did radiotherapy before surgery or chemotherapy before surgery, can you get more immune cells into the environment, then resect, and then those cells might be there? So that's something that we're looking at. I can't remember what the results were, but I don't think it had a huge impact. I think because the radiotherapy ends up being still immune like you still get some impact on the immune cells, but don't quote me on that. So, but it is something that we've looked at. So just to wrap up, agent based models are super useful.
00:41:11.910 - 00:41:57.370, Speaker A: I hope so, because we use them a lot in our lab. They help us understand spatial heterogeneity, which can show us, can show us effects that are spatially derived that we may not see in an ode model, but they have obviously limitations. And one is that it seems that they're very sensitive to domain size, at least in these kinds of applications. So that should be taken into account. Ovs seem effective against glioblastoma, and the responses in both our agent based model and also in ode models have looked like they're mostly driven by macrophages. This isn't that surprising. Macrophages in infection are probably the most important cells.
00:41:57.370 - 00:42:57.456, Speaker A: They are, at least in flu. They can be in something like COVID-19. And the different polarizations of these macrophages has an impact on how the tumor microenvironment is interacting. Like the secretion of cytokines, immune checkpoint blockade and inhibitors have failed in glenoblastoma, likely due to poor CD eight t cell recruitment, but also particularly infiltration. And by using a mathematical, a mechanistic mathematical model of glioblastoma and therapy, it suggests that the reprogramming of m one m two polarization and the enhanced phagocytosis of tumor associated macrophages could be potential glioblastoma treatments. And that's where Blanche is going next. So, our collaborators at McGill, we'll look at, they have mouse models of glioblastoma, and they can give them chemotherapy and tAM targeting treatments.
00:42:57.456 - 00:43:50.252, Speaker A: And so we will, based on our models, they will get us these data and look at the different schedules. What they'll do is we're going to get some data so that we can better parameterize our models for the tumor growth dynamics, et cetera. And then we'll do our optimization of these combination regimens. And then they will test them in the mice to look to see whether they look promising. And in parallel, we will also have IMC slices from the mice, and so then we can look at the spatial effects. We won't run virtual clinical trials on the ABM because that would be a computational nightmare. However, we will take the optimized regimens and make patients and based on the tumor data, and then look at spatially what's happening within the tumor.
00:43:50.252 - 00:44:19.944, Speaker A: That's all upcoming work, and hopefully, I'll be able to share that with you soon. And I just wanted to acknowledge everyone who worked on this project with us, specifically Blanche, who, like I said, makes really nice slides, so I like to steal them from her. But also Annie Deep, Adrian, and Judy, who was an undergrad in the lab and who put together the two models of immune checkpoint blockade and oncolytic virus in the ABM, and then all of our collaborators and funders. So, thanks very much.
