00:00:03.360 - 00:00:41.220, Speaker A: So for our first speaker, giving an overview of how DeFi and Mev have intersected and what we consider the frontier of research in this space will be CMK Moalemi, who's a research advisor at Paradigm as well as a professor at Columbia Business School. CMAQ has done a lot of work in crypto research, including some around bitcoin, but has particularly made a huge splash with his development co authorship of the loss versus rebalancing papers, which have helped define certainly decentralized exchange design and DeFi research for the past couple of years for many people. So thanks for coming.
00:00:46.560 - 00:01:34.188, Speaker B: Thank you Dan, for the kind introduction. I'm going to talk about Defi in the Mev eradouse. Given the sort of informal nature of this conference, I encourage you, if you have questions or comments along the way, just raise your hand. Let's make it interactive. But my plan is I'm going to start out going through some theoretical frameworks to think about MEV, talking about some of my research to quantify MeV, particularly in Defi. And then I'll spend the latter half of the talk talking about mitigations of MeV and various approaches that I and others have proposed to sort of look at this. So to start out, when we think about Mev, I'm going to be focused on Mev that arises from Defi trading.
00:01:34.188 - 00:02:29.396, Speaker B: This is really, in my mind, the dominant and prototypical form of MEV. It's probably the single largest source of MEV. We'll probably hear from Sarella a bit later, sort of more crisply quantifying that. But we've also seen over time that it's really sort of altered the nature of, of blockchain, in particular in the Ethereum world, for example, the transition from gas auctions to proposer builder separation and things like the concentration of the builder market we see today. This is all driven by MeV in DeFi trading. The way I think about it is that MEV extracts profits from end users, be they swappers or liquidity providers, and redirects them to various intermediaries in the MEV system, supply chain proposers, searchers, blockbuilders, relays, wallets. And in my view, this is bad.
00:02:29.396 - 00:03:14.610, Speaker B: I don't think there's real ambiguity here. In my view, in trading, the way that you improve welfare is that you get gains from trade. You get someone who organically has a low valuation for an asset, a low idiosyncratic valuation, and another agent which has a high idiosyncratic valuation. And when the guy who doesn't want to own the asset sells to the guy who wants to own the asset. That's where you get a welfare gain, and who pays how much doesn't matter because that part is zero sum. Now what happens when you introduce these intermediaries is they're going to create a friction, and they're going to create a friction that prevents matching of an organic seller and an organic buyer. And therefore they're going to reduce the volume of trade, reduce the gains of trade, and ultimately reduce overall social welfare.
00:03:14.610 - 00:04:11.098, Speaker B: What is the type of MeV that we're thinking about? Well, maybe the most dominant sort is sniping mev. The idea here is that prices in automated market maker like Uniswap are static versus information in the real world is dynamic. And as real world prices evolve, prices in an automated market maker become static and they get exploited by agents with superior knowledge, what we call arbitrageurs. Arbitrageurs when they make money that comes out of somebody's pockets, in this case, the liquidity providers. And this is really actually not a new phenomenon in defi. If you go back to the tradfi world, this is analogous to some of the things we've seen in terms of high frequency trading and sniping in those markets. So on.
00:04:11.098 - 00:04:58.752, Speaker B: There's various different flavors of this type of sniping you can think about. You can think about prices on an AmM being stale versus, let's say, prices on binance, or another centralized exchange. You can think about inconsistency between prices on an Amm and other Amms, so called atomic arbitrage, in between dexs. But in general, if we just sort of pull back and abstract a little bit, the type of MeV we're talking about is having inconsistent prices between a static amm mechanism and some kind of credible public signal of what the value is. And the arbs here are making money because they're correcting that discrepancy. So in some sense, they are providing a service. They're making sure that there's correct prices on the amm.
00:04:58.752 - 00:05:59.890, Speaker B: On the other hand, the service that they're providing, if it's simply reading out what the price is on binance and then trading to that marginal price on the amm, it's very obvious, and there are no barriers to entry, and it should be very cheap, right? So we shouldn't pay intermediaries a lot for this. So one framework I've worked on with co authors over a series of, a series of papers in order to understand this type of MEV is the framework of loss versus rebalancing. And the idea here is, again, it's what I said before, we want to quantify losses to arbitrageurs who have access to a credible public signal of the real value, for example, a centralized exchange price. Right? And what we do is we quantify that in an environment where we make the sort of standard finance assumptions with regards to prices. We assume prices are geometric brownian motion. We assume there are fees. We assume that blocks are generated discreetly.
00:05:59.890 - 00:06:34.074, Speaker B: And the kind of result we get is as follows. If I want to measure how much arbs are making per unit time, it comes from sort of three components. The first component you see in the equation has to do with quadratic variation of prices. The idea here is, in general, if the price moves a little bit, arbs roughly make the square of the price move, because they make the price move. And also they trade in volume proportional to the price move. And you multiply those, you get a square. So you get something about roughly what is the square changes of prices.
00:06:34.074 - 00:07:19.324, Speaker B: Mathematically, that's quadratic variation that gets multiplied by the amount of liquidity that's available at that price. And finally, there's a final term which reflects the fact that arbs can't always profitably trade. If an ARB arrives and the spot price on the AMm is not the same as the binance price, however, is within the fee. The ARB can't trade because they have to pay the fee. So some of the ARB profits get mitigated by the fact that they can't always trade. But putting aside the details of this equation, if you sort of simplify and collect the common terms, you get that ARB profits are proportional to the equation at the bottom. So this is simply that equation repeated.
00:07:19.324 - 00:08:04.608, Speaker B: This is how much arbs make per unit time. If we want to measure how much arbs make per block. If this is how much an ARB is making a second, and the block length is delta t, we just multiply by another delta t. And the key thing to sort of observe here is that the ARB profits per block, excuse me, are super linear. In the block length, we have this three half power. And that means it's better for the arbs and really worse for the the LP's, the longer the blocks are. And the way that that scales per unit time is the square root rule above.
00:08:04.608 - 00:08:46.484, Speaker B: So, for example, if we drop the Ethereum block time from 12 seconds to 3 seconds, a fourfold drop, we'd expect the ARB profits to be reduced by half. Now, where is this coming from? The idea is that faster blocks create more intense competition between arbitragers. If you think about it, imagine there was just one arbitrager in the world. And imagine they observed that they could make $0.05 doing an ARB on ETH USDC five basis point pool. If you could make a very small profit, you actually shouldn't do that, because as I mentioned, the profits scale with the square of the price discrepancy. There's kind of a little bit of convexity there.
00:08:46.484 - 00:09:32.712, Speaker B: So if there's a profitable opportunity, but it's small and you're an arbitrageur, what you should do is you should hold out for a larger opportunity. But in the face of competition, you can't do that. Because if I drop a ten dollar bill on the floor and a mat doesn't pick it up, then Dan will pick it up a second later. So it's because of competition between arbitrageurs that they must trade immediately and take advantage of the arbitration. However, they can obviously only trade at instances of block generation. So when you have a long block time, effectively you're telling the arbitrageurs they can't trade in that time in the middle, and you're not allowing them basically to compete against each other and to sort of compete away all the profits. So that's the core underlying source of this.
00:09:32.712 - 00:10:15.712, Speaker B: If you have faster blocks, you have more competition between arbitrageurs. And at least under this model, they will eventually compete away. The MeV, this model, we developed the model under certain theoretical assumptions like geometric brownian motion. I'm not going to go through these graphs, but I just want to kind of highlight that if you sort of work with real world data, with deterministic block times, you work with sort of binance prices. Others have sort of replicated our work on empirical data. And in general, you do see from like, let's say going down from 16 seconds to like, you know, 1 second, you do see roughly some kind of square root type of decay, sub 1 second. Maybe things flattened out, maybe different things are going on there.
00:10:15.712 - 00:10:54.460, Speaker B: So that's the general idea of loss versus rebalancing. Another place that you see this same kind of effect. This is really focused on amms, what I've talked about so far. But also you can see it in dutch auctions. Dutch auctions are, in my mind at least, the second most popular sort of primitive in defi after amms. You see them in things like RFQ mechanisms like Uniswap X and one inch, you see them in various peer to peer lending protocols and so on. They have a lot of advantages, primarily that they're very easy to implement.
00:10:54.460 - 00:12:02.002, Speaker B: You only need to consider a single winning biddenness and so on. However, they have some flaws also, and a very similar kind of sniping flaw to what we saw in amm. So you can imagine, I start a dutch auction, let's say I'm selling a bunch of eTh, and the red curve over here is my asking price, and I'm slowly decaying my asking price over time. And in a setting where I'm selling something like ETH, which is really sort of, again, we have a credible public signal of what's that? I, you can trade it on many exchanges and so on. What should happen is if p of t is sort of the value of that eth, once the value crosses the price on which I'm willing to sell it at, some arbitrageur should come in and buy it from me and then sell it on binance, or however they're going to hedge that. But they can't necessarily, because they have to wait until the block is generated. So in this picture, if a block is generated at this point XdeM, by that point, the offered price on the dutch auction is now below the fair price.
00:12:02.002 - 00:12:59.810, Speaker B: And so therefore, the auction seller is going to incur a loss relative to sort of the fair value at the time. And this is what Dan and I call loss versus fair, a similar way to what we did in amms. We're sort of able to sort of quantify this in terms of the parameters of the auction. So when you're starting a dutch auction, there's sort of two things you have to think about. One is how fast are you going to lower the prices, the drift. The other is where should you sort of start that? And what we have is a formula which expresses how much you lose as a percentage of the fair price as a function of those parameters. Now, you probably can't parse this formula in real time, but one thing that is the case is if you start making the drift very, very small, if you decrease your prices very slowly, it turns out that this decreases.
00:12:59.810 - 00:13:42.784, Speaker B: And that sort of makes sense. The less you're changing your prices, the less you're going to lose because your price went too low before the next block was generated. But there is some fundamental underlying limit, which you can never get before, is roughly the volatility times the square root, again, of the block length. This you can sort of think of as what is the typical price change over a block. No matter how slow you make your auction, you're always going to lose at least this amount. And indeed, also if you make your auction very slow, we can also sort of compute how long it's going to take in expectation for your auction to actually trade. And we start to see that there's a trade off.
00:13:42.784 - 00:14:40.484, Speaker B: There's a trade off where you can try to maybe minimize how much you lose versus the fair price. You'll never get below a certain minimum level, and you may have to wait for a long time. On the other hand, if you want to trade very quickly, you're always going to wait at least one block length, but potentially your loss versus the fair value could be very high. So in both of these applications, in the amm and in, in dutch auction, we kind of see a fundamental friction having to do with the interaction of prices, which are sort of evolving continuously with a kind of blockchain environment which is really sort of fundamentally discrete time. So what are the different flavors of mitigations? The way I like to think about it is there's basically four classes, and we'll basically go through each of these. There's making blocks faster. Based on what I've said so far, that should be sort of a relatively obvious type of strategy.
00:14:40.484 - 00:15:38.608, Speaker B: There is dynamic amms that is improving the amms trading strategy, and there's two different types of auctions, two different general categories, either ex post auctions, auctions which are held while the block is being generated, or ex ante auctions, auctions which are held well ahead of when the block is generated. And we're going to go through these and discuss various things that people have proposed and some pros and cons. Okay, so the obvious thing is faster blocks. Let's reduce the losses to arbs by making the Arbs more frequent and smaller. And so things that could accomplish that would be just simply shortening the block time. If you had things like pre confirmations or first come, first serve transaction ordering, that would also, again, allow arbs to trade more frequently and reduce the total amount of money they can make. This may have independent benefits in terms of a better user experience as well.
00:15:38.608 - 00:16:20.004, Speaker B: Of course, there are downsides, and the primary downside being that it's difficult to decentralize. So it's not incentive compatible. As we saw, the value of a block is super linear. It's the three two power in terms of the block length. So proposers do not have incentive to go along with this. So if you give a proposer an option to sort of pre confirm something. Why should they do that when they can sort of make more money by not doing preconfirmations and just sort of building the block as usual? In addition, obviously, if we make block times too short, there's going to be challenges, networking and geographic centralization and so on.
00:16:20.004 - 00:17:00.770, Speaker B: There's challenges related to consensus with very short block times. Finally, maybe the last thing is it doesn't eliminate all mev jump discontinuities. The kind of mev it eliminates is prices moving in a continuous fashion. But sometimes prices jump. And so, for example, tradfi, traditional exchanges, they are essentially first come, first serve, but they still have a form of sniping mev, which comes from prices jumping at various instances in time. Okay, second sort of general class of strategies, dynamic amms. And here, this is sort of a very kind of wide umbrella.
00:17:00.770 - 00:18:02.540, Speaker B: We're thinking in general of what are the ways we can improve how an amm trades, aside from sticking to kind of a simple invariant rule. And the spirit here is to change the way it trades in a way that reduces the adverse selection, reduces the amount of money that arbitrageurs are available to able to make. And so we can think about that as adjusting the price, maybe thinking about how to reallocate liquidity. Optimizing fees. Fees are a great way to reduce mev. In particular, if you set your fee very, very high, there will be no Mev because there will be no trading. So you also need to balance this with having you want to reduce trading from arbs or make it more expensive for them, while at the same time not disadvantaging your organic users, your retail users, or so on.
00:18:02.540 - 00:18:34.102, Speaker B: So other types of strategies might involve using off chain information. So for example, price oracle, if you have accurate prices, maybe you can move the prices ahead of someone trading against them. You can leverage things like volatility oracles. Maybe when volatility is high, we saw that adverse selection is higher. So maybe you want to scale your fees with volatility. This is how traditional market makers behave in terms of their bid ask spread. When markets become more volatile, they smoothly increase their spreads.
00:18:34.102 - 00:19:25.496, Speaker B: As they become less volatile, they smoothly decrease it. You can also sort of think about other ways to maybe differentiate between informed traders, arbitrageurs who you do not want to trade against as an LP, and sort of the organic retail traders, for example, source of order flow. Maybe if an order is coming in from the uniswap router, it's much more likely to be sort of a retail user. So you should offer an advantageous fee as opposed to an order coming from another channel, which might be an arbitrageur who ideally you don't want to trade against. And there's a number of projects who are proposing and exploring different types of strategies related to this challenges here. This is a hard problem. It's basically as hard as solving optimal market making strategy.
00:19:25.496 - 00:20:04.908, Speaker B: We're really limited to what we can do on chain because of gas requirements and so on. Also, whatever you do on chain has to be transparent. So you have to worry about potentially being Gamedev and at the same time doing things off chain, maybe centralizing. So there are some downsides here. Let's get into auctions. Two types of auctions, ex post and ex ante. Ex post here sounds like it's after the fact, but what we're really talking about is having an auction for the right to extract mev during the block.
00:20:04.908 - 00:21:23.464, Speaker B: And the thing that it's ex post of the thing that it's after of is knowing what transactions are there, knowing what the market state is in terms of what are the asset prices on centralized exchanges, knowing what the state is of the various pools and so on. This type of auction is also often combined with the idea of having a uniform clearing price, so called frequent batch auctions, nice properties of this type of auction. An auction at the time of block building is that it's pretty easy for people to participate in that auction. If you can observe what the state of the market is, what the state of the various amms are, and so on, it should be really clear what the potential profit is for an arbitrageur. And that will allow arbitrageurs to easily participate and generate bids. And indeed, in combination with certain ideas like having a uniform clearing price, if you had a perfectly competitive auction under assumptions, you could potentially reduce the mev all the way to zero challenges. Well, if we want auctions on the same timescale of consensus on the next block, we can't rely on the consensus mechanism to do that.
00:21:23.464 - 00:22:21.840, Speaker B: So we need some other mechanism that's fast and censorship resistant, but that is off chain in order to run this auction. So you either need some kind of centralized auction, or you have to implement some decentralized auction, which could be a challenge, other obstacles. You don't get composability with this, or at least it's difficult. This is sort of fundamentally an asynchronous operation, and you can't compose a trade with other activities and so on. And finally, maybe the auctions won't be as competitive as we want and we won't be able to rebate all of the MEV. There's a number of examples of ex post auctions that have been proposed as well. Cowswap and Sorella's angstrom have different variations of combining an ex post auction with a batch auction.
00:22:21.840 - 00:23:10.494, Speaker B: Indeed, we can even view MEV boost as a type of ex post auction. However, this is not quite the right thing, because what we want is we want to take this MEV that's being taken from the LP's and we want to redirect it back to the LP's, whereas Mevboost is going to take this and take the MEV, and instead of it going to the Arbs, it's going to go to the validators. But that doesn't help us from the perspective of remitting the LP's for their losses so that we can improve the. The overall social welfare. MEV taxes is an interesting new idea from Dan and Dave. Dan will talk about that a bit later, so I'm not going to dive into that. Let's talk about ex ante auctions.
00:23:10.494 - 00:24:04.050, Speaker B: That was the fourth and last sort of idea. The idea here is to auction the right to extract MeV in a block well ahead of that block. And the nice thing about that is this type of auction can potentially be run on chain again, because it's at a slower time scale than the ex post auctions. You don't necessarily have to run this once per block. You can auction off the right to extract MEV for the next ten blocks or the next hour or whatever, and run those auctions at a slower pace. So advantages, you don't need additional infrastructure. Another kind of advantage is this type of auction typically smooths the payments to LP's, because the way you're going to bid in advance for the MEV of a block is you're going to bid basically the expected value.
00:24:04.050 - 00:24:55.122, Speaker B: And so instead of the actual MeV being sort of stochastic and quite lumpy in this mechanism, you have these rent payments, these premiums, to liquidity providers being a smooth version of that. So this kind of transfers the risk and the stochasticity of MEV from the liquidity providers, who in my mental model, tend to be smaller agents over to whoever's participating in the auction. That is, the searchers, who are likely more sophisticated and better capitalized and more able to deal with managing risk. So it's likely to be a welfare enhancing. So one proposal in this direction is the MC amm proposed by Alex Herman. The idea here is to auction off the right to trade first in each block to an agent. We'll call the lead searcher.
00:24:55.122 - 00:25:38.882, Speaker B: Excuse me. And that payment will be then paid to the liquidity providers. And basically the first trade in the block we can view as being a monopoly on the right to, you had to arbitrage. And so in a competitive setting, what should happen is if you have a competitive market of these lead searchers, the one who actually wins is going to basically bid up to the level of the arbitrage profits, and that'll get back to the LP's. So potential issues with this? Well, you have to have a trade by the lead searcher in each block to unlock that block to allow others to trade. And there's gas inefficiencies with that. But maybe a more worrying is the lead searcher can simply decide not to unlock a block.
00:25:38.882 - 00:26:25.756, Speaker B: And if they decide not to unlock a block, effectively what they're doing is they're preventing anyone from transacting in that block, namely also other agents who might arbitrage. And so by doing this, by maybe censoring a couple of blocks, they're effectively increasing the block time. And as we saw before, that's going to increase their profits because it's going to go to the three two power of the, of the block time. So not only can they censor, but they have economic incentive to censor. So this is potentially a problem. One final mechanism that I'll speak about is an idea developed by Dan and myself and Austin and Sarah from Uniswap. This is also an ex ante auction.
00:26:25.756 - 00:27:28.726, Speaker B: However, what we're going to auction off here is the right to set and receive the swap fee for a period. And so the idea here is if you're receiving the swap fee because you won this auction, let's say we're going to call the auction winner the pool manager. You can actually capture most of the MEV because since you're collecting the fees, you're effectively able to trade on the pool without paying fees because you're sort of paying fees to yourself, if you will. So, for example, if there is a small arbitrage, let's say the fee is 30 basis points and there's a 15 basis point arbitrage. No one else can profitably do that except the person who's paying no fees, because if anyone else does it, they have to pay this big fee and they're going to lose money. So what this is going to allow is the pool manager to capture most of the MEV. Most of the MEV is potentially price changes that are smaller than the fee bound, and the pool manager can capture that, but it has other benefits also.
00:27:28.726 - 00:28:05.688, Speaker B: In particular, this mechanism not only captures the MEV, but it also optimizes the swap fee, and that's a big challenge. Optimizing the swap fee is a trade off between, on the one hand, losing money to arbitrageurs. The lower your fee is, the more money you're going to lose to Arvskin. Conversely, the higher your fee is, the less money. But you're going to have the opposite effect with retail traders. You can't make your fee very high because the retail traders won't trade with you. And so figuring out what the right fee is, is sort of a complex calculation, because you have to sort of think about what is the price sensitivity of the retail traders.
00:28:05.688 - 00:29:04.776, Speaker B: The Arbs are easy to model, right? But the retail traders, it's a little bit more difficult to model. It's something that might be dynamic and changing over time and volatile markets versus less volatile markets and so on and so forth. What we're doing here was we're outsourcing that complicated task to an off chain agent who is someone like, I don't know, citadel securities or somebody like that, who has the ability to sort of make those tradeoffs and figure out the optimal fee. And so what we establish, again, under competitive assumptions, assuming that there is a competitive market between agents who want to be this pool manager, then in this kind of mechanism, in equilibrium, there will be more liquidity than any sort of regular type of mechanism. Now, that doesn't mean there aren't challenges here. There are some downsides. Number one, there's reason to think this type of auction might be less competitive than an ex post auction.
00:29:04.776 - 00:30:09.764, Speaker B: When you do an ex post auction, again, it's very easy to figure out what that block is worth, because you know the state of the world, right? When you're doing an ex ante auction, when I'm bidding on a block that's going to be an hour from now or something like that, basically, I have to sort of model the future, and I'm going to guess kind of an expected value. And that in general is more complicated and might reduce participation in this kind of auction. Other issues are, the second you have an agent who trades with no fees, that is the pool manager, they can sort of fully sandwich anyone. They can sandwich any transaction to its full limit price. And finally, we sort of haven't figured out exactly how to get this to work with concentrated liquidity and the challenge is how do you allocate the rent payments so if all the LP's are getting compensated via this rent payment? In an unconcentrated pool, like a uniswap v two pool, it's very easy to figure out how much to pay HLP because they're all identical. Their positions are fungible. You pay them simply in proportion to how much of the pool they own.
00:30:09.764 - 00:30:43.550, Speaker B: But if their positions are not fungible, like in uniswap v three, you kind of want to pay them relative to how much adverse selection they're going to suffer. And it's not 100% clear how to do that. So that's what I have for you again, a bunch of directions that various people have proposed and would love to sort of chat further with anybody here and your other ideas as well. Any questions? Quintus?
00:30:44.330 - 00:31:13.960, Speaker C: So on your point about market concentration and competition in the ex ante auctions, it's been a topic that's come up a lot with the various PBS AP's and block and location right mechanisms. And I'm curious if you think there are important differences between the markets that would make the move, moving an auction earlier in advance that would have, that would mean that the market structure changes are different in the sort of like more dex specific market versus the proposing ones market.
00:31:16.420 - 00:31:21.440, Speaker B: Yeah. So you're saying for different types of MeV or.
00:31:23.420 - 00:31:31.344, Speaker D: For like uniswap, for example. So the type of party that can participate in a real time auction, let's say, versus one car in the future.
00:31:31.392 - 00:31:33.624, Speaker B: Has to price that future versus for.
00:31:33.632 - 00:31:49.992, Speaker D: Like proposing rights market. If you run a real time auction versus like price one far in the future, the concern of the proposing rights market is that it's like extremely complex and possibly like Citadel or someone's the only way to do it and they'll go home. And then the question is like for. I think it's like the Dex specific one.
00:31:50.176 - 00:32:03.018, Speaker B: The Dex is a special case. Right. So that's part of the overall block building. Yeah. So I think, I think I haven't thought about it, but I suspect the problem would be worse for up for a proposer auction than just a, like the first slot in a Dex.
00:32:03.194 - 00:32:19.714, Speaker C: I think it's more than just the complexity that increase capital costs and the risk as well. But then also not every block is the same. The different market regimes have people pricing blocks differently, but if you've been in advance, everything is just doesn't expect value, so there's less room for niches to form, I guess.
00:32:19.802 - 00:32:23.802, Speaker B: Yeah, it's a fair point. Yeah. Yeah.
00:32:23.826 - 00:32:41.670, Speaker E: So you mentioned like, you mentioned like, you know, you can't rely on consensus, but I'm just wondering like why, like let's suppose we're not on Ethereum and we're doing like an app chain or something. Wouldn't you want to tie together the consensus and the economic mechanism as closely together as possible?
00:32:42.620 - 00:32:51.400, Speaker B: Yeah, and Dan has a nice idea to sort of illustrate that. So I think you would, but it's not clear how to do that.
00:32:51.820 - 00:33:04.892, Speaker E: So I think you can do some. Well, I'll talk later, but we have something launching next week and it does on chain dutch auctions and they're all censorship resistant and it's very nice.
00:33:04.996 - 00:33:08.400, Speaker B: I'd love to hear about it. Yeah. Last question.
00:33:08.790 - 00:33:22.450, Speaker E: It seems like there's a bunch of fundamental trade offs between the ex ante and the exposed designs. I wonder if you've thought about happy middle case and if that exists, is there any hard problem required to be solved to achieve that?
00:33:24.670 - 00:33:42.108, Speaker B: I'm not sure what a middle case would be. I think either you're doing it way in advance and the advantages are you can utilize existing consensus and the disadvantage you have to bid expected value or you're doing it at the time and potentially either need an alternative consensus mechanism or need to modify consensus.
00:33:42.284 - 00:33:49.188, Speaker E: I'm thinking of two phase commit, for example, which would maybe let you, I don't know, avoid the competition, make it.
00:33:49.204 - 00:33:55.036, Speaker B: Part of the consensus process. I think that was sort of what Henry was suggesting too. Charlie, beginning of the presentation, I think.
00:33:55.068 - 00:33:58.908, Speaker D: That was roughly that Meb is a welfare loss to the traders.
00:33:58.964 - 00:33:59.560, Speaker B: Yes.
00:33:59.980 - 00:34:01.452, Speaker D: Some other set of intermediaries.
00:34:01.556 - 00:34:02.240, Speaker B: Yes.
00:34:02.690 - 00:34:43.040, Speaker D: Now it seems to me like the best way to fix like lever would probably be if you considered map to just be lever would be to put everyone in Tokyo, basically like co locate it around the binance oracle and then drop the block time to zero. And because we're already in the same AWS cluster in Tokyo with finance, then we don't have any lever. And so the question I guess would be like, from the perspective of MEb, is it pure welfare loss? And that's what we're made like, that seems to me like it would be the obvious solution. And so I wonder if that's actually the right way to frame it as opposed to like it's like a centralization incentive where we wouldn't want to fix the problem even if we could by just co locating around binance, Tokyo.
00:34:43.540 - 00:34:59.120, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, I agree with you. I think if you centralize, you solve a lot of these problems and the welfare loss I'm talking about could be solved by centralization. But obviously there's other objectives that people care about.
00:35:00.900 - 00:35:08.040, Speaker D: How do you think that we inject the other objectives into conversations like this when they're a lot more nebulous than, say, the lever formula?
00:35:08.580 - 00:35:35.080, Speaker B: Yeah, that's difficult. I'm sorry. So his question is, the kind of results I'm focusing on are sort of very crisp and economic. Like how many dollars is an LP losing to arbitrageurization? If we could get rid of that potentially via centralization, we're giving up something else which is hard to economically model. And so I think he's critiquing my framework from that direction, which is a fair point.
