00:00:00.160 - 00:00:33.454, Speaker A: Hello everyone, welcome to another episode of the deli Gray refuel, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host and Asano it has the 20 February 2023 alright everyone, let's get into it. So apologies for missing Friday's episode everyone. I know I missed two episodes last week, so hopefully this week I won't miss any. And obviously there's a lot to catch up on from the weekend, but just wanted to give a heads up. Most of you probably aware of this, but I'm heading to ETH Denver on Monday next week, which means all of next week there will unfortunately be no refuels. It is just too difficult for me to find the time and energy to do them when I am traveling.
00:00:33.454 - 00:01:04.990, Speaker A: You probably hear my croaked, croaky voice if I was to do one. So I will be hopefully back the following Monday. So not, not next Monday, the the Monday after Monday or Tuesday just depends on the time zone differences of when I, when I kind of get back there. But as soon as I'm back in Melbourne I will definitely be doing a refill. But yeah, definitely no refuels next week. And obviously when I get back I'll be doing a longer one to recap all of the events that happen next week anyway, so you won't be missing anything, you just have to wait a little bit longer for me to report on it. But anyway, let's get into the new from the last few days.
00:01:04.990 - 00:01:33.886, Speaker A: So first up, we had a all core devs call that happened, and Tim Bicar has his usual thread on this call here for all of you to see. Of course it'll be linked in the YouTube description below. But on this call they of course discussed Chappella, which is upcoming very, very soon. Some 48 44 transaction changes, SSC, RPC and self destruct. So as I said, it's all in this thread, everything you need to know. It's funny, I think that the, the core dev calls, I mean they're not, they haven't moved on from Schapella yet, or Shanghai. Obviously.
00:01:33.886 - 00:02:02.782, Speaker A: They still need to finalize that and schedule that and everything. But definitely we're getting to pretty close to the end game there. As I mentioned before, or I think this was last week, on the 28th, Sepolia will be forked to Chapala, which is Shanghai capella which is the withdrawals upgrade. And then one to two weeks after that will be girly. And then I guess like two weeks after that will be mainnet. So late March, early April, we can expect main net withdrawals to go forward. And anyone who's been listening to my show for months now would have known that already.
00:02:02.782 - 00:02:42.724, Speaker A: So there's no use me harping on about that. And then obviously all the stuff around all core devs will shift to 4844 and a bunch of other things that have been discussed for quite a while. And that didn't make it into Shanghai EOF SSC. This self destruct thing as well, which has been the debate around that is reignited recently too. So yeah, as usual, keeping up with all this stuff can be a little bit difficult, but it's great that Tim has put out this thread. All the links are in the thread, and you can go to the GitHub repo to check out some more information there. All right, so superfizz shared this really cool little staking dashboard that was built by metanol here.
00:02:42.724 - 00:03:16.356, Speaker A: As you can see, this, this staking dashboard shows you a bunch of different metrics around your validators. So you can see from the top you can get information on peer count, on cpu usage, on cpu temperature, gas used kind of the current ETH price, number of validators that you're running. All that good stuff there rewards all the stuff there. This is, this is actually really cool because there are dashboards like this already. There's one that the, that that comes built when you spin up a rocker pool smart node stack. It's all there for you. It's really, really great, and it's great for monitoring things.
00:03:16.356 - 00:03:55.192, Speaker A: But for solo stakers, there aren't that many options. There are some here and there, but a lot of them leave a lot to be desired. I've played around with a bunch of them and I've never really been too happy with them. You can of course build your own, but it does involve getting into the weeds of these things and editing things and actually learning how Grafana works, which is the, the software powering this dashboard. But this one was pre built by metanal and seems to have all the information you would want to have here. I mean, a lot of dashboards I've seen omit a lot of the time they omit the, the balance that you have in your validators and your rewards, which is, I think, the one of the main things people care about, right. Obviously we care about our uptime and what the cpu usage looks like.
00:03:55.192 - 00:04:27.282, Speaker A: If there's anything funky going on there, what the, you know, what the cpu temperature is and memory usage is just in case we need to change our hardware or upgrade our hardware or anything like that. But we also care about the rewards that we're earning for staking, obviously. So that is definitely a big thing that, that I like this dashboard for. As you can see down the bottom, it kind of shows that there. But just wanted to highlight this for you solo stakers out there that I like tinkering around Grafana dashboards. This is another one that you can check out for yourself. So this is available at Docs Dot stake local dot IO.
00:04:27.282 - 00:05:02.836, Speaker A: That website will of course be linked in the YouTube description below, but you can go check that out there. But yeah, just really cool to see this. And thanks to superfizz for, for sharing it. All right, so Nethermind had a major release over the weekend, so this is nevermind client version 117.0. So if you're running a suppolian node, you can update before the suppolia Chapala upgrade on the 20th of Feb. And this will support that as well as the Jarjang test nick testnet configs are included, proto dank sharding progress and performance improvements, and of course much more. Now, obviously you can see all the information about this here.
00:05:02.836 - 00:05:40.484, Speaker A: There's a bunch of information on the GitHub repo for you to check out. This is really cool. In terms of execution layer clients, I remember mentioning that I guess like before the merge happened and a couple of months after the merge happened, that the execution layer clients, except get, weren't up to kind of scratch yet. In terms of being able to rely on them like you could with Geth, being able to, for them to perform it, being able to run them on kind of like lower specced hardware. Well, it seems that Nethermind has made massive strides lately. It's, they've cut a lot of their memory usage requirements down a lot, and people are having great success running them. I spun up a new nethermind node yet.
00:05:40.484 - 00:06:10.092, Speaker A: I mean, I'm meaning to because I want to try out the experience thinking from sinking from scratch again and see how that goes there. But it's not just them, it's the other clients as well, such as base, who is available and has been getting a lot better. I've heard from a lot of people. There's also breath, which is, which is a newer client, from paradigm folks to there. And I'm forgetting another client, Aragon. Aragon. Aragon has been making strides as well, but obviously they're probably a lot more focused on the archive noted side of things.
00:06:10.092 - 00:06:32.412, Speaker A: But yeah, you can try running Aragon, of course, but in terms of client diversity, any of those will work, except geth, because get is still quite dominant. Not that dominant. I mean, it went to about 60%. Now it's back up to 63%. But as long as it's below 66%, that is the critical threshold. It's, it's, it's, it's, it's okay, right? Obviously, ideally we want it below 50%. So if you are running geth, consider running Nethermind.
00:06:32.412 - 00:07:23.622, Speaker A: Now, maybe if you've had some, I guess, bad luck with nevermind in the past, maybe it was too resource intensive for what you were running. Well, if you haven't tried it lately, I suggest doing so. But also if you want to try something else, such as Basil and Aragon, you can do that as well. Now from my experience, the best way to do this is not to just kind of replace your existing execution layer node if you're a solo staker, because obviously that will mean that while this is kind of sinking, you can keep the other one online and then obviously take that offline and put this and use the new one that you've synced. But then if something goes wrong, it'll send your validators offline and you will lose, we won't get rewards or you'll be penalized for being offline. So from that point of view, what I like to do is if you have the ability to do this, I basically sync the node on a separate piece of hardware and then just run it and see how it goes for a few days. And if all is well and good, then I kind of change over then.
00:07:23.622 - 00:08:07.794, Speaker A: But obviously a few days is, you know, it could be a few weeks, could be a few days, whatever you want to do here. But yeah, consider changing if you're running geth, just, just for client diversity purposes, of course. But also it's good to support these other teams building these clients because they've been working really hard on this for a really long time. And we want to encourage their work, we want to support their work as best we can. All right, so Lao Tzu here from the scroll R and D team put together a really great resource over the weekend called Ethereum protocol updates. Now this is basically a, I guess, running resource that they're going to be doing, covering all the protocol updates over the week. So you can see here, this is a live document.
00:08:07.794 - 00:08:47.796, Speaker A: So he's, he's got week one here and then week two here, which, and the dates covered the 20th of the first to the 11th of the second. And this goes through a lot of the things happening at both the execution layer and the consensus layer. And this is really, really good. I mean, honestly, the amount of information that he's been able to pack into this is, is crazy. And this is being done bi weekly. So, and it's an open source project for the community to understand the latest progress of Ethereum protocol research and development and for you to just stay on top of things on the protocol side. Now, I've been using this since I discovered it to go through and click through on all the links to learn more about the Ethereum core protocol.
00:08:47.796 - 00:09:13.874, Speaker A: And as I said, it's just, it's an amazing resource. It really has become a bible of sorts for me, for Ethereum protocol development. And it's only been kind of two updates so far, but they're so jam packed that I haven't even been able to get through it all yet. So yeah, you can go check this out for yourself. It'll be linked in the YouTube description below. But this is great. I mean, as I said before, talking about Tim Bico's thread, you know, he does those threads, other people do threads and blog posts on things, but they're, they never go into this much detail.
00:09:13.874 - 00:09:42.894, Speaker A: Right? Which is fine. I mean, the, the threads are really for the, the kind of more high level stuff. And if you want to dive in deeper, you can go to the GitHub and go into the Discord channels and the ETH research forum and things like that. But this, is this what, what Laos Lazari Laozoo is doing here is they're basically curating all this for you so that you don't have to go search for it yourself. So I hope that they keep this effort up because it's a, it's a very valuable effort, I believe, and just wanted to highlight it for you guys. So I'll link this in the YouTube description below. You can go check it out.
00:09:42.894 - 00:10:16.714, Speaker A: All right. Domothy has another tweet, another banger tweet that I wanted to talk about. So that he started off this thread by saying block space is the thing that's being used for innovation and growth and it's inflationary. 15 million new units issued every 12 seconds. Now, the units here are being referenced are gas on the Ethereum network, and the only way you can buy it is by acquiring and burning ETH, and it's in high enough demand that it's being sold at a profit. Now this was Domothy quote tweeting someone who was confused about how a deflation health's potential growth of the Ethereum network. Now there's two things I wanted to focus on here.
00:10:16.714 - 00:10:43.724, Speaker A: First thing was this framing of that Ethereum block. Splay block space is inflationary. Uh, is actually really cool. And I've never, I've never kind of like, heard someone articulate it this way because, yes, Ethereum blocks place is inflationary. Every 12 seconds we issue a new block that contains 15 million new units of gas. And anything can be, uh, you know, can obviously use that gas as long as it's following the protocol rules. And in order to use that gas, you need to pay ETH.
00:10:43.724 - 00:10:58.646, Speaker A: And obviously most of that ETH is burned as part of the EIP 1559 mechanism. Now, the 15 million unit is not set in stone. That is variable. That's the gas limit. That can vary from 15 million. It can go down to 10 million, it can go up to 20 million. The number is really arbitrary.
00:10:58.646 - 00:11:36.390, Speaker A: It's honestly, it can be any number you want it to be. And the way it's changed, I'm not going to go into that now, but the way it's changed is basically the, before it was the miners voting on it, now it could be the validators voting on what to change it to in order to effectively change Ethereum's block size here now. But the. Every 12 seconds, well, that, for now at least, is set in stone. Can't be changed unless there's a protocol level change put in place. Such as? Such as a hard fork that changes Ethereum block times or slot times, I should say, from 12 seconds to some other number there. So that 12 seconds is set in stone, 15 million is set in stone most of the time until it's kind of changed.
00:11:36.390 - 00:12:22.040, Speaker A: It doesn't require a hard fork to change it. That's why I'm trying to make the delineation here so we can safely say for the foreseeable future, there's 15 million new units issued every 12 seconds. And to access those new units, you need to buy ETH or acquire ETH, and you need to use that ETH, which in turn burns most of it. And then Domothy continues by saying, you know, that a block space is in high enough demand that it's being sold at a profit, which means that the block space is making up for the issuance. So I've described this before, and this is all about, obviously, ultrasound money and ETH being deflationary, how the protocol issues new ETH to validators. Now, to offset that new issuance, we need to be above what's called the ultrasound barrier in terms of gas fees. The ultrasound barrier is currently at around 16 way.
00:12:22.040 - 00:12:50.064, Speaker A: So as long as the network is above 16 way, the. The more ETH is being burned that is being issued. And you could say that in, you know, I mean, it's not an exact science here, but you can say in so many words that the Ethereum protocol is in profit. It is selling its block space at a profit because it is not, is not running at a. Sorry, it's above the ultrasound barrier. So if it was below, obviously, that'd be a different kind of terminology there. But it is above there.
00:12:50.064 - 00:13:24.736, Speaker A: And this is one thing I think a lot of people miss, or I guess, misunderstand about Ethereum's deflationary properties. It doesn't just happen. It has to be earned. The Ethereum or ETH can't be deflationary unless we're above that ultrasound barrier. It's just, that's not how it works at all. The only. I mean, okay, to be fair, the only way it would work is if people were burning ETH on their own, not using it as fees, literally throwing Ethan to the burner dress on their own to offset the new issuance, which is obviously not going to happen because that, that's a lot of ETH, and no one's going to voluntarily, or at least most people aren't going to voluntarily burn their ETH like that.
00:13:24.736 - 00:14:02.246, Speaker A: So the only way it really happens in reality is via this, this burn. And the only way that ETH is burned is if it's actually used on the network, because people say, oh, won't deflationary ETH or deflationary currency generally, won't that lead to people hoarding and not wanting to spend it? It's like, yeah, yes, okay, in a normal system, but I mean, Ethereum is not a normal system. It's been engineered in order to have the best of all worlds. And this is what I've talked about a lot in the past. But the best of all worlds here is the fact that ETH can be deflationary while still needing utility to make it deflationary. It's not just deflationary. For the sake of it, you have to use ETH.
00:14:02.246 - 00:14:21.560, Speaker A: Now, if people aren't using it because they're hoarding it, then it is not going to be deflationary because that. The ultrasound barrier. Sorry, the. The gas fees on the network will be below that ultrasound barrier. So, Ethel, be inflationary again, but overall, inflationary, deflationary? I don't actually think it matters that much. I think people put too much emphasis on this. I know I've talked about it a lot in the past.
00:14:21.560 - 00:14:44.526, Speaker A: I know I get excited whenever we see ETH go to go deflationary, but for me, it's become more of a marketing thing. The ultrasound money terminology is a meme. People take it too seriously. It really is a meme. And the best memes actually are the ones that people take too seriously and get upset about because it gives them a lot of reach, it gives them a lot of free marketing, and that's what it is to me. So ETH being deflationary has to be earned. Ultrasound money, to me, is more of a meme than anything else.
00:14:44.526 - 00:14:59.422, Speaker A: It's not meant to be that descriptive. That's actually meant to be making fun of bitcoin is calling BTC sound money. That's pretty obvious. And it was actually started like that. Justin Drake came up with that idea. Like, that's a known fact that that's how he came to that. And then other people kind of caught on to it.
00:14:59.422 - 00:15:38.932, Speaker A: It's like, yeah, this is a fun thing to, to, I guess, like poke fun at bitcoin is about, because they were obviously always poking fun at Ethereum generally, and it really annoys them. That's good, because it's free marketing for a theorem. Right? So, so when taking all that into account, ETH, there's saying that people aren't going to spend ETH because they're just going to hoard it. Because it's deflationary is wrong. Now, obviously, ETH has other properties that people think will make a go up in price, but that does not stop ETH from being used. I mean, ETH is being used so much like we're still in a bear market and we're above the ultrasound barrier. We are negative, like 30,000 ETH in issuance right now because people are using ETH so much because they want to access that block space.
00:15:38.932 - 00:16:04.272, Speaker A: Even though the block space is inflationary, it is limited per block. Right. And there are more valuable blocks and other blocks. Not all of these units are created equal, and that's where MeV enters. But when you're taking it in as a whole, the Ethereum network is just such a beautiful machine that has such a symbiotic relationship with all its parts, and that doesn't happen on its own. It's been engineered specifically to be like that. And I personally have been a part of those conversations for a very long time.
00:16:04.272 - 00:16:37.466, Speaker A: Being a part of making people aware of these things and being a part of actually pushing these things forward, that I get a little upset when I say people say things that don't really make sense and need to be corrected. Now, I understand that everyone's at the same level of knowledge that I am, and there's a lot of newer people in the ecosystem, but I guess, like, my pet peeve is when people talk with authority on a subject, when they don't actually know what they're talking about. And I know I've probably done it in the past where I made a mistake and I'm like, oh, I shouldn't have said that because it was. That wasn't actually accurate. Um, but I call them reply guys, right? We've all seen them on Twitter. They just reply and they don't know what they're talking about. And then you'll just.
00:16:37.466 - 00:17:11.318, Speaker A: I can't bother replying to them anymore. But there are plenty of them out there, so maybe I don't. I don't think any of you are any of that. But I figured it was worth bringing up. I figured it was worth framing the discussion again, just so you can potentially educate people as well as time goes on. Anyway, gonna leave that for now. I'm moving on to a tweet from Jesse Polak here, who's quoted David Hoffman, who was sharing an announcement from the rocker pool Discord channel that said that Coinbase Ventures has made a direct investment into the RPL token.
00:17:11.318 - 00:17:38.713, Speaker A: Now, I mentioned a week ago, a couple weeks ago, that Coinbase was looking to become an Odell member. And. And that I don't believe has happened yet. They'll be joining soon, hopefully. Obviously, if they're kind of, obviously through the voting process and things like that, they'll be on boarded into the Odell. But yeah, the fact that they've gone a step further and acquired RPL, which has been done, you know, way after the fact. Coinbase Ventures is normally a.
00:17:38.713 - 00:18:13.154, Speaker A: An arm of Coinbase that makes c or series A or private investments. Well, the fact that they've bought this RPO, I don't know if they bought it directly off the market or if they've kind of made, had a deal with the Rockapool team, but the fact that they've bought it so late after the fact of RPL coming out is a huge vote of confidence, I think, for Rocket Bull here. And as you guys know, I'm a huge fan of Coinbase. Lately they've been doing a ton of good stuff for Ethereum specifically, and this is just another one of those. So I just think this is just worth highlighting because it's really great. Obviously, I'm biased here because I'm an Odao member and I have RPL tokens. But come on, guys.
00:18:13.154 - 00:18:35.270, Speaker A: Like, ruggapool is awesome. Like there's. And I don't think there's, there's, there's much arguments against rockabool being awesome there. I know there's been a bit of drama recently, actually, around a certain individual. I'm not going to name his name, but if you know what I'm talking about, you know, I'm talking about making noise about the odour on Twitter. Look, the Odao is a point of contention for the rockable community. There's no hiding that fact for a number of different reasons.
00:18:35.270 - 00:19:12.568, Speaker A: Obviously, the biggest reason is the compensation amount that the Odow members are making at, you know, current prices of RPL. This can be anywhere from four to $500,000 a year. But when you look at it in a dollar's term, dollar terms. Right. Um, I think that's the incorrect way to look at it because as far as I know, and rocker pool people can correct me if I'm wrong, the inflation that went to ODA members has remained the same since it was incepted. And when it was incepted, RPL was around one to $2, which means that at most you are making, I think, a few thousand dollars if you join the Oda really early on a month. And I don't even think it was that much right, because up.
00:19:12.568 - 00:19:42.694, Speaker A: Because it was based on RPL tokens, not based on dollar values. Now, obviously the RPL token has done extremely well, which means that now the Odao members are making a lot of money right from this. And there are proposals being put forward to lower the inflation, inflationary rewards that go to the Odao, of which, I mean, obviously I can't really give a totally unbiased opinion here because I'm part of the Odao. But I'm happy that those discussions are happening. That's what an organic community should be doing. I know there's drama that involved in this sorts of stuff all the time. I mean, there always is, especially when it comes to money.
00:19:42.694 - 00:20:15.074, Speaker A: But I'm happy those discussions are happening. Now, the last thing I want to say on that, since I'm talking about it, I mean, I actually debated whether I should talk about it on the refill today, but I am. So let me continue here. Well, let me finish up here. When I look at the money that the ODA members are making, and again, I am biased here because I'm an ODA member, but when I look at the money that they are making, I kind of look at it in the terms of how big the protocol is. So right now, the rocket pool fully diluted valuation is 1.1 billion or 1 billion or something like that, right? So let's just say it's 1 billion for argument's sake.
00:20:15.074 - 00:20:50.016, Speaker A: Now we add up the amount of rewards that all the OdAo members are making. Let's say it's $10 million. I don't know if it's less or more than that, but give or take couple million dollars on either side. Let's just say 10 million for argument's sake. That is 1% going of, I guess like the market cap of rocket pool going to the ODA members who are responsible for a large number of things. I know that the things that they do may seem trivial to people because it's just software that runs on the computer and it's automated and the voting is kind of like a manual process, but it's a very easy process to do. And the tree gen.
00:20:50.016 - 00:21:19.224, Speaker A: Well, there are people that are pretty slow on the tree gen. I mean, I came third, right? I'm very proud of my third place. But you only need 50% quorum there. That gets done right. That gets done in a relatively timely manner. But when you look at it like from that point of view and where the Odao is, is a temporary vehicle as well, because eventually we want to phase out the Odao in favor of obviously making rocketball completely decentralized. I think that when looking at it in percentage terms instead of absolute dollar values, it makes sense.
00:21:19.224 - 00:22:09.394, Speaker A: Now, that's not to say that you shouldn't, that the rockable community shouldn't work to reduce the rewards if they feel that it is too high and if they feel that it is not actually the best use of the protocols RPL, because it comes out of the inflationary rewards that go to the protocol, 15% of the 5% yearly inflation goes to the OdAO members. So it's totally fine for the community to do that, but I think it should be done from a base of not maybe just doing it for the sake of it, but. But also understanding that the OdAO members have an important role in the rocker pool ecosystem. That it is hopefully. I mean, we all hope it is a temporary role. I mean, it is a temporary role, but we all hope it's not going to last like five years, right? We hope that it is. It can definitely be phased out over time to, to further strengthen the rocker pool protocol here.
00:22:09.394 - 00:22:45.554, Speaker A: But yeah, I mean, that's why I, when I look at the people kind of bringing up the dollar value, I'm like, yeah, okay, but you have to look at the fact that RPL went up over time. If you look at the fact that what the, what the ODA members actually do, you have to look at the fact that more, as more ODA members are added, it actually dilutes the rest of the ODA members. So it's more spread out, which is actually, I think, a better way of diluting the existing members than reducing the rewards. But you can do both, I guess, but, and they're probably both going to happen anyway. But, yeah, taking that all into account, I think that you can have a much healthier discussion starting from that base. At least that's my opinion there. But anyway, went off on the tangent there.
00:22:45.554 - 00:23:14.346, Speaker A: I'm going to leave that one at that. Just really cool to see Coinbase ventures getting more involved with rocket pool here. All right, so a tweet from Jesse Powell about the regulatory stuff that's been happening over the last, I guess, few weeks and few months now. So for those of you who don't know, Jesse is the co founder and CEO of Kraken. So he said here, I have a theory. Regulators let the bad guys get big and blow up because it serves their agenda. Step one, destroy capital resources in the crypto ecosystem.
00:23:14.346 - 00:23:34.164, Speaker A: Step two, burn people, deter adoption. Step three, give air cover to good actors. The bad guys are actually onside. Good guys are the enemies. And then he continues by saying, if the bad guys can run long enough without blowing up, they might just kill the good guys for you. Bad guys operate with huge competitive advantages. They suck up users revenue and venture capital that would otherwise have gone to good guys.
00:23:34.164 - 00:24:11.134, Speaker A: Bad guys can always be jailed later. Now, I don't think this just applies to the c five space. I definitely think this applies to the on chain kind of ecosystem as well, maybe even more so here. But I broadly agree with Jesse here in that I've said it before about the regulatory stuff. A lot of things blew up, right? And a lot of these things that blew up were things that the regulator seemed to either give a pass to not look at, ignore, and then once they blow up, the regulators come along like, oh my God, all these users got hurt. Now we have to go after these, you know, this exchange and that service and blah, blah and this and that. And they don't care if you're a good or bad guy.
00:24:11.134 - 00:24:28.676, Speaker A: They're just going to go after you. Indiscriminately we've seen that play out. Right. And I think the perfect example of this is what happened with FTX and the SEC. I mean, SPF may as well have been sleeping with Gary Gensler. That's how close they were based on the evidence that I've seen. I mean, obviously it's, it hasn't been proven or anything like that.
00:24:28.676 - 00:24:58.888, Speaker A: It's not been proven in a court of law. But there is, there's a lot of evidence that shows this and there's a lot of evidence that points to the fact that Gary Gensler was pretty close to giving the SPF and FTX a kind of safe harbor, which would have been obviously ridiculous. And now FTX is blown up. Gary Gensler and Sec has distanced themselves. They try to bury things under the rug. There was a whole positive spin campaign about SPF and now it's kind of like out of the news cycle. The SEC, the other regulators are coming in hot and they're like, you know, let's just tear everything apart.
00:24:58.888 - 00:25:36.824, Speaker A: We need to kind of go after these things because these things block. We're going to, quote unquote, protect investors, which is all bullshit, as we know. And they come at the legitimate players really hard, which is super frustrating, right? It's super frustrating for a number of different reasons, for obvious reason being that there's always all this uncertainty for teams. They've got no idea what they're, what they're allowed, allowed or not allowed to do. They have to hire these lawyers, which cost an arm and a legal. And they have, they're always handicapped by these things. They have to block users from the US, which is just crazy because for those of you in the US that see these, these lists of blocked areas, whenever you go to a website, it's like the US, North Korea, Russia, Iran.
00:25:36.824 - 00:26:11.356, Speaker A: Right? So the US is kind of like part of the group of countries that have been sanctioned by the US. So, you know, great company guys, all because the US regulatory apparatus is so hostile towards crypto. Now, will this change anytime soon? We don't know. We have to keep fighting. We have to keep fighting until something gives. We have to keep making sure that we inform the politicians, we inform the policymakers as much as we can. And, you know, there are some people that say, oh, well, okay, well, if in the US, the Republicans win the next election, everything will be okay.
00:26:11.356 - 00:26:42.356, Speaker A: I don't think so, guys. Like, I don't think this is really a, a thing where it's the Democrats that are doing this and the Republicans won't. I don't think we should be relying on that at all. I think that this thing shouldn't be drawn in the sand over party lines. I do think, obviously, there are politicians on, on either side that are friendly to crypto, that are not friendly to crypto. It doesn't really matter. And honestly, on net, I don't know, out of all the politicians in the US or all of Congress in the US, all the Senate and all of that, I don't know which ones are pro crypto and which aren't.
00:26:42.356 - 00:27:03.626, Speaker A: I believe a lot of them don't even have a stance on crypto, so we can't really read into that. But it does seem that there are more pro crypto Republicans than the Democrats. But again, I don't have a good view here. And honestly, I don't think it matters. I really don't, because at the end of the day, I don't actually trust many politicians. They say a lot of things and they go back on a lot of their promises. Most of their promises, if not some of them go back on all their promises.
00:27:03.626 - 00:27:34.394, Speaker A: Right. So I don't think we should be relying on that in saying that we still have to play in their sandbox because they have the power that they give the regulatory bodies the power to do this, and regulatory bodies, unfortunately, can even do their own things. And unless Congress stops them, they can just keep doing it. And we've seen that from the SEC. So taking all that into account, we need to keep fighting. Doesn't matter if you sit, what side of the political spectrum you sit on, support the politicians who are pro crypto, write to them. If you're, you know, write your representatives.
00:27:34.394 - 00:28:27.500, Speaker A: Make sure that you, that they know that you care about these issues, that you want the US to be a crypto hub. Because really, guys, like, I am looking at the US right now, and I'm looking at how hostile they are to crypto, and I'm looking at the fact that they're pushing everyone away from the US. And I'm thinking, is the US going to miss this massive kind of economic event? Are they just going to neuter it and then force it overseas? And is kind of, are the places in the world like the Middle east, like Asia, like, like even Russia, right, like Africa and India, are they going to take up the mantle? And is the US going to lose out? I actually think that's the way it's going right now. And now in terms of places that are growing really fast and they're actually embracing crypto Africa has actually surprised me. I've been digging deeper into Africa just generally lately. They're growing really fast. It seems they've kind of gotten past the extreme poverty that a lot of Africa suffered from, and they're kind of going into the developing.
00:28:27.500 - 00:29:03.960, Speaker A: Well, not, you know, there are obviously parts of South Africa that can be considered first world and have been developed, but there's a lot of Africa. Africa is a huge place, right? There's a lot of countries in Africa that are up and coming right now. And if they seize crypto, right, and they go through a similar growth period that China went through over the last 40 years of embracing capitalism, you know, developing their, their nation, having all these young people ready to work, ready to build businesses, well, they're going to have a really good time. While the US is pushing this stuff out. Africa will be like, you know, come here. And it's not just them, obviously, there's other places around the world as well. But I think that the US as a whole really needs to, and the politicians as a whole really need to.
00:29:03.960 - 00:29:26.084, Speaker A: To take a step back here and actually think about what they're doing. Because what they're doing right now is not great. Definitely not great for us based crypto. But anyway, gonna leave that rant there. I just realized I'm coming up on time here, but I got a bunch of other things to get through. Just an announcement from Coinbase that they're now supporting arbitrary. So you can now send and receive ETH, DAi and WBTC on arbitrary directly from your Coinbase account.
00:29:26.084 - 00:29:49.578, Speaker A: Now, this is huge, honestly. Like, I know Coinbase has already been supporting optimism and. But now they're supporting Arbitrum. So they're supporting two of the biggest L2s on Ethereum right now. And this is really going to be great for a lot of users not having to go to a theorem layer one in order to bridge their assets to arbitram. Being able to go straight from Coinbase to arbitram, and obviously optimism and. And the polygon pos chain they support as well is.
00:29:49.578 - 00:30:06.254, Speaker A: Is very cool here. So kudos to Coinbase for doing this. Love seeing them, them, them being progressive here with the L2s. A pretty big announcement out of Zksync. So they've renamed Zksync 2.0 to the Zksync era. So this is.
00:30:06.254 - 00:30:47.394, Speaker A: They're claiming to be Ethereum's first ZkvM. I mean, this first ZkvM meme is hilarious. Everyone claims to be the first ZkVM, but anyway, there. And as well as changing the name, they've opened mainnet to builders of their ZkvM and open sourcing the entire code base. So what this means is basically it's similar to how Arbitrum did their launch where they basically open up, open it up to a developers for about a month before Mainnet went live for users so that debs could get all their projects live, test them out, make sure that it's all good for users and then users could have something to play around with once it was live. So obviously this makes a lot of sense and I'm glad to see Zksync doing this. I am looking forward to this going live on, on Mainnet Zksync era.
00:30:47.394 - 00:31:18.682, Speaker A: There hasn't been a date given yet, but I'm really much looking forward to it because as I said guys, I feel like all the ZKVM's are going to be coming online around, around about the same time. Polygon has already committed to a date of March 27 for their main net. ZK sync seems very, very close, you know, in the next month or so. And then there is a scroll as well, which is currently in their alpha, but they shouldn't be too far behind in terms of launching their main net. So we're really gonna see these things tested in the wild finally. It's not just gonna be promises. No, it's not just gonna be, oh yeah, we're first, you know, we're the first AKVM.
00:31:18.682 - 00:31:51.458, Speaker A: It's gonna be okay. Who has the apps? Who has the users? Who has the liquidity? Whose main net actually is stable and reliable? Whose is easier to use? Who's this cheaper? Right. That obviously plays into things as well. And that's all going to be live for us to see what a glorious time to be an ethereum user where we have so many options of which of these kind of L2s to use. Guys, I know pretty much all of them are still centralized, I get that. And obviously don't put more money on there than you, you're comfortable risking here. But at the end of the day, they are still kind of like roll ups, right? They're still ZkVM's.
00:31:51.458 - 00:32:12.234, Speaker A: Yes. They're not in their final phase and won't be for quite a while, but they're, they're getting there, right? And they've, they've come a lot earlier than I think a lot of people thought, as I've mentioned plenty of times. So great to see this from Zksync. You can read the full thread and announcement blog post, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. All right, so. Oh, this is a double up. This was just arbitrary quote tweeting Coinbase about being supported.
00:32:12.234 - 00:32:44.318, Speaker A: Yeah. So speaking of Polygon, ZKVM Mainnet. So David Schwartz here, who is work, who's the co founder of the Polygon Hermes team, has said that their definition of polygon, sorry, polygons definition of a ZKVM main net is that it's complete, proving all the execution. It's permissionless, completely audited and performant. Does it make sense? Don't trust self claims, do your own research or ask for details. And then David shares some of those here. And this is what I was saying just before about how there's all these promises out there, there's always marketing, there's all this kind of like meming.
00:32:44.318 - 00:33:00.092, Speaker A: But the real test is when it's on main net and also defining what a ZKVM mainnet looks like. And I think this is a pretty good definition. You know, it's complete, it's proving all the execution. I mean, that's, that's true. That should be a given. It's permissionless. That obviously is something that we would love to see.
00:33:00.092 - 00:33:26.884, Speaker A: I don't think it's necessarily critical because you can still have a ZK VM and it be permissioned and it, even if it's just for a short period of time, I think that would be okay. Because right now, technically, ZK sync is permissioned because it's just open to developers. So that's fine. But obviously we want them all to be permissionless, completely audited. Again, that needs to be a kind of critical thing. You shouldn't be going live without audits at all. And performance, obviously, that is, I guess.
00:33:26.884 - 00:34:08.478, Speaker A: Well, I don't know if it's subjective, but it's obviously on a scale, right? Some will be performed more performant than others, the performance will change over time. Some Zkvms will be cheaper than some others, and then those other ones will get flipped by other ones and, and then, and it'll be kind of like a race to the bottom on fees. So there is some nuance here, but generally I agree with this, this definition from, from David. But yeah, you can read the thread. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. Just a blog post here from Patrick McQuarrie titled where is the one honest party for a roll up? Is it a sequencer, an executor? What problems arise? So this is talking about the honest parties in roll ups and kind of where they are and what and the details around it and how it's, you know, how it's considered safe and all that sort of stuff. So you can go check out this blog post.
00:34:08.478 - 00:34:49.248, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below, but I'm not going to try and tldr it for you guys. I highly recommend giving it a read. Last couple of updates here. So Fi has raised a $2 million seed round led by chapter one, Delphi Digital and followed by Polygon and a bunch of amazing builders. Now, disclosure here, I invested in fire a little while ago and as part of this round, of course, and I've highlighted them a bunch on the refuel before as well. But the reason why I'm excited about Fi is because you guys know I prefer to invest in the infrastructure when it comes to NfT stuff rather than the nfts themselves. And I looked at fire and I was like, okay, they want to create what they're calling a web3 social world.
00:34:49.248 - 00:35:19.150, Speaker A: And I've talked about this before about how in the fire world it basically takes your on chain footprint and creates like 3d images of it, or I guess like items in the, in the world, be it statues or buildings or whatever, and you can build your own little world there. Now, the reason why this spoke to me a lot is because I love the building simulation games. I've been playing them for a very long time. I sometimes get stuck on them to the point where I play hundreds and hundreds of hours of them without even realizing. And I've loved them for a very long time. I don't play them as much these days. I just don't have the time.
00:35:19.150 - 00:35:52.228, Speaker A: But definitely I used to be very, very big into them. And you know, my favorite one, it's kind of hard to pick a favorite here. I've tried a lot of them in the past here, but it's very hard to pick a favorite. I did really, really enjoy oxygen not included, which is a bit different to your typical kind of isometric top down one, but definitely very, very fun. I played that for, for quite a while and had a lot of fun with that. But there is so many of these. There's rim world, there's dwarf fortress, and each of them have, you know, their own kind of like quirks and their own skill levels and things like that.
00:35:52.228 - 00:36:13.378, Speaker A: But I looked at fire and I'm like, you know what, this is really cool. I think being able to take your on chain footprint and be able to flex in a way in your own little world. Be able to create your own little metaverse, I think is a really big deal. So I was happy to support fire here, and I've been really impressed with the pros that they've been making and really excited about them. But anyway, enough gushing about them. You can go check out this. I'll link it in the YouTube description below.
00:36:13.378 - 00:36:49.896, Speaker A: And finally here. Okay, this is going to be a few minute discussion. So just to wrap this up, there has been a war happening. So the blur NFT marketplace went kind of live over the weekend, or at least kind of like, I don't know, I think I did another airdrop and then they kind of started incentivizing trading with their token. I think that had been live for a little while, but they put their token live and it started this frenzy. And what they did was they, I think, put their fees to zero on the blur NFT marketplace. And they also don't have it, don't enforce royalties on the marketplace or creator earnings.
00:36:49.896 - 00:37:27.112, Speaker A: Now because of this, OpenSea was forced to respond and OpenSea made some big changes themselves. So they've dropped their fees to 0% and they're saying for a limited time, we'll see how limited that time actually is. They've moved to optional crater earnings for all collections with without on chain enforcement. And marketplaces with the same policies will not be blocked by the operator filter. So the reason why they've done this is because they're feeling the pressure. This reminded me of what happened when Sushiswap launched and kind of like did the vampire attack on Uniswap and then Uniswap counter launched a vampire attack on them with their own token. And Uniswap ended up winning in the end.
00:37:27.112 - 00:37:51.910, Speaker A: But I don't think it's because of the token. I think Uniswap just ended up being much better product, obviously. And Suzu shops struggled from trying to be, I guess, like a dow too early on, like a true dow too early on, but that this isn't about them, this is about at the NFT ecosystem. Now, I think fees are erased to the bottom generally. I really do, especially for the app layer, for blockchains, it's different. And that's a whole different discussion. So I'm not gonna get into that.
00:37:51.910 - 00:38:14.290, Speaker A: But for the app layer, there's not. I think apps think that they have a moat that they really don't, especially when it comes to things that aren't forced, aren't enforced on chain. Because at the end of the day, your NFT exists on chain. You can go trade that on whatever marketplace you want to trade it on. You're not forced to trade it on Opensea. Right. And you're not forced to buy nfts on Opensea.
00:38:14.290 - 00:38:34.962, Speaker A: You're not forced to, as I said, sell them on open sea. Trade them on open sea, whatever. You can go use whatever, whichever marketplace you want. And blur, what they did was they dropped their fees. They did their token to incentivize people to trade on there. They made something of a pro interface, so they were able to suck up a lot of liquidity really quickly. And I don't trade nfts that often.
00:38:34.962 - 00:38:52.914, Speaker A: Pretty much, pretty much rarely. But I use blur and I'm like, okay, yeah, this is a pro interface, and it feels just so much better than Opensea. There was no lag. Everything was at a glance for me to look at. Yes. Took a bit of getting used to because there's a lot of information there, but I really, really enjoyed it. Now, if you're like me and you like those kind of interfaces, you're not going back to Opensea, right.
00:38:52.914 - 00:39:17.538, Speaker A: Opensea is considered the, I guess, normie marketplace. And that's what I say. Opensea is a bad thing. But if you're in regular NFTs, NFT Trader, you're not going to want to use Opensea anymore. You're going to go and use blur. If you're a pro trader, if you're someone that's doing a lot of, you know, day to day trading of NFTs and speculating on them, you're probably going to go use blur now. Especially because the fees are lower, right? Especially because the fees lower not only for the platform fees, but also for the royalties and creator earnings.
00:39:17.538 - 00:39:45.348, Speaker A: Now, of course, the creator earnings and rolls is a whole different discussion that I don't really have any opinions on. As I said, I'm not really too in tune with the NFT ecosystem. But if anything, that's not enforced on chain was only enforced at the kind of like app level or at the, the marketplace level is very easy to get around. Very. And it's very temporary. It's not something that's sustainable. So if you do want to inbuilt royalties into things, you can enforce them on chain, but even that is workaroundable.
00:39:45.348 - 00:40:05.378, Speaker A: You can just wrap the asset and get around that sorts of stuff as well. Unless you do it on transfer, but then you punish the users who want to transfer to other wallets and transfer things for free. It's a mess. Right. But there are some ways to do it. That, that I'm not going to discuss now. I've seen discussions around, don't know if it's foolproof or not, but yeah, there are options here.
00:40:05.378 - 00:40:22.394, Speaker A: But yeah, that was the whole drama, the TLDR of the drama over the last few days around that. But yeah, I think on that note, that's going to be it for today's longer episode. So thank you, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
