00:00:00.400 - 00:00:36.584, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Way refuel, where I recap the latex news and Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today's the 12 August 2021. Right, everyone, let's get right into it. So, a bit of drama on crypto Twitter over the last 24 hours are two bits of drama, actually. One involving Jack, the co founder and CEO of Twitter, and the other involving optimism, sushiswap, uniswap, you know, you name it. There's a, there's a lot of drama going on right now, but I wanted to start with kind of like this tweet that Jack put out. So he originally put out a tweet saying that he used this tool to create and sync a list of accounts on Twitter or whatever.
00:00:36.584 - 00:01:18.616, Speaker A: But in his screenshot of that's attached to his tweet here, he's got a tweet from grubbles, who is someone who works at blockstream and is notorious for trolling, not just trolling Ethereum, but spreading misinformation about Ethereum, you know, for many years now, I mean, I have actually looked up his Twitter profile stats before, and he talks about a theory more than he talks about bitcoin, which is just hilarious. But anyway, in the, in the screenshot in Grabbles has a tweet where it. Where he says the Ethereum foundation is bankrolled by their premium. Them paying a researcher who's going on podcast proclaiming. Proclaiming Ethereum is bitcoin is exactly why we consider it a scam. And he's been calling, you know, obviously ethereum a scam for quite a while now. And, you know, Jack having this tweet in his screenshot is not a coincidence.
00:01:18.616 - 00:01:54.590, Speaker A: Like, I, as soon as I saw this, I was like, yeah, this is in no way a coincidence. Like, he's doing this on purpose, because it's no secret that Jack does not like Ethereum. Now, you can see here in my screenshot, I screenshot Udi basically saying Alameo. The tweet in the screenshot, like, pointing out the fact that this tweet's there. Then someone else says, total coincidence, I'm sure, alameo. And then Jack goes on to say there are no coincidences. So, I mean, he's being pretty brazen about the fact that he thinks Ethereum is a scam, and he thinks, and he doesn't like it, which, I mean, I could go on for a while, but I won't, about why I think he's so misguided here.
00:01:54.590 - 00:02:47.534, Speaker A: And why? I am just like incredibly disappointed in this, incredibly sad to see this. But at the same time, Jack represents everything that we're trying to disrupt within Ethereum. He's not only, not only the founder of a centralized social media website that obviously we all know and love and all use, that being Twitter, but he's also the founder or co founder of Square, which is a payments app, like a centralized payments rail, like fintech, whatever you want to call it. And Ethereum is working to disrupt that too. So from that point of view, it makes sense that he doesn't like Ethereum because Ethereum is disrupting his business model, always poised to disrupt his businesses. Because if we do kind of like crack the web, three decentralized social media, not, and have something like a Twitter competitor out of that, that basically gets usage and actually scales while, you know, that's a threat to Twitter. And then Defi is definitely a threat to something like square, a big threat, whereas bitcoin isn't a threat.
00:02:47.534 - 00:03:11.434, Speaker A: Like, Jack is obviously a very big fan of bitcoin. He's been promoting the lightning network and things like that. But those things I wouldn't consider like a threat to square, to be honest, I would consider them more complementary. So that's probably why he's focused on it. Um, but yeah, I mean, he's just being so brazen about it now. He's not shy to say that he thinks Ethereum is a scam, um, in so many words. I mean, he's not saying it directly, but he is implying it from these screenshots.
00:03:11.434 - 00:03:43.534, Speaker A: And it's just incredibly sad to see. And in my follow up tweet here, I said, you know, the amount of bullshit Ethereum has had to contend with over the years is absolutely staggering. And any of you who have been around for a few years will know what I mean. Uh, you know, people with massive followings calling it a scam or implying that it is a scam is just a cherry on top of all the other stuff that we've had to deal with. And yet ethereum is still here, it's still thriving, and it's still going to flip bitcoin. Like, I have no doubt in my mind about that. But yeah, I mean, just as someone who is like, so deeply involved in this ecosystem, it is so sad to see this.
00:03:43.534 - 00:04:30.950, Speaker A: It is so disappointing to see this. And at the end of the day, if Jack wants to play this game, then I'm going to hit back. Like, I'm going to keep working towards making, making sure Ethereum puts bitcoin is in their place because I think at this point, the flipping, I not only want it to happen because I believe Ethereum should be on top, I also want it to happen because I believe it will finally put bitcoin is in their place and get them to kind of like, you know, they'll lose the narrative, essentially. They'll lose the narrative that they're the biggest thing ever, that nothing can ever flip it, whatever. And I'll lose a lot of their kind of, like, narrative power. And, you know, another reason why I really don't like the fact that Jack is so against Ethereum is because he could be doing any number of things to limit the reach of Ethereum on Twitter. Right? Like, for example, these could be subtle things where he essentially, you know, when you follow a new account on Twitter, instead of him suggesting Ethereum people, he suggests bitcoin Max.
00:04:30.950 - 00:04:45.950, Speaker A: Right? And he's not doing this directly. It's obviously Twitter. And, you know, being the. I pretty sure he's the majority owner of Twitter still. He would have, like, direct power over what happens there. And I'm sure there's other bitcoin Maximus working at Twitter. So I don't think it's a conspiracy to kind of have these thoughts.
00:04:45.950 - 00:05:13.208, Speaker A: And that that is just, like, even more dangerous. And, you know, at times, I feel like I can't even talk against Jack because my account will just get banned or something like that. And that really is just coming back to what the perils of centralization are, is the fact that I'm. I'm scared to post things because you've got this guy who's openly hostile to Ethereum, and I am like, obviously someone who's big in the Ethereum community, and I don't want to get my account banned. You say, I didn't. I didn't tag Jack in this or anything like that. I didn't want to get his attention, but I still wanted to call this crap out.
00:05:13.208 - 00:05:33.762, Speaker A: Um, you know, I once actually got a reply from Jack a while ago when I called out, um, uh, something on Twitter. It was a long time ago now I think it was 2019. And. And since then, I just haven't tagged him or anything. I just don't want to draw the attention of him because, you know, he could shadow ban my account. There's, like, then there's nothing I could do about it. Like, I could put in a support request to Twitter or whatever, but they could easily ignore that.
00:05:33.762 - 00:06:00.354, Speaker A: Like, I could be put on some blacklist or whatever. I mean, this hasn't just, this isn't just a threat against me. This happened to other people on Twitter before, and this is just like the perils of centralization. So I'm really hoping that Ave comes through with their decentralized Twitter that they're trying to build and it actually kind of gets a network effect. But it's very hard. I mean, you know, getting people to change from, like, Twitter to something else would be, I think, a very hard thing to do. You could maybe bootstrap it with some kind of monetary incentives or whatever.
00:06:00.354 - 00:06:37.846, Speaker A: But still, it'll take a while to get there. I mean, I'd be one of the first people on there for sure. Like, I would love to, to even be there during, like, the alpha stages of it and trying it out and building an audience on there and making sure that, you know, I feel safe, I guess, like, on there, but, and I could call out whoever I wanted for spreading crap and not, you know, have fear of repercussions. But, yeah, I guess, like that's, that's kind of like how I'm viewing those things. But, yeah, generally not, not very fun that, that Jack is kind of doing this so openly now. And I do, you know, I do think he just really hasn't sat down with anyone in the Ethereum community and talked to them about Ethereum. I think he sat down with bitcoin maximalists.
00:06:37.846 - 00:07:05.288, Speaker A: They've given him their version of Ethereum and he's just, you know, eating it up, which just puzzles me. But at the same time, I guess if you look at his incentives, he's, you know, obviously Ethereum is disrupting or it can disrupt both of both of these companies. So we'll have to see how that plays out. But I think I want to move on to the next stuff here. But I guess, like, generally just like, sad to see this, not unexpected, sad to see. But there was drama around. Actually, I'm going to move this tweet over here.
00:07:05.288 - 00:07:33.056, Speaker A: There was drama around, like optimism. Sushi swap uniswap yesterday, you might have seen it, I quote, tweeted Joseph's tweet here. And then I woke up to a flurry of messages and I was like, oh, God, I shouldn't have tweeted at 01:00 a.m. But anyway, what Joseph said here is any touches a screenshot, he's tweet Joseph DeLong. He works at sushi. He said why sushi isn't coming to optimism or at bare minimum, is taking a wait and see approach that prefers credible credibly. Neutral platforms like arbitrum.
00:07:33.056 - 00:08:04.104, Speaker A: And then he puts together a thread. But in the screenshot, he has a message that he sent in, I assume the optimism discord, where he says, no offense, but we aren't super eager to deploy yet. We were really disappointed in the non preferential treatment we got. Feel free to whitelist us, but I think we might wait and see what happens. So what Joseph was implying here, that there was a bit of favoritism going on where Sushiswap was kind of like not being prioritized for deployment, and it was, you know, it wasn't a first come, first serve base basis with. With apps on optimism. And that optimism was like favoring uniswap and other platforms or whatever.
00:08:04.104 - 00:08:31.456, Speaker A: Now, the funny thing is, is that if you're newer to this ecosystem, you won't be aware of the relationship optimism, the optimism team and the new sub team has. And this. Right. This relationship goes back very far. It goes back to, I mean, I would say, like, the people involved in both teams, they have been working together and friends since, like, the earliest days of Ethereum. That's how far it goes back in uniswap and optimism. And then optimism have been working with Uniswap for a while.
00:08:31.456 - 00:08:56.232, Speaker A: I mean, they did the Unipig demo exchange back in 2019, so that was a while ago now. And obviously uniswap v three is now live on optimism. They were one of the first apps to kind of like, want to get on there now. I guess what Joseph was implying is that because of that connection, um, they're getting preferential treatment. And, you know, I'm not going to say that. I know if they are or aren't. Uh, like, it feels like a bit of a he said, she said after going through all the different kind of, like, replies and everything here.
00:08:56.232 - 00:09:28.786, Speaker A: Um, but, yeah, Joseph goes on to say, like, after deploying on Optimism's Covan testnet and preparing sushi for. For deployments, uh, we were ready. They were ready to deploy, and we're waiting for the first opportunity. So we're scheduled a call with optimism. Uh, but after a long discussion with lots of dancing around, uh, we finally asked point blank, are we going to be treated equally on deployment? That is when they told us that Uniswap had to go first, meaning we were boxed out of a deployment until Uniswap. Now, the optimism team kind of, like, hit back on this and said that it was a first come, first serve basis. And.
00:09:28.786 - 00:10:09.804, Speaker A: And I think this is where maybe the wording got mixed up in. Or maybe that communications were, like, poor or where kind of like crypto Twitter got their, their pitchforks out. Because you can see here, uh, that is when the team told us point blank that Uniswap had to go first. Now, the screenshot that he's kind of, like, referencing here is not like the message that he was sent. But if Uniswap came first, which they did, I mean, I'm pretty sure Uniswap was. I mean, synthetix was, was really early, but I'm pretty sure Uniswap was the first ever team to basically say to optimism, hey, we want to deploy uniswap pl when it's ready. So if, if optimism was doing, like, a first come, first serve basis for whitelisting, then uniswap definitely was first.
00:10:09.804 - 00:10:34.374, Speaker A: Like, I don't think there's any doubt about that. But if they did say that Uniswap had to go first because of preferential treatment, well, that's another thing. But, I mean, it's kind of hard to tell what the truth is here, right? But then essentially, I mean, there's a bit more in the thread here. And I'll link this to, you can go through all the comments. There's so many comments here, but I'm trying to summarize it, summarize it as best I can. I put out maybe an ill thought out tweet. And you can see here, I mean, it was 12:16 a.m.
00:10:34.374 - 00:10:52.502, Speaker A: When I put this out, where I quote, Twitter, Joseph's tweet. And I said, disappointed to see this. I'm only long term bullish on credibly neutral and permissionless platforms, whether that be on layer one or layer, too. There's no place in this ecosystem for walled garden. Walled gardens. I hope the optimism team rectifies this. Now, my mistake was just taking Joseph Eddie's word.
00:10:52.502 - 00:11:27.980, Speaker A: Now, I'm not saying Joseph was lying or anything like that, but I shouldn't just, like, take one person's side of the story and then form an opinion on that. That was my bad, and I'll freely admit to that. And I put out a thread, which I'll go over in a sec, basically expanding on my thoughts here. But this is still true what I said here. I'm only long term bullish on credibly neutral and permission permissionless platforms, because generally, I think that if you create walled gardens, you lose all of the magic of this ecosystem. You lose, obviously, the permissionlessness, you lose the open nature, you lose the community support and everything kind of like that. So that statement that I made there is definitely still true.
00:11:27.980 - 00:11:50.850, Speaker A: And what I meant by I hope the optimism team rectifies this, is that I was hoping that they would have an open whitelist process like what arbitrum had, because I think that is the best and fairest way to do it. And you can do a first come, first serve basis like that. No reason you can't, as long as you explicitly state, okay, hey, we have like an open whitelist. It's first come, first serve. And that's it. As simple as that. And I think that's what arbitrum did, and it seems to have succeeded.
00:11:50.850 - 00:12:20.286, Speaker A: I'm going to talk about them in a little bit, but essentially this was ill advised here. And, you know, I'll go through my follow up tweet, but I got, I got like a bunch of comments from people I really respect in the industry, obviously, Kane here, Hayden, you know, Joseph replied, saying it means the backup means a lot. And, you know, I'm friends with Joseph. Like, he's a great guy. I'm nothing against him or anything like that. But, you know, you got to look at the incentives at play here. Of course, like, Joseph's part of Sushiswap, Hayden's part of Uniswap.
00:12:20.286 - 00:12:59.920, Speaker A: Optimism is close to uniswap. Uniswap and sushi swap don't get along because sushi was originally a fork of Uniswap. And there's all kinds of, like, banter and politics going on here. So there's so much, like, background stuff you have to know about this to really dig in and see what's happening here. And that's another reason why my tweet here was ill advised is because I know all of these background stuff and I shouldn't have said anything, but, you know, just to clear it up there. Um, but then I basically put together kind of my tweet thread here, which is a follow up today after I woke up to a flurry of messages, honestly, and it was, um, a funny flurry of notifications and, uh, uh, kind of like I felt really bad. So I basically said, you know, I was, I replied to jing first.
00:12:59.920 - 00:13:20.966, Speaker A: Who is the. I'm pretty much one of the founders or co founders of Optimism, saying that I've been a massive fan of the work that their team has been doing as part of plasma group and optimism. I have covered it all, obviously. I talk about it all the time on the refuel and everything like that. And I even remembered where I was when I first tried out the Unipig exchange demo. I was literally, like, I remember exactly in my head. I can picture it.
00:13:20.966 - 00:13:51.006, Speaker A: I was on, like, the side of the street waiting for a cab in Osaka in Japan because it was Devcon and I had it up on my phone. I was like, oh, my God, this is so awesome. Like, this feels like a turning point for Ethereum, L2 and was the first, like, real roll up thing that end users could actually, you know, play around with. So I was, like, super excited about it. And then, you know, I basically apologize to Kane as well, who's been building with, with synthetics and optimism for quite a while. And I wasn't trying to concern troll, as he said in his reply to me. I was legitimately concerned because I don't want to see optimism fail.
00:13:51.006 - 00:14:21.032, Speaker A: I want to see them succeed as much as I want to see all the other L2 succeed. I know how much work they've put into it. I know how much pioneering kind of stuff that they've done. And the technology is real and it works, so I don't want to see them fail. And then, I mean, Hayden basically, he didn't, he didn't annoy me or anything like that. He kind of made me sad because he basically said, you know, crypto Twitter, not sure crypto Twitter influencers realize how harmful it is to the builders in this space to put out tweets like this. And the thing is, is that I do, I do realize it.
00:14:21.032 - 00:15:11.156, Speaker A: That's why this tweet was ill advised. But, you know, I said that it saddened me and then I went on to apologize and me and Hayden being the awesome guy that he is, basically, I guess, like, apologized hearing and Kane basically, you know, thanked me for my work and stuff like that, which I thought was really cool. But anyway, and then Calvin Fikner, who fictor, who works at optimism, asking how to rectify the situation. And all I said was that having an open whitelist process like arbitrarium would be, I guess, the best way because it's credibly neutral and fair as possible during kind of like a whitelist phase. So, yeah, that's the, I guess, like the TL doctor of the drama that's gone on. And then optimism also put out, like, a tweet thread on their end saying they are whitelisting projects as quickly as possible and still maintain the safety of an alpha system Uniswap ahead of, deployed ahead of Sushiswap because they engaged with us 1.5 years ago.
00:15:11.156 - 00:15:43.274, Speaker A: See, as I explained, Uniswap was the very first team to engage with optimism long before Sushi swap. First in, first out is not playing favorites. And I agree with this. I agree with this. But again, he said, she said, you know, but at the same time, like, the evidence is there, like, you can see that Uniswap first deployed, you know, the uni pig demo back in, in 2019 and all that sort of stuff. So I think you can basically get past the he said, she said for this and essentially say, okay, well, that's true. Like, Uniswap was first in, so they got to be first out here.
00:15:43.274 - 00:16:27.206, Speaker A: And then, you know, there was a bit more drama in the comments with Sushiswap. And, I mean, honestly, as I said, you have to understand that the background here is, is that the sushiswap and Uniswap communities seem to not really get along and for obvious reasons and things like that. But also there's. There's this kind of, like, thing that bleeds into all of these kind of, like, events or kind of the drama that surrounds this sort of stuff. And that's got to do with VC's. So I saw, like, a bunch of comments around people saying, well, it's only natural that uniswap will be given preferential treatment on optimism because they share the same VC's, them being paradigm. And a 16 z, two of the, I mean, paradigm is the one of, if not the biggest crypto VC, and AO 16 z is one of, if not the biggest VC's in the world.
00:16:27.206 - 00:16:52.422, Speaker A: Right. But when you really think about it, like, I don't think that's the cause here. I really don't. Because of the fact that the uniswap and optimism teams have been working, working together for so long. I think the cause was really that there's a lot of drama in these. Sorry. There's a lot of dramas, a lot of blood, bad blood between these two communities because of the original fork that happened and stuff like that, like sushi forked Uni and all that sort of stuff.
00:16:52.422 - 00:17:24.774, Speaker A: And. And really, you know, they obviously wanted to deploy an optimism and get on there, but they thought that people were playing favorites. So, yeah, I mean, amidst all the drama, I don't think there was, like, a definitive answer on who's right and who's wrong. But I can say, and I'm very, very confident to say this, I'm pretty much 100% confident to say this, that Uniswap was the first project to ever approach optimism. Like, all the evidence is there. There is no, I mean, you can't change what happened in the past, right? And you see all the evidence from the past. And I can say with, with 100% certainty that uniswap, um, you know, deserve to go first on optimism because they were the first in.
00:17:24.774 - 00:18:06.332, Speaker A: Uh, but, you know, if, if there are other projects that come later than sushi swap and then sushi swap has to basically, you know, take, go to the back of the line because these other projects are being prioritized, well, that's a different situation. And again, it becomes like a bit dramatic. Then we, we, I don't know if we'll ever get like a, a strong kind of like answer or kind of like the truth, quote, quote unquote, like it's too hard to follow along. And at the end of the day, the truth is what's deployed. If, if optimism really is a closed platform, which I don't think it is, but if they choose to go down that road, don't think they're going to go down that road. I, you know, I truly believe that they'll lose out to their competition, but I don't think the optimism team is like that. From everything that I've seen from that team they love.
00:18:06.332 - 00:18:59.706, Speaker A: I mean, they adore ethereum. Seriously, like they're all, I mean, I don't, I don't think that would consider themselves ETH maxis, but I consider them to be like, you know, hardcore ethereums, been in this space for quite a while, working on these problems for quite a while. And I really don't think that they would throw all that away just to keep the optimism closed and just to get uniswap on there first. So, yeah, I guess I probably stop it there because rambling a little bit, but yeah, generally it's just something that I've thought about a lot today. And from everything that I saw, I just don't think there was any kind of like fishy business going on. I do think that people, you know, have these conspiracies about optimism being closed off because of a 16 z and paradigm being investors and like being, sharing investors with Uniswap and it just being VC dominated all this sort of stuff. And people look at Sushiswap as like a community led project and all this sorts of stuff, but again, you know, there's some truth to that, but there's like, there's lots of nuance there.
00:18:59.706 - 00:19:58.284, Speaker A: I'm not going to get into the nuance now, but essentially that should TLDR the drama for you. Regardless, I think optimism is going public with their whitelist very soon. So anyone will be able to kind of like, I guess like so open whitelist and anyone will be able to kind of apply and then get deployed on optimism. And I think the pressure is mounting on them, especially because they have competition, right? And that competition comes in the form of Arbitrum, who funny enough, today announced this portal, arbitrum, one website, which lets you scroll through all of the apps that are going to be live on arbitrary on day one when they go public this month with their public main net. So you can see lots of familiar names here, right? Are there, you got cream finance, you got biconomy connects, Coinbase wallet, Chainlink curve. I'm not going to go through all of them, but you can see on my screen, like all familiar names, a few newer names that I haven't seen before, future swap there, nosis safe, I mean handlefi, look at all of them. I mean make a dow, like, I mean, obviously metamask and things like that.
00:19:58.284 - 00:20:49.158, Speaker A: But I mean, basically the who's, who is going to be live here, sushi swap, of course, and Uniswap, you know. So I think that this competition is really healthy for the ecosystem because this is going to force optimism to move faster as well. Even though I think that they were going to deploy sooner rather than later anyway. It's just fun to see that both of these solutions, optimism and arbitrary, are probably going to go live in a public fashion around the same, same time. And it's just really going to be a matter of where the developers spend the most time. Like are they, can they develop on optimism easier than they can on arbitrary? Or can they develop an arbitrary easier than optimism? Because at the end of the day users follow the devs because the devs are the ones maintaining and deploying applications that the users want to, want to kind of interact with. So it's all up to like the developers, it's kind of like how easy the developers have it on each of these systems.
00:20:49.158 - 00:21:22.552, Speaker A: I think optimism has done like a very, very good job of bringing all their developer documentation and all the infrastructure stuff up to speed over the last few months. Arbitrary is definitely up there as well. So it's going to be really, really cool to see that sort of stuff kind of play out here. But yeah, I mean, I think any day now optimism is going to go live with that public whitelist and then they'll kind of like whitelist projects and then they might launch a few weeks after arbitrary or something like that. But it won't be too long of a public launch, I believe. But yeah, really, really cool to see that. And yeah, I think that's it for that drama.
00:21:22.552 - 00:21:51.794, Speaker A: Hopefully that explains it all for you. Of course, I'll link these thumbs threads up in the YouTube description. You can go check it out, read through the comments, see what everyone else is saying, see the back and forth. But really at the end of the day, it's hard to kind of get to the truth because we don't have all the context. We just have like what's on Twitter and all that sort of stuff. But I'm rooting for, you know, for optimism, like I still am. And I've loved seeing their growth and everything lately and I truly believe that their hearts are in the right place and they're not trying to play favorites, especially not based on VC's.
00:21:51.794 - 00:22:22.184, Speaker A: I really don't think that, especially because, I mean, if you really think about it, I think uniswap and optimism are just like one small part of AO 16 Z's total portfolio. They invest in a lot of different things and I really don't think that that would be putting pressure on the teams to kind of like play favorites like that. I think, yeah, I just don't see it. Right. Maybe I'm wrong, but I just don't see it. But anyway, I'm going to leave it at that for now. Move on to some other news from, from the day here.
00:22:22.184 - 00:22:57.108, Speaker A: So Frank Chappereau from the block, I love Frank. He was, he always dms me with this stuff. He's like, hey man, I've got another 8th story out and he knows I love it like this one. He says institutional demand for ETH has surged and it's pushing fidelity and Nydig to expand the NYDIg. NYD, I don't know how to say that. To expand their BTC focused offerings, NYDiG, which builds itself as BTC first, has quietly been offering ETH custody to an increasing number of clients. Plus, FDIs could offer ETH services, which is fidelity digital asset services could offer ETH services by Q four Q 120 22.
00:22:57.108 - 00:24:03.664, Speaker A: Now I put a tweet here where I basically said, doesn't pay to be a BTC Maxi shop, I guess. And it doesn't because any of these kind of like institutions that basically are BTC first or BTC friendly or run by BTC maximalist, it's not the way to go because they're going to lose market share to other platforms that don't take that approach of BTC only. They definitely, you know, obviously the demand for ETH is really high, especially in a post 1559 world leading up to the merge, all the NFT L2 stuff going on. I mean, ETH is in such demand right now, seriously, like, I'm, I have not seen this much demand for ETH ever. Like, if you, if you just look at the price, ETH was $1700, what, 20 days ago or something like that, and we went up to almost, what, 3200? I think we hit 3200 or something. Almost 3300 in a matter of like 20 days, which was, which is an enormous kind of like, move for ETH at this market cap. So ETH is, yeah, is in incredible demand right now, and all these institutions need to take advantage of that, which I think, you know, it's just really cool to see that they're going to be supporting these sorts of things and they're going to be offering these to their kind of clients as well.
00:24:03.664 - 00:24:17.564, Speaker A: So, yeah, I think. Thanks, Frank, for passing this on to me. You know, you can read the full story here. I think this is maybe behind a paywall, unfortunately, the full story. But if you're subscribed to the blocks kind of like research desk, you'll be able to read it. Yeah, yeah. If you.
00:24:17.564 - 00:24:46.328, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah. Oh, this is the block news. Plus, it's not part of their research desk, so, yeah, you'll be able to rate it if you're a subscribe to that. So, antiprosynthesis put out a tweet saying the ETH two deposit contract has casually overtaken weft or wrapped ETH's number one spot in the Ethereum top account by ETH balance ranking. Just supply shock things. So, I mean, this was expected, right? I think the ETH staking is, what, 6.8 million? And then the weth contract has 6.6
00:24:46.328 - 00:25:00.664, Speaker A: million in it. This is funny, because like, the launchpad site actually says the deposit contract has 6.8 million in it, but the deposit contract only has 6.6 on either scan. There must be a bit of a discrepancy there. But anyway, you know, 6.6, 6,000,006.63
00:25:00.664 - 00:25:25.272, Speaker A: million in wrapped ETH. And I think wrapped ETH has actually been going down. If you look at this tweet through tweet here, you can see that it's been going down a bit. While obviously the deposit contract is going up. So are people taking ETH from Defi and putting it into ETH to staking? Actually think they are. That's what I did. I took a lot of my ETH that I was using to borrow stable coins against the yield farm, and I just put it in staking because I'm like, I want to stack ETH.
00:25:25.272 - 00:25:58.384, Speaker A: All these stable coins that I'm, you know, I'm farming, most of them are going into ETH anyway, and I have to pay tax on it. So why not just like cut out that tax portion of it and go straight to the ETH denominated stuff and. And, you know, do it in an environment where I'm not at risk of getting liquidated or whatever because I'm staking. So, I mean, there's lots of people like me that have done that. And then, yeah, I mean, you can check the other top balances here of ETH. Obviously, a lot of centralized exchanges, but they've been losing their dominance to things like Defi. And wrapped ETH is pretty much like mostly defi.
00:25:58.384 - 00:26:22.940, Speaker A: Pretty much. I mean, I would say almost all of it is Defi. There's a few bridges in here. There's 674,000. Ethan, the Polygon bridge, obviously, to get to the Polygon pos chain. Scrolling down, scrolling down, you can see ETH dev, which is the ethereum foundation's account, and Vitalik's address here, both around both, you know, between 300 and 400,000. And then, I mean, a bunch of unknown addresses and more centralized exchanges there.
00:26:22.940 - 00:26:44.420, Speaker A: But really, I mean, it's really, really amazing to see the fact that Defi and I guess staking are like the top two by quite a large margin as well. I mean, Binance only has 2.3 million in this cold storage account. They probably have other ones as well. Yeah, binance eight, but they're smaller. This is like their biggest one, so. But yeah, as I said, centralized exchanges have been losing their dominance there.
00:26:44.420 - 00:27:30.928, Speaker A: But anyway, just thought I'd point that out on the refuel. So Mstable has introduced their grants down today. So another, I guess it's just another, I guess, project that's developing grants programs. So I've gone over like, you know, Uni grants, Ava grants, compound grants, like every kind of, like, DeFi app seems to have a grants program now, but essentially Mstable is launching theirs now, which is really cool. So this is a community led grants program to fund ideas submitted by the M stables protocol community, with a focus on building a wider community of developers, creators and innovators. The M stable grants there will receive 100,000 MTA every quarter for funding grants, which at current prices, I think MTA, if I just check my chart, is about. It's over a dollar but, like, let's just say it's a dollar.
00:27:30.928 - 00:27:59.024, Speaker A: So they get $100,000 worth of MTA every quarter to kind of, like, fund these things. And the allocation will come from the treasury and stuff like that. So, yeah, just really cool to see another defi project get involved in kind of, like, the grant space here. And I'm really liking the fact that just we have more and more money going and around the ecosystem right now. Right. And being played around with and going to people to build more stuff within, especially within Defi. So really, really cool to see that.
00:27:59.024 - 00:28:27.728, Speaker A: So Zappa put out their latest product update today. And this was a little bit of drama around this that I saw on the tweet. But in this update, I think the thing I wanted to focus on was the fees here. So a lot of you will be using Zappa. So, essentially, Zapper is adding fees to their zaps portion of their app. Now, there's no fees for, like, using the dashboard or anything like that, but for zapping in and out of different opportunities, there are now going to be fees, and those fees are going to be a flat 0.4% fee.
00:28:27.728 - 00:29:07.664, Speaker A: Now, the reason why there was a drama about this is because whenever you've been getting something for free and then someone adds a fee to it, or at least a product that you're using at the feed to it, I mean, some people complain about that, and I get that. But at the same time, pro, you know, these products can't remain free forever. The only reason why they remain free for, you know, initially is because they have outside funding. You know, it's bankrolled by VC's and things like that. So whenever you actually think to yourself, oh, damn, VC's, you know, I hate those guys. Well, you know, a lot of the free apps that you use in life are funded by VC's and bankrolled by them. If you look at something like Uber, the only reason why they were able to run at a loss for so long is because they had VC money and that, you know, the cheap rides that you enjoyed were because of that.
00:29:07.664 - 00:29:41.812, Speaker A: But anyway, I guess, like, another issue I think people were maybe kind of, like, concerned with was the fact that these fees are on top of the protocol fees. So say you're zapping into a Unisop liquidity provider position, or you're doing, like, a Uniswap trade through Zappa. Well, you're paying 0.4% and then 0.3% for the uniswap kind of trade. But again, I don't think this is, like, not again, but, like, personally, I don't think this is, like, a huge issue. And I should disclose here that I'm investor in Zappa, but I'm not saying this because I'm an investor, because I actually see that the logic that they've done here.
00:29:41.812 - 00:30:11.752, Speaker A: I didn't talk to them about this before they put it live, but essentially, I see their logic here. If you look at Metamask, they take a 0.8% fee for all of their swaps. Now they're printing cash doing this, by the way, and no one seems to really care that's using it. And I think that their product is geared towards not us defi power users, but the more kind of, like, Normie or noob friendly users who want just, like, a really simple interface to do this through. They don't want to have to kind of go through all the complicated stuff or whatever like that. They just want something dead simple.
00:30:11.752 - 00:30:32.004, Speaker A: And I think that's what Zappa gives a lot of people, that just dead simple interface to crack their portfolio, interact with Defi, all that sorts of stuff. But, you know, using the uniswap example as a. As a flat example here, 0.4% plus 0.3% is. Is 0.7%. So they seem to have gone, like, the similar route the metamask has gone, just coming in a little bit lower.
00:30:32.004 - 00:30:55.556, Speaker A: Like 0.1% lower here. But I kind of, like, get the logic for sure. And I think that. I mean, I think that they're right to take fees, because at the end of the day, the VC money isn't going to last forever. They need to monetize in order to kind of, like, keep the app afloat, keep it live, keep servicing customers, and really, when a product that you've been using for free monetizes, it's actually really long term healthy for the product. So that's how I kind of view it.
00:30:55.556 - 00:31:15.366, Speaker A: You know, I get other people's frustrations with it. But I guess, like, this is. This is what the team has decided on. And I think you'll be. You'll be kind of like, it's going to be very hard to find any apps, long term, that let you do things for free and any apps paying you liquidity mining for free. Sorry. Liquidity mining incentives forever, either.
00:31:15.366 - 00:31:37.804, Speaker A: At the end of the day, the money has to come from somewhere. And, you know, the easiest way to kind of generate that revenue is just like, you know, pushing it onto the users, actually getting value out of the app. Because if you're getting lots of value out of it, then you might not. You might not mind paying a 0.4% kind of like fee on a swap, for example. I mean, obviously, maybe it's 0.7% because of the extra fee there, but really, I mean, when you think about it, 0.7%
00:31:37.804 - 00:32:10.362, Speaker A: in the grand scheme of things, not too much, right? Because if you're buying into something, you're expecting it to go up or whatever, and, you know, it could go up, like, double and then just completely wipes out the hit that you took from the fee. So, yeah, that's just my, like, humble opinion on the zappa fees here. So, token terminal. I love this dashboard that they keep putting out where they split out the ETH burned versus, like, the ETH pay to miners. And you can see here that the ETH burn is, what, 75, 80% still of the miner revenue. So it's great to see that this is actually steady. So it's not like coming down or going up.
00:32:10.362 - 00:32:29.786, Speaker A: It's actually pretty steady. And 70, 75% was basically the assumptions, or I guess, like the. Not the assumptions, but the simulations that were ran by people like Justin Drake and kind of like, he was pretty dead on with this, which I thought was pretty cool. So, yeah, I just wanted to kind of show that chart there. I just. I just love this chart. But I know I'm going over time here, so I'm going to speed through the rest of these things.
00:32:29.786 - 00:33:04.026, Speaker A: I wanted to talk about Mariano Conti put out a great tweet today where he said it was a bit of like a tongue in cheek tweet, but I liked it. He said, I am a illiquid jpeg enthusiast looking for a tiny bit more innovation at the smart contract level. Please. I'm the same. Like, I love nfTs, but there are so many uninspired clones going on right now that just bring nothing to the table. And I spoke about this, I think, on one of the previous refills where I said, it feels like Ico Mania, it feels like food fork mania, where everyone's just trying for the cash grab and there's no innovation going on. And it really just feels uninspired.
00:33:04.026 - 00:33:27.264, Speaker A: So I'm with Mariano here. Please, NFT creators, do something innovative, do something different. If you do, ping me about it on Twitter or discord or whatever, and I'm happy to look at it because I just. I'm sick of seeing these profile picture clone NFT projects. Like, it's just not innovative at all. It's just not something that I consider to be interesting. And it really does feel like a money grab at this point and opportunistic at that as well.
00:33:27.264 - 00:33:53.208, Speaker A: So tiny rant. Just one. I would love to see more innovation there. If you are working on something or if, you know, a project that you want me to kind of look at, definitely ping me about it. I'm always interested in learning about those sorts of things. And speaking of kind of like nfts, I put out this tweet today where I said I'm an absolute sucker for ethereum art. This one comes from Redline News or redline news and awesome resource for keeping up with the NFT space, which they are.
00:33:53.208 - 00:34:17.270, Speaker A: I mean, I discovered this the other day. Someone messaged me and basically said, hey, man, like, you know, can you, you should check out this piece that we wrote. And I wrote a really great piece on 1559. But essentially, I mean, I love this art. Like this is, this is representing the London hard fork, right? Like the London train station. You have ethan the background. You get a bunch of Easter eggs everywhere, like fork gate and the block number on top of the train here and like a little, little fork in the, in the train.
00:34:17.270 - 00:34:49.803, Speaker A: I'm sure there's a bunch of others that I'm missing crypto punk here and things like that. But if you actually go to, you know, Red Lion News here. Actually, no, they redline Gazette here and you can see like they've NFt this as well. But the piece is essentially here and you can read these for free and you can buy the NFT of the piece. But essentially this is their kind of like issue that they did, that they've done, issue number 47 and they're talking about like the London hard fork and stuff like that. And I did say this was a publication that covers nfts. But I mean, you can see the prior issues they cover.
00:34:49.803 - 00:35:05.899, Speaker A: You know, proof of beauty's like London gifts here. If you go to the issues, I'm just going to quickly go through this. You can see the different issues that they've done. They cover like one big thing like per issue and they have nfts attached to them. Hopefully this loads up here. I don't know if my ad block is blocking this. I doubt it.
00:35:05.899 - 00:35:34.838, Speaker A: But the art of a lot of these issues is actually really cool. It doesn't seem to be loading there, unfortunately. But yeah, punk, punk pocalypse where they wrote about crypto punks. And honestly, it's a really great resource for keeping up with NFTs because there's so much stuff that I missed and so many tweets that I missed. And you can just scroll through here and see all the tweets and see what's been going on and get like a really great lowdown of the NFT ecosystem, which, I mean, if you're interested in that, you can definitely go check this out and subscribe to it. I'll of course, link it in the YouTube description. But yeah, I thought it was really cool.
00:35:34.838 - 00:36:35.812, Speaker A: And I thought that was really cool that you can buy these kind of like art pieces or buy these editions and essentially, I guess like, sorry, what was it gonna say? Essentially, kind of like own the, the magazine at the end of the day, which, like a digital magazine, which I thought was really, really cool. All right, so the final thing I wanted to talk about was something that I wrote about in the newsletter today. So I'm not going to talk about it too much on the refuel, but Justin Drake put out a tweet here today where he said Satoshi's first commit, commit being like commit to the code, which is the bitcoin repository here, where Satoshi committed something that was basically code for a decentralized p two p marketplace. And then I quote Twitter saying ethereum will finish what Satoshi started. Now, I wrote about this in the newsletter, so go read that. But essentially what I meant by this was that. So back in, kind of like the bitcoin talk forums, early days, pretty much like most things that you see in ethereum today were discussed back then, but they couldn't be built on bitcoin because bitcoin was inherently limited on the technology side and on the, on the social side as well.
00:36:35.812 - 00:37:02.620, Speaker A: It offered, it ossified, didn't want to change, didn't want to do things like add smart contracts or whatever. So ethereum was born, and I truly believe a theorem is going to finish what Satoshi started and what those early bitcoin talk forum kind of post envisioned. And that's like everything. Like the L2 ecosystem, all the smart contract stuff, defi, all that sorts of stuff. So, yeah, anyway, read the newsletter for a deeper dive there. But I'm going to end it here because we've gone over time. So thank you, everyone, for listening and watching.
00:37:02.620 - 00:37:09.214, Speaker A: Subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
