00:00:00.570 - 00:01:09.260, Speaker A: It. All right. So now that those tricky proofs are out of the way, let's just take a step back and let's just remind ourselves what properties does tendermet have and is there any way in which we might hope to have a still better state machine replication protocol? Well, we've seen that there's a bunch of aspects of this guarantee that we can't improve. So for example, without changing anything else, we cannot take F to be N over three or any larger number. All right? So holding everything else fixed, we can't tolerate any additional Byzantine nodes. How about keeping everything else fixed, making weaker assumptions about the communication network, assuming the Asynchronous model rather than the partially synchronous model that also by the FLP Impossibility result we know we cannot do. FLP Impossibility says that even when F equals one, you can't get consistency and liveness in the Asynchronous model.
00:01:09.260 - 00:01:57.856, Speaker A: Then you say, okay, well, what if we just sort of keep the same bound on the number of Byzantine nodes? We keep the partially synchronous model, but we just want stronger guarantees. So we're getting consistency always already. We're only getting liveness. Eventually maybe we could switch liveness to always as well. And this again, we know is impossible from the FLP Impossibility result during the Asynchronous phase, you're just not going to be able to have both safety and liveness. You need to compromise on at least one of them until you reach the synchronous phase. So is tendermint just simply the end of the story in state machine replication? Is there any reason to ever think about other protocols? Well, there are.
00:01:57.856 - 00:03:01.124, Speaker A: So let me mention sort of two kind of orthogonal directions that would be interesting to explore even given the very nice guarantees that tendermint offers. So first of all, I mean, you can look for other points on the pareto curve, right? So we're not going to find a protocol that in these senses strictly dominates tendermint, but maybe there's one that's incomparable that's stronger in some respects and weaker in others. For example, we could stick with a partially synchronous model. We could stick with this or some sort of analogous bound on the number of Byzantine nodes. And we could ask, could we strengthen liveness to always while relaxing consistency to eventually? So in other words, could we escape the FLP Impossibility result by giving up on consistency rather than giving up on liveness during a synchronous phase? Obviously in the synchronous phase, as usual, you would like to have both. And again, in the 20th century it might have been sacrilege to suggest sort of giving up on safety in the attack phase. But in fact, this is exactly the alternative trade offs that the most famous blockchain protocols like Bitcoin and Ethereum make.
00:03:01.124 - 00:04:01.470, Speaker A: They do in fact make this alternative set of tradeoffs as we'll see a second totally different direction, which is worth exploring, and actually people have been exploring very actively in recent years. Is matching the guarantees you see for the tenement protocol written on this slide, but doing so with a protocol that has superior performance. Now performance, that's sort of a loaded word when it comes to, for example, blockchain protocols. Ask sort of ten different blockchain experts what's the most important performance metric and you'll probably get eleven different answers. But you can imagine there's various things you could try to optimize. Like for example, the number of messages that nodes have to send to each other, the number of times you have to do certain expensive cryptographic operations, et cetera. And as I said at the beginning of this boot camp on classical consensus protocols, I told you I was never going to worry really about sort of any of these kinds of performance metrics.
00:04:01.470 - 00:04:35.846, Speaker A: One of the reasons is what I just mentioned is there's not wide agreement on which performance metrics are sort of the most useful ones to focus on, but also it's just a little bit out into the weeds. I mean, this isn't a lecture series entirely on sort of consensus protocols. It's really on blockchains. And there's a lot of other interesting aspects of blockchains that we want to have time for. But that does not mean that this is not interesting. It is in fact quite interesting. And in the academic research community there's been a lot of work, many papers over the last few years that make progress on multiple different performance metrics.
00:04:35.846 - 00:05:14.360, Speaker A: And also that work is also relevant to practice. Let me give you two examples. So one nice example is Facebook's efforts in the blockchain direction. So in particular they have this project DM, formerly called Libra, and the consensus protocol that's currently on the table to be used when they roll that out can be sort of viewed as an optimized version of tendermint. It's a protocol known as hot stuff. And from sort of 30,000ft it's kind of like sort of a pipelined, kind of more round, efficient version of tendermint. There's a bunch of other changes as well, but from a high level that's sort of how you can think about it.
00:05:14.360 - 00:06:03.110, Speaker A: So the second example concerns ethereum. So there's a bunch of sort of major changes slated to the ethereum blockchain in 2022 and beyond, one of which is a major change to the consensus protocol, which is currently longest chain consensus, which we'll talk about next in lecture eight. They're going to switch from pure longest chain consensus to something that a little bit more resembles things like tendermint, these classical consensus protocols. So there's several things that have been put on the table. But just to give you like one thing you can do a web search for if you want, you look at Casper FFG. FFG is the friendly finality gadget and again, lots of sort of various details that are different. But from 30,000ft you can again sort of think of that as some kind of pipelined, more round, efficient, sort of version of the Tendermint protocol.
00:06:03.110 - 00:06:49.334, Speaker A: And in both of these cases, in both the case of hot stuff and the potential new consensus protocols in Ethereum, again, the qualitative guarantees are going to be exactly what you see here in Tendermint. So there's going to be this magical 33% threshold of how many Byzantine nodes you can tolerate. And again, what you're after is in the partially synchronous model, you always have consistency, consistency even in the face of an attack. And you have eventual liveness liveness after an attack concludes. So this is very cool stuff. Hopefully a few of you, sort of inspired by the last few lectures, feel motivated to go sort of dig into the research literature and or sort of the white papers for these protocols I mentioned to see more about how they work, how they actually achieve these efficiencies. What does it mean to pipeline, multiple Byzantine agreement protocols, all that kind of stuff.
00:06:49.334 - 00:07:35.750, Speaker A: We're not going to have time for it. But if you are interested, you are now extremely well positioned to understand that literature and those white papers having gone through the last six, seven lectures of this series. So that wraps up lecture seven. It also pretty much wraps up the time we're going to spend on sort of 20th century ideas tendermint. Granted, I mean, that's a more recent protocol that's from the, from the last decade, but it's heavily inspired by protocols from the 1980s. But starting with the next lecture, lecture eight, where we start talking about longest chain consensus, which was one of the big innovations that came along in bitcoin, we're going to have our eyes focused squarely on the 21st century. So see you in lecture for longest chain consensus.
