00:00:00.360 - 00:00:35.506, Speaker A: What is up, guys? Taiki here with another video on the Alchemist token. So this project has really piqued my interest recently, and it's actually held up pretty well during the recent correction. So if you go to the faq, you see stuff like there's no roadmap, because the future is unpredictable, and that the only plan is that there is no plan. So it seems like they're kind of secretive in what direction they're going with. It seems like a project in stealth mode, but, you know, there's a lot of, you know, mini hype around it. But let's go over what we currently do know about the Alchemist project. Well, first, we know that vote visor and method are forks of alchemist.
00:00:35.506 - 00:01:17.334, Speaker A: What is visor specifically trying to do? Well, they're trying to solve the LP problem that's going to come up with the new swap V three. Because uni V three, it's going to introduce concentrated liquidity, where you can no longer just blindly provide liquidity along a single curve. X times y equals k. You have to provide concentrated liquidity along a certain price range, meaning you have to monitor your positions more closely. It's going to professionalize the LP space when it comes to uniswap V three. Well, we also know that the lead developer for Alchemist is the go staff, or Stephane, who is also the Giga brain leader behind Flashbots, who's tackling Mev. Well, we also know Visconti's, who is the VC.
00:01:17.334 - 00:01:49.236, Speaker A: One of the vc's for z frame capital is also back in the project. With that being said, my galaxy brain friends, what do we currently know about Alchemist? Well, their team is really smart. They're focusing on NFT smart vaults, maybe related to new small V three. And we know that they're closely, closely related to flashbots, which is tackling mev. Luckily for you guys, I have some serious alpha that I can share about the Alchemist token. So, earlier today, this screenshot was leaked to the Twitter community. And this was on the Alchemist GitHub before it was set to private.
00:01:49.236 - 00:02:20.268, Speaker A: So let's go over, you know, what Mistx is. First, it bundles the front end transactions in the blocks. Second, it'll find Mev and then send them, the miners through a direct, direct connection. And this is exactly what a flashbot is doing. So there's a one to one connection right there. So it looks like myst is going to be, you know, kind of a token for flashbots. And third, it'll redistribute the resulting value back to mistx users who submitted trades by eliminating their transaction cost into the greatest, greater alchemist community by further enriching their rewards pool.
00:02:20.268 - 00:03:10.112, Speaker A: The rewards pool is tied to the NFT smart vaults that alchemist is working on called the crucible. Okay, sounds really, really exciting. And the funny thing is, Visconti's replied to this tweet with this image of mystex surrealistic adventure that will become your world and mystics, takes your hand and leads you through the dark forest. And the dark forest is like a metaphor for the mempool Ethereum mempool, which is directly connected connected to Meb. And the funny thing is, Visconti's actually deleted his tweet, so it seems like he got a little too excited about alchemist share this picture he wasn't supposed to share. And his team was probably like, dude, what the fuck? Like, take that tweet down like, it's not supposed to be public. So, you know, the tweet is currently unavailable, but luckily I found a screenshot for it and, you know, it seems like Fiscontis is really bullish on the project.
00:03:10.112 - 00:03:58.880, Speaker A: You know, he said he's not selling anytime soon. Orlando. Only reason he'd sell is to LP and create another crucible or the NFT smart ball. Okay, so this seems to be tackling two of the main upcoming narratives for the Ethereum, which is Uniswap V three, which is coming May 5, and Mev, which will be even a bigger topic with EIP 1559 coming on July 14. Well, we already talked about Uniswap V three, but how is EIP 1559 going to drive the narrative for Mev? Well, I made a video about this a few weeks ago about how EIP 1559 is going to affect Mev. Link is in the description, but I'll give a quick 1 minute recap of how this will go well with EIP. We know that some of the base feed is going to be burnt, right? EtH is going to be burnt from the transaction, which means that miners will make less revenue and they're upset about it.
00:03:58.880 - 00:04:22.960, Speaker A: Stop EIP 1559. We'll do a 51% attack, just stupid things that minor miners will be upset, obviously. And you should know that right now, there are two types of meV. First is benign Mev. This is passively collected MeV from on chain liquidations and arbitrage, and second is malicious Mev. This is more for sophisticated miners. They extract more mev by including their own transactions.
00:04:22.960 - 00:05:15.618, Speaker A: Right now, most revenue, most minor revenue comes from benign. Mev miners aren't that sophisticated. They don't really know what DeFi is. You know, there's this buying graphics processors and processors and mining etH, right? But it's possible that after EIP 1559, some miners will feel entitled to their past revenue and want to make up for the base fee that's going to be burnt. So it's possible that miners are going to start to extract more malicious MeV from the network, right? Think about what kind of narrative that will drive. What's the project that's fighting back against the miners? We need projects that are hiding Meb from miners. Well, what are the two projects that I'm backing for this alchemist? Right? We talked about it and Keeper Dao, right? These two projects are my two biggest bags when it comes to, you know, Defi related coins.
00:05:15.618 - 00:05:33.480, Speaker A: And I believe that with EIP coming in, EIP 1559 coming in July 14, the narrative towards MeV is going to be larger and larger. And these two projects, I think personally not financial advice, is going to keep appreciating in price. If you like the content, please like and subscribe and leave a comment in the comment section below. Thank you.
