00:00:00.240 - 00:00:19.526, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Daily Way Refuel, where you cap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host and this is the 18 April 2024. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So I've been terrible this week, guys. Two rug fuels in one week. I don't think that's happened for a while, but I do apologize for that, for missing yesterday's episode there.
00:00:19.526 - 00:01:13.494, Speaker A: But good news is there's a lot of stuff to get through today because I missed yesterday's episode. A lot of stuff going on in the Ethereum ecosystem. But yeah, hopefully, I don't think I'm going to miss tomorrow's episode. And depending on how I'm feeling, I might do a Saturday episode to make up for the fact that I have done two rug fuels this week. But yeah, I just wanted to mention that there and apologize there for that. But anyway, moving on to everything I missed over the last 24 48 hours in covering on the refuel, we're starting off today's episode with an announcement, or I guess like a bit of a tease from Trent Van Epps, who is one of the people behind the protocol guild and also just basically does a bunch of different things within the Ethereum community, where he announced on twitter that protocol, that the protocol guild will announce v two soon, which includes the four year vesting for the protocol guild recipients. And then he said, in my opinion, time weighted registries are a simple plus powerful primitive for commons seen funding.
00:01:13.494 - 00:02:01.054, Speaker A: We need more experiments. If enough people engage, I'd love to get help exploring an Ethereum dev tooling guide for libraries smart guilds, not guide for libraries smart contract languages, et cetera here. So this is really cool. I think that protocol guild is evolving, you know, into their v two here, which will have vesting on top of it. I think time weighted investing, I mean, I agree with Trent, time weighted vesting when it comes to stuff like this. Definitely, you know, very simple and definitely kind of doesn't come with the complexities of like milestone based investing and investing and stuff like that. Right? Whereas essentially with something like the protocol guild, it's less about the milestones, which, which are, I guess, like measured in other ways, but it's more about the fact that, okay, well, you know, you need to be a long term contributor to the protocol guild, and then it's not based on any specific milestones.
00:02:01.054 - 00:02:43.958, Speaker A: It's more like, sorry, long term contributor to Ethereum core development. It's more so based on how long you've spent contributing to a theorem core development and research here. So it is a really nice incentive alignment thing, I think. But yeah, anyway, you can go check out Trent's tweet and kind of, I guess like dm him if this is something that you're interested in as well. All right, a big announcement from Lido over the last couple of days. So they've announced something called the simple DVT module, or at least released something called the simple DBT module, which I've talked about before on the refuel. But basically there is going to be 72 net new node operators, including solo stakers that will be powered by Oval's DBT technology that will be part of the Lido ecosystem here.
00:02:43.958 - 00:03:26.182, Speaker A: So they say net new ETH deposits to Lido on Ethereum will be automatically directed by the staking router to the simple DVT module until the module reaches the limit of this depositable validators or maximum capacity. Now from memory, they're starting this off with a, quite a small percentage of, I guess, like the whole Lido protocol. I believe that, yeah. So the module is initially capped at 0.5% of the total Lido stake with the option to be increased via a Dow vote, and is expected to allow for the addition of 250 net new node operators overall. So they're starting with 72 and they're going to widen that up to 250 net new node operators overall once they've kind of, you know, fleshed this out further. And put this on Mainnet here.
00:03:26.182 - 00:04:19.406, Speaker A: Now, I did say, I think on not last week, one of the recent episodes, how I was talking about the fact that lighter, his market share has been coming down, but they're not out. I think lighter is definitely not out because they've still got a very large market share, but they're also going to go through this revenge arc of sorts where essentially they've been working on this DvT stuff for quite a while now. And I do believe they're working on a core kind of restaking module, I guess you could call it, for, for Lido here. So lighter is market share may be down, but yeah, they're, they're definitely not out. And they're definitely working on a lot of different ways to increase their market share again, or at least to know not, not only increase their market share, but also make lido more distributed and more decentralized over time as well. Because, you know, the, the main concern, I guess, with Lido has not necessarily been around their node operators. I think the main concern has been around governance risk and governance risk in regards to Lido as a protocol and the LDO token and so on and so forth.
00:04:19.406 - 00:05:13.988, Speaker A: But I think when it comes to the other risks associated with, with Lido, such as like a smaller node operator set, I don't think those are as pronounced, because as I've explained before, when it comes to node operators under Lido, the governance could technically force them to do things, but they're all independent, they're all geographically diverse, and they're all got, they've all got their own decisions of whether to follow what the DAO says or not. And if that means they get kicked out of the lido system, then depending on the node operator, they may take that path. Because, for example, if Lido governance was basically to say to these node operators, hey, you need to begin like censoring, you know, such and such transactions or such and such contracts, uh, and then they, and then the lighter operators say, well, we don't want to do that. And then Lido, the Lido governance comes back and says, okay, well, we're going to kick you out of the Lido protocol. They could do that. That's a huge risk. Obviously, the token holders can actually do this, at least in the current iteration.
00:05:13.988 - 00:06:27.748, Speaker A: I know that they're going to work on this dual governance module where essentially it won't just be up to the LDO token holders, it'll also be up to the STE holders as well. But at the end of the day, you know, that is the biggest risk there around the kind of governance umbrella around later. And as I said, that's just one of the risks getting removed from the Lido protocol there. But the node operators themselves are independent, which means that if they do get up to, let's say 250 node operators and they're all independent of each other, and let's say Lido has like 25% of the whole kind of like staking market share that is actually relatively okay, I think, because yes, it's a huge share of the network still. You know, 25% is a quarter, a quarter share still. But if they've got 2050 node operators who are all kind of diverse, distributed and, you know, even if some of those node operators include not just institutions but no solo stakers and so on and so forth, then I think that really adds a lot of, I guess, what's, what's the term looking for here maybe adds like a counterweight to the fact that Lido as a organization, as kind of like a governance entity, is 25% of the Ethereum chain or theorem beacon chain or theorem staking share there. But anyway, very cool to see this and cool to see that Opal has been chosen as the tech stack, of course, for light.
00:06:27.748 - 00:06:48.766, Speaker A: Oh, to be doing this pilot program. But yeah, I'm very curious to see how long the timeline is for them to increase it from that 0.5% to much bigger because obviously 0.5% is very, very small. But obviously they're doing it for safety reasons, too. They wouldn't want to kind of onboard this and wreck the whole protocol because something goes wrong. So they're being prudent here with this.
00:06:48.766 - 00:07:22.418, Speaker A: But you can go check this blog post out for full details on this. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, onto some l two news. So as you guys know, OKX has been working on an l two that they've going to launch that it's powered by polygons, CDK kind of technology here. Now, Okex, I think, is the second or third exchange to launch their own kind of l two. I know that Binance obviously already has their own chain BSc. You know, binance is actually ahead of the curve here on, on the kind of side of centralized exchanges launching their own chains.
00:07:22.418 - 00:07:41.466, Speaker A: They didn't do it as an l two, of course, but they did do it as like an EVM chain that they forked off of Ethereum. And it still to this day has a lot of usage. So finance went first. Then there was coinbase that obviously has done base. Now there's OKX with their own l two built on polygons technology. I believe there's going to be others. I think Kraken signaled that they wanted to do an l two.
00:07:41.466 - 00:08:09.096, Speaker A: I don't know what's happened there, but there's going to. But I believe there's going to be others. And it just makes sense, I think, because these l two s. Sorry, these exchanges have seen the success that Coinbase has had with base and they're thinking to themselves, well, you know, we have a lot of users, and these users we can bring on chain, so why, why not bring them on chain to something that kind of. We can profit from, essentially. Now, I don't know what the success metrics are going to. I know what the success metrics are going to look like for each of these chains, but I don't know how successful that each of them are going to be like.
00:08:09.096 - 00:08:45.676, Speaker A: I have a lot of confidence in base with Coinbase because they have such a large user base, especially a very diverse user base as well, I would say. But I don't really have too much insight into these other exchanges, especially the ones that aren't based in the US or Europe, like the asian exchanges. I just don't have much, much insight there and I think that there is a big market there, of course, but I don't know what that's going to look like. So it's just cool to see that more of these experiments are playing out. And it's cool to say that they're not all just going to one tech stack. Obviously, base is built on the op stack. OKX is built on the polygon kind of CDK stack here.
00:08:45.676 - 00:09:19.062, Speaker A: But then future ones, who knows what they're going to be built on. We're going to have to wait and see there. But yeah, I think that I just wanted to kind of point that out and had a little bit of a discussion around that because this is a theme, this is a trend that's going to continue going on from here. All right, so scroll has an update on their rollout of blobs as well as a bunch of other upgrades coming to the scroll. Zk evm. So they've introduced something called the Bernoulli upgrade, I think that's how you say it, which basically details that ERP 4844 or blob support will be going forward on scroll at the end of the month. So end of April here.
00:09:19.062 - 00:09:51.334, Speaker A: And they've also got a bunch of other kind of upgrades coming as part of this, this bigger upgrade here, which I'll link in the YouTube description below for you guys to go check out. But I think the scroll is one of the last kind of, I guess, like more well known l two s that haven't implemented blobs yet. It's taken them a little while. By the time it goes live, it will have taken like six months from Dengue going live. But I don't think that's too big of a deal because once they're enabled, you know, everyone can get the benefits from them and it's all well and good. There's no need to, to kind of, I guess like worry about it then. But I don't think there's any others out there that haven't implemented blobs yet from memory.
00:09:51.334 - 00:10:21.074, Speaker A: Maybe Polygon ZKVM, I think, is the other one, maybe. I don't, I don't actually know off top of my head right now, but it seems like the rest of them, at least the most well known ones, have integrated blobs at this point. So, yeah, I mean, it's just scroll now that some needs to do this by the end of April. But as I said, blobs are not the only thing that are coming as part of this upgrade. There is a bunch of other protocol enhancements coming that will drop the cost of scroll by up to ten x. So you can go give this a read. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so.
00:10:21.074 - 00:10:59.870, Speaker A: All right, so l two beat has a new page on their website called costs, which provides an in depth insight into the security investments of rollups on Ethereum. So you can explore it here on this page at l two beat.com. Scaling forward slash costs here. And then you can actually see what the on chain costs look like over time for each of the roll ups or each of the l two s really using blobs or using coredata or whatever here. As you can see that the kind of substantial difference in the costs here, especially on this chart. Like, if you go and look at this chart over time, this is the last 180 days. Let's just do maybe the last 90 days.
00:10:59.870 - 00:11:29.434, Speaker A: You can see in the blue, this is coredata. So obviously, before Dengkun went live on March 13, everyone was using core data. No one was using blobs. And then you can see it split up into core data cost, compute costs, and general overhead costs here. Those didn't really change kind of, I guess, like, sorry, the compute costs kind of didn't really change that much. But the call data costs definitely did. And you can see it fell off a cliff, obviously, on March 13 when dengue went live, fell off a cliff, and then people were still using core data.
00:11:29.434 - 00:11:55.110, Speaker A: It went from like millions to less than a million here. But people, not people, but like roll ups. And we're still using coredata. But then slowly, over time, less and less core data is being used, and the costs have come down a lot. And they're using blobs now. But you can see here, there was a little spike in blobs is yellow. This was due to inscriptions, because blobs are very cheap right now and have been cheap for the majority of their life, where basically they've been not just cheap, they've been free, essentially, but then they spiked up because of inscriptions.
00:11:55.110 - 00:12:20.992, Speaker A: And then the l two s had to pay to use the blogs and then had to pay a greater fee there. But right now, we're in a very low cost environment for, for rollups here. You can see the blob cost is basically nothing. It's pretty much free. I think that's accurate to say right now, it's pretty much free, but we don't expect that to last. Obviously, as I've shown from different dashboards before about how the fact is, like, blobs. I mean, actually, I can bring up this dashboard for you guys right now.
00:12:20.992 - 00:12:35.152, Speaker A: I want to. I shouldn't just speak to it. I should have it in front of me so you guys can see what this looks like. So this is Hill Dobby's blob dashboard, and you can actually see what this looks like. So right now, we're not at the target of three blobs per block. We're at, like, one point. What is it? 1.6
00:12:35.152 - 00:13:10.586, Speaker A: blobs based on a two hour moving average here. And that means that the gas price of blobs is basically zero right now. Now, when we get to the target of three and then we go above that target, then that's when the blob price starts going up, because people are trying to outbid each other to. To get blobs in. And that's what happened when inscriptions were taking up a lot of the blob space there. It basically set blobs up. Now, people may be asking, you know, what's going to cause this to go to the target of three and above? Well, essentially just more usage overall, just more usage of l two s, because as l two scale up themselves and as they use more gas per second, you know, base has this goal of doing one giga gas per second.
00:13:10.586 - 00:13:58.338, Speaker A: As they do that, they produce more and more data that they have to post down to ETH l one as blobs. And then that will cause blobs to, I guess, like, be more in demand, and then you'll see that go up there. But the thing is, is that over time, we're going to be increasing the size and count of blobs. So it is that kind of game that I've been talking about, you know, for months now, where essentially we're going to have this. This game between data and execution costs, and we're going to be chasing that for the foreseeable future, essentially, there. But that's why that's like that right now. So, yeah, I mean, I wouldn't expect this to last, honestly, especially as, you know, if we go into another kind of leg of this bull market and it starts getting crazier again, I definitely think that it's not going to last very long, and I definitely think that we're going to see that spike up, especially if people start doing inscription stuff again.
00:13:58.338 - 00:14:27.344, Speaker A: Like, it's dumb to do it. But hey, in a bull market, dumb things happen because there's money to be made doing dumb things. And we could see that play out again there. So anyway, you can go check out this blob dashboard for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But really cool new page from l two beat here, tracking all of these on chain costs. All right, speaking of costs related to l two s, grow the pie has a new tracker here that basically allows you to see the different costs on the different l two s over time and what they are kind of right now.
00:14:27.344 - 00:15:05.526, Speaker A: So if you go to this page on, on grow the pie, I'll actually go to the page here for you guys. So this is a brand new page. Fees grow the PI xYz. You can see the current median, sorry, the median fee, which is basically shown here across each of the different l two s. The fee to transfer ETH and the fee to swap tokens. And then also what I found really cool was this kind of hourly heat map that they've got here, which basically you can scroll over, I think this covers the last 24 hours where you can see what fees have been like over the last 24 hours, when they've been cheap, when they've been expensive. And I reckon if you were to overlay, like, the US market hours over this, you would see that there.
00:15:05.526 - 00:15:27.272, Speaker A: It's most hot during us market hours. And then the green is kind of like the off peak. And this actually maps really well, I think, for my time zone. I mean, I'm looking at this now and I can see the green here besides op Mainnet, which is an outlier. But like. But most of the green here started about, I don't know, like 10 hours ago or something. And that's when us market hours pretty much, like, ended.
00:15:27.272 - 00:15:44.988, Speaker A: So you can see that that's. That's very sensitive to that. But then op mainnet is very insensitive, actually. Their peaks have seemed to seem to be in over the last few hours, which is not us market hours. It's not even really european market hours. I mean, it is to some extent, but it's definitely Asia hours. So, yeah, interesting dynamic there.
00:15:44.988 - 00:15:59.724, Speaker A: But regardless of the heat map, I do like how they've done this medium fee breakdown here in cents. So don't. This is actually. So. I like it. But it's also a little bit confusing because you might be reading this as $0.24 when in reality, that's not what it is.
00:15:59.724 - 00:16:14.188, Speaker A: So this $0.20.04 is basically from. From my rating. And as I said, this is confusing right now. This is basically like a fifth of a century. It's not two and a half cents, it's a fifth of a cent. And then you've got like half a cent, you know, three quarters of a cent and then $0.01
00:16:14.188 - 00:16:31.380, Speaker A: here. And then you can go all the way down to the bottom of Ethereum main net, which is 300, $0.11, which is just like $3.11 from my rating here. I do think that is a confusing way to show it. Um, I don't really see currency kind of shown like that very often. So maybe the grow the pie team will change that based on feedback.
00:16:31.380 - 00:16:54.258, Speaker A: I mean, I haven't given this feedback to them. Maybe they're watching my show right now, but that is a little bit confusing to me to read there. Maybe I'm just silly the way I'm reading it. I think this is the same way that maybe gas fees IO shows it, but they don't. Yeah, they do, but they don't have like the sense word here. I think that might throw some people off, but when I first saw it, just intuitively, I just looked at this as, you know, 0.24 as like $0.20
00:16:54.258 - 00:17:22.096, Speaker A: because I didn't read the cents part here to start with. So maybe that's just like a UI thing they have to fix there, but that's how to read it right now. And you can see that, you know, most of the roll ups here, most of the l two s are incredibly cheap to use right now there. But anyway, you can go check this out for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so Nebra has announced a $4.5 million pre seed plus seed fundraise here led by nascent and bankless ventures.
00:17:22.096 - 00:18:03.468, Speaker A: Now, I should disclose that I participated in this round as an angel investor here. And I also have exposure via bankless ventures because I'm an advisor to bankless ventures. But the reason why I wanted to highlight Nebra for you guys is because it is a really, really cool project. Honestly, like one of the cooler projects I've come across recently, where they're essentially creating a shared proving layer for ZK proofs generally. I mean, that's like the highest level I can basically put it here. But the way they describe it is basically they want to scale zero knowledge proof verification through recursive proofs so that Ethereum zero knowledge proof verification capabilities can be scaled much cheaper and more composable. So by like composing these, these proving.
00:18:03.468 - 00:18:53.132, Speaker A: So I don't, I want to, I want to try and explain this in as simple terms as possible, but basically what, what happens, and again, this is high level, is essentially by composing all this stuff together, by aggregating all these proofs together and by approving it through aggregation, essentially you collapse the cost down for everyone. So the, I guess like incentive is to join this proof aggregation and to basically enjoy the cheaper costs for everyone, really everyone that, that kind of joins in here, which I think is, is really, really cool. I think it is something that obviously has product market fit already because we already know that Zk proofs generally have product market fit. So that this is basically an extension of that. So I was super excited to get the opportunity to back this team. I think I have talked about Nebra potentially on the refuel before, but they're a, as I said, really cool project, really smart team. They already have things up on Testnet.
00:18:53.132 - 00:19:28.750, Speaker A: So there's a demo here that you can try on testnet today. But honestly, I think that this is not something that's obviously user facing. So it's maybe not something that you guys might interact with directly, but it's definitely going to be passed down to you or passed on to you. As, you know, more of these kind of Zkvm, Zk roll ups, they use this batch proof verification, then those costs are going to be passed down to you as a user. So ultimately you will feel the impact of this as a user, just not directly. Right. It's kind of like the same thing as, as blobs as a concept, where essentially we all felt the reduced transaction fees on l two s because of blobs, but we weren't interacting with blobs directly.
00:19:28.750 - 00:20:04.678, Speaker A: Like none of us is posting anything the blobs, like maybe if you want to set up some kind of inscriptions, then you can do that, but not really. You know, we're just getting the net benefit, which is cheaper fees on l two s, and the same is true for this. Now of course, this doesn't just apply, and this being Nebra, doesn't just apply to l two s because Zk proofs have many, many use cases beyond just scalability or beyond just zkvms. They also have privacy, you know, implications there. That's like the second biggest thing besides scaling, but also stuff around identity, which falls into privacy. So this helps with that as well, to bring costs down. Because right now the main costs of ZK roll ups is the proving cost.
00:20:04.678 - 00:20:37.630, Speaker A: And if we can bring them down, not just through aggregation, but through the optimizations across the entire stack here. That's going to be better for everyone and that is overall going to be a net positive for every user out there. But anyway, you can go check out Nebra for yourself. I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, speaking of fundraisers, Puffer has announced a $18 million series a led by Brevin Howard Digital and Electric Capital with participation from a bunch of other investors. Again, disclosure, I am an advisor to puffer here. I did not participate in the fundraise, but I am an advisor to puffers.
00:20:37.630 - 00:21:20.036, Speaker A: Just, just wanted to get that out there. But, you know, puffer is one of those liquid staking protocols that have really made a name for themselves. Liquid restaking protocols that have really made a name for themselves over the last few months, among other heavyweights such as Etherfy and swell. I think Puffer is really unique in how they've done their kind of launch in that they're doing a proper direct vampire attack on Lido. As I've discussed before, where they brought in a lot of steth hasn't been converted into, you know, puffers validators yet. So, for example, they haven't withdrawn the StE from Lido yet and then converted that into, or, sorry, deposited into their own validators in order to essentially back Puff ETH with their own staked ETH. But that's happening, and I think, I believe that's happening very soon, which is very cool.
00:21:20.036 - 00:22:11.034, Speaker A: And then once that happens, you're going to see over a billion dollars worth of Ste, just exit Lido and going to Puffer's system, which is something that hasn't been done. You know, I know Diva originally teased this, but it seems like they've pivoted to doing other stuff right now. They, yeah, they originally teased these vampire attack that they didn't really materialize too much, but puffer has taken on, taken that on board and it definitely has materialized there. As far as I know, they're the only one doing a at least large scale direct vampire attack on lighter. As I discussed the other day when I was talking about staking, uh, there has been indirect vampire attacks where essentially, because these other protocols are offering incentives, people have gone to them instead of lido. But this is a direct attack like vampire attack on Lido, where essentially the SDA is directly being deposited into puffer, then it is going to be withdrawn from Lido. Then the ETH is going to be a restaked again with, with puffers validated infrastructure.
00:22:11.034 - 00:22:37.170, Speaker A: So that market share actually directly goes to puffer and isn't part of Lido anymore. So that's what I mean by a direct vampire attack there. But anyway, congrats to the team on this race here. I know they've been working on it for quite a while and getting all these kind of different companies on board. It's actually interesting. Some of the investors they have here, like Brevin Howard Digital is a tradfi company and Franklin Templeton is a tradfi company. And there is a bunch of others in here, I believe, that are just quite interesting names.
00:22:37.170 - 00:23:21.242, Speaker A: And it really seems like tradfi not just because of the ETF's, but I think just generally have changed their tune completely on crypto over the last like six or twelve months. And they seem to be really wanting to get involved across the entire stack because, you know, puffer is a liquid restaking protocol on Ethereum. That's like as deep as you can get or one of the deepest parts you can get into the on chain ecosystem here. It's not just like an ETF that it works basically the same way as every other ETF works from, I guess like the tradfi perspective. This is very different to that. So to see big names like Brevin Howard and Franklin Templeton involved with this is pretty promising, I think. And it really shows the change in trend over, as I said, the last six to twelve months of tradfi, really, really embracing crypto now.
00:23:21.242 - 00:24:06.642, Speaker A: And honestly, if I put my tinfoil hat on a little bit here, I think that all of the tradfi institutions that haven't embraced crypto yet are definitely working in the background to embrace crypto. And I'm going like full tinfoil hat here. And this is something that I actually talked about in the delegate Discord channel. You know, if you, if you want to look at like the SEC and their hostility towards crypto, and then you want to look like you want to look at who's, you know, the chief of the SEC, it's Gary Gensler. Okay, who's his boss? Elizabeth Warren. Okay, who's her boss? Well, technically Biden, but I'm also her voters, but also the people who fund her campaigns, the people who essentially donate to her. And it seems like the bankers are the ones that do that these days, which is ironic because Elizabeth Warren originally ran for Senate based on being like anti bank and, you know, holding the banks accountable for 2008 and all that.
00:24:06.642 - 00:24:56.232, Speaker A: But if I'm going like full tinfoil hat here, full conspiracy theory, here, which I don't think is too far of a leap given the incentives here. But I would say that these bankers and these tradfi institutions, they don't want to kill crypto. They don't hate crypto, but they want to slow it down until they can get their infrastructure in place in order to profit from it. And as I said, I don't think that's too tinfoil hat here. And the way they would do that is will their power on the regulatory side. So what's better than getting the SEC to just go after everyone for baseless stuff like going after Uniswap, going after Coinbase, going after Binance, going after, going up to Kraken, right. What's better than spooking the market, essentially, and delaying the markets and delaying the adoption of crypto just enough for them to get their infrastructure in place and then they can profit from, from it? Again, little bit tinfoil hattie, a little bit conspiracy theory there.
00:24:56.232 - 00:25:30.758, Speaker A: But I do follow that line of thinking sometimes when I look at this stuff and I look at the incentives that play, and I just think that, you know, the fact that Tradfi is now fully embracing crypto, these other tradfi players, these other banks, they're not going to not embrace crypto because they're going to lose out if they do that. So I think they just want more time because it's caught them off guard, obviously. Still, because they're so late to the game. Well, they probably feel like they're so late to the game and they want to get more involved there. But anyway, enough of my tinfoil hack conspiracies. Once again, congrats to puffer on the rays and obviously congrats to Nebra as well for their raise there. I'm very, very proud to be part of puffer as an advisor.
00:25:30.758 - 00:26:01.618, Speaker A: They're a great team. Love chatting to them, love working with them. But yeah, anyway, you can go check out more information about this. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so Kraken has introduced something called the Kraken Wallet, which seems to be a direct competitor to Coinbase wallet. So this is a wallet that allows you to manage multiple wallets, has multi chain support out of the box, manage your NFTs and Defi positions, id privacy and encryption, and no client side tracking, which is a really cool addition here. I don't know if Coinbase wallet has that.
00:26:01.618 - 00:26:26.116, Speaker A: No client side tracking. Obviously that is really important for the privacy conscious of folks out there. And obviously I think a lot of us are privacy conscious given that we're in crypto here. But yeah, as I said, this seems to be like a direct competitor to Coinbase wallet. Just like how Kraken was talking about doing an l two, that would be a direct competitor to base. And, you know, I think Kraken has lagged quite a bit on Coinbase for a little while now, but it seems like they're ramping up their efforts. Yeah.
00:26:26.116 - 00:26:50.666, Speaker A: You know, with the release of this new wallet, I'm sure they're going to be doing their own l two at some point. They're going to want to kind of release that. They're going to want, want to direct their users towards that. So I'm keeping a close eye on Kraken here and honestly, I'm rooting for them too, because in the US right now, there isn't really that many big exchanges. I mean, you have Coinbase, obviously you have Kraken. Gemini is kind of small and there's like some sputtering elsewhere. But think about the fact that.
00:26:50.666 - 00:27:10.738, Speaker A: Think about the fact that binance us basically had to shut down. You know, FTX blew up. Right. And FTX us went along with it. So there really isn't that many options. And this is what I was going back to saying before about like these tradfi institutions, they see that there's not many options and they're like, well, we can be the ones that offer these things. And I look at that and I kind of find that both bullish and bearish.
00:27:10.738 - 00:27:42.478, Speaker A: Bullish from a bringing more people into the ecosystem perspective, but bearish from like an innovation perspective. I don't expect these older tradfi institutions, these hundred year old banks, I don't expect them to do much innovation here. I expect them to do what they're used to, which is basically offering these products to customers to buy and sell, but they're not going to innovate on the on chain side of things. Like I, I don't know. I don't really know. Like, I can't imagine a world where these banks, like most of them at least launch their own l two s, right, or launch their own wallets or anything like that. They already have their own apps which basically act like a wallet.
00:27:42.478 - 00:28:05.398, Speaker A: But it's going to be very, very simple. It's going to be very, very centralized. You're not going to be able to like self custody your assets inside, like the Blackrock mobile wallet app sort of thing. Right. Or the insert bank name here mobile wallet app. So that's why I'm rooting for these like, crypto native, centralized companies to compete with each other and to grow together. And I really want Kraken to be that kind of big competition for Coinbase because right now it doesn't seem like they are.
00:28:05.398 - 00:28:23.090, Speaker A: Just seems like Coinbase is dominating. It seems like Coinbase has, it's not a monopoly, but they have like a huge market share. And there's nothing wrong with Coinbase. I just believe that competition breeds innovation. And without competition we have stagnation. And I really don't want to see the space just taken over by these tradfi institutions because they're not going to innovate. Like, trust me, guys, they're not going to innovate.
00:28:23.090 - 00:28:46.874, Speaker A: No, no. They can't even move nearly as fast as any of these companies can. So I believe from that perspective, I'm really glad to see Kraken are doing more here. And, you know, if you want to check out Kraken wallet, you can. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. There's a link here for you to go download it. And basically there is also a bunch of or two, I guess, like jobs as well for an engineering manager and a senior software engineer, if that is up your alley there.
00:28:46.874 - 00:29:28.484, Speaker A: But anyway, as I said, I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to go check out. All right, so speaking of chains and l two s and everything in between, world Coin has announced world chain, which is a, they're calling a new blockchain designed for humans. Now, I know there's been a lot of controversy around world Coin generally. I'm not really going to get into that today because I don't think it's relevant. What I do think is relevant is that they've launched their own standalone chain after being on op Mainnet. So for those of you who don't know, Worldcoin has existed on the op mainnet l two, for a while now, basically since they started being on chain here. Now they're basically pivoted away from that and launching their own chain, but they're not leaving the op ecosystem.
00:29:28.484 - 00:30:07.088, Speaker A: So they're basically launching their own chain as part of the super chain based on the op stack. And they join a bunch of the other super chains, sorry, a bunch of the other op stack chains, such as base, such as Monad, such as Zora. So they're definitely still keeping it in the family, so to speak. Yeah, but obviously they feel like they need to have their own l two for a bunch of different reasons. You know, more kind of like control, more scalability. Maybe not control, but like more flexibility of what they can do and basically what they can do with their own chain and innovate there. But also from like a profitability perspective, too, it makes sense for them to launch their own chain and then keep all of the, I guess, like revenue, uh, within their own ecosystem there, which I expect to be a trend going forward.
00:30:07.088 - 00:31:08.368, Speaker A: You know, people have been kind of making this argument for years now where they basically said, okay, well, you know, we don't think there's going to be like millions of roll ups, right? There's not going to be like millions of chains out there. But at the same time, I've come to the conclusion that we may get to that world where there's like potentially millions of roll ups, but they're going to be part of like these super chains, right? They're not just going to be standalone chains and they're not going to be expensive chains to run either. So if you actually go way back to the original kind of cosmos vision, it was the vision of having these individual kind of app chains that would all connect to each other via IBC. But essentially, where I think Cosmos went wrong with this was that they forced the app chains to basically be their own sovereign chains. They had to issue their own token to bootstrap, their own validator set in order to create their own kind of security. And then later they said, oh, we would do this IBC thing, we will do this shared security thing, and then it will be well and good. But they took way too long to do that.
00:31:08.368 - 00:31:58.180, Speaker A: They basically fragmented and fractured their entire ecosystem by trying to do that. And I think that that vision has been materialized in a much better way on Ethereum with the roll up centric roadmap where essentially we're going to, I believe, like, if I'm, if I'm looking 1015 years out, this is the world that I see. I see maybe not millions at that point, but like lots and lots of different roll ups. And I see them and twos generally, and I see them all talking to each other and all being part of these different kind of like super chains or these kind of super chat, like a handful of super chains, but they're all going to be talking to each other. They're all going to be interoperating with each other via things like shared sequencing in the ag layer and so on and so forth. So essentially, even though we're going to have, you know, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands and millions of different kind of roll up app chains or roll app chains or whatever you want to call them. It's all still going to feel like one whole.
00:31:58.180 - 00:32:40.654, Speaker A: It's still going to feel like you're on one layer, so to speak, because it's all going to be interoperable, interoperable with each other. So it's going to be akin to what we see with the Internet today. Maybe this isn't the best analogy, but I think it's something that maybe resonates with people. So the Internet is that, you know, one interoperability layer. You can call it, you can call or you can say that it's interoperability layer, and then you have like millions of websites that all exist on that. So you don't need to, for example, download a new web browser every time you go to a new website, right? The web browser allows you to go to any website that you want. You don't need to download a new kind of like, protocol, or you don't have to, like, change, change from like, TCP IP to something else whenever you want to go on a new website, it all just works seamlessly in the background.
00:32:40.654 - 00:33:32.946, Speaker A: All of that kind of stuff is just happening in the background and completely abstracted away from you. I remember there's this kind of GitHub page that explains to you what happens when you press like, a key on a keyboard and how much stuff happens in the background. That's what's happening today in crypto and in technology generally. And it's what's going to continue to happen in crypto, which is going to abstract away a lot of this stuff. And it's all just going to feel like one layer, but there's just going to be millions of these different roll up chains that all inherit Ethereum security, that all are part of the Ethereum ecosystem, and they're all a part of the Ethereum orbit, which basically means Ethereum is the de facto new Internet, essentially the financial Internet, which we haven't had before. As I've explained before, we haven't had a way to or protocol to transfer value until bitcoin came along, and then other chains after bitcoin, and then eventually Ethereum. And that is like the native, or I guess, like the way to certain value over the Internet without intermediaries, you know, in a decentralized way.
00:33:32.946 - 00:34:08.530, Speaker A: That is really the ultimate value prop there. So that's what I imagine, ten to 15 years. That is just like, we have a lot of different, like, app chains, but they're all interoperable. So there's no fragmentation. It doesn't feel like that. And we basically, funny enough, implement the original Cosmos vision just in a much better way, where essentially we have our money, which is ETH, right? We have our store of value, which is ETH. We have a collateral, we have our staking asset, we have the shared security, which is not only Ethereum, not only these roll ups posting their data improved to Ethereum l one, but also restaking, right? Like so Eigen da, for example, have skewering lda if you're not a roll up, if you're just an l two.
00:34:08.530 - 00:34:36.332, Speaker A: We have that. We have interoperability verse via the AG layer, via shared sequencing, via shared proving. As well as I just talked about with Nebra, that's one thing I didn't mention with Nebras, that it actually enables interoperability as well. So there's just all this stuff coming and all this stuff happening that's going to look very, very seamless over the next few years. You're not even going to need to be to change your chain on your wallet or anything like that. All that's going to be gone. It's just going to feel like one holistic ethereum to the end user there.
00:34:36.332 - 00:35:06.756, Speaker A: But I guess that was a little bit of a tangent, but more of a, I guess, broader explanation of what I view the kind of l two s becoming over time here. But you can go check out what world chain is going to be in particular and what their goals are for it. And I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right. I just wanted to give a really big shout out here to this thing called crypto, the game Anon island. Now, I know nothing about this game in general, so I can't really speak to it right now. Someone posted this in the Daily guy discord channel.
00:35:06.756 - 00:35:31.510, Speaker A: I just thought I wanted to give a shout out here. So essentially the, I guess people who won this game won 71.8 ETH and they donated all of that to the free Pertsev and storm fund. For Alexei Pertsev and Roman storm, their legal defense fund. This is just so Chad here, guys. I mean like 71.8 ETH is what, how many, how much in dollars? At today's price of 3000? Ethan, I'm just working that out here.
00:35:31.510 - 00:35:57.802, Speaker A: That's, that's $215,000 going towards this legal defense fund. Now, of course, it doesn't cover all the expenses. As you can see here, the legal expenses for Rahman and Alexei are minimum of $100,000 per month. Which is just insane. And the last two weeks, with $480,000 due to the trials and motions filed in Roman's case, that's. There's 300k in the. The multi sig to cover this right now, which is just not enough.
00:35:57.802 - 00:36:12.626, Speaker A: That's crazy. Guys like, these legal costs are ridiculous. And it's so crazy when it's like, the government versing you because the government just has unlimited money. So you're the one that's really losing. At the end of the day, even if you win the case, you still lose. Like, that's how disgusting this is. Ah, God.
00:36:12.626 - 00:36:36.530, Speaker A: I could rant about this for a very long time, but it's not fair. It's not justice, especially when it's a case like this. But I just wanted to shout out to the winners of crypto the game here, which is Eva Bailey, David Phelps here, and. Yeah, I think. Yeah, and all the crypto the game jury voters who helped to make this happen here. But as I said, I don't really know anything about this in particular, so I'm not endorsing it or anything like that. But I just wanted to point out that the.
00:36:36.530 - 00:37:21.974, Speaker A: There was a donation made to this defense fund. So thank you to the people for that. Made that donation. All right, so I should have talked about this maybe at the beginning of the episode, but I think it's relevant here because it's going to run into what I'm going to talk about next. But I just wanted to point out that Etherfy has now flipped Binance in the staking rankings here. So you can see that ether fire has 1,076,000 each staked, whereas Binance has a million and 74,000 ETH stakes. And ethapy has just been an absolute rampage lately, guys, or for the last six months, really, and shows a masterclass in how to run an effective incentive campaign, as I said on my cast here, and they're on track to flip kiln, which actually, they may have already flipped kiln here, because I don't think this dashboard is tracking a bunch of ETH.
00:37:21.974 - 00:37:39.608, Speaker A: So they only need an extra, I guess, like, what is it, 50,000? I'm doing my math correctly. Yeah. 50. 50,000 ethya. In order to flip kiln and become the top three staking protocol behind just Lido and Coinbase. Now, obviously, to catch Coinbase and catch lighter is a very uphill battle. I don't think.
00:37:39.608 - 00:38:33.444, Speaker A: I don't know if they'll get there. But it's great to see that this protocol that didn't even exist really like a year ago, essentially, and really over the last six months has grown to become number three across the board here. Now, I should disclose that I'm an advisor to Ethereum there, but I'm not trying to pump either fire up or anything like that. And I'm not saying to go buy the token or anything, of course. But what I'm just pointing out is the fact that incentives work, guys, and this is something that I've been harping on about for years, is that once we had more competition in the staking space, once we had incentives, once we had direct and indirect vampire attacks on Lido, and I guess like on Coinbase too, we would see more competition and more growth of these other protocols, which is illustrated here on this dashboard. So you can go check out this dashboard for yourself, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. Now, staying on the staking topic, there was something that has been teased over the last few days by Zero X Mackie, who is famous for working with sushi back in the day.
00:38:33.444 - 00:38:55.470, Speaker A: You may remember him from that time back in, kind of defy some of there, but he's been around for quite a while. An OG ethereum here. But he's been talking about something called heroglyph or hieroglyph or whatever, however you want to say it. I've heard some people say it as hieroglyph or heroglyph here. There's not much information about this yet. There is a Twitter account you can go follow, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. And there's also a white paper, but this white paper is like redacted in some parts.
00:38:55.470 - 00:39:15.510, Speaker A: So you kind of have to guess what this is. But I think I've got a pretty good understanding of what this is. So essentially what it seems to be is ordinals inside Ethereum graffiti. Now, for those of you don't know, there is a graffiti field on every validator. You can put whatever you want there. So it's a 32 byte field. You can put like, people put like messages on there.
00:39:15.510 - 00:40:15.644, Speaker A: So, for example, my rocket pool validators have ETH is money as its message on there, but you can put whatever you want as long as it fits into 32 bytes. Now, I believe that the point of what is being built here with hieroglyph is to essentially issue these kind of ordinals, or I guess like issue inscription like things or token like things within that 32 byte kind of graffiti there, and then do that in a way where essentially you create a speculative speculation around it in order to incentivize more solo validators to, to join the network. Because from my understanding of this white paper, the, this heroglyph would, protocol would only apply to solo validators, or at least they're going to try and make it apply to only solo validators. Now, I don't believe it exists. It will apply to existing solo validators out of the gate. The whole point is to essentially get more solo validators online or more solo stakers online, so that this is basically an incentive mechanism for that. Now, you may be wondering, okay, well, how are they going to identify who's a solo validator versus who is not? And this is one of the open questions.
00:40:15.644 - 00:41:28.692, Speaker A: I think that this is one of the things that makes this not like a perfect solution or anything like that, but something different that I think is probably worth experimenting with. But the two main concern, the two main ways, I guess, sorry, the number one way you can actually have not certainty, but like relative certainty that one of the validators coming online or multiple, or the validator coming online is not part of a staking pool is that its withdrawal credentials is not a smart contract. Now, of course, there is an issue with this in that anyone who's got a safe multi sig as their withdrawal credentials, even as a solo staker, is not going to be eligible because that is a smart contract. So it's only applying to people who have, like, EOas, normal ethereum accounts as their withdrawal address, which isn't great. As I said, this is not a perfect solution here, but it is basically near impossible or impossible to accurately identify solo stakers because if there is enough money to be made, it's going to be games. And there's no way, like, to, I guess, like delineate between these things. There are different things you can try to try and like, filter out things for the most part, but it's really, really difficult to identify solo stakers and solo validators, especially when there's kind of incentives involved, because there are ways to game it.
00:41:28.692 - 00:42:16.014, Speaker A: And I don't think that the creators of this or anyone involved with this is going to be, are saying that there's not ways to game it or saying that it's a perfect solution, but they're just trying, from, from my reading of it, they're just trying to incentivize more solo validators on the network by using speculation, by using, I guess, like maybe not meme coins, but by using kind of like speculative vehicles, so to speak, economic incentives, as you, as we call it, if we have like a suit on its economic incentives, if we're in our casual clothes. It's Degen, speculative stuff. But that's my understanding. As I said, a lot of this white paper is blacked out right now, but I believe the full white paper is going to be released today or tomorrow. But I'll keep you guys updated on this project generally there. But I think on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching.
00:42:16.014 - 00:42:21.894, Speaker A: Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
