00:00:05.530 - 00:00:28.150, Speaker A: Have three more incredible people joining and they're going to be covering a doubt first approach to launching a new protocol. So this is the Gearbox team. They'll be covering all this. I want to welcome Mikhail, Yvonne and Yogis to talk about this. And they have a presentation prepared for this. So without further ado, I'll let them turn their cameras on and get started.
00:00:28.220 - 00:00:51.700, Speaker B: So welcome, everybody. Hello. Hi, Karthik. Nice to see you. You too. Thank you for having us. Can we jump in right to it or there is something else you'd like to say first? No, we're all good.
00:00:51.700 - 00:01:35.276, Speaker B: Okay, cool. Well, thanks for welcoming us. It's exciting to be here. And we didn't want to have just one panelist from the team because essentially we're building the Primitive and the DeFi protocol. So we felt like everyone who has been mostly contributing to the protocol so far can be can be here to present their part of the vision, what they have been working on. Actually, it's an interesting story because Gearbox started at Eat Global early this year at MarketMate Hackathon in January, February, when Mikhail, as the founder, kickstarted them, and then we met again in February. So after three quarters of work, we're excited to present something we've been working on together with other founders, with auditors and everybody else who has contributed to contracts.
00:01:35.276 - 00:02:21.606, Speaker B: And so shall we do some brief introductions or just jump right into it? Anyway? Okay, let's go into it. So before we get into the did you press the share thing? Let's pardon for this. Yeah. So there are a lot of interesting things to discuss today. It comes, of course, to the topic of governance and dows. There are the concept of like, friends and familiar owning, all the tokens, the free riders having a big edge, which essentially also comes down to voting powers being unfair, the initial distribution being unfair too. So what we see as a solution to that is the reverse voting escrow that we will get to later.
00:02:21.606 - 00:02:36.330, Speaker B: Just before we get into the governance and dow questions, we just briefly wanted to give viewers an introduction of what yearbox does just to explain what it does as a DeFi protocol to then explain what exactly one can do with it from the governance perspective. So, Mikhail, please.
00:02:36.480 - 00:03:17.798, Speaker C: Thanks so much. And at first, I'm really so happy to be a speaker today because I participated in many S Global hackathons and it's a really good honor to talk the protocol which was created during this hackathon. And now we are really happy to talk what we've built for the last seven months. So here you can see the architecture of Gearbox protocol. And as you can see, Gearbox is two side protocols, two side protocol. On the left side, you can see liquidity or capital providers. These people want to provide liquidity to get APY.
00:03:17.798 - 00:04:01.058, Speaker C: And this part looks similar like any other lending protocols. So this is pace of investments which generate good APY. But what really makes gearbox unique is the right part. And here you can see the traders who want to increase capital efficiency. To do so, traders provide initial funds to credit account. This is new defy and we strongly believe a lot of new things could be built upon it. Credit Account is an isolated smart contract which allows you to execute different financial orders but do not provide direct access to the funds.
00:04:01.058 - 00:05:17.902, Speaker C: So to use it, the trader provide initial funds on it and Credit Account immediately takes margin loan to get leverage from the pool. So after opening an account, a trader could send different financial orders, we check them to cover the collateral of margin loan. And if they are wallet, if they have a real smart contract, they will be immediately executed on behalf of credit account. So, briefly, you can see that nothing depends on trader and DEXes and gearbox could be used in more generic ways, where you need leverage. So in the simplest way, we could really enable leverage for any defy protocol. And probably there is a good analogy in real life when you can open a credit account once and then you can use in different places. And at this space we can talk more than gearbox provide leverage as a service, we do not provide for you experience of margin trading or yield farming with leverage and so on and so on.
00:05:17.902 - 00:06:04.320, Speaker C: Instead of that, you can combine gearbox with your DeFi protocol and leverage user position. And these things create a really amazing opportunity to create permission and strategies. And it's really amazing. And in the next slide, I will show how it could be beneficial and profitable for you. And one more really great advantage of gearbox is that there is no funding rates, because we take money from money market like any other lending protocol. And here what I want to show example what could not be done before gearbox? It's really unique. You can open a short position.
00:06:04.320 - 00:06:46.086, Speaker C: So at first you provide your USDC, you swap them into ethereum open credit account in S and now you have depth in S and USDC on your credit account. And it looks similar for many other solution on the market. But then you can put this USDC into vion to get more APY. So you can create a lot of new ideas in DeFi market. And our value is composability. I think it's the most significant part of gearbox. So we focus only on one thing to get leverage.
00:06:46.086 - 00:07:27.660, Speaker C: And we really take the advantage of connecting different DeFi protocols. It's why I believe so crucial to have a strong dow to manage so complex system, because there are a lot of internal parameters and ways how we can grow this protocol to connect probably the wool DeFi market. And here you can see that from gearbox side, we provide only new DeFi primitive which is called credit account and it should be grown, followed by Dao. So let's talk more about Dao and governance. And here I ask Ivan to continue.
00:07:28.030 - 00:08:14.786, Speaker B: Yes, so everybody loves Dao and governance. After all, that's the topic of today's talk and the conference as well. And there is no really doubt that the Dao and governance present a much more transparent and clear way to create, let's say, collaboration between people. But there are still a lot of issues that are untackled that we think we have come to a way to solve, essentially. So at first, what can the Dao do in the Gearbox context? Well, it's very much similar to every other DeFi protocol like Ava, maker, compound and so on. You have collateral onboarding, meaning the assets you can put as collateral, you have liquidation thresholds, which they define by credit accounts. When a position is liquidated, you have allowed token protocol list and those are to see where the leverage can be deployed.
00:08:14.786 - 00:09:18.870, Speaker B: So those are the only boundaries created by Gearbox in that sense as the protocol. Then there is the protocol fee model, which could be there, could not be there. The protocol governance can decide not to have it for the first year, two, three, maybe never maybe they decide to have it right away. And TBL caps, referring to the fact that from our perspective, it makes sense to start protocols these days with TBL caps because it allows the bug bounties and other security issues to be found in open source way while not risking the user funds to an extreme level. So essentially Dao utility of gear token, which is what we're presenting here, is similar to anything you see in DeFi protocols. So the usual approach to launching a DeFi protocol that is very much straightforward. Like usually a team gets together, builds something for a few months, deploys it, tries to find PMF, tests different strategies, and once they have found something, team launches a token and they do a dao and progressively get the decentralization where the token is there, there is a multisix and snapshot or whatever it else it is.
00:09:18.870 - 00:10:13.610, Speaker B: And this is totally okay. So this model everybody is familiar with and it's fine, but there are a few caveats in here relating to decentralization and how the imagination is cut because if the core way where people have to go and publish it, it's difficult to find another path there. And that is what we think where the Loot approach is actually interesting. So jumping away from DeFi for a second, loot is the NFT project by Dhoff, who is the ex founder of Wine. I think many of in this space has been like last month or so. What it really created is that it made the distribution and the distribution really of ideas in such a way where the assets were spread out through communities of different stages and communities of different interests without telling them what has to be done with it. And that's very interesting because it doesn't cap the imagination of developers of the people involved.
00:10:13.610 - 00:10:56.938, Speaker B: They can really think more broadly. And that of course also has another point from the context of regulatory standpoint in DeFi protocols where team own admin signatures, it often becomes a problem that the team has control over it and therefore they can be forced to regain control of it. Sorry to give away that control, which is another point that has to be fixed and we will address that in the next slides. So, Ludenspired launch of Gearboxes basically initial distribution of gear tokens to a very wide community base. At that point there is no protocol yet, it's just distribution of token, distribution of assets. Then governance decides to deploy the protocol. So of course the code has to be presented and governance decides to deploy in the way fashion we see.
00:10:56.938 - 00:11:54.240, Speaker B: So team doesn't have admin signature at all whatsoever, not even on day zero. We remove every control before we even deploy because it's not USCO deployed. And then of course governance decides protocol parameters, pools, assets, everything that comes with the protocol because those are all modular kind of things that can be done. And after that, as you can imagine, deployed parameters figured out by the Dao, they can of course be changed by the Dao at any point and then builders can do different things with it. So essentially the reverse model of trying to have protocol deployed by team and find PMF to first deploy it by the community and then decide where the PMF and what the protocol will do. But sounds very nice, right? Sounds easy, but there are still some caddy's with it. What Dow has run today, and I think quite often people agree on these things, is the unstead token distribution where a core team has too much or investors have too much or somebody has too much.
00:11:54.240 - 00:12:34.298, Speaker B: Well, that is not an issue at hand per se because we don't have Udi yet and these economic things of Wales are hard to, let's say, argue upon. It still leads to both the apathy when you as a small holder or a user see that there are two people who essentially are those who were involved before the distribution happened. They control the entire protocol. You don't have the reason to engage with it and it's hard to argue with it. And that is the case for electoral systems around the world these days. So these are very known issues. And while we don't try to fix with how distribution is done per se, because there will always be whales, there will always be people with more resources, whether it's information, capital, something else.
00:12:34.298 - 00:12:59.442, Speaker B: We believe that governance can be done in a more fair way. And that is how we get to this reverse CRV model that we can jump in later. So let's just recap initial distribution issues. Friends and familiar, basically your close friends who get their locations for no reason. No, we don't want that. Essentially, as I mentioned, free riders who just get tokens for no reason. Also not cool.
00:12:59.442 - 00:13:45.042, Speaker B: Everybody has to be a contributor. So anybody that correspondent DeFi knowledge, who contributes, who helps, who does something, gets to be a Gearbox Dow member. So essentially users, any one of you or not anon so, jumping back to this, how do you ensure a distribution in a cool way before the protocol isn't there? It's easy to do distribution once you have users, right? But here you don't even have users, you have nothing. It's like blank sheet of paper. So, what Mikhail mentioned previously, those credit accounts, which are the actual core primitive of Gearbox, they are isolated smart contracts that users essentially take from the protocol, borrow it and use them. And once they close them or repay or liquidate it, they come back to the protocol. That is cool in two ways.
00:13:45.042 - 00:14:21.354, Speaker B: First of all, because you don't deploy it every time, the gas costs are much lower because deployment of smart contracts, as you know, is not cheap. Second, it's more interesting from the ethereum green point of view because we don't just deploy contracts every time and just leave them hanging somewhere. It's like an Uber model where people borrow an account and then give it back. It's really cool, right? So that's the question. How does the protocol get a factory of them? Let's say we envision 3000 users in the first X month, for instance. How does the protocol get that right? Here is the cool part. So we call it credit account mining.
00:14:21.354 - 00:15:12.030, Speaker B: It's the initial distribution stage that really lets people be a part of the community and get tokens for work without first. So active DeFi governance addresses are snapshotted as eligible participation. Meaning that if you participated in, let's say, compound our wifey and a few other governance systems previously, your wallet should be eligible to mine one or two. That depends later of those credit accounts. And because you pay deployment costs for those isolated smart contracts being credit accounts, you get geared tokens. So that way in the good case scenario, there should be a few hundred people who know DeFi, who have interacted with DeFi before and who engage in a more profound way rather than just taking an AirDrop. Everybody loves airdrops, right? They never say no to them, but they don't entail one to really have any knowledge of the product or do any work.
00:15:12.030 - 00:15:49.242, Speaker B: And at that point you're essentially the same as the free rider who is an investor, right? So if you remove free riders from investors, you should remove them at every stage to really try to balance the lemon playing field as much as possible. So this still gets to an issue of, let's say distribution is done, right? But as mentioned before, we don't have that case where we can really have community own at the first week. The same amount of tokens that team or core contributors simply not the case. Right. We need stages with liquidity mining for that or some other engagement. So then you have the issues that I think Ilgis wants to present on this topic. Yeah.
00:15:49.296 - 00:16:22.760, Speaker D: So the next open question is how to find good balance between community and team in terms of voting power. So, what kind of options we have in our industry? Next slide, please. First one when only liquid tokens can vote and team, which has of course locked tokens, can any voting power, is it good? We guess no. Next one. Because any bad actor can.
00:16:25.610 - 00:16:26.086, Speaker B: Make a.
00:16:26.108 - 00:17:05.690, Speaker D: Proposal, vote for it and do something bad for protocol and actually kills it. So what's next option we have? Team can vote by its locked tokens, is it good? Of course no. Because team voting power is much much more than community have in the initial stages. What's next? Next option is when team can delegate their locked token voting power to someone else. But the question is to whom, how to choose this person and how to make it transparent.
00:17:05.850 - 00:17:06.560, Speaker B: And.
00:17:09.650 - 00:18:00.658, Speaker D: How to make this process transparent. It's not very easy way to do it. And we see other protocols who did this before and it's very hard for them to make transparent process of how they choose person, how they vote, to whom delegate it. So our idea is to create something else. So we invented reverse voting scroll model. First of all, what's voting scroll? It was invented by curve team. When you can lock your liquid tokens and get more voting power in the Dao, it's very very good way to increase to boost your voting power.
00:18:00.658 - 00:18:46.514, Speaker D: But in our case, we need opposites when you have much more less voting power if your tokens is locked. So we implemented it by creating some multipliers for the team tokens and for initial contributors tokens. So that yeah, they have a lot of tokens, they are locked, but their voting power is not so huge. So now we get fair distribution of voting power. Next slide, please. Where community holds more than 50% of voting power, so actually community owns the protocol. Community can decide what's the best, but team also has a high percent of voting power, but of course not majority of it.
00:18:46.514 - 00:19:05.400, Speaker D: So team can be some kind of leader type of organization when team can be responsible for making decisions more fairer. Next one.
00:19:07.470 - 00:20:15.498, Speaker B: Yeah, so just to recap the things we just addressed, the issues that we think are addressed with this model where you have the reverse vote in escrow, is that we expect a lower level of voting apathy. Voting apathy is still the case in every protocol and it actually diminishes, not because of the mathematical question, just because community loses interest. And let's say the protocol is not as hyped anymore and there are no new things really happening, but those are the things that are more like dynamic that teams, contributors, everybody else can address to make them interesting again. But really the reverse weights make it such as a level playing field. And as you see in the previous slide, while team and initial contributors might own more in the first week, every protocol at this point has like 30% to 50% reserved in the Dow, right? It's really the question of how you get that to people. And if for the first year the entire Dow is literally three people, for the first year, people just don't have any interest to engage. And this reverse model essentially, as we believe, fixes it because then people understand that from day one, despite not having 10% of the supply, they have as much voting power and as locked tokens.
00:20:15.498 - 00:21:08.362, Speaker B: Let's say previous contributors unlock, which is totally normal to see, right? You wouldn't expect a person working on this day and night for two years to not have anything or to have the same as a person who joined discord yesterday. That just doesn't make sense, right? But then as those unlock or become liquid or become less diminished by this multiply that we're talking about in the vote in escrow, the community distribution of the Dow also releases more in stages over a few engagement programs, liquidity mining or whatever it is. So then it balances the Dow. So it's really about that first initial boost to let people really participate in governance. That's the first point. Another point that Tao has come across is the admin keep distrust where a protocol is launched, a DeFi protocol, having a few, let's say dozens of millions of TDL and then team still calls the signature. It's not safe from the user perspective, but it's also not safe from the team perspective because of the regulatory reasons.
00:21:08.362 - 00:21:46.890, Speaker B: As a team member these days, I doubt anybody actually wants to call an admin signature. And why would you? In this case, the models today present you an opportunity to not have it in the first place. So we won't have a team admin signature at all. We won't keep anything that comes to the code that will be also open source. And the community multisig won't include only investors or only team. Those will be the minority in the multisig, plus they will be a time lock as everybody is used these days in case the multisig misbehaves for some reason. And another point is no early insider dumping or any non community unlocked tokens being thrown into the market.
00:21:46.890 - 00:22:35.994, Speaker B: So that is something that we believe many protocols already address these days. But that is something that we want to reiterate that there is no, let's say, downside in a potential way that somebody insider will dump on you or something like this because at first nobody has to liquid anyway. So there is no how protocols, like not protocols ICOs like to call them in 2018, I think many would know is some marketing and partners tokens, right? Or market making tokens which essentially get released into the market and nobody knows whatever happens to them. So we are glad that this standard has stopped working. So those are the things addressed, but we are not being naive here. We are not saying dows are the future, dream, unicorns, rainbows, everything. There are still issues that happen today and those are the ones that actually are still being a pain point for many protocols, even decentralized ones.
00:22:35.994 - 00:23:30.126, Speaker B: First of all is the sensor UI, so UI is the access to the protocol. And while protocols are not influenced by teams directly with admin signature or anything, UIs are the main gateway to them. So uniswap open source and the UI is actually a good way to do it, and many protocols do it as well. For example, incentivize other UIs to be created like liquidity protocol. The reason why we are not doing it in the first week is simply to prevent malicious actors, either forkers or phishers from making something with the UIs that's not supposed to happen while the community is still new, while the community still doesn't understand what's happening. So at first we believe that to protect from those, it's okay for UI to be censored, but that has to be stopped in a matter of weeks or months after that. Once the community is there, once TDL is there, if it is there at all, then the UI should be open source and should be given to community to run with it locally or anything like that.
00:23:30.126 - 00:24:49.826, Speaker B: In that case, you really decentralize all the components of the protocol while you do that. Technically, if you take all of this into account, you still have the operational overhead, as in like people involved, let's say, like us, right? We just know a bit more about Gearbox now and it's not really a hard issue to fix as long as the communication is transparent and every stage of the protocol dao life is communicated really well, which was Wyorn has been doing from day zero. Everybody knows enough about the protocol and its operations that they can actually step into a role if they wish to. And that's very important because if you don't start doing it early, you will always remain like a company who nobody trusts in a weird way, right? You're talking about trust and not trusting anyone, but that's really the way to change that perspective and have everybody feel like they are part of it and then centralized voting concept. So we all know that many protocols start early on with the snapshot plus multisig model, right? It's the most dynamic. If you launch something early enough and you still want the doubt to tweak things around here and there to have the emergency, let's say, signature something like this. It's not bad conceptually, but it's still not something that should remain there for long because multisig in concept and in tech doesn't actually have any liability towards a snapshot.
00:24:49.826 - 00:25:29.234, Speaker B: Yes, we can talk about economic reasons, right? If they do something bad, they actually risk something else. So that's another point, but it's not card defined. So there are things like Safe Snap mikhail right. Was it called Safe safe Snap diagnosis, which essentially introduced an extra signature, I believe, into making the snapshot vote be very important, the outcome to executing the multistake signature and that's something that could be added. We are not 100% sure that it's the way to go because Snapshot part is still essentially on the UI and being managed by Admins. So it doesn't really fix that much. So it's better to really migrate to governance like compiled or ava at that point.
00:25:29.234 - 00:26:00.858, Speaker B: So these are the things that we think are addressed, the voting app distress and we are doing everything to ensure that from literally not day zero but day minus one. Centralized UI will take a few weeks to be there. Operational overhead is just something we've been already doing slowly, educating users, giving people the opportunity to engage in different ways. So that is something for later. And then the voting snapshot is of course another thing that also takes a few months to get to. But that is essentially what we see every protocol realizing. So those is not rocket science.
00:26:00.858 - 00:26:38.620, Speaker B: People understand at hand have seen this thing. So, yeah, we just wanted to reiterate on that now to recap because we've said a lot. Hopefully it made sense. But basically community ownership of Gearbox becomes from day minus one. And if we are talking a bit in a more general way, it's really about shipping the code and making it available to the community to run with from day minus one to then figure out what they do with it. Again, core team members, core contributors will understand a bit more of what can happen with it. But it's really about giving people the opportunity to figure out for themselves what they can do with it.
00:26:38.620 - 00:27:03.266, Speaker B: And that's what we think is important and that's what Lute has inspired. Then it's the Fair Digital distribution and the Fair governance. Let's be honest, we are not as altruistic as Andre Cronier. We are not saying we're not going to have any tokens at all. Community will have everything. We don't think that's really realistic because people who work on it again day and night, they can't continue doing so if they own as much as the person who joined Discord a week ago. That just doesn't make sense.
00:27:03.266 - 00:27:41.630, Speaker B: And I think with Wire later on, Princeton, not in a bad way, in a good way, showed that incentives are important. So it's really about the governance being fair in the first few months, where this is where people are most excited about a protocol. This is where the hard boost happens, right? And that's where we think the Fair governance must be in place not one year later. Because one year later people buy sell, people change hands, people forget their wallets, people become disinterested. It's totally fine that the governance will be in the hands of a few key people. Then you can introduce more delegation, you can introduce VCRV model, which we think is cool. And we also plan that it's just that about the reverse VCRV for those that are vested.
00:27:41.630 - 00:28:10.630, Speaker B: Essentially community owns the protocol, in fact and technically so they essentially have all of that. And then team can act as one of the governance when finding the PMF instead of just dictating what it is. So let's jump into the opportunities. So what can you do with Gearbox today? The code is not yet open. We are going through audits, a few of them and again, DeFi is all insecure, DeFi is all risky. You can get wrecked wrapped at any point. So again, don't treat it as some promise of safety.
00:28:10.630 - 00:28:59.430, Speaker B: But we are doing the audits and those should be back in about two weeks from now, which then I guess that is essentially the announcement. That is when the governance is supposed to launch through the credit account idea. So the credit account mayan, if you have been active in governance before, likely one of your wallets should be eligible for it pretty easy. You then read the article, understand how it works and then engage in the program running liquidation bots. So if you have run liquidation bots before, liquidations are core feature of Gearbox that nobody promises that will work well, that is the case for maker Ave compound and so on. So if you have run liquidation bots, come join the building on discord because that's where you can actually build a liquidation bot and there are economic incentives to do so. As you know, fee goes the protocol, a fee goes the liquidation bot runner as to say.
00:28:59.430 - 00:29:32.638, Speaker B: And they will be an incentivized extra gear tokens program to make sure that in the first month people really make those liquidation bots. Because let's be honest, if liquidation bots don't work, it's all right. That's the case for any protocol really. So use the protocol, help test it very simple. That should be live in about one week. Unless Mikhail disappears somewhere in the dungeon and doesn't give us the new UX, the new UI, then get into governance, build permissionless strategies as in Gearbox doesn't define what you can do. The governance for the sake of safety of assets just defines what you cannot do.
00:29:32.638 - 00:29:43.666, Speaker B: So it doesn't define you within the box, it gives you a big box to work within and then take part in bug Bounties. And also we are hiring. So if you are a smart contract developer especially, right, Mikhail? Yeah.
00:29:43.688 - 00:29:55.420, Speaker C: And also if you are a good front end developer who know how to work with web three standard, please contact us. We are really excited to work together.
00:29:56.190 - 00:30:30.020, Speaker B: So that wraps up our presentation. Really. Hopefully it made sense. We hope we also. Have shown that this is a more decentralized way of launching the protocol and the new way of doing it while both being more reactive for the teams when it comes to regulatory standpoint. Because in this case there is no ownership of everything from the first second and also it's one cruiser for the community and creating account mining to get some gear tokens is a fun way to do it but it won't be the only stage where you will be able to engage in governance. So yeah, looking forward.
00:30:30.390 - 00:30:31.890, Speaker C: Yeah, I think it's.
00:30:34.090 - 00:30:34.840, Speaker B: Amazing.
00:30:35.610 - 00:31:17.380, Speaker A: Thank you so much for that incredible presentation and sort of presenting that framework. I'm looking at all of our chats and people are super impressed by how forward thinking this is and how this is adjacent and actually addresses a handful of problems that we have already seen. And you pointed out we don't have time for too many questions. So I'll kind of pose the questions we have from the chat and feel free to address them at a high level or go back into and log in and answer them directly in writing. But one question is in the model you're proposing, what is considered what will be considered the quorum for a vote here if there's sort of no initial sort of group. And the second one is do you have any concerns about the privacy of participants in this model?
00:31:19.030 - 00:32:01.202, Speaker B: So when it comes to the quorum, I assume as any other protocol has it, there are different quorums for different decisions. For example, something as risky as the really liquidation threshold requires a much higher quorum. Mikhail, you can correct me there something like, let's say operational decisions on the spec. So in multisig you have a thing where depending on the level, you have a different way of doing it. So Mikhail, on the privacy level, I'm not sure what exactly is referred to privacy here because it's a snapshot of wallets that have participated at the governance, right. And they are on chain and we don't KYC look at them, ask them who they are, they just generally participate. So I'm not sure if I understand the privacy aspect here.
00:32:01.336 - 00:32:19.480, Speaker C: I think probably the same things which happens in compound dow probably the same risk and the same privacy because we do not ask people much more information about them. But by the way, they could vote it. I think this model looks pretty interesting.
00:32:20.570 - 00:32:47.214, Speaker B: Speaking of privacy, actually, just to add there, that's why there are a few different distribution stages defined before the protocol even launches because then there will be a few distinct different groups of people who participated before and so on. So that will be possible to engage through different user bases and then it's not defined but a few of them. So then you have a mix up, essentially a mixer. Not sure if that's the right word, but you get what I mean.
00:32:47.252 - 00:32:49.342, Speaker A: Yeah, absolutely.
00:32:49.476 - 00:32:50.014, Speaker B: Yeah.
00:32:50.132 - 00:33:18.262, Speaker A: Hopefully that's enough for you, Isaac? If there's any more follow up questions on that, feel free to comment more. But in the meantime, I want to thank all of you for doing this presentation. And it's just super exciting for me to see the whole full circle of kind of starting at an hackathon, coming up with this, launching a project and now proposing something that, from what I understood, fundamentally can change how we operate at scale. And this is, to me, super exciting. So thanks again and congrats on everything that you've accomplished so far.
00:33:18.396 - 00:33:18.854, Speaker B: Thank you.
00:33:18.892 - 00:33:21.940, Speaker C: Thanks so much. It was really nice. Amazing.
