00:00:00.760 - 00:00:49.362, Speaker A: And I would like to start out with a caveat that I work in human rights field, so my presentation will be more about the social impact of blockchain. I have tried to make the presentation as accessible as possible because recognizing that I work in a different field than many participants here might be used to in our field. We're noticing that blockchain based solutions are already making an impact, some positive, some negative. And it's important to talk about these things and to share knowledge between our two fields. So my presentation will be about that. So I will break it down. It's very simple.
00:00:49.362 - 00:01:41.480, Speaker A: The first part of it will be framing the problem, talking about what is the problem that we have with the rise of blockchain based solutions, or lack thereof. And the second part will be focusing on solutions. What are the solutions that we can look forward to with blockchain that can help not just the most vulnerable populations in the world, like the stateless exiles, political dissidents, refugees, and so on and so on, but also everybody. Because everybody is impacted by the risk of having your proof of identity being tampered with or taken away. Political winds change. Nobody can predict them. And so my family never knew we were going to end up being stateless.
00:01:41.480 - 00:02:28.186, Speaker A: We're natives to European Union, but we don't have a proper legal identity. We're not given that. And I'm not gonna get into too many of these details. I will start out by framing what is the issue that we're facing. So when you think of proof of identity, proof of residence, proof of your nationality, all of these things are crucial to allowing you to exercise your rights. If you don't have a nationality, then you don't have a right to have rights. When you don't have residence, you also are lacking many rights.
00:02:28.186 - 00:03:24.564, Speaker A: So there's a big difference between the two. But for the sake of keeping things simple, we'll just term it as lack of legal identity. But obviously you can break it down into further details as to whether it's residence, nationality, citizenship, etcetera, etcetera. So the question is, the critical question is who issues your legal identity? Moreover, who owns it? If you were to open up your passports, you might be surprised to read that you're not the owner of your legal identity. I'm surprised people are surprised about that. The legal identity that you have is owned by your government, to whom you belong to. And we have romanticized this whole notion of belonging, but it's quite literal.
00:03:24.564 - 00:04:23.034, Speaker A: You are owned by this government, you are something useful to this government, and in exchange for being useful, you are granted certain rights because you are granted legal identity. Now, throughout history, of course, academics have talked about various monopolies that state actors have had. So state actors are the authorities that issue your legal identification. They have absolute, complete monopoly over that. Historically, they have had absolute, complete monopoly over violence. So that's something, a monopoly that is talked about more, but other things like monopoly of identification, the media, data, currency hasn't been talked about much. And it's very interesting that some of these centralized monopolies have begun to give way to decentralization.
00:04:23.034 - 00:05:20.694, Speaker A: This is why with cryptocurrency we have, you know, decentralized currency. There's no one authority that issues the currency. Now, in human rights, that's, that's already relevant. But what interests interests us more is the potential in decentralization of identification. When you think of centralization of power, whenever you have any absolute power given even to any human institution or any human, it's a bad idea. You're going to have a lack of accountability, and you're very likely going to have abuse and corruption and misuse and just tampering. Now, in the world, there's a billion people who lack legal identification.
00:05:20.694 - 00:06:23.676, Speaker A: That number should be mind boggling. That's a statistic from the World bank. Now, I drew a little gradient there among these people, there's various vulnerable people in the world. So there are the stateless minorities, refugees, exiles, indigenous people, et cetera, et cetera. And it's interesting that among all these people that lack legal identification or lack properly legal identification, because some of these people might have some form of legal identification like a tolerated stay or temporary residence, or just a piece of paper from the police stating that they were arrested and this is their name. All of these people are extremely vulnerable based on what kind of idiom they hold. Now, on the gradient with the state actors, we have the competence side.
00:06:23.676 - 00:07:30.406, Speaker A: That's the perfect state actor that never discriminates, that effectively can identify all of its people that is on its territory, that is able to fairly issue identity papers after it has identified all of the people on its territory, that utopia doesn't exist. There is no country in the world that is capable of doing that, never mind actually doing that. So usually we have something in between happening and then malay side, unfortunately, that's. And I termed it that way on purpose because when we have state actors refuse to grant identity papers or discriminate, it's not based on any rational grounds. It's usually due to phobias like xenophobia or due to racism. 24 countries in the world don't allow women to pass on nationality. Some countries in Europe only recently started to allow women to pass on nationality.
00:07:30.406 - 00:09:02.084, Speaker A: Like Netherlands, they only started to allow women to pass on nationality from 1985. And so that impacts heavily what kind of identity papers people will have. So whenever you have a state actor afflicted by malaise, you will have potentially have them be malicious. This is why in countries like Myanmar, we have a very authoritarian state going after its minorities, refusing to issue them proper identification and just ethnically cleansing them and killing them, trying to kill them off. So we have this gradient. And in between there's much, I want to call it mess. And so that is a problem that we're facing, and it is something that affects everybody, like I said, because various groups in the world that are currently vulnerable among many of these people are people of yesterday that were perfectly stable in their life and had an equal identity paper to that of other fellow citizens.
00:09:02.084 - 00:10:24.224, Speaker A: But in came some sort of political change. And I'll give a specific example now with Belarus, which is currently making half a million people stateless in Europe, and it's making these people stateless because four years ago, these people went out to protest against the government, that people were not in agreement to the unfair elections that were done in Belarus, and the government cracked down. And so half a million of these people left the country. And since Belarus, like any other state actor, has absolute monopoly on issuing identity papers, has that centralized power, and also combined with absolute monopoly, as with any other state actor, on determining who belongs, they can easily punish their dissidents. So that's another way people become stateless. And of course, I'm talking about statelessness because I'm a specialist in statelessness. So I'm bringing up examples in that regard in regards to other vulnerable groups here, like indigenous populations in southeast Asia, you have various indigenous nomadic people.
00:10:24.224 - 00:12:04.964, Speaker A: And so they don't get their papers because they get discriminated against because they're nomadic. Well, in Europe, we have something similar with Roma. They face a lot of discrimination because they're more mobile, they're not as settled, and there's a lot of prejudice toward them in that regard. So the point being is that current vulnerable groups are not, how they put it. Anybody who has citizenship now, anybody who has identity papers now, that doesn't secure you in the future because any state actor cannot guarantee to you security in the future because political winds change, different governments get elected. And it should be a disturbing thing to consider that more and more state actors are increasing, gathering of data and trying to control that data. And so you have a situation where you have more centralized power becoming more powerful, and then if the ownership of that data is in the hands of a government that does not have good intentions, and nobody can guarantee what government will exist in the future, you have a serious risk factor for everybody, not just the current vulnerable groups.
00:12:04.964 - 00:13:09.414, Speaker A: And so that brings back the question of why blockchain? Why are we talking about this topic? And as somebody stateless, but also being aware of how other stateless led communities, stateless led organizations, are utilizing blockchain, the solutions are already here, we're already using them. It's not a question of if or how. So a simple example is that when you go to the bank, what do they ask you? Let us see your legal identification or anything else. Education, employment, freedom of movement, legal identification. And they don't care if you say, like, well, my government discriminates against me, or discriminate against my mother because she was a female, they don't care to hear that story. They just need to see the identification. And so various stateless people already recognize that, well, the bank is not allowing me to have a bank account.
00:13:09.414 - 00:14:28.966, Speaker A: I can open a crypto wallet. So blockchain is being used that way. But the centralization of identification, proof of identity, and ownership of identity is a much bigger deal, because as I started out the presentation, I talked about how legal identification is a gateway to all rights. Now, it's a big question, of course, for the future as to how much acceptance there will be of blockchain based solutions, decentralized identification. But the need is clear, not just for current vulnerable groups, but for everybody. Because your government may also change, whether democratically or through a coup, it doesn't matter. And we should also already draw the lessons from history, as was the case with Nazi Germany, because they have used identity and identity stratification in a very ruthless way, and that government was elected, so even democracy cannot prevent such things from happening.
00:14:28.966 - 00:15:39.624, Speaker A: So with more and more data, there needs to be security, not just from hackers, not just from criminals. We also have to make sure that we help the state actors themselves to fulfill their one role that they have in providing security to its own citizens and their own members, because they cannot guarantee what power will actually be there in the future. So the good news is that we carry much of our id data with us. It's your face, it's your fingerprints, it's your DNA. You can adjust your identity proof in various ways. And sometimes I think about how crazy it is that in the 21st century, we still carry little pieces of paper or paper booklets as proof of something as important as our legal identity. But of course, if we have a really strong proof of identity, it is going to be very important to consider who owns it.
00:15:39.624 - 00:16:54.464, Speaker A: Because if all that data about you, about where you graduate, about who your parents are, about your DNA and so on and so forth, you can adjust the gradient. If all of that data is an ownership of a centralized power, are we asking for trouble? The answer is yes. So the real solution is really with decentralization. And it's exciting to see various projects come up within a previous presentation. I've noticed id knows here, but they are more about proof that you are human. But a lot can be tied in. A lot of lessons can be drawn from that project in terms of one person owning one id, and there's various others like ontology and other blockchain projects that create a market for various solution of various solutions to people about exactly this topic of decentralization of identification.
00:16:54.464 - 00:18:50.030, Speaker A: So the need is really strong for us to have decentralization of identification not just for the most vulnerable populations, but for everybody in the future, but for the vulnerable populations. This is particularly the case because if you are in a situation where you get stripped of your citizenship or nationality, you need a plan B. Wouldn't it be good if there was any form of id, even if it's a weak form of id, that if you're stripped of your nationality, if you no longer can use your passport, if you can no longer show in any way that you are who you are, wouldn't it be good to have any form of decentralized id that you can use anywhere, that it's accepted as a backup plan in case you punish for being a particular ethnic group or being part of a particular ethnic group, and so on. So to conclude, I want to say that with blockchain based solutions, there's a lot of potential good that can come out of this technology. But we already see the harm. Just like with digitalization, we see governments having a head start with all their resources, with all their connections, and of course monopoly on violence. When they, for example, approach crypto exchanges and say, well, we're going to regulate you, you can bet that they're going to import some of their preferences and some of their biases into that regulation.
00:18:50.030 - 00:19:40.102, Speaker A: And that's an issue we're already facing. That's not our theory. I've personally faced. This issue in terms of binance doesn't accept various forms of ids from vulnerable groups and why there are other crypto exchanges, because they're just not familiar with it. What is this? And so you're left on the sideline. And we see this time and time again, like in countries like Kenya, where digitalization is being driven forward. But it's the government that has been plagued by various discriminatory policies that it has in place that is influencing the technology sector to import this discrimination.
00:19:40.102 - 00:21:44.442, Speaker A: So it's important to have a more equal balance intake of feedback, not just from state actor authorities top down, but also from the most vulnerable users. And that's why it's important for the blockchain sector to build these connections, to make sure that it is actually adding value to the world and not harming especially those who tend to benefit the most from technology, but also the most vulnerable in regards to the current realities of different societies and discrimination therein. So I will stop right there. And just as a last thing, to initiate the whole advocacy campaign for better, more responsible use of blockchain, several leading groups of coalitions of stateless people and exiles and refugees combine forces and are creating what's called blockchain for human rights Advocacy Network. And the launch of it will be on April 12 here in impact hub Zurich. And it will be about creating the connections to the blockchain sector to provide input about what is actually of value to those people who want to use the technology to access some basic human rights and to try to create a balance between such groups and of course, the state actors who have their rather strong say in the sector. And so you're most invited to attend there.
00:21:44.442 - 00:21:47.634, Speaker A: And I'll stop right there. Thank you.
00:21:55.654 - 00:22:08.154, Speaker B: Alexis, thank you very much for your representation. Very important and use of the technology and really inspiring. Congratulations. Does anyone have some question? Okay, the microphone is going toward.
00:22:10.114 - 00:22:47.064, Speaker C: One of the things. I mean, state id exist because everyone trusts it, right? To the extent that. Correct. Right. I can put whatever information I like on a blockchain, right. I can give a fake name, fake address, fake employment records, fake education, fake everything. I mean, who's there to attest that the information is correct and then who determine and will be accepted? If I show you my passport, you accept that's my passport data and it's accurate because it's come from an authority that we do trust?
00:22:47.184 - 00:23:09.746, Speaker A: Yeah, that's a great question, and I want to break it down into parts. First of all, the trust in the state actor. That's something we were brought up from a very early age. Trust it like you would trust God. I would question that many state actors are committing many human rights violations. It's very hard to find a state actor who is not committing some sort of corruption or human rights violation. So there's some issues with that.
00:23:09.746 - 00:23:49.386, Speaker A: There's a lot of incompetence. We had plenty of cases in human rights where a person's file is just deleted because the bureaucrat didn't want to deal with it. We have a lot of issues in this regard, and so we want to paint a more accurate picture of what is the actual problem. And so we should trust a responsible state actor. Right. But like I said in my presentation, we have a little bit of a dilemma that with any monopoly, absolute power, no matter how responsible that actor wants to be, power corrupts. An absolute power corrupts absolutely.
00:23:49.386 - 00:23:55.746, Speaker A: So we need to do this not just for the sake of ourselves. We need to do this, like I said, to help the state actors because.
00:23:55.930 - 00:23:57.574, Speaker C: Sorry, that's people. Right?
00:23:58.094 - 00:23:58.742, Speaker A: Sure.
00:23:58.878 - 00:24:05.806, Speaker C: We can create a platform, pull a load of data. We're all corruptible. We all have our own biases and influences.
00:24:05.950 - 00:24:06.674, Speaker A: Yes.
00:24:08.374 - 00:24:25.522, Speaker C: I guess my question to you is, what system do you put in place to ensure that whatever data I put on a blockchain that you assert should be valid as identity data is true? Because you need that data to be verified in order for it to be relied upon.
00:24:25.698 - 00:25:17.036, Speaker A: Right. And, I mean, we're not looking to overwrite the state actors. We're looking to create a little bit of competition, a healthy competition. And so the important. And so the second point I was gonna go into is that, and like I mentioned in the presentation, a lot of the data for identity is actually already public, and it's something that state actors can't own or control. So, you know, not just in terms of facial recognition and so on, so forth, but even going to more abstract things like a name or your parents connection to your parents or your place of birth and date of birth, these things, for instance, are already being sort of confirmed, issued in some countries by hospitals that don't have a connection to authorities. They do it themselves.
00:25:17.220 - 00:25:25.064, Speaker C: Right. The hospital is an authority. You're trusting a centralized authority. It's the hospital. Yes. In fact, it's the midwife at the hospital.
00:25:25.444 - 00:26:12.434, Speaker A: Yeah. So the more competition, the better, is what we're saying. So we are for the hospitals to be independent, you know what I mean? If they are actually a centralized public authority, if the state actor tells them, like, no, don't issue documents to such children and childhood statelessness is a huge issue right now. We can at least try to work on resolving that right. So by encouraging hospitals to be independent of any political discrimination or biases, that's a fraction of what we can do. So it's important. But another key thing is that just like when you're learning a new language, you don't need to come up with, you know, you don't need to learn it in its own language.
00:26:12.434 - 00:26:51.844, Speaker A: You can use the old language to learn a new one. So the same logic in terms of coming up with blockchain based solutions, a stateless person or other vulnerable person, they will have documents. And that's another reason, another way we utilize blockchain now, like Rohingya project, they are using it for archiving because the government wants to destroy these documents. They want these people to stop existing. But blockchain is being used to conserve these documents. Land leases and education certificates and so on. You can use all of that.
00:26:51.844 - 00:27:24.490, Speaker A: I mean, the potential is mind boggling. So it's not a question of which centralized authority should we use instead of the old ones. No. The more competition there is in creating the centralized identity, the better. And the same goes for we need to make sure, I think personally we don't have one powerful corporation creating decentralized id that will become widespreadly used. No, it should be more like with credit cards. If one doesn't work, you go to the next decentralized id that can verify it.
00:27:24.490 - 00:27:31.346, Speaker A: So competition is key. We need to make sure to avoid too much centralization of power. Does that make sense?
00:27:31.530 - 00:28:06.926, Speaker C: Yeah, I completely agree with the sentiment, but I think putting it into practice sounds incredibly difficult. So if you've got hinga data now on a blockchain, you now need to turn that into an identity system. You then need the world to accept it. Right? So the question that the world then asks is, how do we know that the data's been put on is actually true? Right? Who are the people that put it on chain? Do we know that the documents have been uploaded are actually accurate and correct and relate to that person with that name? A thousand people with that same name. How do you know you put the right information relation to each?
00:28:07.030 - 00:28:08.822, Speaker A: I think that the Altura is.
00:28:08.998 - 00:28:21.854, Speaker B: I don't want to be polite, but I have to end the conclusion. Please. I don't want to be polite, but I ask you to keep the conversation outside because we are very late for the next section. And I thank you very much for all and have a good day. Thank you, Alexis.
00:28:21.894 - 00:28:22.134, Speaker A: Thank you.
