00:00:00.250 - 00:00:41.450, Speaker A: You. Decentralized finance has enabled many to discover new ways to passively and actively earn with crypto assets. However, all that upside does not come without sizable risk. You can easily lose 100% of your money in any DFI app or protocol you decide to ape into. We'll outline more of the specifics in this video, but above all else, always know that you can lose it all in a single Apple wallet, so applying a simple rule of thumb can help mitigate this risk. Don't deposit more into any app than you're willing to lose. Now here's a rundown of the seven most common risks, or seven most deadly defi sins everyone should consider before getting involved.
00:00:41.450 - 00:01:42.854, Speaker A: First up, the OG OG of all risks smart contract bugs a bug is what allowed hackers to drain 3.6 million ETH from the Dow back in 2016, the first major project to resemble what we now call dfi today. Now, the most reputable DFI team attempts to mitigate the risk of bugs by hiring better developers and submitting their code to auditing teams. However, time after time, we've seen unaudited code and audited code fail a DFI community, sometimes leading to losses as big as $20 million. And if you're looking to mitigate the risk of smart contract bugs, thankfully, there's DFI insurance from the likes of Nexus Mutual, which we've covered in another video. Next up is less specific to DFI, and probably more applicable to any cryptocurrency you hold in a noncustodial wallet. If you give up your seed phrase, or are tricked into entering the seed phrase into a fake website or app, well, that means you're going to lose everything in that wallet.
00:01:42.854 - 00:02:56.670, Speaker A: What's in there no longer belongs to you. So a lesson here, never enter your seed phrase, or share it, or store it digitally in a place like your phone or computer that could be hacked. Oracle failure has been a major vector of attack in DFI in 2020, where bad actors use a flash loan to buy or sell an asset, which manipulates the price of that asset just long enough for them to arbitrage the difference and exploit a protocol for millions. And think of it this way, if the application on chain thinks an apple is worth $100 for even a few seconds, while the rest of the world is buying and selling apples at just a single dollar, a bad actor can sell apples at $100 and walk away with a large profit until, of course, it's revealed shortly after what they've done. But by that time, there's often no way to retrieve the funds because of the unchangeable nature of the blockchain and the trustlessness and permissionlessness enables someone to remain completely anonymous. Oracle failure is really one of the reasons why Chainlink is such a revered project, solving a massive challenge in Defi's adoption. Next is admin key risk.
00:02:56.670 - 00:03:48.734, Speaker A: Now when you hear of rug pools, it's usually because of an admin key. Now we always have to be on the lookout for centralized admin controls that allow a developer or team to lock or move funds deposited into the defi app. Normally, the most reputable teams in Defi like compound will put in a time lock that prevents changes to code from happening without approval from a DAO governing upgrades and proposals. And second, a time delay so that the community can be warned if a potentially unfavourable or controversial change is coming to the protocol. Now there are also liquidity crises, which refers to a lockup of funds and a lack of liquidity. Simple example is if you lend Dai to other, but all the Dai is then subsequently borrowed and the app indicates 100% of DAi is utilized. Well, you can't get your dai out until some borrowers return the funds.
00:03:48.734 - 00:04:40.550, Speaker A: Now this is less likely to happen is much less concerning as a risk, but one nonetheless due to the over collateralised loans that dominate defi. So yeah, it could happen. Governance failure is another one interwoven into protocols like this. There's debates whether whales can exert the massive influence required to vote in their own best interest and hurt the community, while others might argue that whales probably wouldn't self sabotage a protocol where their money is invested in it. And there's also ongoing debates about deep pocketed c Fi now exerting its influence on Defi governance protects the interests of the medga large exchanges. Anytime you've got exposure to stablecoins or pegged assets like WBTC. While of course there's the risk that the stablecoins or pegged assets could de peg, causing all sorts of issues like an AMM liquidity pool going to zero.
00:04:40.550 - 00:05:36.470, Speaker A: And this is exactly why baskets of stablecoins exist like Musd by Mstable, which aims to establish a stablecoin made up of the most liquid and popular stablecoins to mitigate the risk of one of them failing. Now, the key takeaway with all these risks is that there's a lot that can kill you in DeFi, so be sure that you limit your exposure to them and to defi in general and in your overall portfolio until you're more educated and willing to take on the risks discussed here. And of course throughout the course of this year we will undoubtedly see more risks and more strange exploits emerge. But what doesn't kill us makes us stronger. And in defi every day these risks are being better addressed and mitigated, but it still leaves us as self sovereign individuals with a tremendous amount of responsibility and accountability for where we invest our money. And if it all goes wrong, there's generally nobody you can ring up to say yeah, where's my money, mate? Yeah, we can do about it. Yeah, you're on your own.
00:05:36.470 - 00:05:55.706, Speaker A: Think about that. So doing research of videos like D 5101 and thinking before you ape is highly advisable. We should put that on a t shirt. Think before you ape. You heard it here first. Get the merch you've been watching D 5101. Be sure and check out the other videos in the series and subscribe to the channel so you don't miss the new videos as they drop.
00:05:55.706 - 00:06:07.690, Speaker A: And above all, you stay safe out. There's.
