00:00:02.410 - 00:00:48.010, Speaker A: Thanks for tuning in to this week's news. Recap Coinbase funds lawsuit against treasury over tornado cash sanctions as mentioned earlier in the episode, on Thursday, six tornado cash users, including Preston Van Loun, filed a lawsuit against the Treasury Department. Their legal fees will be covered by Coinbase. Coinbase's chief legal officer Paul Gruel told CNBC he is worthy about the legal precedents that these sanctions are setting. He said if this code can be designated without any limits imposed by law, any technology, any tool or system could be fair game. Ever since the sanctions, there's been uncertainty around what US. Based institutions will do after the merge, such as whether they would validate or attest to blocks with transactions involving sanctioned addresses.
00:00:48.010 - 00:01:28.682, Speaker A: However, this week, Gruel said that Coinbase believes validators are not compelled to censor transactions. The merge sparked some DeFi disruptions and new business opportunities. Ahead of the merge DeFi protocol, Ave decided to temporarily halt loans of Ether. The decision was made by the Ave community, which was worried that people would increasingly borrow ETH in order to receive any coins from a potential postmerge proof of work version of Ethereum. The excessive borrowing could cause a liquidity crisis. Decentralized applications are not the only ones moving fast. Before the merge this week, Binance US enabled high yield ETH staking, offering a 6% APY for US.
00:01:28.682 - 00:02:05.090, Speaker A: Users. In addition, Swiss crypto bank Seba also announced its own Ethereum staking services on Wednesday. For institutional investors, Ethereum miners are reallocating resources. With the merge, the Ethereum mainnet will transition from a proof of work to a proof of stake consensus algorithm. But that doesn't mean that Ether miners are going to have to waste all their computing power. For instance, crypto miner Hive Blockchain is exploring other mining alternatives. The company, which is reportedly mining $350,000 worth of Bitcoin and ETH a day, is testing other proof of work chains, but hasn't confirmed which ones specifically.
00:02:05.090 - 00:02:58.914, Speaker A: However, Hut Eight Mining group decided to take a different path as it will desist from mining and reallocate its resources to machine learning and artificial intelligence. This week, Ethereum classic's hash rate hit an alltime high, which indicates that miners may be shifting their computing power there. In addition, London based firm Etc Group announced that it would support a proof of work version of Ethereum if one exists. Post merge. Is the White House against proof of work? The White House released a report called Climate and Energy Implications of Crypto Assets in the United States in which it claims that crypto assets could hinder broader efforts to achieve net zero carbon pollution consistent with US. Climate commitments and goals. The report said some crypto asset technologies currently require a considerable amount of electricity for asset generation, ownership and exchange.
00:02:58.914 - 00:04:07.210, Speaker A: Electricity usage from digital assets is contributing to greenhouse gas emissions, additional pollution, noise and other local impacts depending on markets, policies and local electricity sources. It urged federal agencies such as the Environmental Protection Agency and the Department of Energy, among others, to minimize the environmental impacts of crypto assets, ensure energy reliability, obtain data to monitor the impacts, advance energy efficiency standards and other measures. The crypto market cap drops below $1 trillion and Vitalik has concerns about BTC. On Wednesday, bitcoin fell below the $19,000 mark, dragging the crypto market cap down to less than $1 trillion. Once again, BTC and ETH hit a weekly low of $18,644 and one $500, respectively, according to Coin market Cap. The ETH BTC ratio, which tracks the performance of Ether against bitcoin, reached a yearly high this week, showing that investors are more confident in Ethereum. In an interview with economics writer Noah Smith, Ethereum's founder Vitalik Buterin said he has two concerns for BTC.
00:04:07.210 - 00:04:56.246, Speaker A: First, he claimed that bitcoin can't rely solely on transaction fees to secure the network. This will happen when the block rewards are phased out sometime around the year 21 40, he said. Bitcoin is just not succeeding at getting the level of fee revenue required to secure what could be a multitrillion dollar system. Bitcoin fees are about $300,000 per day and haven't really grown that much over the last five years. Second, he said that proof of stake is more efficient than proof of work, and he is worried that the bitcoin community doesn't want to make that transition. Was celsius a Ponzi scheme. According to a filing from the Vermont Department of Financial Regulation, crypto lender Celsius used new investor funds to repay old investors, a technique most commonly known as a Ponzi scheme.
00:04:56.246 - 00:05:51.850, Speaker A: Celsius is currently going through bankruptcy proceedings, and the report from the Vermont Department analyzed how the company was managed, the filing said. During the course of the multi state investigation, it has become clear that Celsius, through its CEO, Alex Machinsky, and otherwise made false and misleading claims to investors about interalia the company's financial health and its compliance with securities laws. Both of which likely induced retail investors to invest in Celsius or to leave their investments in Celsius despite concerns about the volatility of the cryptocurrency market. Furthermore, Celsius is being accused of manipulating the price of its token Cel to boost its balance sheet. Some Celsius borrowers are asking the bankruptcy court to appoint an independent examiner to look into Celsius's financials. However, they don't want one employed by the US. Trustee Office, as they are concerned about the delay it would cause.
00:05:51.850 - 00:06:46.250, Speaker A: In the resolution of the case, Celsius is expecting a cash injection of $70 million from loan repayments. According to Kirkland and Ellis, the law firm in charge of the company's restructuring, these funds will help Celsius meet its operational expenses for 2022. Speaking of troubled crypto companies, Poland Wallet, the wallet service of one of the world's biggest bitcoin mining pools, suspended withdrawals amidst a liquidity cris. Kevin Pan, the firm's CEO and founder, assured users that the assets were safe. Crypto broker Voyager Digital will hold an asset auction on September 13 as part of its bankruptcy proceedings. The results of the auction will be approved at a hearing to be held on September 29. Coinbase makes a controversial Proposal on MakerDAO Coinbase, the largest cryptocurrency exchange in the US, offered MakerDAO a business proposal to access $24 million in yearly revenue.
00:06:46.250 - 00:07:52.210, Speaker A: The company posted the governance proposal on the MakerDAO forum to have the protocol deposit $1.6 billion worth of USDC in Coinbase Prime, the exchange's institutional platform, in return for a 1.5% annual yield, which would be about $24 million. The drama around this proposal is that it would push Maker further towards the centralization side of the spectrum, something that its own founder has been trying to fight. The community is divided on Coinbase's proposal, with some arguing that it would boost Maker's revenue, while others saying that Dai and Maker will end up in the hands of Coinbase. Finance removes USDC but Circle is not Worried Finance, the world's largest cryptocurrency exchange, announced it will remove USDC and some other stablecoins as tradable assets from its platform on September 29. The platform will automatically convert any USDC, USDP and TUSD tokens into its own stablecoin BUSD at a one to one ratio to enhance liquidity and capital efficiency for users.
00:07:52.210 - 00:08:30.960, Speaker A: Evgeny Gay Voy, founder and CEO of Winter Mute tweeted Removing most stablecoin pairs is a good thing. It's not USDC delisting. It's another big step towards tether losing ground to US. Native stablecoins Jeremy Alair, the CEO of Circle. The issue of USDC doesn't seem worried. He said, Given how limited BUSD usage is outside of Binance, this will likely benefit USTC as the preferred Cross, CEX and Dex stablecoin rail unless Binance can convince all their competitors to get behind BUSD. Unlikely the Fed wants stablecoin regulation, but it may have to wait.
00:08:30.960 - 00:09:41.078, Speaker A: Speaking of stablecoins, three different Federal Reserve officials federal Reserve Board Chair Jerome Powell, fed Vice Chair for Supervision Michael Barr, and Fed Vice Chair Lail Brainerd pushed for stablecoin regulation at three separate conferences this week. As Powell said at Akato Institute conference, I think you need regulation. If people are going to think something is money, it needs to have the qualities of money. I don't think you want to take money and make it into just another consumer product. However, CoinDesk regulation and policy reporter Nicholas Day wrote in a column that although it had been expected that stablecoin regulation might be adopted this year, that's currently looking unlikely. A number of issues, such as the role of state regulators and the possibility of a digital dollar, among other items, remain to be ironed out. Time for Fun Bits a violin soundtrack for the rainbow model over the past few years, there's been plenty of analysts trying to come up with models to predict the price of BTC, but there's one that's become a meme on Twitter Eric Wall's Rainbow chart a mock model for the bitcoin price.
00:09:41.078 - 00:10:43.850, Speaker A: It is basically a rainbow, indicating when BTC is cheap to buy or in the model's words basically a fire sale. Even though it is a made up model, the price of bitcoin has never fallen below the lowest band on the rainbow wall. A crypto analyst and writer posted a hilarious video on Twitter showing how closely the rainbow model was to failing against a clip from the movie Titanic. In this scene, the boat is sinking and the violinists play their last song because it looked like the model was just about to fail, while superimposed a rainbow chart on top, a sort of anticipatory elegy. Hours before the daily BTC candle closed, he tweeted, summoning a BTC USD daily close that will save the rainbow. Moments later, BTC rebounded and the model didn't break. Despite that wall's, Twitter bio reads, you can't predict the price of bitcoin with a rainbow, you idiot.
00:10:43.850 - 00:11:06.650, Speaker A: Thanks so much for joining us today. To learn more about Preston and the merge, check out the show notes for this episode. Get the Unchained daily newsletter in your email and inbox every morning. Go to unchainedpodcast.com to sign up. Unchained is produced by me, Laura Shin with help from Anthony Yoon, Matt Pilchard, Wanda Manovich, Pama Jimdar Shashank CLK transcription thanks for listening.
