00:00:02.080 - 00:00:28.816, Speaker A: Hello, hello, hello. Exciting crowd here today. How are you guys doing? All good? Nice, nice. So today's topic is layer learnings on L2s. I'm Hilmer, I'm one of the founders of Gelato. And, yeah, quick agenda. I will introduce the presentation with a bit of context about gelato and why.
00:00:28.816 - 00:01:13.852, Speaker A: I talk about learnings about L2s. I will talk a bit about data points that we are collecting and sort of trends that we are seeing. And also sort of asking a question here. Should roll ups actually sort of settle to Ethereum and should they actually pay Ethereum? Or are there maybe other architectures that we could be exploring as an ecosystem? Yeah, let's maybe jump in right away. So what is gelato? We call Gelato the verifiable cloud. And what it consists of is kind of like three layers at the top. We have a roll ups as a service platform where we work together with projects in the space to help them deploy and launch their roll ups.
00:01:13.852 - 00:02:32.250, Speaker A: Op stack, Arbitrum, Orbit, Polygon, CDK, potentially more stacks in the future. And you can really come to a platform, one click and the thing sort of runs and it scales to how much usage you really can sort of gather. And the exciting part about gelato compared to maybe other services providers out there is that we have developed a really strong middleware services layer that we combine with our rollerbladder service platform, where we offer users to, for example, create push based oracles for low latency def applications such as perp dexs, abstract away gas on their roll ups, completely supply verifiable randomness. All these kind of things that games, defi applications and so on require. We can offer them out of the box on a single platform with a single click. And this is really where we want to go to. We want to minimize and lower the cost to deploy a fully functional roll up, not just a vanilla blockchain with nothing on there that you can't really use for anything, but really imagine the same environment you have on Ethereum today with all the infra on your roll up with a click and as sort of cost effective as possible, right? And then it kind of scales with your needs.
00:02:32.250 - 00:03:05.086, Speaker A: And this also includes a bunch of third party services that we tightly integrate from indexing to Multisix, well as a service and so on. So really like an end to end platform for your development needs. As an example here, one of our customers is Raya. They are super exciting project building next generation perp Dex as an l two on the arbitram orbit stack. Their Dex that they are building is fully gasless, so users are not paying a single cent to use. It is really like a web two user experience. We are driving the cost per transaction down to the minimum.
00:03:05.086 - 00:03:33.438, Speaker A: Data is not being posted to Ethereum, it's posted on a data availability committee. The chain itself still settles to Ethereum. There are up to date prices every 4 seconds. They have actually 100 millisecond block time. So like toxic order flow and stuff like this, arbitrage is minimized through that. And the cool thing is they have a fully functional interoperable bridge setup, so you can bridge in assets from any chain you want, arbitram, base, whatever. Not only ethereum.
00:03:33.438 - 00:04:26.820, Speaker A: And this is I think a great example of a project using our services quite heavily for all the features that they want to offer. We have over 38 chains in production today. An example of some cool ones are, for example, Fox News. They recently deployed their roll up on gelato to combat fake news and AI generated content by onboarding, like New York Times for example, to push verifiable hashes of the content they are posting so users can actually validate it. And then there are some general purpose chains like Lisk, Asta, and then also a lot of gaming related chains. So we see really a wide array of cool use cases and we are really seeing an uptick of L2s and layer threes deploying. This year.
00:04:26.820 - 00:05:16.340, Speaker A: I think there are over 120 roll ups that are already confirmed to already have launched or will or are about to launch in our ecosystem. And an interesting trend that we are seeing is that until last year, most of them were really traditional L2 s that also settled on Ethereum, posted data to Ethereum, but today more and more l three SDHe are actually launching. And I will go in a bit into why we think that is. And not only are projects launching more chains and more layer three s, but also they are exploring different data availability solutions. Right. Data availability is basically where do you post the data as a roll up. And it used to be just Ethereum, as you can see in the chart.
00:05:16.340 - 00:06:09.122, Speaker A: But this year compared to last year, we already have a 450% increase in chains that do not post on Ethereum. They post on data availability committees, they post on Celestia, they post potentially in the future on like Eigen Da or other DA solutions. And 60% of all the chains actually do not post to Ethereum that launched today, which is this year, which is basically the larger part. Right? And most of these are optimistic rollups. So validiums or ZK rollups are still sort of lacking behind the trend quite a bit. And indeed most of our customers, they are launching optimistic roll ups. Regarding the TVL that you see, we are actually about to flip Ethereum in terms of the TVL that is available.
00:06:09.122 - 00:07:32.908, Speaker A: Obviously there are some caveats here, right? Like if you have TVL on rollups, then it kind of like also lives on Ethereum if you use the canonical bridge, right? But what we expect to see until the end of the year is actually the TVL in the TVL that comes from Ethereum and also comes from two other sources, which are like other chains that are not Ethereum and assets that are issued natively on L2 s to slowly exceed Ethereum. Right. And this will be an interesting point in time because, yeah, what happens to Ethereum when actually, like other chains will have more native asset issued than Ethereum? Like we still want to sell to Ethereum. It's a question that we will be going into a bit deeper in a moment. And still though Ethereum for the L2 s out there is still the largest source of liquidity today. And how you can look at a roll up, of course, is a roll up, is a chain and a bridge. And especially if you build an l two on Ethereum, what you really get out of the box is a secure, trust minimized bridge to Ethereum, where people can bridge assets in and can bridge assets out again, either very fast via ZK proofs, but expensive or very slow via validity proofs.
00:07:32.908 - 00:08:15.700, Speaker A: And it takes like seven days a day. Right. Well, what is interesting to see is that more and more assets are actually natively minted on L2 s, and USDC is contributing a big chunk to that. Over $4.3 billion worth of USDC is actually natively issued on L2s such as arbitram and base and so on. And you don't really need an ethereum L2 bridge in order to secure that, because USDC and circle and Coinbase are really the security mechanism that secures these assets. And then also external bridges are slowly growing.
00:08:15.700 - 00:08:41.366, Speaker A: So chains used to only bridge in by the canonical bridges, but if you talk to developers building roll ups, the canonical bridges suck. They don't suck, but they are slow and no one really uses them. No one really wants to use them. They all want to use fast bridges and want to bridge in via base or arbitrum. And so this is a clear trend we are seeing. And this is an interesting one. I think the first pie chart is a bit wrong.
00:08:41.366 - 00:09:30.390, Speaker A: It should be like 99% versus 1%, but these are basically the, these are three different L2s, rare, which is like the perpdex l two, which is the second largest arbitram orbit chain that is deployed on gelato, then we have bayes in the middle and arbitrum on the right. And what is interesting to see is like arbitrum is the oldest, right? And if you look over 66% of all the assets that are issued on arbitrum actually originate from Ethereum. So they are bridged in via the canonical bridge. That is kind of like the sort of native bridge of the L2, right? And then you have over 28% actually being natively issued. These are probably some meme coins and stuff, right? And USDC. And then only 5% come from other L2s. This is probably because arbitram is the biggest L2.
00:09:30.390 - 00:10:26.780, Speaker A: And so you don't really need to bridge assets in from other L2 s. But if you look at a slightly younger L2, such as space, for example, there we see an interestingly different trend. And this is that the assets which is mostly eth bridged in via the canonical bridge, the L2 bridge only constitutes the roughly a quarter of all the assets that base has. Actually 70% of all the assets on base are natively issued to the chain. This is mostly USDC that can be natively issued on base without actually having to go through the canonical bridge. But this is interesting because base is settling to Ethereum, right? And they're paying Ethereum a lot of fees in order to secure the assets that are being, being bridged to Ethereum. But actually only 25% of all the assets are secured by this bridge, and they don't get any security for the rest.
00:10:26.780 - 00:11:44.818, Speaker A: And then the extreme case, and the chart is unfortunately wrong, it should be 99% is Raya and actually 99% of all the assets are coming from different l two s from base from arbitrum. So Rhea is paying ethereum for settlement, but they don't get anything out of it, really. They don't have any security when it comes to the funds that are being bridged in or not. So should there be a L2, really? Or should there maybe something be something different? Or should applications that are similar be something different? A question that we are asking ourselves. And so what if you as a chain, you do not source liquidity via the canonical bridge question should you settle to ethereum like normal l two s do? Or should you maybe not settle to ethereum? Right? Should you pay ethereum as a settlement layer, even if you don't get that much benefits from it in practice. And I think this is what especially celestial community is sort of thinking about as well. And there is this concept which is called a sovereign roll up, which stands in stark contrast to being an enshrined roll up, which is what an Ethereum L2 is.
00:11:44.818 - 00:12:36.370, Speaker A: For example, Ethereum L2, you get a canonical bridge that is enshrined to Ethereum. Sovereign roll up doesn't have this. Sovereign rollups are much more like a layer one. They just outsource data availability and consensus to a data availability network like Celestia, and then they sort of settle within a network itself. Of course, you might still, you still need bridges, right? You might still want to get assets in from other chains, but in order to do that, you then can build custom bridges like what Rea did that use, I don't know, validity proofs, ek proofs to prove only certain events that have been emitted on each chain. And then you can move assets between and you don't need to constantly just settle to Ethereum like yeah, the L2s do today. I'm not saying that sovereign roll offs are the way the industry is heading.
00:12:36.370 - 00:13:22.708, Speaker A: Right. I just wanted to. We just realized that this is an interesting trend that we are observing. And there are a lot of chains that are just paying Ethereum for nothing. And if you step out of the Ethereum maxi bubble and you think of Ethereum as a service provider for data availability and being a reliable asset issuer that you trust, but you don't get any security from Ethereum for your assets on an l two, then why is the l two paying Ethereum in the first place for its security? It's just kind of like, it's just nonsense really. So yeah, this is just something that we're observing that I think is quite interesting to see. And yeah, maybe to round things up.
00:13:22.708 - 00:14:23.536, Speaker A: There are several trends that we are observing as gelato when it comes to like roll ups launching and in general how people are using L2 s. First of all, I think we are past the point where many roll ups are sort of just building the next general purpose chain without much differentiation. I think there's a consensus in the industry that we are going more to purpose specific roll ups. These can be application specific, this can be community or sort of like country specific roll ups. And how we see this really is we see rollups as verifiable servers at Gelato and if you are building an application that you can run on a centralized server, but it just means people have to trust you and this creates costs around auditing and monitoring. You should just put this on a verifiable server. Fox, for example, is an interesting example of this.
00:14:23.536 - 00:15:07.712, Speaker A: As I described, the New York Times doesn't have to trust that Fox doesn't tamper with the attestations that they are collecting from other publishers that are stored on their layer too. They can just run a node and verify it themselves, that everything has been sort of handled correctly. And I think this is a big reason why the New York Times or Times has actually sort of agreed to participate in their program, right? And I think we will see more and more real world use cases coming up that are similar to that. Additionally, I think chain abstraction, everyone heard about it. For me, this means that users don't really know on which chains they are. Honest. Doesn't mean the chains don't exist anymore.
00:15:07.712 - 00:15:46.996, Speaker A: It's just they don't even know which chain they are. And what do you need for that? You need full gas abstraction. You need to have scalability that can be horizontally, so you can have applications that might live on three different chains and shards state between them and they might elastically scale up and down. But the user doesn't even realize this, right? Like if you are using Amazon, you don't know which server you just interact with to view and buy this asset. And so I think this is a big trend that we are seeing. And 90% of all the chains that are deployed on gelato actually use our services to abstract gas away from their users. And I think a couple of years, no one will pay gas anymore.
00:15:46.996 - 00:16:48.840, Speaker A: It's just what it is. Especially with 7702 and other eips coming around. And then there's the emergence of roll up clusters that we are observing. So we've seen arbitrum kind of like spearhead this at the beginning with like l three s being built on top of arbitrum. We have like optimism with the super chain and we believe that we are entering now space where we see different clusters of applications that are kind of like close, that want to be close to each other emerge, that build and interconnect horizontally and also vertically. And we believe that a year from now you have not only optimism and arbitram, but a bunch of them that somehow sort of interconnect asynchronously but between each other, go very close to synchronous, synchronous composability. And they have curated communities, curated infrastructure, and are specialized for low latency defi, high frequency gaming and so on.
00:16:48.840 - 00:17:53.980, Speaker A: And then the last point that I mentioned earlier is non inch write roll ups. As I said, when you're not using the bridge from Ethereum, why are you paying Ethereum for settlement? And if you're not even using it for Da while you're paying Ethereum for anything, right, you maybe want to still be aligned with Ethereum, but for me, alignment is not a long term sustainable business model. You need to provide value. And Ethereum does have value, a lot of value, because it has assets issued on its chain that it can make available trustlessly via its bridge. But the more assets are bridged to like arbitrum and other chains, the more other layer tools can also tap into those and don't actually need to settle on Ethereum anymore. And so maybe should they settle on arbitrum or optimism instead? Or base, right? That's an open question that I cannot answer today, but I think this is just a trend that we are seeing again from all these chains that we are launching. Cool.
00:17:53.980 - 00:18:03.660, Speaker A: That's already it. Thanks a lot for listening. I hope you learned a thing or two today. I'm around still for an hour, so if you have questions, just let me know. Thanks.
