00:00:00.160 - 00:00:44.166, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Gray Refuel, where we cap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Dan Denise Asana, and today's the 10 January 2023. All right everyone, let's get into it. So Trent van Epps here from the Ethereum foundation has put together an update where he said, just recorded the latest on Ethereum's upcoming KZG ceremony, with a few people here excited for the episode and maybe the ceremony to be live soon. And you can learn more at the GitHub repository here. Now, as you guys will know, the KZG ceremony is a necessary prerequisite before we can launch proto Dank sharding or ERP 48 44 on the Ethereum network. Now, I've explained a bit how the KZG ceremony works in the past, so I'm not gonna go over that again now, but you can read all about it at the GitHub repository here.
00:00:44.166 - 00:01:24.142, Speaker A: But basically you will get an opportunity, if you want to, to participate in this. They're hoping for as wide participation as possible. So from my understanding, all you would do is you would go to a website, you would run some software, sorry, that website would run some software on your hardware and then generate a source of randomness from that. Or you can submit your own source of randomness as well. And the, the software does all the good stuff from there. I'm not sure exactly how it works under the hood, but from my understanding, as I've explained before, you would only need one honest participant out of all of them. So let's say there were 100,000 participants, and, you know, 99,999 of them were all being dishonest.
00:01:24.142 - 00:02:00.734, Speaker A: You still only need one honest participant to have a guarantee that the KZG ceremony is secure, which is really, really cool. That's why, I mean, some people will, I guess, like criticize this system, saying it's a trusted setup, right? Like you're still trusting someone for the source of entropy here. But basically, yes. But the more participants you have, the greater sort, I guess, like the lower. The chance of everyone being dishonest is obviously, if you only have one participant, the chance of someone being dishonest is pretty high. If you have two, it goes down, and then it can go down from there. Obviously, as you get larger and larger, it's not like an exponential function.
00:02:00.734 - 00:02:26.754, Speaker A: It can turn into a linear function, and we don't know the exact numbers around it. It's kind of hard to calculate that. But, but we do know logically that the more participants. There are unique participants, and that, that's actually been the biggest issue with, I think the KZG ceremony is how to do civil resistance, because you can, you can say, okay, well, we had 100,000 participants, but how do you prove that they were 100,000 unique participants. That's the key here. Unique participants that aren't just bots. You know, there could be one unique participant and the rest of them are bots.
00:02:26.754 - 00:03:04.670, Speaker A: Right. That doesn't help anyone because the bots could be run by that one person and the whole thing was just one person. So that's what they've been working on. And I'm curious to see what they've come up with when they release the KZG ceremony, because I think that's going to be critically important as well to make sure that the people participating are actually unique individuals and not just bots. Because that would be a really bad thing if we discover later on that it was all bots and was all the same person, and now we can no longer trust the kind of stuff that was given in that, in that ceremony there. I think there's an extremely low chance of that happening, just from. The fact of the matter is that there's already hundreds of people, at least hundreds of unique humans, at least that I know will participate in this ceremony.
00:03:04.670 - 00:03:44.318, Speaker A: People like the core developers and researchers, people in the daily way, community, people, you know, just on Twitter, just following along casually, can open up the website and do it themselves as well. All the develop. A lot of the developers in the ecosystem, the exchanges, and the infrastructure providers in general may participate as well. So you can have a pretty good guarantee that there's going to be at least hundreds of unique participants anyway, even if you didn't have a super resistant mechanism. But the point of having a super resistant mechanism is making sure that we get quality submissions rather than just bots, rather than just really low grade submissions to the ceremony itself. But yeah, as I said, this is coming real soon. They've been teasing it for quite a while now, and you can see here that Trent says will be live soon tm.
00:03:44.318 - 00:04:10.800, Speaker A: So we don't know the exact date yet. Maybe in the next couple of months would be, you know, the ideal timing, I guess, because as I said, this is a prerequisite for ERp. 48 44 and 48 44 can't go live until this is done. So this needs to happen within, I guess, like the next couple months or two to three months if we expect 4844 to go live in Q three or Q four of this year. But yeah, as I said, you can check out the GitHub repository for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. Right.
00:04:10.800 - 00:04:39.736, Speaker A: An update out of rocket pool today. They started off this thread by saying staking ethic rocket pool just got a whole lot easier. Our proprietary router now aggregates reed secondary markets to fulfill your transaction via the deposit queue and or decentralized exchange and deliver the best possible rates. You can try it out at stake dot rocketpool.net so these are for that. This is obviously for the people out there who aren't really interested in running a mini pool as part of the rocket pool network. They just want exposure to staked ETH and exposure to rocket pool.
00:04:39.736 - 00:05:10.976, Speaker A: They can do that by purchasing are 8th. Now, as I've said before, our 8th has been at a kind of premium here because of the fact that that deposit. Sorry. That staking pool has been full and you need to spin up more mini pools in order to up that. Sorry. In order to kind of get that premium down to meet more. Ethan, all those other upgrades that I've spoken about in the past, I'm not going to rehash them here, but it's great to see that rocket pool has come to get come together and put this out there to make it easier for people to be able to buy Areth and get the best possible rate that they can get.
00:05:10.976 - 00:05:47.596, Speaker A: And as you can see in this screenshot, it actually tells you what the premium is. So you can see here that the premium at time of this screenshot was 1.23%. So essentially you could think about this like, okay, well, what's the yield that you're going to be getting for the entire tie a year on your staked ETH? It says here average return of 4.15%. I don't know if that includes the premium or not, but let's say for the sake of argument, it doesn't. Then you would subtract that 1.23% premium that you paid and from that rate, and that would give you your real rate, because you already basically paid more to get access to this re now logic. Sorry.
00:05:47.596 - 00:06:11.300, Speaker A: Ideally, the, the areth price wouldn't have a premium on it at all. It would be tied to exactly how much rewards it has. And there'd be 0% premium and you'd get, and you wouldn't have to actually upfront anything for that. But that's not how it is today. Hopefully we'll be like that in the future. But today, because there is more demand than there is supply, there is that premium there? But great to see. Rocket pool add this to their official stake Dot rockerpool.net
00:06:11.300 - 00:06:56.208, Speaker A: website, which you can go check out. It'll be linked in the YouTube description below. All right, onto a bit of chat about L2s. So you can see here the crypto fees dot in Fo website has added Starkware's Starknet to l two fees dot in Fo, which is a great website that tracks all the fees across all the different L2 networks. As you can see, they track fees for sending Ethan swapping tokens. Now, of course, these are basic kind of fees here, like sending Ethan swapping tokens are just two of the things you can do on these L2 networks. Obviously there are all the defi apps you can interact with NFT stuff, but it becomes harder to estimate the fees there because each Defi project and each kind of like NFT project would have their different fees associated with them depending on the transaction or depending on, I guess, like the smart contract being interacted with there.
00:06:56.208 - 00:07:34.542, Speaker A: So that's why sending Ethan swapping tokens tokens here, being ERC 20s, are just, I guess, like a, an easy thing to calculate. And you can see the list now includes stock nets and the fees are pretty cheap. I mean, these fees are also dependent on the fees of Ethereum layer one. Since the data is settled to Ethereum layer one here. That's why you can see that the optimistic roll up fees are a little bit more expensive than the ZK roll up ones, not too much more here. But that's because they've got to post their call data to, to layer one here and they've got more expensive costs there. But post proto dank sharding, these fees are going to be subsent, basically, especially at the, at the current gas prices that we're at the relatively low gas prices that we're at here.
00:07:34.542 - 00:08:09.900, Speaker A: But yeah, just great to see that l two fees dot in froze added stock net here. Just another way to keep track of the stocknet ecosystem for you. So you can go check that out for yourself. And the second thing, which is a bit related here to the l two stuff, or I guess very related, is a tweet that David Hoffman put out where he said the l two bull market. And he took a screenshot of l two beat.com quote s activity measure, which shows the, I guess, past 24 hours of TPS on each of these l two s. Now I've often said that TPS is an okay way to measure activity on a network, but it doesn't really translate one to one across networks.
00:08:09.900 - 00:08:35.624, Speaker A: L two b does their best to, I guess, normalize this to make it comparable. But still, the thing that I wanted to point out here was not necessarily the TPS numbers themselves. And this is real TPS. This is, this is not theoretical TPS, where you say, okay, well, we can do 1000 TPS, but, like, there's no one using the chain. So the real TPS is actually zero. This is real TPS over the past 24 hours of when David took this screenshot. But what I'm focused on is the seven day change, which is massive.
00:08:35.624 - 00:09:39.510, Speaker A: Look at the seven day change here in a bear market, guys, I know the market's been a little bit more bullish over the last, I guess, three days now, which will have influenced this, but this is really cool because, I mean, it just further reinforces the fact that l two s are continuing to grow, right? These roll ups are continuing to grow. The thesis is playing out that Ethereum is scaling via these L2 networks, and websites like l two b.com do a great way of, sorry, do a great service of measuring this for us and showing us these nice little fancy stats that we can get value out of and get data out of. But when you kind of look at this and look at the TPS numbers, as I said, I will take it with a little bit of a grain of salt, just because I'm not entirely sure if l two b right now is normalizing this, because ethereum handles gas differently to optimism and arbitram, even though they're EVM compatible, or going for even equivalents, which optimism has gone for. I don't think it's like one to one. It might be very close, but I don't think it's like one to one. And then looking at the other networks, which are not necessarily EVM at all, it's definitely different.
00:09:39.510 - 00:10:16.908, Speaker A: Like immutable x, for example. I don't know if this is normalized, as I said, but they're not an EVM network. DyDX is not an EVM network. Same with Sora, Zksync, stock net, and Aztec connect here, they're different. So looking at that is kind of hard, because I've seen screenshots before of TPS on some of these networks being a lot higher than this, but that TPS can't be compared to, I guess, like an EVM network, for example, because it's a different measure there, that the way TPS is being measured is different. So always good to keep that in mind when measuring these things. And it's also a good rule of thumb for looking at this on chain data in general, or just data generally.
00:10:16.908 - 00:10:51.496, Speaker A: Data can be very easily, easily manipulated or easily misinterpreted, depending on what narrative someone is trying to push, or depending on if you don't actually understand what's happening under the hood. And that's why I have traditionally not been a fan of TVL as a metric. I mean, I originally was, but then this was back in 2020, but then it became like a target instead of a measure. And what ended up happening was that people looked at TVL as if it was some sort of signal, as for an investment thesis or for some kind of activity signal. But in reality it wasn't. In reality, most of the time. The only reason why these a lot of protocols had TVL to begin with is because they were paying for it.
00:10:51.496 - 00:12:01.008, Speaker A: They were doing liquidity mining programs and it was a bull market, so it was working. But now you see in a bear market, a lot of this TVL, especially because the TVL is measured in the asset price as well, and measured in USD. On asset prices that fall against USD in bear markets, we see that the TVL number was highly inflated by the asset prices being inflated, and also highly inflated by liquidity mining programs. So I always like to denominate TVL not so much in USD, but in ETH, or in another kind of like strong asset, like maybe something like BTC rather than USD, because USD obviously is influenced by the prices of the assets and it leads to a lot of noise. So again, going back to my original point, it's always good to look at these data critically, make sure you understand the data, make sure you understand how it's measured and the differences between it and all the nuance, lest you fall into this hole of thinking something has a lot of activity on it, thinking something's really popular, when in reality you're not necessarily being lied to, but you're either misrepresent, misinterpreting the data, or someone else is misinterpreting it and trying to push it as if it's a positive to suit their own narrative. Because as we know, this space runs on narratives, runs on people trying to pump their own bags, as we, as we know. So yeah, just always good to keep that in mind.
00:12:01.008 - 00:12:39.260, Speaker A: But anyway, that doesn't take away from the fact that the growth, the seven day change here, is really positive. And that's something that is actually worth looking at, especially if it's consistent across chains. If it's, you know, for example, if there was an outlier here that showed for some reason arbitrum one had plus 1000% and the rest of them had like no growth at all, then I would be a bit sus about that. I'd be like, why did arbitrum grow so fast? Are they doing a new liquidity mining program? Was there a big event on arbitrum? Did the, is there a bug on l two b.com that's showing an incorrect data? Incorrect data. Did they change the way they measure these things? That's what I mean by looking at the nuance. You can't just look at a number and think, oh my God, that's the truth.
00:12:39.260 - 00:13:31.220, Speaker A: And people used to do this when Defi pulse used to have some bugs where it would say that the TVL of maker, when maker had most of the TVL, was basically zero. And people like oh my God did make it get hacked. And it's funny how people went to that instead of going to defi pulse, which was just a centralized website talking to a database, their data having a bug in it, and their data pipeline having a bug in it, which showed the wrong data. And the funny thing is, you could very quickly and very easily verify this for yourself by going to another third party service like Etherscan and looking at the maker contract itself and seeing that the assets were still there. Obviously Etherscan is not going to give you the whole sorry is not something to be 100% trusted because it can also be tampered with. It can also have data pipeline issues. But if that's showing something different to what DeFi policy is showing, I think it's better to assume that it's a data error rather than it got hacked or something like that.
00:13:31.220 - 00:14:03.248, Speaker A: So that's another bit of nuance to consider there as well. But anyway, leave one at that. You can check out the activity measure here if you want, at l two b.com, which David Hoffman also links in his tweet here, which of course will be linked in the YouTube description below. All right, continuing on the, I guess, L2 front here, I came across a tweet thread from 100 y ETH, which was about polygon. So they started off this thread by saying Polygon will lead the era of modular blockchain in 2023. I've written a 69 minutes read long piece on polygon covering all of its products.
00:14:03.248 - 00:14:27.814, Speaker A: Hope this will serve as a valuable resource as you embark on your journey to polygon. Now this is a tweet thread which you can read, which summarizes this, but also a medium post, which, yeah, is. Is literally a 69 minutes read. So it is quite a long read with different chapters. There's about seven, I think, chapters here going over this. But if you want to learn about Polygon, what they're doing, you know, what the, I guess, bull cases for Polygon, what they're working on across all of their different teams. This is your bible.
00:14:27.814 - 00:15:06.846, Speaker A: Basically, it's up to date. It just got published yesterday, so I would highly recommend going and checking it out for yourself. But the reason why I also wanted to talk about this was not only that it was a great report, but also the fact that this terminology of modular blockchain is something that I've been talking about a lot and for a very long time on the refuel was originally put on my radar by Polynya, which you. Which you are all familiar with way back in, I guess, like maybe even 2020, I think it was. Or even maybe early 2021. But basically, the concept of a modular blockchain is splitting up the parts of what a blockchain does. So the Ethereum layer one will be like a settlement and data ability, a data availability layer.
00:15:06.846 - 00:15:43.268, Speaker A: And Ethereum layer L2 will be an execution layer. Even though Ethereum layer can still do execution, it's not being optimized for that. And then we had these other chains come come out, or I guess, like reveal themselves, like Celestia, which is just optimizing for data availability. Polygon avail. So polygon has their own solution, which is also optimizing for data availability. There are other ones like Eigen layer, which is taking a novel approach here by tapping into the ETH that's staked and doing like a restaking architecture. So there's an explosion of, I guess, the modular blockchain design in stark contrast to the last few years, which has been dominated by the monolithic blockchain design, which is.
00:15:43.268 - 00:16:20.760, Speaker A: Which are the solanas of the world, the avalanches of the world, the blockchains that say we can do everything at layer one. We don't need to scale via a modular approach, which is fine to have that thesis and think that that can work. But as you guys know, I don't think that that's actually a long term sustainable model. I think that the modular roadmap or the modular blockchain design is much better. But I think there's actually value in the monolithic designs as well, because it shows us what not to do. It basically shows us and validates our thesis around monolithic blockchains. Now, of course, it may still be too early to definitively say that monolithic blockchains are not going to be successful, and modular blockchains are the only things that are going to be successful.
00:16:20.760 - 00:16:59.442, Speaker A: But in my personal opinion, I think that that like, I already believe that. But there's obviously, I mean, obviously we still too early to definitively say anything. And it's not like I'm saying that these other monolithic chains can't succeed in their own right. I'm saying that I think they'll succeed in a niche kind of form, only I don't think they're going to succeed in the same way something like Ethereum will, where it's a modular design that can scale to the world. It becomes a settlement layer, ETH becomes, or is ultrasound money, you know, becomes a better and better store of value and accrues more monetary premium. That is a whole different kind of discussion there. But I think it's still valuable to have both modular and monolithic, even if I believe that modular is the way to go.
00:16:59.442 - 00:17:44.382, Speaker A: But if you want to learn more about modular blockchains and everything the polygon has going for it, I highly recommend giving this blog post a read which will be linked in the YouTube description below. You can also read the tweet thread, which of course will be linked as well, which summarizes the post, just in case you didn't want to, you know, spend 69 minutes reading this. But in saying that, I mean, if you've got some spare time or if you've got the, you know, you got time to do that, you can do that. And or you can maybe feed the blog post through one of those text to speech readers if you don't mind the rather robotic voices some of them have. And maybe you go on a run or go on a walk or something, or on the treadmill or at the gym and listen to it might be valuable for you as well. But anyway, will be linked in the YouTube description below. All right, so something that came out of the fee project yesterday, I think it's fee.
00:17:44.382 - 00:18:03.360, Speaker A: It might be fi. It's spelled phi. So maybe it is fi. Maybe I'll say fi from now on. But it's called Fire Connect and it's now live on Mainnet. So what fire connect allows you to do is connect lands and create your favorite worldview. In Fireland, you can construct a URL like the one below, which is linked here, which is a sample connecting for land.
00:18:03.360 - 00:18:42.008, Speaker A: So just a refresher here, Fi is a project that wants to basically allow you to build your own digital world digital metaverse based on your on chain footprint. So for example, you get a unique building based on how much ETH you have in your wallet, or a unique footprint based on how many uniswap transactions you have. So unique item based on how many uniswap transactions you have done. And it goes far beyond this. Those are just the basic examples here. But you can actually go here and see on, see the demo of what they mean by connecting the land here is that this URL refers to four different kind of land plots and there's different kind of items or buildings, I should say, on each of them here. And I should definitely disclose that I'm an investor in in fire here.
00:18:42.008 - 00:19:13.472, Speaker A: But this is I guess like one of the NFT related plays that I like investing in or I like putting my weight behind. It's those infrastructure things where I think there's tons of value in nfts. I don't know which individual ones are going to succeed. So I'd rather take like a wide berth infrastructure approach when investing in these sorts of, of things. But yeah, I mean if you haven't checked them out yet, you can. But great to see that they've added fire connect here. There's a little tweet thread, I guess, describing this and explaining exactly what it is as well as the link to what I've got right in front of me, which you can check out.
00:19:13.472 - 00:20:03.408, Speaker A: It'll be linked in the YouTube description below. All right, so you may have heard of a, I guess, decentralized Twitter clone called Farcaster that has been in the works for quite a while and has actually been live in an invite only mode for a while now. It has for the last, I guess, like, yo, so that it's been in open beta, being a mobile only kind of experience. But now there is a desktop client that got released today called, or I guess spelled om Ilos dot XYZ, which you can go check out for yourself if you have a far caster invite and connect here. So as I said, this is a decentralized version of Twitter. It's very similar to Twitter. It's got the, you know, the tweets, the replies, I mean they're called casts, right? And then when you, and you can still like something and reply to it and, and recast it.
00:20:03.408 - 00:20:46.184, Speaker A: But the reason why I bring this up is because this is one of those, I guess like decentralized social media platforms that I'm really bullish on like this and lens, I'm just really bullish on, on these sorts of things. Because they're trying to build the architecture in such a way that not everything is strictly on chain. So that makes it obviously a lot cheaper, makes the user experience better, but they're decentralizing what actually matters. So the reason why different clients can be built is because the backend is open, right? Like, it's not like Twitter, where it's all closed off and different clients used to be able to be built, but then the API was shut off, which means the back end was shut off. I like this because it means you can pick your own client. I think there's like a few, like five different mobile clients or something to interact with Farcaster. I'm not sure on the exact number.
00:20:46.184 - 00:21:07.950, Speaker A: And now there's a web client and there's going to be more and more as, as time goes on here. So I just wanted to highlight that for you guys that there is a web client live. Now if you have a farcaster invite. If you don't, I actually don't know what the current process is to sign up to Farcaster. I got my invite quite a, quite a while ago. I haven't been very active on there because it's been mobile only. I do most of my, I guess, tweeting on desktop.
00:21:07.950 - 00:21:48.634, Speaker A: So if I want, if I'm going to move or at least kind of interact with a similar platform, I'm going to be doing it on desktop almost exclusively. So that's why I haven't really been active on there. But I hope with this new a web client that I can be more active. When I say, once I get it working right now, it won't let me connect because I created a new wallet on the mobile client. I'm not signed in with like Sassle ETH, for example, and I have to find a way to connect them together, which I will do. I just haven't done that because obviously Cecil dot, it doesn't have a far caster invite, so I can't sign in with it on desktop, but I'll get there, I'll get there. But anyway, as I said, like forecasters invite only, you can go to their Twitter account to see what the current process is for signing up and I'll link this in the YouTube description below.
00:21:48.634 - 00:23:17.254, Speaker A: All right, finally here we have a new project, or I don't know if they're brand new, but it's new to me at least that kind of put together a Twitter thread called Lava Network, which talked about supporting decentralized access to Ethereum state data, aka their lava network now supports or now I guess like has a decentralized RPC that Ethereum users can tap into. Now I've talked a lot about RPC's in the past, how basically a lot of them are centralized, how they can censor you because you're relaying your transactions via them instead of relaying it via your own full node or via a decentralized RPC. Well, there are some out there, like Pocket network, which have been around for a little while. There is a new RPC from I guess, llama nodes, which I've talked about before as well, which I don't know if they're decentralized yet, but they're committed to not censoring, not banning anyone, not geo blocking or anything like that, which is a step above what inferior currently does because they do geo block certain countries based on sanctions, I believe so countries like Iran and Russia. But in that, in that respect, you know, I've always encouraged people to use these decentralized RPC networks or use their own full node as an RPC, which is actually relatively easy to do. And if you're running a full node, you really don't have an excuse not to use it as an RPC because at the end of the day, like if you're running a full node and because you're validating or validator on the network, that's totally fine. It's awesome that you're doing that, but if you're still using a third party RPC, then it doesn't really make much sense.
00:23:17.254 - 00:24:20.480, Speaker A: So if you are doing that, you should definitely go and set up your own RPC connections, or I guess like change your well to connect to your own full node and open the ports needed for RPC access to happen there, which you can google for anyway. But yeah, just great to see another entrant in the decentralized RPC space. I'm sure there's going to be more of these as time goes on. It is actually something that POC network has been trying to do and add incentives to with their token. So essentially you could, you would have a service where the people, people would pay some kind, I guess, like the RPC would take some kind of fee and then the token would be staked in order to get a claim on that and to run nodes in the network and such and such. Not sure on the economics of it and how well that will work over time, but the idea of having a decentralized RPC is obviously very, very sound and very needed. But then we also have like clients coming as well, which will help a lot with this RPC stuff that we've been suffering because you would just be able to run at a light client locally and then be able to relay transactions with relative certainty that everything is okay and you're interacting with the correct chain.
00:24:20.480 - 00:24:52.826, Speaker A: But in the meantime, yeah, you can use your own full node as an RPC if you want to, or you can use one of these decentralized rpcs, or one of the ones that have committed to not censoring or not geo blocking, such as llama nodes, which I've highlighted before. You can google it. Llama nodes. I know I talk really fast, guys. I'm sorry, sometimes I talk so fast you probably don't get what I'm saying, but yeah, llama nodes, you can google that as well. But of course lava network network will be linked in the YouTube description below for you to check out. But on that note, I'm going to cut today's episode a little bit short because that's all I have for you.
00:24:52.826 - 00:25:02.314, Speaker A: But anyway, thanks for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
