00:00:01.320 - 00:01:04.944, Speaker A: Okay, good afternoon and hey, everyone. My name is Juan, and I'm part of Kleros, the leading justice protocol on web three. For those that don't know Kleros, Kleros is a decentralized dispute resolution system. Thanks Claros is a decentralized dispute resolution system that's live in fear mining since 2018. And today I will speak of how we can help to close the justice gap in what I call the metaverse age. So most of you are building awesome dapps on web three, and you are leveraging yourself on the power of blockchain and smart contracts and technology. But there is one problem that smart contracts cannot solve, because smart contracts are great to say, effects happen.
00:01:04.944 - 00:02:34.984, Speaker A: Do why? But they cannot really solve subjective problems that eventually require human judgment. And if we analyze today's world, in which most of transactions are doing online and transact on marketplace, and even more in crypto, that many of the transactions is done between anonymous avatars, in telegram, discord, or any social media you can imagine. And we tend to think that there is an enormous opportunity for problems that arise between these subjective discussions that need to be solved, that basically make arise a lot of problems regarding nfts or whatever problem you can imagine on web three or web two, and creates a question that we need to solve. That is how the future of tps will look like. Because in the actual world, companies and governments have a capacity to solve any of the problems that could arise. That grows very slowly related to technology. And the amount of cases given this online transaction during all the world grows in an exponentially enormous way.
00:02:34.984 - 00:02:57.844, Speaker A: And that's why we need to have a tool that helps us solve this. And here it comes. Kleros. Let's go with a simple example. That is the most basic one. That is basically Alice, that is a french entrepreneur in France needs to hire someone to do a marketing campaign for his startup. And she hires Bob.
00:02:57.844 - 00:03:35.982, Speaker A: She doesn't know if Bob is a real person. She knows it because she's an awesome designer on discord and she asked to do the marketing campaign on certain quality parameters. Bob accepts. He gets paid beforehand and delivers the work where Alice gets the work done, it's nothing to do to what she asked. So she says to Bob, okay, Bob, give me your money. Give me my money back, or at least do the work again so I can get what I ask. Bob refused.
00:03:35.982 - 00:04:30.934, Speaker A: He says she has done what she asked for. And what can alice do in the actual scenario? Alice won't initiate a cross jurisdiction with an anonymous party dispute like she needs maybe to go to Guatemala or wherever the Bob is located. But she doesn't even know where she is. Even if she could do it, it doesn't make economically sense for a freelance work, and neither regarding time. So let's see how this will work. If she, Alice and Bob use Kleros, Alice will send the money that he will pay Bob to an escrow, a smart contract that works as an escrow. In case everything goes okay, she will just accept and release the payment to Bob.
00:04:30.934 - 00:05:34.856, Speaker A: But in case, in this case, where she's not happy with Bob's work, she will just initiate a dispute that will go to Kleros and Klairs jurors, that we will go later on how jurors are selected and how we ensure that the quality of the decision is good enough. They will analyze all the evidence of respective cases and come to a decision. And in this case, they saw that Bob did not ask what Alice required on the initial agreement. So Alice gets her money back. But you're probably asking, how are jurors like selected and how do you ensure they are capable of solving these cases. Let's go to the example of Shana. That is the girl I showed before that she's an expert on marketing that works in a traditional web two company, and she's based maybe in Singapore.
00:05:34.856 - 00:06:10.890, Speaker A: And he works from nine to 18, web two job traditional. And when she returns home, she usually works as Clara Stewart. And for doing so, she just needed to buy P and K and deposit it on the court she specializes on. In this case, she goes to a non technical court or to the marketing services. And once she deposits, this is the flow how you like. You just go to Krauss courts and you join a court. By depositing P and K on the court, you are specialized in as Shona.
00:06:10.890 - 00:06:48.674, Speaker A: Many people do the same across the world and deposit in this market in court. And Kleros select randomly a couple of these guys who will choose to solve certain cases. And here it comes. The question of how Cleros incentivize jurors to make sure they have skin in the game, and they will make a rational decision. And for doing so, let me introduce you to Thomas Schelling. If you know it, he won a Nobel prize in economics. Basically explain the concept of Schelling point in his book, the Strategy of Conflict.
00:06:48.674 - 00:07:25.404, Speaker A: And instead of explaining the theory, I will just make an example. So if you could please look at the screen and think 10 seconds, 15 seconds to all these numbers. You need to choose one number. And if you choose the same number that all the rest of the people in the crowd. And you will win $20 if you don't choose the same number, you won't. So 5 seconds, please. Think of the number that the others will choose.
00:07:25.404 - 00:08:05.244, Speaker A: Okay, so raise your hand please. Who choose 38? 93 one person. Okay, who choose 27? 83? No one. And who choose 1000? Awesome. 90% maybe. So that's the selling point. Shelling point is a concept of game theory in which different parties, actors, users that don't know and don't trust each other, reach consensus, reach the same decision.
00:08:05.244 - 00:09:27.324, Speaker A: And if we make a parallelism of the selling points on Kleros jurors, and we think that Kleros jurors that are located all around the world and are probably anonymous parties that don't know and don't trust each other, but analyze the same evidence and need to reach the same decision to win money, we ensure to have the most coherent decision in Kleros. That is what we will call the correct decision, but we call the most coherent decision. And this will create a scenario in which honest music, honest users on average will make money while dishonest users that are trying to gain the system. And maybe they stake on accorders not specializing, or they just vote randomly without analyzing the case, will lose money. And why they will lose money because not only they won't win the retireation fees that this opportunity cost enormous because just for using some of the time you win some if, but they will also lose a small stake of p and k they have deposited in the court. In case like we have a very incoherent decision. We have an appeal system basically, in which if one of both parties is not happy with the decision, it can go to a next round in which it will be twice the jurors plus one.
00:09:27.324 - 00:11:16.180, Speaker A: And at the end, the ultimate result on the last round will be the one that matters. So this is how it looks like Bob. That is the losing party and pay the arbitration fees and the p and k from the incoherent juror go to the incoherent jurors who gets the arbitration fees from the losing party plus the p and k from the uncohered jurors. And let's see one example of why Kleros can solve closing the justice gap on the online world we lived on using game theory and blockchain. We'll know about any random Pepe tokens and how easy it is to issue an rc 20 token I traded on Uniswap and the amount of risk that users on Defi face and the crypto assets grow last year's in an explanation speed while the capacity stays the same to face these fakie tokens. And let's see, what can Karos do to solve this and help exchanges, for example, to have a created list of tokens that fulfill certain parameters. And I present the create list of tokens of Kleros that was built for Bitfinex where basically there's a parameter, a list that Bitfinex submits that every token that wants to be list needs to fulfill certain parameters.
00:11:16.180 - 00:12:14.496, Speaker A: And any user, if you are building your startup and you have your token, you can submit it to Kleros leads. If it accepts it, it goes to Bitfinex, if not, it's not. And for doing so, she submits the token and lib submits if as the deposit. And it goes for an optimistic process in which in certain amount of days it doesn't get challenged, it just gets accepted into the list and it's listed on Bitfinex. But if a malicious actor enter and deposit Ethereum and doesn't fulfill the deposit, submits a token depositing IFRS as his collateral, and it's a malicious token which doesn't fulfill certain parameters, it can get challenged. And what happened is that the community, a member of the community will challenge it. And this will create a case on Kleros and the jurors will see that it's a fake token and will reject it from the list.
00:12:14.496 - 00:13:31.814, Speaker A: And the challenger will stay with the ether of the malicious actor and the correct list will stay healthy. And there's a small case that is called the Bear chain case in which a scam protocol want to list bear and one of the requirements was to have the team doxed and one of the guys on her LinkedIn Oxford in a blockchain research laboratory. And it was really true. A member of the community did call Oxford because he had studied the earth and doesn't remember this blockchain studio exists and they challenged it because it was fake and it didn't enter the list. And nine months later the government of China discovered verchain was a scam in a much slower way than Kleros did. So at the end, Kleros is much more efficient, not only in time of regarding time, but also cost while providing the transparency blockchain give us. And yes, there are many simple problems and disputes that could be solved with AI and many other more complex problems like murder cases that won't be solved by Kleros.
00:13:31.814 - 00:16:04.668, Speaker A: But there is a middle point in which Kleros is the best answer for solving not so big amount of disputes cross jurisdiction between animals parties and this will help us to go from actual scenario we are in to raise the justice capacity of companies, governments or whatever needs to do it and have a better ecosystem with a more justice dispute resolution system. And this is just a random tweet I liked that talks about what Kleros have done since launch and we have more than almost €800, more than 1500 disputes in cases with more than $1 million. And this is just the beginning. And some of Claire's pros and use case that interact with all this dispute resource system we have created is great that basically anyone can create and interact with permissionless lists and create products on top of proof humanity that is an iteration of create where if you want to be proof you're a human, you just submit your profile fulfilling certain conditions and you get identificated klrs moderate that helps moderate social media in your protocol or whatever company you work in. Vea that is a trust minimized bridge that allows messages to be sent between different networks and lingua for example that is also some iteration of to create good translations that basically it's a simple and easy to use DapP to submit translations and soon we'll have b two we have been working a lot last year and in the next model of Kleros, but I won't talk about this in this presentation. But if you're interested, reach out and also if you're interested on education and know any university or any workshop academy that is integrated on having practical use case, on how blockchain can have real use case and useful reach out that we are deeply involved and we are happy to help with. So that's it.
00:16:04.668 - 00:16:27.734, Speaker A: Thanks for all. And yeah, in case you have any questions, let me know on reach out later. Thanks guys. Ah, questions. No.
