00:00:09.290 - 00:00:24.554, Speaker A: Thank you for joining everyone today. My name is William Riley, solutions architect for Chainlink Labs, and I focus on supporting all of our cifi and enterprise users. Also like to introduce Frank from Gemini.
00:00:24.602 - 00:00:37.830, Speaker B: Frank hey guys, I'm Frank. I work on the product management team doing wallet work, pretty much focusing on blockchain integration and stuff like that. Thank you for having me, Ron.
00:00:38.590 - 00:01:12.370, Speaker A: Fantastic. Super exciting to have you here. We're going to start with a brief video about Chainlink's proof reserve solution and how we help support Gemini's efill. And then we'll go into some q as after that. First we're going to cover Chainlink's proof of reserve solutions and the various applications thereof. And we're going to dive into how Proofreve enables Gemini's e fill product offering. And then we're going to conclude with an interview with Frank Kenji of Gemini.
00:01:12.370 - 00:02:04.610, Speaker A: At a high level, the current state of audits today is done in a very slow and manual way. This introduced large areas of risk as they're typically done in quarterly to yearly periods. Our automated and reliable auditing process via proof reserve enables that to be reduced down to periods of mere minutes. I think it's important to just define what the word proof is here and the typical definition is to test or to prove. Really like this quote from on the Brink podcast. They point out in old english, proof initially meant to either prove if something was true or false. In today's current world, we typically look at it as proving if something is true or not.
00:02:04.610 - 00:03:31.070, Speaker A: But I think it's important to highlight the symmetrical approach here. Proof of reserve can be applied in many different areas of life and markets, and it simply means a method used by organizations to demonstrate that possesses the adequate reserves of assets to any parties involved in the form of a proof. And in computer science, this is typically done via cryptography to promote transparencies of all participants. Now, if we look at understanding and going into Chainlink's proof of reserves, we would like to point out that the automated auditing system that is powered by Chainlink's proof of reserve, this allows the verification and collateralization of both on and off chain assets. Off chain examples could be real world commodities such as gold or fiat, held in bank accounts, or some more intangible things such as stocks or equities. And it could even be things such as real estate as well. The Chainlink proof reserve solution also allows for securely connecting to native on chain assets, and this allows for reliability and the ability to mint cross chain with true transparency.
00:03:31.070 - 00:04:34.260, Speaker A: All in all, this eliminates an efficiency and cautious manual auditing process that is commonly known in today's current state. Chainlink's proof of reserve enables not only reliable and timely monitoring of those reserves using automated audits based on cryptographic truth, but to put this simply, chain link proof of reserve is the epitome of data validation. There is no higher standard in providing definitive information on reserves. Because of this, legacy approaches are becoming much less trusted day in and day out, and the organizations that provide the best source of information will ultimately gain a competitive advantage over those who do not. This is especially true for the onchain world that is currently emerging. And if you want to be credible on chain, you will need to publish your data on chain. Consumers and users of decentralized projects will most typically only work with completely transparent on chain data.
00:04:34.260 - 00:06:23.186, Speaker A: Some benefits of chain linked assets with proof reserve not only does it provide that enhanced automation via the continuous monitoring and power of the Oracle network, but it also improves your security for any type of warning system and also disallows any things as under collateralized or over collateralized events. And this is done via the time tested infrastructure of Chainlink's decentralized Oracle network that has secured billions of dollars of value in the defi space via price feeds. And lastly, it provides that end to end transparency via all parties know some important things to highlight in terms of use cases, whether they're on or off chain is we're looking at the ability to power token minting on chain or cross chain token minting. If you're going to be a crypto custodian, you're going to stand out if you're really proving your reserve assets for collateral risk products. For example, insurance companies are required to hold balance sheet reserves to fund claims by their clients and clients, regulators and investors are all parties that want to be well informed of the risk or the ability of someone being able to pay a claim or not. For asset liability management, this is a better approach that would allow for improved risk management and higher return for an organization's asset. For preferred customers, they would much rather do business with transparent and honest business makers.
00:06:23.186 - 00:07:23.424, Speaker A: And lastly, for public company reporting, imagine all your quarterly reports being reduced to mere minutes. And this sets a new precedent of high standards that would be understood and desired for a wide variety of markets. For example, proof of carbon credits could yield you investments both indirectly and directly. I'd like to take a few minutes to focus on chain linking off chain assets via the proof of reserve solution. So, for instance, Chainlink's proof of reserve utilizes the largest decentralized collection of security reviewed and civil resistant node operators in the industry. They acquire and verify the reserve data. These nodes then publish the data on any blockchain, which gives smart contracts the ability to act on that data.
00:07:23.424 - 00:08:42.360, Speaker A: Unlike alternative methods, Chainlink nodes are independent and resilient to threats such as man in the middle attacks or DDoS denial of service attacks. This may seem fairly simple and straightforward. That's because it ultimately is. This is the same approach of Chainlink's highly reliable and battle tested price feed data network. The simplicity and similarity to our price feeds approach with this proof reserve solution means it's very easy to apply it as well as adopt it in current systems. Another example of using proof reserve is tracking carbon emissions so we could have IoT devices distributed across geographic regions. These devices are collecting performance of certain actions and harvesting that and allowing the Chainlink decentralized Oracle network to consume that data and thus broadcast it and publish it on chain, allowing data consumers to interact with it and subsequently make use of that data on chain, such as carbon credit trading, for instance.
00:08:42.360 - 00:10:02.790, Speaker A: Another example is the verification of custodied crypto assets. So whether these are assets stored in a bank account or a vault, our decentralized oracle network takes APIs that are attached to these reserves or vaults. They go ahead and come to a consensus in a fair manner, and they once again broadcast that to data consumers who can make use of that information on chain, but they can consume it in a transparent and reliable way. One direct example of this is our case study around trust tokens, USD reserves, which are held in various bank accounts that are escrowed. We work with a third party auditor, Armanino, who verifies the validity of the status of the bank account and provides on chain attestation. Our Oracle network goes ahead and consumes that data and subsequently broadcasts it to a smart contract on the Ethereum blockchain via proof of reserve. This allows the DeFi users to interact with them based upon the outcomes of the results of the proof of reserve status itself.
00:10:02.790 - 00:11:22.460, Speaker A: Now I'd like to take some time to really dive into Chainlink's powering of Gemini's e fill product offering, which is an on chain use case. So powering e fill's cross chain token minting. Imagine we have a non connected blockchain to the defi market. In this example, we're looking at the Filecoin blockchain, which is disconnected from most of DeFi. So one of the main challenges is how to get that liquidity which is for lack of better term, locked on a blockchain to the world of DeFi to begin unlocking this value. This is where we introduced Chainlink's decentralized oracle network and we put it in place such to read the status and validate the status of the reserves being held on the filecoin blockchain via this decentralized and automated auditing process via the proof reserve. This allows a cryptographic truth to be proved and subsequently broadcast to a smart contract on Ethereum.
00:11:22.460 - 00:12:42.404, Speaker A: The status of the smart contract allows for minting and burning of tokens based upon the value of the reserves on the filecoin blockchain once these tokens are minted and available. This allows decentralized applications to interact with these tokens that in this example are on the Ethereum blockchain, thus allowing you to take the liquidity and value that was previously locked on the Filecoin network and being used for decentralized applications such as lending and borrowing markets in the Ethereum ecosystem. Ultimately, this product offering, as well as many others, boils down to Chainlink's cryptographic truth as a service offering. If you found this valuable today or would like to engage us in any way, please reach out to us at integrations at chain link and you can begin integrating with Chainlink today. Thank you for your time. And we'll be diving into a discussion with Frank here. Right.
00:12:42.404 - 00:12:53.690, Speaker A: All right, so frank, let's get into, you know, just to start us off, can you share your personal journey of how you got involved in the blockchain space?
00:12:54.780 - 00:13:48.190, Speaker B: Yeah, it started in 2012. I was an intern doing session trading, and I was working on the trading floor, and one day we lost something like $450,000,000 in 45 minutes. So then I realized that, okay, I knew finance and there was this thing called technology that I completely neglected. So when I went back to college, undergrad, a few friends were talking about this thing called crypto, bitcoin that they bought at $9. Now it's trading at twelve. So that got me interested. So I started buying a little bit, and when I graduated college, I ended up quitting my trading job to join a startup that we were trying to buy and sell crypto to people around New York City.
00:13:48.190 - 00:14:16.630, Speaker B: It was around 2014 or 13 that New York came out with the bit licenses. And also through running that business, we realized that it wasn't quite mature. So at the time, I decided to kind of take a step back and learn and focus more on the tech skills. So I did some fintech work for a while and eventually I ended up at Gemini doing product management on the white side.
00:14:17.880 - 00:14:47.150, Speaker A: Well, that's really cool, Frank. Thank you for sharing that with us. I thought that you coming from the traditional trading world, is really cool to see how you progressed over to the crypto space and blockchain. So now you're with Gemini, you've been there for a while. What trends does Gemini see around retail and institutional users as they're entering the blockchain ecosystem today?
00:14:48.080 - 00:16:03.430, Speaker B: Yeah. Something that we've been very intrigued by, and I'm very interested by as well, has been the increasing diversity that we see in both just the candidate pool that we're receiving and also our customer base. One example that I got from our marketing team was, if you look back maybe like 2018, our Twitter page was male dominant, and now we're reaching a point where it's almost 50 50. So I'm very happy to see that the community is getting more and more diverse, which is great to see. But other things that we seeing on the tech side is we have this boom or like this rise of NFT and also d five going beyond just Ethereum. So you have some of these projects that were very in the infancy in 2017 now maturing on different network, like for example, L2, like the battlefat L2, and all of the different applications there. That is a trend that we're seeing because our users are more interested in all of these new use cases, which is very interesting.
00:16:05.660 - 00:16:47.056, Speaker A: Yeah, totally agree with you. I think the increased diversity is only going to make this ecosystem stronger as a whole. NFT is a super hot thing in the market and I find it extremely interesting. So to see that mature as well is really cool. And I think 2022, the narrative might be around l two s and NFT. So very astute observations there. Frank with Gemini recently announced the eFill, a wrapped file token, file coin token, which utilizes the chain link proof reserve.
00:16:47.056 - 00:16:52.710, Speaker A: Of course, what benefits will Efil bring to the users across the defi ecosystem as you see it?
00:16:53.240 - 00:17:31.880, Speaker B: Yeah, that's a good question. So even before we talk about eFil, I want to talk about filecoin. Filecoin is a storage service where users pay for data storage, same as AWS. They pay using fill token. And when they pay, the miners are actually the ones providing storage space to receive those tokens. So for you to become a miner, you need to stick farcoin to a node and link that to a storage system. And the more farcoin you have, the more likely you are to actually mine and receive this farcoin reward.
00:17:31.880 - 00:18:32.548, Speaker B: But because farcoin is its own blockchain, there isn't any lending market, essentially there. So for a miner to be able to do mining work, they have to either find, like on the table, like a dark market, or they have to buy those firecoins outright. What we try to do with Efil is to bring firecoin to where DFI is. And the idea is to bring Filecoin to an ERC 20 token that can be used in the DFI ecosystem. So we actually have the data on our end that we track for the mining operation and all of that. But because we want to be decentralized, we want to be defi friendly. This is where chain link proof of reserve is very useful because you don't have to rely just on what Gemini is telling you.
00:18:32.548 - 00:19:08.816, Speaker B: So using the proof of reserve is a way for us to be transparent and also make e field be more flexible. For example, anyone today can build their own smart contract and just use the e field proof of reserve. You don't have to take what Gemini is telling you, just use what Chainlink has to verify that you have the funds actually in those reserve. So the way that it works is Gemini locks up firecoin in a vault and issues wrap firecoin. So proof of reserve helps verify that Gemini, in fact, has this file coin in the bot somewhere, which you think is great.
00:19:08.998 - 00:19:57.360, Speaker A: Yeah, very cool. And I think Gemini being, you know, a little bit of a leader in innovation here in the space, connecting the two different technologies, leveraging the filecoin blockchain and what it's capable of, and then tapping into the value that it provides and bringing it into the land of smart contracts, I think is extremely valuable. Thank you for that, Frank. And then to kind of further on to some of your points that you just made there, in general, how do you think Chainlink's proof of reserve will impact the DeFI or CFI, or maybe even what we're starting to see as the CDFI blending space and the broader blockchain space?
00:19:57.510 - 00:21:01.952, Speaker B: Yeah, the proof of reserve is a great way for bringing transparency so that people don't necessarily need to trust each other to interact. So what this actually shows is if anyone is saying that they have tokenized gold, for example, and that we can use a proof of reserve to prove that the goal is, in fact, there. I believe that having the services around creates a more decentralized world where anyone can interact and actually being able to know that there is substance at the other end of this bargain. And also with crypto. And just with the financial system in general, there are a lot of audits that need to happen. So leveraging a technology like proof of reserve can definitely decrease the overhead that it takes just to audit. With something like the proof of reserve, you can query this smart contract anytime and then compare it to whatever you see on the Ethereum network.
00:21:01.952 - 00:21:19.820, Speaker B: And there should never be a scenario where someone has minted more token than what they say that they're holding. So I think that proof of reserve impact on DeFI or even CFI, you just bring some accountability and make it a lot more transparent.
00:21:20.960 - 00:22:07.320, Speaker A: Yeah, perfect. That's exactly. A lot of our intent here with proof reserve is to prevent fractionalized minting situations that we see kind of common in the traditional space, and to allow the utilization of an easy to use and consume product, both from an implementation standpoint as well as a defi user standpoint. So very happy to hear that you guys consider it an easy to use product and improves transparency. I have only a couple more questions for you, Frank. So now I'd like to turn towards the future. What are some of the novel products being built as a result of the innovation of the blending of defI and CFI spaces?
00:22:09.040 - 00:23:04.152, Speaker B: Yeah, so some of the products that we are looking at, we still kind of looking to make sure that we find the right direction. Like for example, with rapfire coin, that was the early days of bridging. Now you have more intricate bridges that we can leverage. So on our end, the very first step is to support all the ecosystems that we can and then go from there, see what our user are asking for, and then bridging into this world as we see our users, like demanding what they want to do. Because right now you have businesses focusing just on bridges. I believe that it may be a good time to kind of observe and see what comes out of it before we start wrapping it. What it wouldn't work is we don't want a world where you have 50 wrap file coins.
00:23:04.152 - 00:23:10.270, Speaker B: So essentially you want to make life easier for the users, and we're just kind of waiting on seeing where that goes.
00:23:12.400 - 00:23:39.930, Speaker A: Fantastic. Fantastic. So, yeah, I think you kind of touched on it there. One thing we heard from the audience here was, was there anything in specific that made Gemini want to utilize and make this product offering first with Filecoin? And are you considering wrapping other assets to Ethereum from other l ones or possibly l two s?
00:23:40.780 - 00:24:25.800, Speaker B: Yeah, so we went after Filecoin because Gemini was the first exchange to support it. And we have close partnership with the Falcon team. So this was really meant to be a proof of concept with actual real life use case. So we are planning to supporting and bridging users asset across different, whether it's l one or smart contract or l two, kind of how I say we're still building out the ecosystem, but their goal is to essentially any asset that user wants to move from one chain to another. Gemini should be able to support that in the future, whether it's by launching new token or partnering with other people who have well established.
00:24:27.500 - 00:25:06.896, Speaker A: Cool. Very cool. Yeah, so we're looking at other questions coming in. I think this one might be chain link specific, so I'll go ahead and field this one. And it goes very well with your previous statements there, Frank. The question is, is it possible to implement Chainlink's proof of reserve with other networks? And short answer is yes, it is. So to Frank's point, Frank and Gemini is trying to allow product offerings across different chains and being able to do that swiftly and smoothly.
00:25:06.896 - 00:25:56.468, Speaker A: Similarly, in the world of chain link, we are blockchain agnostic with that. We are able to read from any l one and subsequently place a proof of reserve onto another network, allowing a similar function to happen that Gemini is doing with efill today, and allowing you to mint tokens on other chains, whether those are from l ones to l ones or l ones to l two s and that one as well. Let's see if we have any other questions. I guess. Lastly, Frank and maybe this one. Maybe you guys need a little bit more time on your roadmap. Maybe not.
00:25:56.468 - 00:26:07.060, Speaker A: But do you have any intentions of bringing wrapped filecoin or efill to other l ones or l two s in the dfi ecosystem?
00:26:09.080 - 00:27:07.420, Speaker B: Wrapped file coin specifically? We don't have anything planned yet. We're still working on making sure that Rapfirecoin is integrated on the Ethereum based protocols. And the demand we essentially are looking for where the demands are. We haven't seen a huge demand for having firecoin per se on any other network, but what we're thinking about is fielding the request, seeing what people are doing on this network, and then move the asset that they need there. Our goal for firecoin was to create a marketplace, and we will gauge everything based on the demands that we see. So Rafirecoin specifically now, but we're looking at other assets that I don't think that sharing the list here will make sense since nothing has been vetted yet, but we're certainly looking at how to bridge asset across different networks.
00:27:08.880 - 00:27:27.072, Speaker A: Perfect. Yeah. That makes a lot of sense, man. The market driven roadmap is pretty key to success. So whatever the market wants, we will go. Know, I know we're getting close to time here, Frank. I really do appreciate all the time that you've given us today.
00:27:27.072 - 00:28:44.696, Speaker A: I'm just going through some last maybe questions, potential questions. Let's see. We had one question here is what are some other use cases for? Proof reserve that we're excited to talk about from a chain links perspective is outside of being able to mint tokens across chains, it's also exciting to see the ability to actually take off chain assets and mint them in a tokenized representation, whether this is gold vaults. We're also seeing a large uptick in the desire for carbon data as the carbon credit market is greatly expanding. So as we're seeing that product and that marketplace mature, we're pretty excited to see the potentials there and the subsequently of wrapping those assets to different chains. So yeah, I think that's about time for today. So I really do appreciate all the time today, Frank, it was a pleasure having you.
00:28:44.696 - 00:29:09.900, Speaker A: And I do want to remind everybody that in the audience that we will be putting a survey in the chat. It's a quick two minute survey and if you could provide us feedback on today's webinar, we would greatly appreciate that. So thank you for everybody's time today and we'll see you at the next webinar.
00:29:10.240 - 00:29:12.390, Speaker B: Thanks for having me. You.
