00:00:00.240 - 00:00:29.222, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Leway refuel, where you get the latest news in Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Dan. This is known as the 7 June 2024. All right everyone, let's get into it. So some big news today about the next Ethereum network upgrade, codenamed Pektra. You guys know I've been covering Petra for quite a while now, and it's been a bit of a moving target. I think there's been a lot of eips that have been suggested to be included within Petra, which means that Petra is, as it currently stands, the biggest upgrade in Ethereum's history.
00:00:29.222 - 00:00:57.588, Speaker A: Now, of course, this opened up discussions over the last, I think, month or so around whether Petra should be one big fork or two smaller forks. It seems like the core devs are definitely leaning towards doing one big fork instead of two smaller forks. And it seems like the timing on that will definitely be in Q 120 25. I would not expect this to be in Q four. If there are two smaller forks, I could see, you know, one happening in Q four, one happening in Q one. But if it is a big fork, I would expect it to happen in Q one of 2025. There.
00:00:57.588 - 00:01:49.126, Speaker A: Now, the reason why I'm bringing this up today is because there was an all core devs call yesterday or earlier today, depending where you are in the world, that essentially confirmed a bunch of ERP that are definitely going into Petra, whether it is a big fork or two smaller forks. So these eips include AIP 7702, which actually replaces EIP 3074, which is the account abstraction EIP. I've covered that before, but it essentially fixes one of the critical flaws, I think, that people saw within 3074 around that one time signature thing that could lead to your entire account being drained. So there's that AIP going in. Of course, we have AIP a 7251, which is Max EB going in, which means you can stake more than 32 e per validator up to 2048 eth. I think that that might, might be getting reduced to 1024 ETH because I saw someone mention that, but I couldn't confirm that. So it's either 2048 or 1024.
00:01:49.126 - 00:02:44.930, Speaker A: Either way, it's an absolutely massive kind of step up from 32 ETH. So whether it's 2024, 2048, I don't think makes too much of a difference, because obviously going from 1024 to 2048 is only a two times increase, whereas going from 32 to 1024 is a 32 x increase or a 64 x increase for 2048. But I will confirm that once I get confirmation myself on what that's going to look like there and then along with Max EB will be the EIP for execution layout triggerable exits, which allows you to exit a validator via the execution layer and not just the consensus layer, which means that you can have trustless exits from things like staking pools, which is obviously a huge unlock there. And then we have EIP 7594, which is peer Das. Apparently that is going to be going into Petra now, which is absolutely massive. I mean, I remember I spoke about three of the eips that I wanted to see in Petra. Two of them seem to have made them in, made it into it so far, which is peer Das and Max EB.
00:02:44.930 - 00:03:36.808, Speaker A: I think the 30 IP that I wanted to say was inclusion lists, but I think that is going to require a much more research and development before it is able to go into the network. And he's probably going to require PBS and be part of that roadmap there or part of that kind of rollout there. So yeah, it doesn't look like we'll be getting inclusion lists as part of Petra, but we will be getting peer Das, which is a huge unlock. For those of you who don't know, what peer does is it's basically the first implementation of data availability sampling on Ethereum. And last time I look at the spec, it essentially means that only that all the nodes on the Ethereum network, I guess like each full node, are not, not archive nodes or light nodes or whatever else. I think it's each full node will store one eight of all blob data instead of the full blob data, which essentially means from, I guess like my rough napkin math here, it would be like an eight x increase of scalability of what we currently have with blobs. And now this just applies to blobs.
00:03:36.808 - 00:04:33.064, Speaker A: This is not das for like everything on Ethereum, it's just for blobs. Because obviously we're scaling via the rollout centric roadmap and blobs for roll ups. And yeah, that's an eight x increase on what we have today. Now along with peer dust, we may get a blob count and or size increase, which means that even if that's increased by like a modest two x, it would be a 16 x increase from where we are today coupled with peer Das. And we're already not at the limit, guys, of blobs, which is really cool because that basically means that we'll give ourselves even more further front Runway here in order to keep scaling up, in order to keep doing more research on full data availability, sampling and data availability charting and all that that comes into that there. And also make sure that we can put things like Max EB in and get the validators consolidated, take load off the network and then be able to essentially increase the size and count of blobs even further, potentially do more stuff with peer Das. Essentially make it instead of one of eight, it could be one of 16.
00:04:33.064 - 00:05:01.378, Speaker A: There's so much we can do here, guys. These are those building blocks that I spoke about a little while ago when I said we're in the golden age of Ethereum scalability and we really are. It's only going to get more scalable from here and the pathway is extremely clear on how that happens there. Super excited to see that peer Das has also made it into Petra. At least that's what it cut. How it currently stands, the next Eips will be the EOf related Eips. These are eips that have been trying to get into the network for quite a while now and they almost didn't make it into Petra.
00:05:01.378 - 00:05:35.756, Speaker A: But I think that there are a few core devs willing to die on the hill of getting Eof into, into Petra here. One of the core devs, I think he is almost 70 years old. I think I saw a comment that he said on the, on the core devs call that he would like to see EOF included in the Ethereum network before he, before he dies, basically. And I'm like okay, well now this guy's literally dying on the hill of getting EOf included. So it's great to see that included there. It is not a user facing thing per se. It is definitely a developer facing thing where it essentially gives new optimizations for developers to take advantage of, from my understanding, which will flow down to users there.
00:05:35.756 - 00:06:10.810, Speaker A: Then AIP 25 37, which is the BLS pre compiles AIP is going in, and 7549 which reduces consensus overhead, which has got to do with the from memory, the validator committee indexes there from memory. You'll have to look it up. I mean you can look up all these EIP numbers on Google when you get the, the result there. And then also history expiry is being considered for inclusion in Petra, which is another huge thing that is on Ethereum's roadmap there. But as you can see, Petra is definitely the biggest Ethereum network upgrade in history at this point in time. There could be more stuff added to it. Maybe there's some, some stuff taken away from it, but I still think it would be the biggest.
00:06:10.810 - 00:06:40.896, Speaker A: And that's why I think that there's probably no way we're going to see it in Q four. If it remains a big upgrade, it'll be Q one, which is fine, I guess. As I think I said, like on maybe a week ago or something, I said, there doesn't seem to be like a rush to get this eiP, and it's not like it was with blobs. We're like, we want blobs now because, you know, roll ups are suffering. They need to be more scalable. And then once we had blobs in, we can see how quickly roll ups have grown, how quickly the L2 ecosystem has just taken advantage of that. At this point in time, I don't consider any of these things to be, like, absolutely critical.
00:06:40.896 - 00:07:15.738, Speaker A: Need them right now. Yes, they are all awesome upgrades, especially Max EB and peer Das and even the account obstruction eIP here. But in saying that, like, from my subjective point of view, it, I just don't consider any of them to be like, we need to push now, we need to push hard. But on that note as well, the core devs are still in that mode of let's just keep shipping, we need to keep shipping, we need to keep getting this out there. Let's not rest on our laurels, which is great, and I'm glad to see that. But I'm also glad that we're not in the position where we have to, like, have to rush things through. I have to feel like we have to rush things through, which is just overall net positive for the Ethereum ecosystem.
00:07:15.738 - 00:08:25.884, Speaker A: So, yeah, you can go check out my tweet for all those ERP numbers in case you want to look them up for yourself. I'll link the tweet in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so there was a headline today that came out that one of the BTC ETF issuers, Vanek, which is also going to be having a spot EtH ETF go live shortly, has apparently staked 32,400 ETH, which is pretty crazy because remember when the Bloomberg guys or Eric Bultrooner specifically called eat small potatoes compared to BTC? Well, it's not so small potatoes. That's $125 million worth of ETH that Vanek has, has staked here, and that's part of a separate kind of product to their spot Eth ETF. And I really do think that, as I've been explaining over the last few days, that small potatoes comet is not going to not going to age very well. It already hasn't really aged well, but I think it's going to age even worse once the ETF's alive and bringing in massive amounts of inflows, which I'm sure they will, because I actually think that by the time they go live in that early July period, if I'm correct about that, ethanol should be at all time high. It doesn't really make much sense to me that ETH wouldn't be at all time high considering the state of the market right now.
00:08:25.884 - 00:08:49.536, Speaker A: I don't know how closely you guys have been following this. You've probably been very closely following this. What am I saying? You guys are all glued to the charts for sure. But essentially, BTC is about to hit a fresh all time high. Like, as I'm recording this right now, I can, like, literally see it on my screen. BTC is about to hit 72k, which is a fresh all time high. And, like, I just don't see Eth waiting much longer to go to all time high.
00:08:49.536 - 00:09:04.832, Speaker A: From here, it is pretty much, like, there. I mean, it's a sneeze away. You saw how quickly it went from, like three k to 4k, all time highs, almost five k. It can go from 3800 to five k in a couple of weeks. Easy peasy, no worries there. And I really do think that's going to happen. All the things are in place, the stars are aligned here.
00:09:04.832 - 00:09:31.422, Speaker A: And because, because of that, it means that I really do think there's going to be some kind of fomo leading into the ETH. ETF's going live where essentially the ETH price is going to be going nuts and everyone's going to be like, oh, crap, I need to buy eth now. I need to buy eth now. Like, it's going nuts. What the hell? What the hell's going on? I'm going to miss out and that's going to just further drive us up. And then from there, we're going to have the normal, I guess, like, retail bull market where everything's just going up. I really do think it's going to play out pretty similarly to other cycles, but what I do think is going to play out differently is the bear market.
00:09:31.422 - 00:09:58.992, Speaker A: I really do think that Ethan BTC are going to be much stronger in the bear market than they historically have been compared to other assets. I'm not talking about compared to USD. I'm comparing it to other crypto assets. They've already been very strong compared to other crypto assets. But I do think because they have the only ones that have the ETF's and the only ones that are going to have the ETF's for the next three years at least. I mean, I don't, as I've explained before, the other things to get ETF's have to have futures markets first. None of them have futures markets yet the same futures market.
00:09:58.992 - 00:10:29.534, Speaker A: So there's just no way that these things are getting ETF's anytime soon. So I really do think that compared to all the other assets out there, BTC and ETH are going to stand even more kind of like alone. And it's going to be interesting to see how they behave in the bear market. I'm not saying they're not going to go down like 60, 70%. They can still do that, right? Like there's, there's no one that could tell you that they're not going to do that. And with this, with a straight face, especially if ETH goes to like 20k in the next, I don't know, six to nine months, right. And then people are like, oh my God, eats at 20k.
00:10:29.534 - 00:10:56.044, Speaker A: There's no way it's going down 60% from here. It's like, guys, we went from like four k to twenty k in, you know, nine months or whatever the timing ends up being. And that's a huge amount of market cap. That's like a trillions. How much market cap would that be? Just doing the napkin math in my head, it's five times from here. So it would be like a couple of trillion dollars of market cap added in a short period of time. As bullish as I am on ETH, if it goes up that quickly, of course there's going to be a period where it goes down and there's a bear market, but too early.
00:10:56.044 - 00:11:23.482, Speaker A: We're talking about bear markets right now. But that is an dynamic that I'm going to be watching there. But yeah, I really don't think that ETH is going to be small potatoes, guys. I think that it's going to surprise to the upside, for sure. And I've been saying this for a very long time. I just think that it's, it's just taken so long to get there. But we're going to see over the next few weeks, those s one forms continue to be filed, continue to have back and forth between the SEC and the issue is there for an eventual launch date in what I am suspecting is going to be early July.
00:11:23.482 - 00:11:49.122, Speaker A: I actually came up with a date today. So I think it's going to be. This date is not based on anything except, like, speculation. Like, it's not like the May 23 date where we had a deadline that you could point to and it was known this is a pure speculation date. I would not be surprised to see it go live on July 8. And the reason why I picked July 8, just to give you my line of reasoning here, is because I have that July 1 to July 10 window that I've already given. But then you think about what, what is happening during that period.
00:11:49.122 - 00:12:02.054, Speaker A: July 4? It's the us holiday. It's a us holiday, right. It's a. It's a holiday. So it can't launch on July 4, which is a Thursday. July 5 is a Friday. During that week is probably too early still, like July 1, second and third.
00:12:02.054 - 00:12:20.406, Speaker A: And also because it's a shortened week, shortened work week. I don't know if they would want to launch it then. And then your next possible launch date from there would be July 8, which is the Monday following that, that weekend holiday there. So I. That's where I got July 8 from. So as I said, it's pure speculation. But hey, if they can make it happen earlier than that, by all means.
00:12:20.406 - 00:12:50.920, Speaker A: But July 8 is a nice date in my mind. And it's a. It's pretty much exactly a month, almost exactly a month from today as well there. But I'll keep you guys updated on all of that as time goes on. All right, moving on to some mev boost analysis from Tony today. So he's put out an ETH research post with a TLDr of me, sorry. Titled is it worth using Mev Boost? And the TLDR is that mev boost increases your APY as a neat staker from 2.93%
00:12:50.920 - 00:13:19.686, Speaker A: to 3.24%. So I guess, like TLDR, it is worth using mev boost because you're getting an extra .3% of yield out of it. But it is not like a huge difference here, essentially, you know, some people have thrown around numbers. Like, if you're not using MeV Boost, you're missing out on like multiple percentages worth of yield. Maybe when the yield was higher because of the gas fees being higher, but generally it was assumed that you were missing out on a lot. Now, of course, 0.3%
00:13:19.686 - 00:14:00.396, Speaker A: is still like 10% of the overall yield here, around 10%. So I guess, like, it depends what you consider a lot. I mean, for me, 0.3% is, is, you know, is a pretty big deal, I guess generally because it, you know, 10% of the yield, it's basically like if you're not running MeV Boost, you're essentially giving up 10% of the money that you otherwise would have had. And it's essentially, if you're a solo staker doing this, you're basically putting yourselves on the same foot as a, you know, as someone who stakes with like, a service provider that's charging 10%, you're essentially incorporating that service provider fee for no good reason here. And MeV Boost obviously has its issues with censorship specifically. But you can run mev boost on non censoring relayers to kind of mitigate some of that.
00:14:00.396 - 00:14:34.238, Speaker A: But at the same time, at the builder level, it's not really something you can do because at the builder level, the censorship is very different because the builders send their things to the relayers and then so on and so forth from there. But, yeah, I highly recommend giving this post a read. It's very, very short, but essentially it answers that question of, like, you know, is it worth using mev boost? And what is that? What does that actually look like? Quantiflia. Quantifiably so. All right, so there is a new tool out today to track the activity on roll up. So this is called a rollup. WTF? This was, I think, built by the conduit team here.
00:14:34.238 - 00:15:07.016, Speaker A: Emiliano from the conduit team shared this on Twitter today. And essentially what this does is it shows you not, probably not all of the roll ups. There are probably some that, or all of the l two s, there are probably some that aren't being tracked here. But it gives you a list of as many of them as possible and shows you in real time what their TPS looks like, what their current mega gas per second looks like, and their throughput, it as measured in kilobytes per second here. So, as you can see right now, and this is going to look different depending on when you look at it. This is a real time view. It is not, you know, looking back 24 hours or anything like that.
00:15:07.016 - 00:16:01.048, Speaker A: It is a real time view. So at time of recording, and me looking at this right now, base is currently doing around 40 tps, which is more than double the next two, which is proof of play, which is doing 15 tps, and arbitram one, which is doing around twelve tps. Now, as I've described before, TPS is not the best measure of activity, especially when comparing across chains. Generally, it's probably better for something like, you know, we're measuring gas usage and as you can see here, at 40 tps, base is only using 7.2 mega gas per second, whereas proof of play at 15 tps is using 15 mega gas per second. So there are differences here for a variety of different reasons that go into that. But the reason why I love this is because it gives us a real time view, which is different to the views that we have from grow the pie and l two beat, which gives us a, you know, backwards looking view, whereas real time view is good for like, specific data measurements where.
00:16:01.048 - 00:16:54.186, Speaker A: Or essentially looking at this and being like, okay, well, is base really hot right now? Is option one really hot right now? Okay, what does the rankings look like over time as well? Because you can take a screenshot of this, and I'm sure there's going to probably be some, some charts built into this. But essentially, if you were to take a screenshot of this today, save it, and then come back in three months and then look at what it looks like, then you would get a better, a nice idea of kind of the growth of different roll ups, and if you know which ones stay dominant, which ones fell off, and so on and so forth. So just a really, really cool tool here that you can go check out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But I mean, I don't think it's any surprise about, I guess, like what this looks like right now, because, for example, base is definitely the number one l two right now. I think arbitram one is pretty much neck and neck with them in terms of overall activity, not just TPS. Proof of play is a funny one because I hadn't really been tracking proof of play before, but essentially it is.
00:16:54.186 - 00:17:29.149, Speaker A: And arbitrum, any trust chain. So it is not a roll up, it is an l two. It's not using a theorem l one for data availability. So I would like a way to filter those out, actually roll ups versus like l two s, aka things that are using Ethereum for data availability. Ethereum l one for data availability and things that are not because they're not equal to each other as I've described before. But proof of play is basically a gaming chain as part of the arbitrum ecosystem there. Then obviously you have a bunch of the other roll ups, or, I mean, optimism is a roll up, Linnea scroll, Zora mode, so on and so forth.
00:17:29.149 - 00:18:17.574, Speaker A: But yeah, I would like a way to kind of filter with roll ups and, you know, l two s and separating the two there and filter by da basically there. All right, so speaking of l two s, Tyco is now permissionless and based. So starting today, anyone in the world can set up a Taiko proposer and prover to help run the network using the newly launched Taiko token. So I think this is one of the first roll ups to do this. It definitely is the first based roll up to do this where essentially anyone in the world can download the proposer improver software and help run the network. This is the end game for all rollups, or at least it should be the end game for all roll ups. We should not be settling for less than this on the, on the permissionless and decentralization side here, especially when it comes to things like, like base draw ups as well.
00:18:17.574 - 00:18:53.518, Speaker A: I mean, being a base roll up is cool, but what's even cooler than that is anyone being able to run a proposal and a proverb in order to push that, that through the network there. So a big kudos to taiko for this, for being a pioneer on this front here. I think they're going to work as a forcing function for the other roll ups to do this because I think we need to keep the pressure on. I know that arbitrum one has committed to reaching stage two this year. Optimism is probably going to be slower than them. Maybe it happens next year for them. And by optimism, I mean, like the op stack and definitely baseball into that base is definitely committed to getting to stage two as fast as possible.
00:18:53.518 - 00:19:28.748, Speaker A: But until they do, it's all talk. Like, as much as I love these teams, guys, it's all talk until they do it. So let's keep the pressure on. Let's make sure that they're doing, doing what they need to do to reach stage two so that we can have a more decentralized and permissionless L2 ecosystem. But yeah, as I said, kudos to Tycho for pioneering this here. Now, there's a related tweet to this from Justin Drake today where he basically talked about how, you know, Taiko is live and the end game is based. Now, what he means by this is that based is essentially a catch all term for two different things, based roll ups and pre conformation.
00:19:28.748 - 00:20:06.334, Speaker A: I guess, like projects generally, whether they be gateway startups or R and D generally now based is basically using the base layer to process the transactions of the roll up. Essentially, that's what a based roll up is in its very, I guess, like noob friendly explainer form. There are more, there's more to it than that, but that's essentially what it is. And then you have pre confirmations, which, from my understanding. And I'm still learning about pre comps because it is definitely relatively new and it's definitely going to be a field that explodes here. But with pre conformations, essentially what you get is very quick confirmation times. At the l two.
00:20:06.334 - 00:20:50.320, Speaker A: It's, I think, as quick as 100 milliseconds. So faster than any l one blockchain out there that I know of and faster than any current l two out there, where essentially it will pre confirm your transaction. And based on crypto economic guarantees, you'll have the guarantees around that, that your confirmation will not be sorry, that your transaction will not be reverted or nothing funky is going on. It's not going to be rolled back, it's not going to have reorgs or anything like that. And then when that's posted down to eth l one as part of the proof that gets posted down along with the data, then it becomes like, I guess, like confirmed and finalized and all that. But the reason why you want pre conformations is so that you can improve the user experience, so that everything happens extremely quickly, so that essentially you get very quick and guaranteed inclusion. And by very quick, I mean like 100 milliseconds.
00:20:50.320 - 00:21:46.342, Speaker A: Could you imagine being on a roll up or being on a L2, and during periods of even like really high activity, you were able to get your transaction included very, very cheap in a very, very quick fashion. So 100 millisecond transaction inclusion time with the pre comps, doing it via a via base draw up as well, would be like the holy Grail here. Doing it on the cheap and getting it included without transactions being dropped. That is the Holy Grail, and that's what we're working towards, and that's what the base ecosystem is here. So if there's something that you have been looking forward to dive deeper into and that you want to learn more about, I would highly recommend learning more about based roll ups and learning more about pre conformations generally. Justin Drake has a bunch of resources, I think you shared before, and he's definitely the, I guess like one of the top experts in this field right now in terms of researching it and being on top of everything. He has put together this graphic here, which basically has a bunch of projects that you can go look up specifically in the pre conf stuff.
00:21:46.342 - 00:22:09.316, Speaker A: I don't think I've ever mentioned some of these projects. For example, I don't think I've mentioned Spire, Primev, Monea, Lubin or Bolt before in the pre comp startups. I think I've only mentioned espresso I actually just learned about Spire a day ago. What they're building is really cool, but I haven't mentioned the other ones yet. Espresso. Obviously, I've mentioned before, they're doing shared sequencer stuff, which falls into the pre comp stuff as well. Like it's all blending together.
00:22:09.316 - 00:22:50.396, Speaker A: And all of these things are trying to do, I guess, like similar things here, but any of those, just google them and then go to their website and go to their research and read it, and you're gonna. Your mind's gonna be blown, guys. Like, this is deep level stuff that's gonna have a huge impact on the user experience at L2s. So definitely go check that out if you haven't yet. All right, last up here, I just wanted to give a shout out to this thread from Diana, where she basically explained what the ag layer layer is and what the ag layer is not. Now, you'll notice that she hasn't called it the polygon ag layer. And this is critically important because as you guys will know, Polygon is building the ag layer, of course, but they are not building the ag layer for Polygon.
00:22:50.396 - 00:23:30.622, Speaker A: They are building the ag layer for everyone. They want the ag layer to be a public good, essentially. And what that means is that they want the ag layer to be just incredibly neutral infrastructure that sits on Ethereum that any l two can tap into to use, but also any l one can use as well. So they're not just supporting l two s are supporting l one's, they're basically supporting any type of chain you can think of, whatever name you want to call it. L two, l one, l three side chain, whatever. They're supporting that in the ag layer and trying to do it in a way that is credibly neutral, where it's got nothing to do with Polygon. It's just something that they're trying to build for the ecosystem in order to fix the problem of fragmentation of liquidity in the ecosystem right now, which is really, really cool.
00:23:30.622 - 00:23:56.942, Speaker A: So this thread from Diana, obviously, as I said, goes into this. I highly recommend giving it a read. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. And it's probably something that you can share with anyone who's asking you about the ag layer as well, because there is confusion about what it is and what it isn't. And I think what it isn't is basically described here by Diana. It's not a new l two or an l three, a shared sequencer, a proof aggregation service. It's simple infrastructure for async plus synchronous cross chain interoperability and a shared bridge.
00:23:56.942 - 00:24:41.098, Speaker A: So essentially a credible, neutral infrastructure that anyone can tap into there, which is, yeah, extremely cool. I mean, I think that anything that is being built as credibly neutral infrastructure or anything that's being built as a public good on top of Ethereum, it should be encouraged, encouraged, especially if it's coming from like big projects or big existing projects that have commercial interests. For example, Polygon is not a organization like the, like the Ethereum foundation, which, you know, Polygon has commercial interests. Yeah. They want their technology adopted over someone else's technology, whereas Ethereum as a protocol is developed as a common public good. Yes, they care about Ethereum getting adoption instead of some other l one getting adoption, but there is no commercialization bolted onto that. The Ethereum foundation is not commercializing that in any way.
00:24:41.098 - 00:25:24.302, Speaker A: Right. Whereas Polygon has certain parts of their stack that they're commercializing here, but they are also building things like the ag layer that anyone can use, that anyone can, can take advantage of, that is credibly neutral here. So huge kudos to them and ups to them on that one there. Now, just to finish off today's episode, wanted to talk about one last thing, which was with regards to, I guess, like the market stuff that I was talking about a little bit earlier with regards to bull and bear kind of markets here. I remember I did say that I felt like we were halfway through the bull market. I think probably like two to three months ago. I think I maybe was a little bit early on that call because what ended up happening was that the BTC price stagnated for the last couple of months or maybe like two to three months.
00:25:24.302 - 00:25:44.790, Speaker A: It went sideways. I didn't expect that to happen. I thought it would only go sideways for a few weeks and then continue up from there. So I think I was maybe three months too early on my call there. I think around now over the next few weeks is probably going to be the half point here. But I want to caveat that by saying that you guys know my view on the four year cycle. I don't think the four year cycle is a thing anymore.
00:25:44.790 - 00:26:23.668, Speaker A: And you guys also know my view from before and other episodes that I've done around how I think that the ETF's are going to act as a, I guess like Lifeboat or a way to kind of buoy the price of BTC and ETH going forward, which will also make sure the four year cycles don't play out as they historically have. Now, when it comes to all the other assets. I really do think they're going to still play out the same way, specifically because of the fact that they don't have ETF's, but not just because of that. There are a lot of different dynamics that play with the other assets when it comes to BTC and ETH. They're pretty much established, right? They are the two blue chips of all of crypto. No one is doubting their value. Even the people who are hating on ETH crypto Twitter.
00:26:23.668 - 00:27:02.622, Speaker A: Like, they change to being bullish as soon as ETH goes up. Like, there's no real kind of like, people who are doubting the eth of BTC are going to go up over time. There are people who argue over what the ratio is going to look like between BTC and Ethan and is either going to outperform over the long term or is BTC. But in terms of their performance against fiat generally or us dollars, I don't think anyone is doubting that they're going to go up over the long term here. The same cannot be said for every other asset out there, because every other asset out there is not a blue chip. Most if not all, if not like 99% of the assets out there are garbage. So if you're stuck with, like, the last 1%, that could be considered quality assets.
00:27:02.622 - 00:27:47.684, Speaker A: Okay, if they considered quality assets, why are they considered that? What, what project are they tied to? What is the project success look like right now? What does the metrics look like? What is the value accrual look like? Are they going to have a moat for years to come? You know, have people already kind of written this up so high that its current value doesn't even make sense? And then that means that it's still kind of mispriced. There. There are so many different things that go into this. So that's why we see these crazy speculative manias on specifically these other coins. And then when the bear market hits, when that demand is no more, and when it basically, basically changes to everyone wanting to get out, that's why you see these things go down 95 plus percent, is because there was no real lasting demand there. No one is buying these things as a store of value. No one is buying them as a blue chip.
00:27:47.684 - 00:28:06.436, Speaker A: They are buying them for purely speculative reasons. They are buying them, especially the ones that are in the know are buying them because they know that a huge influx of new capital is going to come in. But they also know that at some point, that's going to run out. So they're going to start selling. They're going to start selling before the top, of course. I mean, I have friends that have been in crypto longer than me that do this every cycle. Guys.
00:28:06.436 - 00:28:28.684, Speaker A: It is the same pattern, and they've done it very successfully. You essentially buy when things are quiet. You wait until the bull market. You don't sell the top because you're never going to pick the top. But when you start to feel like things are getting really, really crazy, you start selling into that. Now, who are you selling into? Well, you're selling into new money, essentially. And that new money is the weakest hands possible because it's just new retail money that as does, doesn't understand anything about crypto.
00:28:28.684 - 00:28:59.286, Speaker A: And they're only into it because they're fomoing in, because they're seeing everything go up. And that's why these things will just get slaughtered. And then when they've been slaughtered, most of them never come back because of the fact that they are part of projects that weren't even good to begin with or didn't have any traction to begin with. They never should have gone to that price to begin with. If these things weren't publicly traded, these early stage project tokens weren't publicly traded. And let's say you were building a project over a five year span, you raised some money. In years one and two, you're building out, and then you run out of money, and your company hasn't succeeded.
00:28:59.286 - 00:29:31.462, Speaker A: By year five, you probably shut down. You don't go public, right. Or, I mean, there's something been some of that with the sPac stuff recently where essentially you merge two shitty companies together and create a, create a meme about it. Just some, some bullshit that goes there. But the usual process, or the traditional process has basically been you shut down. Whereas in crypto, if you have a token, there's, there's not really a graceful way to shut down because you have all of these holders that are holding something that the SEC considers to be an unregistered security. There's all these people that are pissed off for you, that are annoyed that everything's down already.
00:29:31.462 - 00:29:54.356, Speaker A: And then you tell them after things have gone down 90% and your company's basically bust, you say, oh, guys, we're shutting down. You know, this doesn't work. It's just, it's not something that, you know, anyone wants to do. So that's why in crypto, it's very different to what it's like. Traditionally when you start a business is that, you know, most of the time you're not ipo ing in year one. Essentially, you're not going public in year one. You're not taking on public money in year one.
00:29:54.356 - 00:30:23.034, Speaker A: You're waiting until you have, you know, some good traction before even considering that that's the usual process. Whereas in crypto it slipped on its head where before you even got product market fit, before you've even got a product out there, some, a lot of the time you have a token out there and people are speculating on not what you are today. Right? You're nothing today. There. 100% of the money going in is completely speculating on what you are going to be in the future or what you're promising or your marketing is saying. So all of this is to say, be careful, guys. I do think now we're at the halfway point.
00:30:23.034 - 00:30:52.118, Speaker A: I do think things are going to get crazier from here as BTC enters price discovery again and as EtH follows shortly after. I do think that with the macro environment seemingly getting better as well, with, you know, the Canada and the ECB cutting rate rates today, us probably cutting rates soon. Yeah, I do think generally things are going to heat up from here, especially towards the end of the year. So just be careful. Remember the bull market tips that I've been telling you guys about for years now and that I've got on Twitter. You can search my Twitter username and go to bull market tips. You can see them all there.
00:30:52.118 - 00:31:05.702, Speaker A: Just keep your head on straight. Don't get swept on, swept up into the madness. You've waited this long, you've grinded this long during the bear market. Now's the time to not fuck it up, guys. Like as I said last time, just don't fuck it up. Don't blow yourself up up and you'll do well there. And I'll let you guys know when.
00:31:05.702 - 00:31:25.294, Speaker A: I feel like things are getting way too heated on stuff. It's probably not gonna be for a little while from here, but I'll let you guys know. Don't take that as a sell signal. Don't use me as investment advice. Just use me as one of the data points in all of the data points that you look at to see when's a good time to start scaling out of the market. But anyway, that's gonna be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching.
00:31:25.294 - 00:31:30.774, Speaker A: Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all next week. Thanks everyone.
