00:00:13.440 - 00:00:47.354, Speaker A: Welcome to Unlayered, where we explore next gen blockchains. Today it's just me, my partner in crime, Dave, just had a kid, and so we wish him well and hope to see him back in the fray here pretty soon. But for now, I'm joined by Arnold Lee, the co founder and CEO of Sphere Labs Payments APIs for digital currencies. And Arnold, someone I've met over the past few months, just as a builder in the Solana community and up to a lot of really exciting things these days. I know you were just at Breakpoint and it sounds like you're traveling currently still, sir.
00:00:48.254 - 00:00:53.102, Speaker B: First of all, thanks for having me. I've been listening to these for a minute and a big fan.
00:00:53.198 - 00:00:53.994, Speaker A: Love it.
00:00:55.134 - 00:01:07.424, Speaker B: Excited to get to the weeds, of all things. Payments. Hopefully some Solana blockchain in general, too. Yes, sir. Breakpoint was crazy now in the countryside of Portugal, which is.
00:01:08.684 - 00:01:28.506, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah. Quite the departure from the chaotic energy of Amsterdam. So, look, sphere is obviously in the payment space. I think this is kind of a meme at this point, where every other vc I talked to was like, yeah, I'm really excited. Payments, especially on Solana. I'm like, you know, this is like the 60th time I've heard someone be excited about this. I get it.
00:01:28.506 - 00:01:52.380, Speaker A: Right? Like, I've had to use payments. Solana pay specifically at the conference. Pretty smooth experience, I'd say it's not as good as Apple pay for a lot of reasons. We'll get into that. But for what it is, a crypto rails payment system, it's pretty smooth. Scan a QR code, it settles in under a second, basically, and you're good to go. You can get your coffee or what have you, and I think if you zoom back even farther, though, let's go back to when bitcoin was first created.
00:01:52.380 - 00:02:50.362, Speaker A: You know, it's literally the title of the white paper is a peer to peer electronic cash system. Right. And so I feel like this vision has been kind of a core value proposition for crypto, basically, since day one. A lot of people understand this, I think, at a high level, I think what a lot of people like myself even don't really understand is the mechanics of how this can actually integrate and help people today. And concretely, I mean, like, I pay my bills in dollars, and a lot of people do in whatever currency it is they're settling in. So I think it's pretty clear to me, like, this middle layer where you're sending money across the seas, you're sending it over crypto rails. Like, Solana? I think where I get a little confused is how does this actually help someone pay their actual bill or whatever transaction they're trying to do, buy something in their local economy? Because crypto is still not really used for mainstream payments, at least in the US.
00:02:50.362 - 00:03:06.734, Speaker A: I think it's changing overseas. But I say all of this just to tee up some interesting conversation. I know you've thought a lot about payments specifically, and I'm sure you have a lot of insights that you could share with us. So maybe start higher level, like, what's going on with payments? How does it work, and how does crypto have a role to play here?
00:03:07.074 - 00:04:13.986, Speaker B: Yeah, no, absolutely. It's super interesting that, like you said, payments has been one of the biggest memes within the industry, effectively since inception. And the reason, in my opinion, it hasn't taken off in the same way that in that same timeframe, a lot of other double sided marketplace problems have think like an Airbnb, an Uber, what have you, is because it is inherently one of the hardest, because it deals with really entrenched rails at the entrances and exits. In general, two sided marketplace problems are really hard. Chicken, egg. Like, how do you get people to use it when no one wants to serve you? How do you get people to serve if there are no people who want it? That's the problem that crypto payments broadly has right now. People want to pay with USDC, no merchant wants to accept it because it's really hard for them to do anything with it.
00:04:13.986 - 00:04:47.420, Speaker B: And very few of their customers actually want to pay in it, and vice versa. People hold crypto, I think about 4% at some point of the world held some form of crypto, but it's mostly used as an investment vehicle. When people talk about bitcoin or Doge or ethereum or whatever, it's less so, hey, I want to be able to transact with this permissionlessly and more. So, hey, my cousin told me that this went up like 100 x. Let's buy some and let's see what happens.
00:04:47.572 - 00:05:20.504, Speaker A: Right, right. I think you actually touched on a couple interesting points. I think one, which we've heard a gazillion times at this point, is what gets people excited about crypto is speculation, not necessarily utility for payments, which is fine. I think that utility will come later. The more interesting point I want to dive into a bit is how useless USDC is, seemingly for everybody. No one wants to use it and no one wants to hold it in their wallet. Merchants don't want to accept it, but yet this is the rail that I think is actually ten to 100 x better than current rails to send money, especially overseas.
00:05:20.504 - 00:05:30.194, Speaker A: So maybe let's talk a bit about that landscape, and perhaps how can we abstract away the part that people don't care about while still taking advantage of the tech?
00:05:30.614 - 00:06:14.524, Speaker B: Yeah, no, absolutely two sided. Marketplace problems in general are one of the hardest for startups companies to solve. Because you're fiating consumer demand, you're sort of conjuring it from thin air. And how do you do that? Really depends on the vertical. So for Uber, it was a lot easier, although obviously extremely hard, because you don't need global coverage for Uber to work. You can start Uber in like one city, go to another, and then within these cities you have that natural supply and demand of drivers and riders there the big hurdle becomes licensing. Dealing with the taxi industry, as you know, is now well storied.
00:06:14.524 - 00:07:28.674, Speaker B: An Airbnb is slightly different because you do need global coverage. You would only stay in New York if you have people who are willing to host there, vice versa. Maybe someone wants to go to Amsterdam and they need both supply and demand there. So from like day one, for that network to really work, you need more global coverage compared to an Uber, where you can go more locally to begin with. And so if we think of solving this chicken egg problem as one of the hardest for a startup to do, and there are varying degrees of it, the version that crypto payments is trying to solve is probably one of the hardest in existence because you're dealing with this financial system that is extremely entrenched, opaque, and everyone does it super differently. The United States, one of the most developed countries in the world, created a lot of their payments infrastructure a long time ago. You can think about the Federal Reserve, of course, being created in the early 20th century, and this led to the adoption of banknotes and physical checks, and this eventually scaled into electronic check processing, things that we know and love, like cards and ach.
00:07:28.674 - 00:08:08.740, Speaker B: But it took a really long time, even though it was obviously better. Maybe a good example here would be ach. When people created direct deposit, it was primarily because electronic, or rather physical checks were so annoying to deal with. Someone would show up. You have to basically be an accountant and keep track of all the inflows and outflows, and different regions would have what is effectively a local clearinghouse to clear each deposit. And so in the 1970s, a bunch of bankers were like, we're sick of doing this. Maybe we can do acation instead.
00:08:08.740 - 00:08:46.232, Speaker B: And it's just like, obviously way better. But they ran into the same chicken and egg problem. Because again, within the world of finance and payments, it's a lot harder since it's so regulated and you are leaning closer towards an Airbnb style where you need a lot of adoption upfront. It's really hard to kickstart this locally in that situation. And I think the broad context of what I'm trying to get at here is that we've seen this before. This isn't our first rodeo with the new payment method being adopted. And in that situation, what was required was the government going in and being like, hey, direct deposit is really good.
00:08:46.232 - 00:09:59.264, Speaker B: It would save people a lot of time, a lot of money. The only way to convince banks to start offering this as a service to their customers, given that there are no customers who want this or even know what it is, is to offer Social Security benefits as an incentive for those banks to really be evangelists for this new and better service. And given the lack of regulatory clarity that we see on crypto worldwide, obviously a little bit different depending on where you look. But generally, it is a lot harder for us to get that same catalyst energy to really kickstart the solution to this chicken and egg. I think that's the main reason why we haven't seen mass adoption of crypto payments, because once you get the USDC, once you get the bitcoin, whatever the digital asset is for finance and for payments, ultimately the entrances and exits need to be solved. Unless you can create a world where no one cares about the entrances and exits, meaning they're fine just taking money into their hot wallet, and they can spend it anywhere, every other merchant is willing to accept it. Got it.
00:09:59.264 - 00:11:44.054, Speaker B: And yeah, it turns into a lot of really brave attempts to kickstart adoption without regulatory clarity. Open bazaar in 2016, one of the earliest attempts to figure out how do we create an eBay using bitcoin. And when you remove some of the safeguards that you have in the normal financial world, it turns out there are a lot of second and third order consequences that you weren't really thinking about. When you build off of this faster, cheaper, more permissionless primitive. And I'm sure we'll get into some of the details about how this varies in the rest of the world, but I think that's the current state of why we haven't seen your mom, your cousin start being willing to use this thing, because it requires a colossal shift, not just at the level of consumer behavior, but both in terms of education, of regulatory clarity, of institutions buying in, despite this being something that could threaten their current monopolies, and there are paths towards that, and we're starting to see cracks at the seams. But what we like to do is really think about the history of this stuff, because it might seem like anything from like a dao to crypto payments to some of the more innovative financial applications that we're seeing on chain are brand new. Oftentimes there's that cliche of history rhyming, and we feel like that's very accentuated in payments, which, if you're just thinking about it for the first time from first principles, might seem like the obvious thing to do.
00:11:44.054 - 00:11:49.204, Speaker B: But in actuality, there are a lot of great filters on the way to mass adoption.
00:11:49.824 - 00:12:22.134, Speaker A: For sure. For sure. It's a great kind of segue. And so I guess a bit more of the examples perhaps, and maybe let's start historically. It's funny, I saw a video on Instagram, actually, that went sort of viral of people or Burger King accepting credit cards for the first time in the early nineties, and they were just interviewing, like, random customers and like, they were so bearish. They're like, I would never respect someone who only spends $3 on a credit card. And this makes no sense.
00:12:22.134 - 00:13:19.902, Speaker A: Like, why would anyone do this? Just no, just pull out cash, pay the $3. Why are you complicating things? And now, of course, the opposite is true. We look down on people that pull out their wallets and put down all this change and take like 15 minutes to close out a single burger. So I totally get what you're saying with respect to, I think, initial hesitance to adopt these new technologies. And I think your point is interesting, where it's almost like top level planning and incentivization to nudge people into these new behaviors, that tends to, at least historically, seem like how these new technologies get adopted. So I guess my question for you is, we're seeing to your point, cracks the seams. Early experiments showing some traction here, for instance, I'm hearing, and I have nothing to back this up, but it's just like from Twitter, like I'm hearing there's a lot of adoption of payments over stable coin rails and markets like Latin America.
00:13:19.902 - 00:13:53.994, Speaker A: And then obviously Tron, their only use case really is dollar exposure via centralized exchanges in Asia, and they have more USD or more tether rather issued than Ethereum itself. So perhaps that's interesting, right? Like people are using it for something. It's a number two protocol generating or revenue generating protocol after ETH. In spite of the fact that there's no defi there's nothing else to do besides use it for payments and for tether. So what have you seen? What are you seeing? You alluded to cracks to the seams. What are you seeing in terms of initial adoption of these technologies?
00:13:54.494 - 00:16:02.814, Speaker B: Yeah, so you're definitely right that there is a lot of adoption of tether, of Tron, of binance, really depends on the region. Sometimes we see Celo, it is not all too surprising, for I think when you take a step back, given what has been happening behind the scenes or at the macro scale by the leaders of those respective chains and companies, the issuers of the stablecoins. Within the context of crypto Twitter, though, it can seem quite shocking because you don't have really popular NFT collections or DeFi protocols or whatever the common entry points are for crypto being promulgated as, hey, this is the way that we get mass adoption. But within those areas, it makes a lot of sense, and there is some agnosticism to which coin it is, because it is to them, just as you said, a form of dollar exposure, but because of what customers want, because of the Lindy that's been baked in the network effects that, whether it's, say, a justin sun getting closer to a particular country and their government and their banking institutions, or even just through more, I'll call it naive forms of distribution, like influencer marketing, it means that what the people there know are often these types of stablecoins. And it's really, it makes just a ton of sense, in my opinion. My co founder, he's from Guyana, went through like 1000% inflation when he was younger. And the notion of being able to get exposure to dollars is just a crazy idea because capital controls and the limited ability of local banks to hold sufficient reserves for everyone to have dollar exposure is just a very, almost like take it for granted kind of idea, wherein within these jurisdictions, bank trust is not a given.
00:16:02.814 - 00:17:12.756, Speaker B: You'll hear horror stories about how you put your money in with the bank and they just lost it, and you're like, what? Where did it go? You know, there are no mobile apps, like, people just distrust the institutions. And so within crypto Twitter, we might see some of these alternatives as being a little bit less trustworthy compared to maybe something totally trustless like a bitcoin, or mostly trustless, like an ethereum. But for them, having tether on whatever chain it is is such a step up from what they're used to that it just makes a lot of sense for them to transact in it, hold it, and so on. What we've been seeing is that it really depends on where you go. And, like, the answer that's not so sexy but is true is that it's so country dependent. We often have this, like, breakdown of, like, the west versus the emerging world, but it really depends on which country you're looking at broadly. You know, you can talk about tether adoption or maybe USDC adoption within that scope of the emerging world versus the west.
00:17:12.756 - 00:18:07.864, Speaker B: But internally we're seeing all sorts of things wherein maybe one island in the Caribbean is really open to USDC overtether or even a local CDBC, but halfway across the world, they are not. And the only thing that they care about is using celo chain analysis has done some stuff on this where if you look at lower value transfers, like under $1,000, what's really interesting is the amount of resilience that you're seeing in terms of adoption despite, say, like, number going down in the transition of this last cycle. Us, Europe, I'll call it the west. It's like halved basically for lower value transfers, which makes a ton of sense. It's sketchy. Exchanges are blowing up. You don't really need it per se.
00:18:07.864 - 00:18:54.594, Speaker B: There's a bank on every corner. You have Venmo and so on in places like Africa, Southeast Asia, eastern Europe, various parts of LaTaM and so on. Even nations that you might not consider very emerging market, like Canada, also comes to mind. There is still a surprising amount of adoption that is even increased despite number going down. And so part of our prerogative is to really figure out where those people are, because crypto Twitter is so interesting and it's such a great soap opera, but really, the whole world is out there. Once you, I suppose, think outside those constraints.
00:19:00.404 - 00:19:29.914, Speaker A: For sure. I totally get what you're saying, too. With respect to crypto Twitter, it is a bubble. It's a western english speaking bubble of people that are probably not really having to have a flight to safety, to your point, to dollar denominated stable coins like tether on Tron. And it makes sense. It's weird that wasn't this the whole point of bitcoin? But it turns out we need some intermediate steps before people are comfortable moving some of their net worth into this more stable asset. In spite of the fact that it has.
00:19:29.914 - 00:20:18.664, Speaker A: It's a centralized chain, Tron, I'm not really sure how decentralized it really is. It seems like it's not very decentralized. And on top of that, compounding on top of that is tether, which no one even knows if these guys have their reserves fully backed. They probably do. But there's definitely been some questions opened up into how safe those reserves are and how robust that is. And so in spite of those two seemingly, those two attributes being completely against everything crypto, Twitter stands for crypto, it's centralized. No, that actually turns out to be one of the earliest instances of PMF, and in fact, one that's robust enough to survive the bear market and maintain strong adoption numbers, which is really interesting point you brought up.
00:20:18.664 - 00:20:42.004, Speaker A: Okay, so that's interesting. Talk to me about your journey. Like the wedge you're finding with respect to sphere, it seems like it's pretty. It's a bet on Solana. Not solely, but certainly it seems like you see Solana as a natural fit for handling stablecoin payments. How are you tackling this massive, two sided marketplace problem?
00:20:42.544 - 00:21:48.464, Speaker B: Yeah, we like to really think about where we as a team and founders have the most edge. Recently, as you mentioned, there's been increased attention to the adoption of stables in the emerging world. The issue is that once you get past that first step, there are a lot of things that could go wrong. Tron Tether, 40 billion issued, which is one of the biggest market caps. If you look at every single coin just on Tron and just for tether, and so then you might think, okay, well, maybe we should start supporting TRON. And then you realize that there is some truth to the increased centralization, the heightened risk factors for money laundering, for terrorist financing. How do you reasonably deal with that when these are just addresses and you presumably don't want to get the attention of FinCEn or regional equivalent? That's where we've spent a lot of our time thinking about, because there is this expanse of opportunity in these areas.
00:21:48.464 - 00:23:04.410, Speaker B: But there are a lot of ways that in a naive attempt to serve them, things can go very poorly. As founders. We have some background in certain regions. As I mentioned, my co founders from Guyana has lived most of his life in the Caribbean. And the way that business is done there is typically quite different compared to, say, like United States, where startups are a common thing. The notion of venture capital and of scaling up a company may not be, I suppose, common knowledge to the average 18 year old, but it's common enough where you can just message someone on the social media app and get on a Zoom call, and there's a whole process to doing business that is somewhat less personal in these areas. What we've seen is less, I suppose, of that, and more so of, hey, do you understand the culture, do you understand the people? What are the specific historical needs? And it's just so different, which is why I think despite this being not, say, a very hot take, I think for a long time we've known that the emerging world is one of the most exciting areas.
00:23:04.410 - 00:24:27.640, Speaker B: I think Celo got its initial funding or start might be getting this wrong in the last cycle, like 20, 1718, something like that. But meaningfully being able to penetrate these areas is really hard, otherwise everyone would do it. And I think that's where we do have some local edge. Although time remains to be seen to what extent that is 100% saturation or anything close within sphere. Our goal is to create a really nice experience, something that's delightful, which is typically a little bit rarer in fintech, anything that touches finance, as well as within regions where technical sophistication might be lower, just given the nature of time. You know, even in areas like the way I like to think about it was when I was growing up and you were on the Internet, you would see people from certain countries, like a lot of folks from the United States, some from Europe, but in the days of, I'll call it like late nineties, early mid two thousands, the composition of people on the Internet was so different compared to now. Like now last bull run, you've probably met at least one person from like Indonesia or like Nigeria and like a discord server.
00:24:27.640 - 00:25:31.914, Speaker B: That's crazy. That didn't happen like 1520 years ago. And you see like millions of people come online for the first time. And given that, I suppose, relative lack of time exposure, there are a lot of opportunities to create delightful experiences that we might take for granted here, given that we have more of a natural, I suppose, process for getting up to speed with engineering, for design and creating venture grade startups and products. And so what we try to think about is how do you minimize the number of steps, of actions, of cognitive overhead for an end user who just really doesn't care, which is distinct from serving a very crypto focused or native audience, or distinct from trying to forward education or adoption. If we had founder market fit there, we would try to do that, but we just don't. I'll bring this back to Solana since I know that was the original framing.
00:25:31.914 - 00:26:06.950, Speaker B: Solana is really great for that. No one cares what your database is. Is it mysql? Is it postgres? No one cares. Yeah, all they care about is the end experience. Is it a ten x? Is it 100 x? Is it meaningful enough to shift consumer behavior, which is a really hard thing to do. Salon is really good for that because it's fast, it's cheap, and they had the advantage of foresight, or rather hindsight. They had the advantage of thinking about building in account abstraction into the architecture of multithreading things.
00:26:06.950 - 00:26:41.734, Speaker B: If you ask normal Internet people, is just like, this is obviously what we should do if you're building a global scale system. We do support a variety of other chains. I think we're on about seven now. But in terms of what Arnold's personal opinion is, I'll support you if you want to pay on a different chain. But if it were me, I would be making those payments on Solana because it's so good. And I think that I have a lot of hot takes here that I'm sure we'll get to. But very, very bullish on Solana as that monolithic state.
00:26:43.114 - 00:27:21.086, Speaker A: Right. With respect to Solana, actually, let's stay on that for a second here. I think it makes sense that the technology is good. They built it from first principles to be scalable and to have some of these features. You alluded to account abstraction, making that stuff really easy, because they knew, they learned from the mistakes of Ethereum and these other attempts at building l one s. And I'll just make it from scratch and have it work on day one. But what about, let's call them the network effects of the on and on off ramp? So, for instance, just how easy it is to buy Solana, the token.
00:27:21.086 - 00:27:53.254, Speaker A: I know it got delisted from some of these platforms over the summer, and even just the fact that I think Solana's number two and USDC issued, but it's still not that much. It's about half a billion, half a yard compared to tether. We're talking 40 billion on Tron alone. And I'm not sure how integrated Solana is with some of these eastern market APAC region exchanges. So I guess, tell us about how important is that? Or is that not really that important at all? At the end of the day.
00:27:55.394 - 00:29:02.124, Speaker B: It'S important because it sets the tone for how adoption at size occurs. I think in the end state, though, not super important because markets will fill in needs. And if there is a lot of tether adoption on Solana, for example, or it could be any chain, in the abstract, markets will fill that need in, whether it's institutions, exchanges, OTC desks, what have you, for sure. I think Solana is seeing its moment of recognition as something that will probably stick around, has that cult user base that every chain that is, I'll call it quote unquote, one long enough to survive. And I think that will somewhat change the path for it. But I think long run, the Lindy and liquidity that we see in 2023 is very small compared to m one, m two. It's like fractions of a percent.
00:29:02.124 - 00:29:11.864, Speaker B: So if this thing can meaningfully challenge those types of money or those types of institutions, the world could change very quickly, I think, here.
00:29:12.564 - 00:29:39.394, Speaker A: Okay, so there's two paths I want to take now as we continue talking about this, but let's actually start with sphere. So we've talked about it a bit. Maybe let's unpack, what exactly is it? Because it seems like your end user is a developer, an application developer that's trying to integrate some sort of payments experience. So maybe what's the user Persona there? What's the end user experience that you're trying to drive with this product?
00:29:40.334 - 00:30:51.110, Speaker B: Yeah, absolutely. So the one liner we typically use is that it's an end to end payments API for digital currencies, meaning on ramp, multi chain and fiat to off ramp at a higher level. We're trying to abstract value transfer that touches blockchains into just a couple of endpoints, meaning it doesn't matter what the network is underlying, whether it's fiat, a blockchain, whatever. It doesn't matter what currency the source is, is using, or what the destination wants. You have the same interface that you can just plug and play in the same way that a stripe or a checkout, a rapid and Addian did for traditional payments. And the ideal user for us, certainly a lot of developers, as well as less sophisticated users, because once you have that really clean interface, there are ways to build really delightful user experiences on top. And I think that, as we alluded to before, within fintech, there's more of an emphasis on functionality.
00:30:51.110 - 00:31:52.294, Speaker B: What could this do? What sort of infrastructure do you have? Maybe it's to process an account number, for example, that's tokenized, which other providers might not want to do. I'm thinking about plaid versus teller here. Got it. The user experience typically is addressed less. And I feel like there's a lot of opportunity to design for a really delightful user experience that normally doesn't matter. But my instinct is that there is going to be a race to zero in terms of product differentiation, especially within blockchain, where a lot of the code is public and you've seen it in different verticals. I think a couple of people have posted about horizontal, I suppose the horizontal ness of DeFi and how a lot of existing winners within DeFi are going to recreate, I suppose, what their competitors are doing.
00:31:52.294 - 00:32:42.244, Speaker B: We have similar opinions on payments, especially with the advent of competition outside of our space, rtps, local fintechs, this will all race to zero on product differentiation and fees, in my opinion. So where do you differentiate? And I think there is a playbook that maybe, to use a cliche like an apple, promulgated within the context of hotels sharing space and Airbnb, promulgated because for the end user, no one really cares to think about how exactly it works. If it's relatively undifferentiated, they'll think about how it feels. So yeah, developers, merchants recently, for some reason, a lot of like, accounting finance people.
00:32:51.184 - 00:33:33.270, Speaker A: So you kind of made this analogy to plaid. And for listeners that are not familiar, most people have used it. Basically, if I were to make mint like the finance tracking app, which shut down recently, but let's assume it was still around. As a developer, instead of handling all the banking authentication on behalf of users, which is super risky and people need to trust you, plaid abstracts all that away in a really clean SDK and a modal just pops up in your app. You log into your chase bank and then you could track all of your finances that way. Same with accounting software. They all use this as like a middle layer inside of their app that they're delivering to consumers to make it safer and a better user experience.
00:33:33.270 - 00:33:47.486, Speaker A: And so it sounds like you're kind of doing this for end to end payments that touch crypto rails. And you mentioned it's not just the crypto side, but you're also handling the fiat on ramp and on ramp side. Am I hearing that correctly?
00:33:47.670 - 00:34:14.554, Speaker B: Yeah, absolutely. I think the on chain component, historical focus. What we realize, though, is that there's not that much to do after a certain point. You have like token transfers, recurring token transfers. It gets quite hairy on EVm, I will say. So godspeed to the pioneers doing that there. But after a certain point, if you use the blockchain, it handles a lot of the hard work for you.
00:34:14.554 - 00:35:18.164, Speaker B: And what do you do after that? You could go down the road of cross chain settlement, which we spent some time in. You could go down the road of even more robust features that people will probably eventually want. If we want parity with web two payments, for example, we created metered billing, which is really traditionally hard to do on chain. What we realized, though, is that we're still at the stage within the industry where there's a lot of work to be done on an off ramps. So our mental model is, hey, there are a bunch of them. It's one of the most competitive verticals just in existence, because everyone wants to be the entrance or the exit. How do you give? But given that fact, and the fact that the user experience is still fragmented, how do you make it better? User choice is sometimes a solution.
00:35:18.164 - 00:36:17.204, Speaker B: I think metamask does it. It's like, hey, there's sardine, there's PayPal, there's banks, Mercurio, Moonpei, standard players. But for many users, I don't think they really want to make that choice. What they want is low fees, low KYC friction, and just to get their crypto or to take their crypto off. So our mental model is, can we create a Jupiter like experience for on and off ramp, where it doesn't really matter which one you use and you avoid a lot of the frustrations? If you were to build it yourself, like, you could build it yourself in the same way you could build Jupyter if you really wanted to. It's very hard, and that team is goaded. But theoretically, the path towards that is not like you're inventing a new cryptographic primitive or finding a new way to do financial engineering.
00:36:17.204 - 00:37:03.288, Speaker B: And it just gets hairy when you do it for on and off ramp because of KYCB, different reporting requirements, different way, like, different coverage, different fees. And there are providers who are really good depending on region and depending on the type of end user, where, like, maybe, like, you know, amunpay, a cato is really good for, like, consumers. But maybe you're not serving consumers and what on and off ramp is best for them. Maybe it's, like a mercurial, that fragmentation leads to a lot of user choice. And I feel like here, user choice is not very good, because who wants to look into ten different on ramps or ten different off ramps?
00:37:03.456 - 00:38:06.788, Speaker A: Yeah, it's confusing. I've dealt with that user experience before where it's like, I choose between stripe, moonpay, or banks, and it's like, I don't know, what's the difference? It's just like a commodity to me. So here's something I want to dig into, actually, now that I have your expertise here on tap, one of the interesting things I've noticed, if I was making, like, entering a larger crypto position, maybe for the first time, like, maybe this is 2017 or early in the last bull market, it's like, all right, it's time to buy a lot of corn or buy some eth or whatever I find with some of these out of the box API things where you're aping in via stripe or banks or whatever, there's low maximums, like you can only do so much money. Maybe it's only a $500 limit on Apple Pay or 1000. If you use an ACH versus an exchange like Coinbase or Gemini, you can wire effectively unlimited amounts of money. I think the Coinbase might throttle you based on how much verification you've done and how old your account is. Maybe it's ten or 20,000.
00:38:06.788 - 00:38:25.884, Speaker A: I don't know what the number is. My question though is why do these exist? What is the legal framework behind some of these limits and limitations that are imposed on application developers? Where it seems like in my experience, the easier the UI, the less money you're allowed to put in. The harder the UI, like a wire transfer, the more money you could put in. So why is that?
00:38:27.744 - 00:38:57.164, Speaker B: That's a great question. It's because of BSA, AML, or more accurately AML CTF. Now there was a name change. It's because once you do transactions over ten k, you are basically required to report the originator on chain. There's something called the travel rule where it can go down to $3,000 for say an ERC transfer. If you go to circle.com and you look at their disclosures, they'll talk about it.
00:38:57.164 - 00:39:40.844, Speaker B: The ones that have really nice UI are typically more consumer facing. When you do consumers facing stuff, you have to really worry about fraud at scale. It's unlikely that people are going to do ten K transfers, which is great in many cases even trigger the travel rule. But if you have millions of users and they all want to on ramp like $501,000, a lot could go wrong if your system isn't built for it. Even if your system is, what happens? If there are a lot of disputes, there's just manual escalation that has to happen. If it's for card, it would be your processor. If it's for wire transfer, bank transfer, it would be the bank banking backend.
00:39:40.844 - 00:40:00.244, Speaker B: And the compliance and operational overhead means that usually it's safer to restrict the limits. That's why it's very common and people should tell you this in their terms of service, because that's the reason.
00:40:00.704 - 00:40:10.954, Speaker A: But it sounds like the way you're putting it is it's a best practice, but not necessarily a hard requirement to impose these limits for these consumer applications.
00:40:12.734 - 00:41:29.534, Speaker B: Usually if you're fiat provider, then there are a lot of fiat providers that people build front ends on top of a common option for example, historically was primetrust and fortress. A lot of startups built on top of that. Zero hash is another popular one stripe, for example, uses zero hash meso, which is a really great fintech on Solana. It means that you're kind of forced to play their ballgame and there's room to budge around depending on your compliance program and depending on what kind of risk, I suppose, engines you have, but they kind of set the tone. And so if you're doing something like consumer, yeah, maybe you can get some leeway for smaller transactions, but usually it's way safer if you run into less fraud. The best analogy here is probably cards in traditional fiat, and you can just apply the same mental model to on and off ramps. If you're a processor and you get a ton of fraud, the network's just going to be like, hey, your risk is way too high.
00:41:29.534 - 00:41:47.054, Speaker B: We're just going to flag your merchant code and it's going to be really hard for you to get authorizations. It's a similar story for on and off ramps, especially if it's being originated by card. And so there's liability reasons why they want to start small and then make their way up.
00:41:47.594 - 00:42:12.494, Speaker A: Got it, got it. And so that also explains that earlier question I had, which is why can I do it? Why is it so much easier to deposit a lot on Coinbase or Gemini, which is because they vertically integrated all that stuff, so they have their own risk assessment protocols, and maybe they have a better way of assessing it versus a provider that's plugging into 1000 startups. It's just like you don't really know what's going on, what you're going to deal with, so you just impose some limitations there.
00:42:13.034 - 00:42:31.074, Speaker B: Yeah, it's a lot more siloed. They're a lot closer to the bare metal, and they're qualified custodian and money transmitter, so they have the sufficient compliance operations and risk, I suppose, engines and policies to bear a lot more of that risk.
00:42:31.934 - 00:43:49.418, Speaker A: And so the reason why I wanted to bring all this stuff up is because the point I think driving at this episode, and we're driving at this conversation is it's not like a black and white thing with payments, even using crypto rails, there's a lot of entrenched, almost like winners or people with huge advantages. Coinbase, for instance, just with all the work they've done on the regulatory side, where they by definition are offering a better product just by virtue of allowing you to deposit more money there, versus starting a startup building on something like prime trust or any of the other providers you mentioned, where now it's because it's a siloed. There's all these additional middle layers and additional policies that one must adhere to. And so the question I want to get at following up on this is that's just the crypto side. Now let's talk about the traditional finance fed now and these other programs where faster payments are coming on traditional rails and not just in the US, but internationally. What is your view on. Because that's effectively competing with crypto in a lot of ways, especially since people seem to only want to use payments if they're tied to the dollar, which it's not great if there's a better version of the dollar that's sanctioned by the jurisdiction that's issuing it.
00:43:49.418 - 00:43:53.106, Speaker A: So what's your view on what's happening in tradfi advancements and payments?
00:43:53.290 - 00:44:35.444, Speaker B: Yeah, I think it's super under addressed within our industry because for a long time crypto had edge. But RTP, real time payments like Fednow and General Web two fintech, they're getting quite good. The meme is that send USDC on some chain, call it Solana, because I like Solana to a wallet. And this is the best finance app that you've ever used. And that is true within certain contexts. But locally, is it better? Maybe it might be like a one x, 1.5 x, two x.
00:44:35.444 - 00:44:59.346, Speaker B: In many local circumstances, it's not a ten x or 100 x. Like Singapore, they have grab. In the United States we have like Venmo, India has Upi, Brazil has pics. Real time payments are quite good. There are limits, of course. I think initially for Fednow it'll be like five hundred k per transaction. It's been a second since I looked UPI.
00:44:59.346 - 00:45:46.784, Speaker B: Similarly, their rupee limits based upon day transaction size, things like that, which makes a ton of sense for liquidity risk. But Philippines, you have like gcash. Wherever you look, there is a fintech Kenya M pesa that is filling the general need of payments. And certainly blockchain based payments can make that better. It's just a question of how much better is it actually? The settlement might be better because it's faster and cheaper. But what about actually using it? Like getting onboarded? What about off boarding? What about all the bells and whistles inside of the application? Your friends use it. There are notions of accounts, they're cashback rewards points.
00:45:46.784 - 00:46:51.282, Speaker B: That's where if you take the whole picture, it's unclear whether it's a ten x. I think two comments worth making here. I think rtps are going to get better. I think that these local apps are going to get better. I think that those are more like existential things for crypto in some sense. But where I think it's really hard for those kinds of apps to compete is when there are, I'll call them, endemic social, political, cultural problems that prevent them from being globally used or from being shared. So, like, the example here is like Singapore and Thailand, through their rtps now plug into each other, prompt pay and pay now because of the history shared between these countries and they're relatively geographically close, things like that, it's very unlikely, in my opinion, that fed now will plug into UPI anytime soon because of different regulatory requirements.
00:46:51.282 - 00:47:16.202, Speaker B: Liquidity risk is a huge one. Imagine you had 24, 7365 instant liquidity from rupees to USD. That seems like it could lead to a lot of capital flights. Yeah, things like that. I think that's where blockchain payments could be quite good. That's where it could be a ten, 100, even 1000 x. We'll call it a ten to 20 year time horizon.
00:47:16.202 - 00:47:53.544, Speaker B: Maybe over 20 years, the world really changes. And who knows? Within this front, there are a lot of interesting players. Sling, getcode, otter finance, decaf's doing a lot in LATam. There are people striving, or you have notice pay. There are people striving towards this version. I just think that the meme of it being a ten x because it's on chain is a little outdated because if you step into the world of regular payments, there are a lot of really smart people who are trying to figure this one out without using blockchain at all.
00:47:59.414 - 00:48:34.500, Speaker A: Yeah, for sure. That's super insightful. And hearing it from your perspective too, as someone that's dived really deep into the payment space, it's pretty refreshing to hear that, because you're right, it's skating to a world where maybe it's like two x, better, not ten x. The innovations that are happening, they're happening pretty rapidly. But I think it's a good analogy you're making there, which is if you're staying within that jurisdiction, it's pretty clear you're just going to stick to that, you know, RTP system, whatever it is. But I've even felt this pain point myself, right. Was trying to pay someone in India, uh, with the UPI, like they.
00:48:34.500 - 00:49:07.504, Speaker A: He sent me his UPI code or whatever. I had a. First of all, I had to collect all of his pii, his name, address, like all this stuff, sending it over, WhatsApp just to send, like, you know, three figure amount, like, you know, dollar 250, and it still got declined. And then I had to use like, a middle provider, you know, one of those room in services, and it's like a 10% fee or something. It was just a nightmare. It was no integration at all with the US system. And then it's happened again where I have a friend in Europe I was trying to send money to, and they're like, oh, do you have revolut? I'm like, I don't know what that is.
00:49:07.504 - 00:49:28.364, Speaker A: No, how do I send? I couldn't figure out a way to send money unless it was crypto. That was the only thing where it's like, I know how to do this. Do you have an address? That's fine, let's. All right, send you some USDC. We're good to go. So I think until people feel this pain point, it's not super clear. Like, you don't really understand, like, how hard it is to interoperate, like, all these little siloed systems and jurisdictions.
00:49:28.364 - 00:49:43.184, Speaker A: So that feels to me like. I agree. It feels to me like the really, like the ten to 1000 x unlock, that's something that is permissionless, like crypto, that doesn't really understand what a border is. It just understands wallets and anyone can own them and money can just flow between them pretty seamlessly.
00:49:43.304 - 00:50:15.582, Speaker B: Yeah, 100%. The interface for crypto is really good, even though it's like a public key, and that's kind of confusing. Copy paste, identify amount, really good interface. If we can figure out the beginning and end of it, as well as distributing it. And some of those apps that I mentioned seem like they're very well poised to do so. Tip link is another company that's trying to get at this. I think that the world could change quite rapidly because even credit card, it's annoying to type it all out.
00:50:15.582 - 00:50:41.644, Speaker B: Cvv expiry date. If you have five cards. What's the security code again? I don't remember. Copy paste address. It is a password. And I think efforts on passkeys and icarus will make great strides here. But the form factor is really nice if we can solve some of the second order trade offs that come with that.
00:50:43.064 - 00:51:16.108, Speaker A: So one thing you brought up in this last segment we just did is that there's a lot of players now, especially in Solana payments, but broadly in crypto payments overall. You mentioned Tiplink, getcode, a lot of. Seemingly every week there's a new payment startup popping up on Solana. It's doing something else solinked is really cool. For instance, I mean, how do you. How do you view yourself in this landscape? Are you guys competitors? Are you all focusing different niches? Because you even alluded to it earlier like this. This gets commoditized pretty quickly.
00:51:16.108 - 00:51:41.514, Speaker A: We're fundamentally, we're just sending money around. It's not like a social network where there's some natural moat that's going to form around a payments processor. In the past, we've seen monopolistic structures where it just kind of aggregates to like four or five key players or banks or financial institutions that manage everything in crypto. I really have no idea how to think about this from a mental framework perspective. How is this landscape really going to play out?
00:51:41.894 - 00:52:48.022, Speaker B: Yeah, no, it's a great question, and I think it really depends on what crypto as an industry ends up becoming. Is the Tam M one? If so, it's like 50 trillion. There's a lot of PI to go around. Or is it primarily siloed to more niche use cases? Maybe along the lines of speculation, maybe it's gaming social, whatever it is, in which case, obviously the pie is compressed. Our view towards it is that we are still trying to find PMF as an industry, and if you try to compete with everyone, you're probably going to lose. It makes the most sense to focus on a niche where you have founder, market fit and work with others such that the odds of survival increase for everyone, especially the ecosystem. So we try to be non competitive to the extent where we can, because it's more likely you'll compete to death for a very small pie than it is that getting a monopoly will lead to anywhere.
00:52:48.022 - 00:54:03.414, Speaker B: And I feel like that's where sometimes it's frustrating to see some of the, I'll call them winners already try to continue their monopolies, because you now are the king of a very small hill, whereas ideally you want this to take over the regular Internet, which requires a lot of talent to want to do that and to stick around and have sufficient funding, have differentiated enough products to do so. So we try to work with different providers, even those who might, outside of our vertical ces, as competitive. But for us, there's a lot of focus on the broader world beyond web3, because there, the pie we know for sure is big enough, where you can have many different players who all basically do the same thing, but have captured some particular niche. And within crypto Twitter, it does feel like it's more zero sum given the limited number of users and liquidity. And so it can certainly feel that way if you're not careful. But I think there is some truth to that meme of lag me if you. That way.
00:54:05.394 - 00:54:18.980, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's not Pvp. It's p two p. I don't know if that even makes sense. But I agree with your point on a broader scale. We got to stop this infighting. I mean, Ethereum and Solana for instance, it's just constant battle.
00:54:18.980 - 00:54:40.824, Speaker A: Either you're on one side or the other. And this infighting is what's going to lead to this industry becoming completely irrelevant and just getting lapped by things like Fednow and other advancements that don't need crypto to make the pie bigger. It's a better, more noble cause than to just fight for the thousand dgens that are swapping around nfts or speculative tokens or things like that.
00:54:41.564 - 00:54:42.584, Speaker B: 100%.
00:54:43.004 - 00:54:43.428, Speaker A: Yeah.
00:54:43.476 - 00:54:44.144, Speaker B: Yeah.
00:54:45.444 - 00:55:21.742, Speaker A: I was just going to say we covered a lot. I was wondering if there's any, I guess, final view or closing topic. And what I mean by that is I think we perhaps introduced a lot of skepticism around where people are really excited about crypto payments. Not to say that it won't work out. I just think we need to inject a bit of realistic outlook on where things really stand, what people are actually using it for. And then based on that framework can now look to sort of the future. Where are you seeing the vision is clear for crypto settling payments volume at scale in ten or 20 years.
00:55:21.742 - 00:55:28.446, Speaker A: But how do you see that vision working backwards to today? What is the wedge today? What are you excited about in the near term?
00:55:28.630 - 00:56:51.834, Speaker B: Yeah, absolutely. I think it was really interesting going to breakpoint and meeting other founders who we've traditionally, quote unquote competed against. I had heart to heart with like Yumang from Candypay, the helio co founders. Of course, you know, there are a bunch of people within payments who are maybe a little bit less directly competitive with us, but, you know, we're friends with Dan from Coinflow, Ben from Eso, you know, list goes on, got dinner with some guys from stripe and they're very lovely. Within the whole scope of crypto payments there are a lot of awesome people. And I think that it was great because we, you get to experience the shared problems and frustrations as we all try to find product market fit. And I would just encourage for us, for everyone to remember that the real enemy, quote unquote enemy, you know, we're not fighting a war here, is centralized and permissioned and abusable payment reels where it could look like a CDBC, it could be traditional fintechs, it could be, you know, RTP.
00:56:51.834 - 00:57:56.984, Speaker B: The point is, I think the reason why a lot of us were drawn to this space is because of the promise of what happens when you remove trust, which is oftentimes an edge case. But in some areas, it can be a ten x. And that we're all in this crazy industry because there's something that draws us to it, whether it's because of the monkey, jpegs, the crypto, Twitter stuff. You know, maybe we just really like the idea of composability, or we find it very technically cool. And within this frontier, I think it's important for us to try to be, or rather play positive sum games. And that's what excites me about the immediate future wherein, if we can draw in, and I was speaking to Meng about this and Stein and Jim, if we can draw in new users and new liquidity, it's a win win for everyone. And everyone has founder, market fit, uniquely, a different region of the world, a different style or background, a history.
00:57:56.984 - 00:59:23.414, Speaker B: And I think thinking about that versus trying to over compete in a very small pool is really important for the robustness of this sub vertical, because we're sacrificing time and our lives, because we really care about what this could do, versus just being a purely web two fintech that doesn't touch blockchain at all, because we're more similar than we are different. And I think this broadly applies to other subverticles, too. Within a bear market, especially a prolonged one, it can feel like the only thing that you can do is to compete within that small pool. And I'm very glad that sentiment has been shifting recently, because the feelings that you had a couple of years ago, where it seemed like there was plenty to go around for everyone, can seem quite different when folks are struggling. And so I suppose if I were to make a final comment, it would be that it would be like we should try to grow the pie, as I've been told, or from my framing, try to bring this stuff to the world so that it actually ends up mattering in like 510 20 years. Because I don't think we can assume that to be true. If you don't reason by analogy, there's no first principles reason why any of this stuff will matter unless we make it happen.
00:59:23.414 - 01:00:13.334, Speaker B: And so there are of course, like things I'm like locally excited about for sphere or for payments, crypto in general. CCTP comes to mind. Some regulatory things happening in Europe and in other regions, of course. But for the listener, someone who's like an aspiring founder or a builder, maybe they're an investor, a trader, a participant within crypto. I think at least on the payment side, it feels a lot better when you guys can all win together. And the composability baked into the architecture that we're using makes it a lot easier to do compared to web two. I would just encourage everyone to think about that because it's very easy to want to just compete, especially if you're very smart.
01:00:13.334 - 01:00:52.034, Speaker B: Smart people are very good at local optimization, but it feels so much better if there are ways to work together and to collaborate, and there typically is, in the end state, enough for everyone to go around. You don't have to take 200 bits, you can give away 20 to someone else who does an important service and saves both you and the end client a headache, maybe like something like that. And very cool to see that after being in what felt like a very competitive environment during all of the events of the last year.
01:00:54.804 - 01:01:38.594, Speaker A: Awesome. No, I love that. And I've kind of felt that same sentiment. Having gone to breakpoint, I actually missed the network stick conference. But one of the takeaways I heard from people that went to that kind of balaji masterclass in person summit in Amsterdam is, look, we're building something much bigger here. It's a parallel system that can entirely replace infrastructure we've been relying on for the past 50 years and make it more open and permissionless and robust and durable Internet native. And so when you think of it from that lens, yeah, I mean, it makes it seem silly to just compete over 20 users and fighting over spread for really low volume at the end of the day compared to what's happening in the real world.
01:01:38.594 - 01:02:05.452, Speaker A: So, message well received, man. I think it's been refreshing to see this change of mindset amongst builders and among people in crypto, especially now that we're kind of out, out, in my opinion, of the worst trough of the bear market, things are looking more optimistic. Prices are up, that's all that matters. Right. But seriously, it makes a ton of sense. And this has been a super fun primer on payments. I learned a lot just from talking to you as a builder in this space.
01:02:05.452 - 01:02:06.956, Speaker A: So thank you for taking the time.
01:02:07.100 - 01:02:23.274, Speaker B: Yeah, no, absolutely. Thank you for having me. As I mentioned, I'm a big fan of these, so I'm very excited to listen and, you know, always happy to talk about payments. I'm sure if you ever want, I can nerd about some of the more. I'll call it like compliance regulatory.
01:02:23.354 - 01:02:37.186, Speaker A: Yes, technical. Love that. Definitely have that on for a future show. And yeah, awesome. Well, thanks Arnold, and really excited to keep in touch and see what's happening, what you guys come up with, that sphere. Super exciting, sir.
01:02:37.290 - 01:02:44.294, Speaker B: I should hopefully have some more interesting stuff on the way. And master cell, always a pleasure. Thanks for having me. Awesome.
01:02:49.994 - 01:02:58.114, Speaker A: Thanks for listening to unlayered. If you like this podcast and want to help us grow, then please click the follow button and be sure to leave us a review.
