00:05:11.490 - 00:05:38.462, Speaker A: Good afternoon, good morning. Good evening everybody. My name is Kartik. I'm one of the co founders of Eat Global, and welcome to the Eat Online kickoff. So a lot of you, almost all of you, are watching this thing on Eatglobal TV. For those of you who haven't experienced this before, this is the page we designed to go through all of our content and our Summits. And after a really big update, we launched a new version of ETH Global TV today.
00:05:38.462 - 00:06:22.670, Speaker A: So a lot of you are going to see a few features that are brand new and walk through some of the things that we've put on, such as the profile. But there will also be some bugs. So if some of you notice any bugs, be sure to type them out in Chat. If there are bugs about the chat, be sure to send us an email so we can debug this thing because we are hoping that we get to test this thing out really well with a few hundred of you in real time. And a lot of these things are super tricky to debug otherwise. So sign in, set up your profile, and say hi to all of us. Also, if you are going to be asking any questions to our speakers today or for the future events, you can type those questions out in the chat and we'll be able to relay those questions to our speakers.
00:06:22.670 - 00:06:55.078, Speaker A: Similarly, anybody who signs in will be receiving a POAP NFT token for their participation. So be sure to say hi to all of us and log into Chat. So for those of you who are joining us for the first time, this event in ETH Online is organized by ETH Global. And ETH Global is an organization with a very simple mission. Our goal is to bring thousands of developers into the Web three ecosystem, and we primarily do that by running hackathons and Summit. And Ethanline is no different. It is our biggest event of the year.
00:06:55.078 - 00:07:15.242, Speaker A: So let's talk about how the next few weeks are set up. We're going to first cover the Summits. So we're going to be running six Summits in total. Four of them are on these specific themes. So next Friday, all Summits are going to be on Fridays. Next Friday is our NFT and Creator Summit on the 24th. The Friday after that is our summit on Governance and Dows.
00:07:15.242 - 00:07:51.610, Speaker A: Then we are running a special Summit on Developer Tools in this ecosystem. That's on October eigth. And lastly, the last summit of this event is going to be on October 15, which is about the merge and scalability of Ethereum. And that day also coincides with our finale, where we'll be talking about all of our teams and the prizes for all of the participation for the hackathon. In addition to these four Summits, we'll be running two other Summits for the Ave and the Compound ecosystem. So we'll be sharing more details on that in the Discord and also on our website. Now let's move over to the hackathon.
00:07:51.610 - 00:08:33.794, Speaker A: So, this is a very unique event for us. We have over 1000 hackers from 77 different countries spending 19 different time zones participating here. Asynchronously for the next few weeks, not only that, we plotted out where everybody's coming in from and to this day still continues to amaze us on how wide and how diverse this audience is. So there'll be a lot of chat going on on Discord because everybody is going to be in so many different time zones. It's always going to be exciting for somebody here. So be sure to say hi to all the other people that are also participating. On top of the hackers, we also have over 160 mentors and 54 companies and sponsors that are participating in the hackathon.
00:08:33.794 - 00:09:26.790, Speaker A: They'll be here to help you out with anything that you need, whether it's about a specific protocol or just this space in general. And to top it all off, we have over $350,000 in prizes being given away as part of this hackathon. And you'll be able to see a lot of those details on the website as well as the prize page which is linked into your info center. And these are some of the amazing companies and protocols that are out there participating in this event. So if you have any questions about how to use any of these technologies or even how to get started on things that are not related to anything that's listed here, you'll be able to do so by just asking questions to everybody in this event. And we'll be happy to help answer and clarify anything that helps you get started in this event. So let's go into the logistics.
00:09:26.790 - 00:10:23.042, Speaker A: A lot of you have asked us what can I build here for the tackathon? Is there a theme or do I do certain things or how would I go about participating for the next few weeks? The answer is this event is entirely designed to give you the flexibility and freedom to build whatever you would like. You can build anything in DeFi NFTs, you can talk about building games and anything in social media. A lot of you have talked about building stuff in the layer two ecosystem and using zero knowledge proofs or just other l two scaling solutions, whether it's optimistic roll ups or ZK roll ups. And of course, there's a lot of people who are also interested in building DevTools and also documenting existing things that are out there. All these things are totally possible, but if anything that's not listed here is something that's on your list, you can totally do that. You are free to choose whatever you would like, as long as it's about ethereum. Now, let's cover some key logistics for this hackathon.
00:10:23.042 - 00:11:13.382, Speaker A: So I'll go over what the next three weeks look like and just cover each of these topics. And of course, if you have any questions that come up as part of me covering this, be sure to ask them on the chat and we'll be able to clarify anything for you. So I'll talk about what does it mean to form a team and how you can think about finding other potential teammates, how you can get help if you're stuck, all the prizes you can win. We're going to talk about all the talks and the workshops that are happening and we'll also talk about the judging process after the hackathon ends and then we kind of will roll into the summits. So the key important piece here is that because the scale of this event, everything is happening on Discord. So for everybody who has RSVP from your dashboard, you will be able to connect your Discord and you should see the ETH Online section on Discord on the left sidebar. So you'll be able to see all these channels.
00:11:13.382 - 00:11:45.774, Speaker A: Look out for the ETH Online 2021 chat and that's where everything is happening. The key piece here is that these are controlled directly from our back end. So if you have not RSVP, you will not be able to see these channels. And if you are not seeing these channels but you have RSVP, that means there's some bug here and we want to be able to help you get those channel access. So ping us if you aren't able to see these things. But everything that we're going to talk about for this event happens here. On top of that, we have created dedicated channels to get help for a specific protocol or just general mentorship.
00:11:45.774 - 00:12:27.940, Speaker A: So if you're ever stuck, you can go into the support channel and type up your questions and there'll be somebody there to answer it for you. They'll be able to even hop onto a live call to help you get unblocked. So be sure to use our mentors and leverage their experience to finish your project. On top of that, you should have already received a lot of calendar invites for the workshops that have happened this week, but also are going to be happening next week. And the entire schedule for this event is on the website. We want this thing to be asynchronous as possible. Which means that even though everything is on your calendar, if you are not able to make something in real time, if you're not able to join the call because of time zone issues.
00:12:27.940 - 00:13:37.238, Speaker A: It is not a big deal because all these things are recorded and you can find everything the talks, the links to the videos and the entire schedule on online Ethglobal.com. So let's cover how the hackathon is structured and how does everything work. So hackathon officially begins now, which means that as of me saying the sentence, you can start working on your projects. You can have up to five members on your team. If you are working with a team and you have the next three and a half weeks to submit your project and the rules and the criteria are fairly straightforward. What this means is that if you are with a team actually so the first rule is everything that you're going to submit must be done during the course of this hackathon, which means that all of your submissions must be projects that have started today and end the day of the submission. If you are using existing libraries from just open source work or other protocols, SDKs or boilerplates, that is totally fine.
00:13:37.238 - 00:14:21.010, Speaker A: But if you are working on a project that has already been started by you before today, that is an issue and you should reach out to us to clarify what's going on. Because you will not be eligible for any prizes if you are working on something before today. All submissions must be related to Ethereum, so that's a key requirement. And only RSVP hackers are eligible to win any prizes. Which means if your team members have not signed up and RSVP and are not listed on your team page, they will not be counted to receive any prizes if you win. So win any. And that means you have to ping us really immediately to confirm that everybody on your team is also registered for the hackathon.
00:14:21.010 - 00:15:31.306, Speaker A: And of course, there's a lot of edge cases and nuances. So if you have any questions that come up that have not been clarified already, be sure to ask us whether it's on Discord or on email. And the bigger question we get is what if I'm new to all this thing? What do I do here? Don't worry if you're in that situation because there are a few hundred of you who are trying to get into this ecosystem and we want to design this event to make sure that there is help for you, for everybody who needs it. If you are looking for joining a project or joining a team and you're not sure what you can potentially work on, or if you need someone with specific skill sets, whether that's a front end engineer or a designer. Or anybody who has a key thing that you need help with because you already have an idea you want to work on. You can head over to find a team channel on Discord and see everybody who is also looking for a team or looking to join a team and contact them directly and see if you'd like to work together. On top of that, because there's so many people from so many different parts of the world, we really encourage you to say hi to everybody on the 2021 Chat Channel and just introduce yourself and tell us what you're working on and love to learn more about you.
00:15:31.306 - 00:16:14.714, Speaker A: And also, if you are looking to get help outside of that, Find a Team channel. We'll also be hosting a call today and also another one on Monday on how to form for team formation, where we'll be able to get everybody who's looking to join a team on a call. And you'll be able to talk to each other in real time and learn about what everybody's interested in or working on and potentially match with a future teammate. And by the way, if you don't have a team, it is not the end of the world. It is just recommended that you work with somebody because it makes your life easier. But it is totally possible and okay to work on a project on your own. There is no requirement that you need to have a team.
00:16:14.714 - 00:17:11.580, Speaker A: So if you already know what you want to do and you are good with continuing with that for the next few weeks, that is totally all right. So let's go over talks and workshops. There's a lot of content for everybody from all different experience and skill levels, whether that's a beginner or an expert. And we already started with a lot of talks this week in the past few days and you can see all these things on the website but also on your calendars. And we'll be doing a lot more talks next week and the weeks after around everything that's happening in this space, whether that's how some protocols work to what's happening in the cutting edge of the research, around zero knowledge proofs, there's a whole spectrum of things that you can learn and keep up with for this event. There's also going to be talks and panels as part of the summits and also a lot of workshops, including beginner workshops for how do you get started in solidity or just smart contracts. And on top of all that, we will be doing a feedback session every week.
00:17:11.580 - 00:18:12.110, Speaker A: So that those of you who are excited to show what you've been doing for that week for your project, or getting feedback from our sponsors or some of our judges, you can just come on that call and just demo what you've been able to do so far for that given week and just get input and suggestions. All this information is also on the Info Center, which you would be able to see on each of these calendar invites, but also on our discord and your dashboard. And of course, just to remind everybody again, it is totally fine if you can't attend something because of a time zone issue or some other obligation, whether that's work or school, everything is recorded. So you'll be able to immediately watch that same talk on YouTube the minute after it ends. And you can just go to Slash ETHGlobal to see everything that is happening for ETH online. And I'll keep saying this thing a few more times, just head over to online Ethglobal.com to see the full schedule, everything about the prizes and the links to all the recorded talks.
00:18:12.110 - 00:19:09.330, Speaker A: So let's talk about check ins. So all thousand of you have staked ETH to fully RCP for this event. The way everything is structured is that we're going to ask everybody to tell us what they're doing, what you're doing once a week over the next three weeks to really kind of make sure that we're able to help you get to where you want to be for this project. And if you are stuck with something or if you need suggestions or help with anything, we can redirect our support to make that happen and unblock you as you respond to these check ins that qualifies you to really kind of be an eligible participant to win any prizes and get your stake back. So make sure that you reply to a check in once a week and all that is going to happen on your dashboard. And we'll be sending email reminders as well as discord messages confirming everything and reminding everybody that things are happening. So you'll get the first check in notification on Monday, so keep in the lookout for that.
00:19:09.330 - 00:20:20.700, Speaker A: And we're excited to see what everybody's going to build. Next up is judging. So the key piece here is that because of the scale of this event, judging is going to be done as a video submission, which means that when you are ready to submit your project, you'll have to make a four minute demo of what you built. And that talks about everything from your project and who you are as a team and why you chose to work on that project, along with a demo of the actual project that you built. And this is the only way to submit a project, which means if you don't have a four minute video submissions, you will not be able to qualify for any prizes because we will not be able to review your submission. And we say this all the time because this happens every time, but do not do this thing last minute because it will take you a few hours to really nail down how to best communicate what you've been working on in four minutes. Four minutes is not a lot of time when you're doing live demos, so be sure to plan early for what you're going to talk about in this video and make sure that everybody can see what you've built without running out of time.
00:20:20.700 - 00:20:59.058, Speaker A: All these details and everything about this, whether it's submission or workshops or check ins, is again going to be on your dashboard. So don't worry if I'm either going too fast or you can't remember everything from here. Everything will be sent to you on multiple different channels. I also want to talk about the code of conduct. So this is an online event, but the same rules apply for being in our online community or our in person community. You can check out the rules and the code of conduct by heading over to Ethglobal.com rules, but in summary, we just want everybody to be respectful and harassment and abuse in any form will not be tolerated.
00:20:59.058 - 00:21:48.600, Speaker A: So if you see anybody that's behaving the way they shouldn't, or if you are being treated in a non ideal way, please reach out to us on the Global team and we'll be able to get back to you on this ASAP and take action. And finally, I want to remind everybody that please pace yourself as you participate over the next few weeks. The reason these events are a few weeks long is because we don't want this to be exhausting for you. And we want you to really have fun and take some time to understand and learn about what's happening, instead of just sprinting and not sleeping and just getting something done for the sake of getting something done. We really want you to have fun. We really want this to be about learning and experimentation. There are so many different new things that you can try, whether these are projects or new libraries or new SDKs, just a new brand new concepts for all of you who are joining us for the first time.
00:21:48.600 - 00:23:03.726, Speaker A: It's designed to give everybody that buffer to understand what's happening before you jump in. And we really want you to make sure that you're doing this thing in a way that benefits you and is structured for you to learn and grow for the long term. All right, so I'll keep an eye out for a few questions as we look at what's happening. So I'll wait here for a few seconds and then see what questions people have, but until then, we will wait and then get ready for our actual talk. Keynote talk for today. So I see a couple of questions here, and if you have not for the person who has not received the discord invite, you should be able to go back to your dashboard and there's a really small link at the footer of that dashboard that says Reconnect Discord. So if you have RSVP, you can just find that really tiny link at the bottom of your dashboard and RSVP there and reconnect the discord thing.
00:23:03.726 - 00:23:43.338, Speaker A: And this should give you the right permissions. This especially is an edge case if you were a participant at the hackman before and you haven't gone the new permission changes yet. So be sure to just reconnect discord by clicking the link at the bottom of your event. So I see a few other questions. What we'll do is we'll just take a quick five minute breather break and we'll get into our next talk, which is going to be a retroactive public goods funding. So for those of you who are excited to hear Carl and Vitalik talk, we'll just resume shortly. And if you have any other questions about the logistics of this event, be sure to type them out on the chat and I'll answer them for you here until we are ready to kick off with our keynote.
00:23:43.338 - 00:29:27.888, Speaker A: So enjoy that talk and we'll be resuming shortly. All right, so we are ready to kick off our keynote Fireside chat. And I'm super excited to welcome Carl from Optimism and Vitalik, Buterin to talk about retroactive public goods funding. So Carl and Metallic will be talking about what this is, why this is important, and everything about this with each other. So I'll kick this off by saying, Carl, maybe you can start us off by giving an overview on what this is and I'll let you two take it from here. So welcome. Sure.
00:29:27.888 - 00:29:56.084, Speaker A: Thank you. Can you all see me? Or maybe I'm crazy. Anyway. Oh, lovely. So here we are. We are talking about retroactive public goods funding. So public goods funding is a big topic in the ethereum community because a lot of ethereum software, a lot of ethereum development, a lot of theorem, progress and culture, it is the creation of public goods.
00:29:56.084 - 00:31:40.312, Speaker A: All of it is shared openly, freely on the okay, so I confess I wrote down a bunch of questions for Vitalik. I'm going to talk and answer a bunch of things myself as well, of course, but I just got to hear what Vitalik has to say. But anyway, just before we even get going, though, a little background on me. I was doing ethereum stuff for a while, worked at the Ethereum Foundation, and then now I'm working at Optimism PBC, trying to scale ethereum with optimistic ethereum, optimistic roll up, all those good things. So anyway, that's me, and I guess we probably know who Vitalik is. So I'll even ask the first question v what is a public good? So a public good is something that benefits a large and unselective group of people. So it's a thing or a project or something that someone can do or create that has a benefit, where that benefit gets us spread out across a very wide group of people where there is no way to decide who's part of that group and who is not, right? For example, something like scientific research, it's a public good because once someone comes up with some results out of their research that gets published and that's out there and everyone benefits from it, right? There isn't some way to make it only accessible to some people and not other people.
00:31:40.312 - 00:32:55.270, Speaker A: Whereas on the other hand, with, say, the iced coffee that you're drinking, for example, that is actually a private good created by Starbucks. Because even though there's a benefit that's diffused across a large group of people, starbucks has the ability to decide on a very fine grade basis, you're one of the iced coffee recipients, but you over there who did not pay for it, is not right. So with private goods, even private goods produced on a large scale, you can do that, whereas with public goods, you can't. And the reason why public goods are such an important and challenging category is because unlike with private goods, where Starbucks can earn the resources that they need to generate their iced coffee, because they can just sell the kind of tickets to become part of the iced coffee having club. With a public good, you do not control whether or not any particular person is part of the group of people who gets the benefit. So you don't have that as your business model. Right? And coming up with ways for people who create public goods to actually get any of the value that they capture is this very hard problem.
00:32:55.270 - 00:34:12.908, Speaker A: Wow, beautiful. So one question there is, you know, Starbucks obviously has a business model, but I'm kind of curious. Are public goods incentive like for does the invisible hand work for public goods too? I think incentive compatibility is not something that an object has in the abstract. You always have to look at the object in the context of a mechanism. So like for example, if we did not have private property rights and anyone could just quickly run up, kind of knock down your door, run up to your desk, grab your iced coffee and run away with it, then iced coffee no longer be a private good. It would be a well, I guess common good is probably more accurate than public because the iced coffee would still be rivalous. But basically the only reason why iced coffee gets to be a private good is the fact that we have property rights and we have this whole kind of economic and legal system that's basically designed around kind of putting them in that bucket so that lovely chaps like Starbucks can have a business model.
00:34:12.908 - 00:36:36.616, Speaker A: So the question basically is what kind of institution kind of using that term extremely broadly, do we need to build in order to make more of our public goods incentive compatible? Wow, cool. Well, we're going to get into that soon. But what would the world look like if we didn't have public goods? Chances are you'd probably be dead of some stupid disease by now because of, I guess, the scientific progress because that stuff is wow. Okay, well, real quick, how has Ethereum funded public goods so far? How did we get as far as we've gone? So most funding of public goods within the ethereum ecosystem and also within lots of ecosystems just happens because there is some single centralized body which has enough funding to just personally fund a whole bunch of public goods and whose goals are aligned enough with some particular ecosystem or community or thing succeeding that it's actually in their interest to do all of that funding. So in the Ethereum case, it's the Ethereum foundation together with a bunch of other entities, right? Like for example, there's consensus there is increasingly the Uniswap Dao MakerDAO has funded some good things and then Moloch Dao has funded some good things. Though even there we've already started talking about DAOs and so we've already started kind of talking about things that are not quite centralized. But the traditional model is that you do basically have a small group of people that basically just makes all of the decisions and you hope that that small group of people is competent? Yeah, what's wrong with these approaches? What could be better? I think the problem with the small group of people is that any small group of people is going to be missing important things.
00:36:36.616 - 00:37:39.020, Speaker A: And we even, I think, saw some examples of this back when Gitcoin grants were starting up for the first time, right? Gitcoin grants started supporting things like various ethereum cultural projects. It started supporting various resources online, providing information about ethereum. It started supporting podcasts. It just started supporting this big ecosystem of things that the Ethereum Foundation did not even really deeply look into or consider something that it should be supporting. Also, the other thing is that if you do have a centralized body that's choosing all of the public goods and especially once you start talking about public goods that have to do with things like culture and intellectual output and media, then that puts a huge amount of power in the hands of that one very small group of people. Right. And it would be nice to be able to distribute that power more widely.
00:37:39.020 - 00:38:39.100, Speaker A: Nice. Okay, the moment is finally here. So what is retroactive public goods funding? Now we know what public goods funding is. Okay, so retroactive public goods funding is this idea that instead of having your public goods funding mechanism, Dow, whatever it is, fund public goods ahead of time. So where the Dow would say, hey, this project looks good and it looks promising, so I'm going to throw $100,000 at it and hope it's going to do something good. Instead, you fund public goods after those public goods have already been shown to have an impact, right? So right now we already know that bankless has, for example, provided a lot of value to the Ethereum ecosystem and it's been great. And so a retroactive Dow might just say, hey, I'm going to retroactively plunk a quarter million dollars over into the bankless peeps.
00:38:39.100 - 00:40:19.184, Speaker A: Or speaking of plunk, you might want to give a quarter million dollars to some $0 cryptography peeps. The core reasoning behind this is that basically there's this large category of goods or public goods that I call entrepreneurial public goods. You've probably heard the slogan that the way to be a successful entrepreneur is not to build a faster horse, right? A lot of the most successful and important private goods in our society are things that were not even recognized as being important at the beginning until everyone was already using them and realized kind of after the fact how important they are. So with public goods, it's very similar, right? And so if you just make a democratic decision of, hey guys, we're going to vote on what things will fund in the future, then you're going to get some very conformist and middle of the road opinions and you're going to get a lot. Of projects that kind of roughly line up with people's existing social desirability biases, but you're not going to get radical cool experiments that are a bit out there and 80% of them, or even 90% turn out to be complete failures. And everyone's like, well, duh, that's a complete failure. But then the other 10% end up really succeeding in making enough of an impact to make the entire thing worth it.
00:40:19.184 - 00:41:41.796, Speaker A: So retroactive public reds funding, the decentralized kind of voting based like thing makes the decisions about what to fund after the fact, after the project has already shown value based on the value that it has shown. And if he wants to convert that into proactive funding, then that's something that can be done outside the mechanism, right? So for example, someone could even just invest into a team that's producing a public good. And the retroactive public goods funding gadget could just decide that the person who made that investment actually was a contributor to the public good and they should get a really big reward as well. Cool. And you're kind of alluding to it, but you've talked about this concept of project tokens. What is that? Right, okay, so project tokens are this idea that some team that's working on a public good and it's eventually potentially getting retroactive public goods funding could create a token and they could issue that token based on who they think contributed to the public good, right? So they could pre mine a large share of the token and distribute it out to different team members. They could put a large share of the token on uniswap and then let people buy it on uniswap.
00:41:41.796 - 00:43:07.228, Speaker A: And when they do that, then they end up collecting ETH or whatever the asset is that the token is priced against. And then they can actually sell that ETH or just use that ETH and they have something with which to pay short serve expenses for people who are not willing to accept payments in project tokens themselves. And then the purpose of these project tokens is that later on, after the fact, when these projects turns out to have actually provided value directoractive, public goods funding, oracle can just decide. I think this project has been useful. Therefore, I'm going to just buy up these projects tokens and when it buys up the project tokens, that rewards everyone who holds any quantity of these project tokens. Nice. So also at what scale do you see retroactive public goods funding kind of eventually getting to? Is this something like, I mean, ethereum? What kind of scale do you see ethereum getting to? And then how big could this retroactive public goods funding mechanism go? I think the answer is basically the same as it is with Gitcoin, which is the only limit is our ability to actually come up with the cash to pay for these public goods funding pools.
00:43:07.228 - 00:45:10.676, Speaker A: And like with Gitcoin, I think the next big leap of growth. The way that we get from 50,000 to 50 million is going to come from us moving beyond relying on individuals to donate these funds and instead move toward mechanisms or projects directly donating these funds. Right. The fact that Gitcoin controls a significant portion of the Akita coin supply, right? Like Akita, you know, it's a dog coin, it's an institution, and it's like a thing that's going to fund some awesome public goods. Or if there is an optimistic roll up project and that optimistic roll up project collects transaction fees, then those transaction fees could be put into a public goods funding pod. So the question is just that what kind of, what money earning capacity of institution can we convince to start throwing their fees into a pod? And I think at the like, right now it's fairly small, but I think over time it could potentially get quite big. And the reason why it could potentially get quite big right, is because I think a lot of these especially very network effect dependent things in the crypto space, they really strongly depend on legitimacy, right? They really strongly just depend on this kind of social consensus that we should be supporting this particular project because this project satisfies the community's values in some certain way or does some other thing to make the community feel like they should be focusing on that particular project and creating a big, massive, positive externality that makes the entire community really love you is an excellent way of getting legitimacy.
00:45:10.676 - 00:46:07.280, Speaker A: So this is one of those places where I think we have the opportunity to actually get a lot of leverage here, right? Basically, in order to create a 100 million dollar retroactive public goods funding pod, there doesn't actually need to be an individual or even a company that experiences $100 million of suffering, right. The act of contributing to the pot can even help kind of cements that project's position in the community. I guess those are reasons why I'm optimistic. Nice. I'm optimistic too. You talked about this concept of legitimacy. What is your theory of legitimacy? Because it's one of my favorite blog posts of yours.
00:46:07.280 - 00:46:49.292, Speaker A: Yeah. So the way that I think about legitimacy is I think about it as this pattern of higher order acceptance. So I accept a particular outcome and I even play my part in enacting an outcome because I expect that everyone else is going to do the same thing because on average, they think in the same way. So one simple example of this is how driving on one side of the road, or even walking on one side of the road is something that is kind of legitimized in that way, right. And it can be different in different places. These are kind of self sustained equilibrium. They could go either way.
00:46:49.292 - 00:48:07.344, Speaker A: It could be on the left side, it could be on the right side. And in different places it is different ways. But within each particular region, there is kind of one way to do it, and there's significant coordination benefits from the fact that there is one way to do it, and it's self enforcing. Right? You don't even really need police that much because it's in everyone's interest not to crash into other people. So the kind of left versus right side of the road example feels really trivial because, well, why does it matter which side of the road you're on? But I think it's the exact same kind of effect that ends up deciding a lot of things that actually matter much more, right? And even things where the choices are different enough that there's even moral values inherent in differences. And those moral values are often some of the things that we coordinate around to actually kind of decide which option becomes legitimate. So one example that I mentioned is NFTs, right? Let's say it's the year 2035 and Carl Flourish becomes super famous and everybody really loves Carl Flourish.
00:48:07.344 - 00:48:53.568, Speaker A: And Carl Flourish decides that in order to raise money for I don't know, what do we want to raise money for? Permanently ending all animal suffering. Do you like that? Okay, in order to raise money for permanently ending animal suffering, carl Flourish is going to release the car Flourish NFT. But then also at the same time, there is Craig Wright. And Craig Wright also releases a Carl Floresch NFT. And Craig Wright's, Carl Floresch NFT is there. The money there is there to benefit another really important cause, which is, like, which one of these two is legitimate? Right? They're both an NFT. They're both a JPEG.
00:48:53.568 - 00:50:12.556, Speaker A: They might even be both the same JPEG. They might even be released at the same so, like, why would anyone wants to buy one over the other, right? And the answer basically is that, first of all, if you buy Carl Flurch's Carl Flurch NFT, then because there is this equilibrium where everyone recognizes that, hey, Carl's NFT of himself is legitimate and Craig's NFT of Carl is not legitimate. That if you buy it, you have a better chance of being able to resell it. Right? That's one. And then number two is that NFTs are entirely built on bragging rights. He wants to actually feel like you have this thing and you can show off this thing. And if you go to an Ethereum party and you're like, Yo, dog, I got Satoshi's NFT of Craig Wright, everyone will be like, WTF, mate? So, yeah, so basically, like, there these really important things, right? End up kind of, like, so completely hinging on kind of social acceptance, right? And, like, these patterns of, like, one thing being more legitimate than others, they exist everywhere, right? There's even two actively maintained descendants of the Ethereum genesis block.
00:50:12.556 - 00:51:25.110, Speaker A: And one has kind of much more legitimacy of being the real Ethereum than the other. Though, of course, some people in some communities disagree, which is fascinating and important because it also shows how legitimacy can be kind of socially context dependent. So cool. Okay, we got a good question from the audience. So do you necessarily mean public goods as in charity activities or just mean broadly as a benefit to a large group of people? So charity activities I would define as being creating benefits to other people for altruistic reasons. Like you're not being incentivized to do it, you're just doing it out of the kindness of your heart. You get some feeling of passion from being able to do something meaningful in the world and that is actually that doesn't only motivate public goods, right? So like for example, holding the door for someone like that's a totally private good.
00:51:25.110 - 00:52:28.584, Speaker A: It's a service that benefits exactly one person, but at the same time that's an act of kindness. Like you could even say an act of charity that people do every day. But at the same time there are also public goods that get produced incidentally. So for know, there's Facebook, they do a whole bunch of centralized stuff but sometimes they decide that it's important enough to create tooling for centralized stuff, that they create their own tooling and then they open source their tooling. And so I think react GS got created that way, right? Basically they do create public goods as a kind of byproduct of their generally private good oriented activity. So that's something that it happens to. And then another thing that happens to is people just create public goods because they're paid to do them, right? If you are a worker working on building a road because the government pays you to do it, right, you're not necessarily being charitable, it's the job you're being paid.
00:52:28.584 - 00:53:30.620, Speaker A: You could be passionate about roads and have a kind of ethic of the public service that you're doing, or you might not be and you might be just there to get the money, but you're also creating a public good. So I guess you do need to make the distinction between what the motivations are of the people that are doing the thing versus kind of the privateness versus publicness of the thing that is being created. Yeah, and by the way, one thing that Vitalik talked about a little bit earlier was that we are trying to kind of give a business model to the public goods. So what that is actually doing is it is reducing the amount of charity driven public goods and increasing well, maybe not reducing it, but at least it's increasing the amount of non charity driven public goods. And so this is clearly benefiting all of us. But it's not about charity. It's really about paying people for the value that they're creating and creating that really virtuous cycle.
00:53:30.620 - 00:55:08.940, Speaker A: I think sometimes it's a mix, right? So like for example, there's a lot of people who are perfectly happy to take extreme pay cuts to work on things that are in the public interest. But they're not quite willing to take 100% pay cuts, right? Like they need just enough funding that they can feel like it's a comfortable job, right? And so there are totally people who, if there is no public goods funding at all, they'll just say, well, they might work on an open source thing for a couple of months and they'll say, well, screw this. The guys that are shilling scam coins are earning $25 million off of an ICO, so I'm going to go shill a scam coin. But if you just crank up the public goods funding a little bit, then you can crank it up to the level where these kind of not infinitely altruistic, but still altruistic people actually end up being empowered and have the opportunity to work on the public goods that they've always been more passionate about doing. So that's something that also exists, I think. Definitely in an ideal world, in a maximally fair world, something that produces 1000 units of value spread across a million people should be renumerated exactly the same as something that creates 1000 units of value concentrated in one person. But in order to create that world, we just have to have this extremely huge level of public goods funding that would just require really unprecedented human coordination.
00:55:08.940 - 00:56:11.100, Speaker A: But while we have more limited resources, we are kind of creating second best to some extent. But often the first dollar is the dollar that counts the most, right? And we are potentially doing a huge amount of good by starting by alleviating the worst parts of the problem. Thankfully, we have a system for creating and aligning incentives anyway, our next thing. So this retroactive public goods funding stuff, right? It still requires governance. So governance is a big topic. So what would you say is like, what's the high level state of the art with respect to blockchain governance? I would say the state of the art is still not very artful. So I think there's two main kinds of blockchain governance right there's on chain governance and off chain governance.
00:56:11.100 - 00:57:19.992, Speaker A: So off chain governance is what Bitcoin and Ethereum use to agree on protocol changes. Basically you have some kind of rough consensus between core developers, community stakeholders and some other groups. And if there's a disagreement that's irreconcilable, then it's not a vote. What happens is the system just splits in half and there's a fork and everyone kind of chooses their own universe. But then on chain governance is used for layer ones in cases like for example, Tezos and EOS and some of the other chains, I think polkadot as well. I have no idea what Dfinity or Solana or Cardano or any of those do for their governance, but there are these layer ones that do on chain governance where you literally have coin voting used, or sometimes a combination of coin voting and other kinds of mechanisms. Like sometimes there's indirect representative coin voting and there is some kind of committee of Delegates or whatever, and they end up basically just voting to decide on what the protocol changes are.
00:57:19.992 - 00:58:16.456, Speaker A: And those protocol changes, often they just happen with some delay, but it's automatic. And then there are application layer projects. So things like MakerDAO, for example, that have to have on chain governance because there just is no way to fully off chain govern an application layer thing if that application layer thing has what I call external capital. Right? So what I mean by external capital is assets that are controlled by that application that are worth real money. Sorry, assets that are owned by that application are worth real money, but that are not defined by that application. Right? So like for example, if someone creates a version of auger of the prediction market where everything happens in auger in rep tokens, right? So you use rep to vote on the Oracle, the prediction markets are denominated in rep. Everything is done in rep.
00:58:16.456 - 00:59:21.192, Speaker A: Then that's something that's completely forkable because there really is no internal capital. Right? The auger defines the meaning of rep. And so when you fork auger, you would fork rep as well. Right? And so basically forking doesn't mean that you're kind of leaving any assets behind. Whereas if you look at something like MakerDAO where inside of their CDPs, they actually have ETH and I think some amount of USDC and some other assets, those are external capital because those are assets that are not defined by the MakerDAO protocol. And so if MakerDAO forks as a result of some off chain governance decision, that off chain governance decision has no ability to make the ETH and all the other assets contained inside of the CDPs go anywhere, right? So that's why things like Maker do need on chain governance to the extent that they need governance at all. Now, in terms of what the kind of state of the art of onchain governance is, well, it's usually Coin voting.
00:59:21.192 - 01:00:46.420, Speaker A: Sometimes it's Coin voting with a couple of extra steps. But I've written a bunch of posts over the years about why I find Coin voting unimpressive. So I'm also very interested in the search for alternatives, what's the TLDR of why Coin voting is alone unimpressive. So coin voting relies on this kind of concept idea that it's trying to create this kind of alignment between power and responsibility, basically because every coin is a bundle of the economic interest, like the coin itself and what's going to happen to that coin's price and your ability to use that coin in the protocol and governance rights. So you're aligning power to responsibility because you're kind of packaging together economic interest and governing rights inside of the same Coin. But the problem is that the financial markets and just the complex systems in general are really good at kind of disentangling things that are entangled, right? And there is a whole bunch of ways in which governance rights and economic interests can just become completely separated from each other. And this can happen because of kind of fairly explicit bribing attacks, but it can also happen because of very mundane seeming kind of financial market evolution.
01:00:46.420 - 01:01:38.604, Speaker A: So there's a whole bunch of ways in which it can happen. And once that happens, then the entire link is broken, right. And it just becomes possible to buy governance decisions outright. And once that happens, then concentrated interests just end up totally running over anything that's not a concentrated interest. If you kind of push the logic a couple of steps forward, it just easily falls into very not nice equilibrium. Nice yeah. What is the best way to kind of keep the governing rights entangled? Or what would you do to improve that situation? I think in the long term you're going to need explicit anti collusion technology of some kind.
01:01:38.604 - 01:02:46.530, Speaker A: Right. So things like Basi that we've been working on basically ways to actually make it impossible for people to credibly sell their voting rights, essentially. And this sounds difficult, but with some extra assumptions, it's actually cryptographically doable, which is really nice. Another thing that needs to be done at the same time is moving governance power into the hands of something other than coin holders, basically. Because with coin holders, even if you prevent vote selling at the level of selling by the current coin holder, you can still have the exact same effect using all these financial tricks where you just separate the coin from the economic interest in the coin. Right. And if you move governance away so that the resource that's doing the governing is something non fungible, like some notion of unique identities, for example, then you end up alleviating that problem.
01:02:46.530 - 01:04:03.220, Speaker A: Nice so we have another question from the audience. What would be the best governance model futuristic favorite? The ultimate what is the ultimate governance model? Friendly AI dictatorship? Yes. Um, no, I think like I ultimately, I think the like there is no like, perfect model. The answer can only come through experimentation. And like, experimentation is ultimately what the crypto space is all about. Can we learn good things from history about exactly some governance experiments? We could definitely learn from the decade of crypto history that we've had so far. In one of my earlier blog posts, I had the criticisms of EOS governance, right, where you actually showed how it actually did very quickly settle into this plutocratic equilibrium where you had these really large holders that were just bribing each other to make decisions and that were voting for each other to be EOS delegates.
01:04:03.220 - 01:05:23.600, Speaker A: And that led to the governance collapsing pretty quickly. Another example was that whole steam hive situation where Justin Sun ended up basically talking to exchanges and using coins on it from exchanges in order to cement his control over an ecosystem, at least until that got resolved by high forking away into being their own thing. So there have definitely been historical examples of Coin governance going wrong in various ways, even in the absence of attackers. I think we've seen things like low participation rates, generally low quality of decision making output in a lot of cases just because you're spreading out the decision making power so thinly that you get a kind of tragedy of the commons and figuring out what the right decision is. So these things have all happened in various corners of Dow land and it's definitely important to keep them all in mind. Nice. In 2015 I made this decision that I wanted to basically spend the rest of my life working for Dows.
01:05:23.600 - 01:06:09.596, Speaker A: And I think I've mostly succeeded in this, depending on your interpretations. But I'm just kind of curious, what do you expect the role of Dows to play in our everyday lives? Maybe not everyone's everyday life, but it seems more and more people are being directly impacted by Dows. So anyone who's ever used dai has used a stablecoin that's managed by a mean. Anyone who's ever used rye. Like you could probably call the Governance gadget for that or the Oracle gadget for that a Dao as well. There's definitely an increasing number of people working for DAOs directly or indirectly. So Gitcoin is slowly dow fying.
01:06:09.596 - 01:07:12.020, Speaker A: For example. And so everyone who works for or gets paid out of quadratic funding pools, a lot of them are going to end up ultimately being paid by Dows of some kind. Once you start thinking of protocols as being Dows, then lots of people are going to end up being just paid by things, by revenue that ultimately comes from application fees of some kind. DAOs are going to provide an increasing number of services. So Claros, you could call that a Dao. And Queros is kind of the ultimate dispute resolution mechanism for proof of humanity. And so anyone who's going to be getting a crypto UBI in the future is going to have multiple Dows, an entire supply chain of these Dows talking to each other and serving as economic backup for each other to thank for their ability to get that UBI.
01:07:12.020 - 01:08:43.776, Speaker A: I think most things in the crypto verse are going to have some portion of their stuff made in Dow land. Oh man, it's going to be exciting. But what is the big failure mode? Or are there any things that you're afraid of with this increasing Dowification of everything? I'm definitely afraid of bad governance mechanisms becoming entrenched. So Coin voting is a big example of a mechanism that I think right now has more legitimacy than it deserves to, I think because Coin voting just is more it is credibly neutral, right? So there's that and there hasn't really been any efforts to try to come up with any legitimate alternative. And one of the other problems with Coin voting also is that I think the main reason why a lot of the existing Coin voting based projects have not been attacked or broken yet is because their Coin holdings are actually pretty centralized, right. And one of the ironies of bad governance mechanisms is that bad governance mechanisms tend to get more secure the more centralized they are. Because if you go down to having a very small number of participants, then the fact that the participants all know each other and they're all buddy buddy with each other and they're not really going to do look one.
01:08:43.776 - 01:09:28.210, Speaker A: Of them is really not going to do anything that will compromise their ability to have their beer or their iced coffee or whatever with the other participants. So the more you get into kind of tiny, super wealthy, old voice cleak world, the more resistant it is to attacks for that reason. But that's not a healthy equilibrium, right. Because we're just going right back to a small clique and often you get a clique that's less competent than the clique that you would get if you just explicitly installed a technocracy. Right. Because these people are not a technocracy, they're a moneyocracy. And they've been selected into their position by their ability to get money.
01:09:28.210 - 01:10:44.056, Speaker A: There are definitely our failure modes that arise from that sort of thing. So how to avoid both of those? Well, I mean, that's part of what this whole conversation is trying to be about. Indeed. Well, extending even past this conversation. So at Optimism, we're trying to figure out we're doing this retroactive public goods funding stuff, we are taking our sequence of profits to pay for retroactive public goods and we're going to be doing some governance experiments to figure out who we are actually paying in the very near term. So what kinds of things would you like to see tested or what kinds of information would you like to learn about ways that we can kind of determine this retroactive public goods funding in these various governance experiments that we're going to run, testing governance mechanisms that are not Coin voting is definitely something that's really important. Otherwise, I guess just letting the governance run and seeing what decisions it makes, right.
01:10:44.056 - 01:11:23.860, Speaker A: One of their other nice things about retroactive funding is that it can just start making decisions immediately because you don't have to apply for retroactive public goods funding. Well, you can make a system where you have an application form, but then people can just apply other people as in the mechanism. And I think that's something that should happen. So they can basically just start going around and saying like, hey, here's a listed address of something that's provided some value to the community. Let's just go and give them a nice surprise. So that's one of the things I'm excited about, and you should be able to actually get some feedback fairly quickly. So exciting.
01:11:23.860 - 01:11:51.650, Speaker A: All right, well, okay, real one question should dows phoned public goods? Yes. Okay, great. Okay, so now for some miscellaneous questions. These should hopefully be fun. First, what is the importance of, quote, fun in mechanism design. You've said this to me a couple of times, that it's actually an underrated part of mechanism design. Fun.
01:11:51.650 - 01:12:51.090, Speaker A: Yeah. And I think people are more likely to enthusiastically participate in these mechanisms than keep coming back to participate. If the mechanisms are fun to participate in if the mechanisms there's fun in the participation there's fun in just seeing what the results of everyone's participation put together turn out to be. In watching the discussion that comes through. The results that are being made, the more that these things can be made into something that people actually want to follow and engage in, the more that they can actually not just to do public arts funding, but also even just be a community building tool. Cool. Yeah, that is definitely underrated thing.
01:12:51.090 - 01:14:03.210, Speaker A: Okay, so now as a kind of end user, I feel like we're actually always working towards building a better internet. But I'm curious, in your mind as an end user, what is the way that our interactions with the internet will change if crypto is successful? See, yeah, it's a good question. I feel like crypto is the way that crypto is going to succeed. If it succeeds, is it's not going to kind of worm its way into existing services, so much as there will be entirely new things that get created and those new things that get created are just going to be crypto native. Right. So for example, if this metaverse thing actually comes to fruition and we see some kind of decentralized world with objects that can talk to each other, that's something that can all kind of happen on the blockchain. And your Ethereum wallet may well just be the way that you end up interacting with that.
01:14:03.210 - 01:15:27.092, Speaker A: If DAOs are going to be responsible for giving everyone a crypto UBI, then you're going to be using an Ethereum wallet to kind of sign up and actually receive those tokens and submit your profile and get it proof of community verified or whatever. If there's a dow that's being used to create some stable coin or some DeFi or just any other financial thing, then once again, like an ethereum wallet or just will be something that you actually use to interact and hold your coins, your identity will instead of being sign in with Facebook and sign in with Twitter, it can just be sign in with your crypto. Like, I think there will be a lot of these different kind of different little things. The differences between the crypto native things and the kind of centralized things that came before is that crypto native things will tend to emphasize interoperability much more. And the centralized world, I think really selects for building empires. And the problem with building empires is that everyone wants to be the empire and so they end up really competing with each other. But the crypto world I think is going the winners will be the projects that focus on building.
01:15:27.092 - 01:16:11.728, Speaker A: Tools like do one thing, do one thing well, and build something that interacts with everything else. So, like the Unix philosophy, except the Unix philosophy is stretching out across an entire community and controlling money and controlling pictures of monkeys and rocks. Okay, fine. I guess, like, the Unix shell can technically control pictures of monkeys and rocks too, but they're not worth $3.4 million. Whatever the fun stuff is that the brave new crypto enabled meta world creates, I think blockchains are going to be a huge part of it. So fun.
01:16:11.728 - 01:17:26.168, Speaker A: So one of my favorite ideas recently has been that crypto is kind of creating a social network. Like, what we're doing is crypto, not just crypto and also retroactive public goods funding. It's kind of like forming this basis for social interaction. So maybe one bit of social interaction is like, can crypto help fight misinformation or make sure that good valuable things get surfaced to us as we scroll through Twitter? Just use retroactive public grids funding for that, right? You just give retroactive, likes to say, tweets that actually still look good a year in the future. And hopefully if you kind of design social media in a way that has the incentives right, then you should be able to hopefully push people so that they start optimizing their behavior around that instead of optimizing around immediate engagement. And your ability to get like 500 outrage clicks before it turns out that the thing that you retweeted is actually completely false. Great.
01:17:26.168 - 01:17:57.368, Speaker A: Retroactive public goods funding solves everything. This is fresh off the press. Okay, yeah. Here's some fun ones. Okay. Is technology fundamentally empowering humans or are we losing control? I definitely think that we're still far from losing control right now. What's the scenario where we lose control? The scenario where we lose control, the most obvious one, of course, is the unfriendly AI.
01:17:57.368 - 01:18:49.156, Speaker A: Apocalypse, right, where we just create an AI. And we tell it to cure cancer, but the AI. Realizes that the best way to cure cancer is to just turn us all into paperclipse. That's one way in which we might lose control. Another way in which we might lose control is if offensive technology becomes progresses much more quickly than defensive technology. And you get these kind of one of these multipolar traps where just the number of groups that's capable of completely breaking civilization keeps on going up and up until eventually one of them does it. I think the only fix to that sort of thing ultimately is to just create more defensive technology, right? I think crypto is defensive technology.
01:18:49.156 - 01:19:29.920, Speaker A: Like, crypto is a way of building infrastructure so that even a high school noob can build an application that has extremely high grade resistance against Dossadex. That's just something that you fundamentally cannot do in the centralized world. I agree. Keep going. I'm not sure if I have anything more smart to say on that particular question right this moment. Well, I definitely agree. I do think that crypto is really creating our humanity in some ways or captivating cultivating our humanity.
01:19:29.920 - 01:20:17.472, Speaker A: Okay, some more questions. Very important. Will we survive the heat death of the universe? Interesting. I would say 50% yes. Okay, great. Are you optimistic or pessimistic about the future of humanity? I would say optimistic, I think yay things that we could be optimistic about. And I think the kind of scientific and technology stagnation of the last couple of decades seems like it's coming to an end and we're really starting kind of the next great whoosh cycle of rapid advances in awesome stuff.
01:20:17.472 - 01:21:59.648, Speaker A: And if you just think about the difference between a computer in 1950 and a computer in 2020, that's the difference I'm expecting between antiaging technology in 2020 and antiaging technology in 2090 and the difference I'm expecting between the technologies and a whole bunch of industries, right? So if by the end of the century we're all just going to be 150 year old immortals hanging out on Mars and making backup copies of ourselves in the decentralized cloud and everyone's in post scarcity of luxury communism happy utopia, then we've done it. I think there's definitely headwinds, right? Like there's kind of short term headwinds just in terms of world politics becoming massively less cooperative than it was ten years ago, for example. But ultimately I feel like those are things that humanity can get past. Well, I'm glad you're optimistic. Very glad. Well, and we also happen to be talking to a bunch of people who are about to do some great hacks and those hacks are going to all save humanity. And so what advice do you have for these hackers? And are there any projects that you're particularly interested in? The classic questions for a hackathon? Yes.
01:21:59.648 - 01:22:54.496, Speaker A: So one very important category for me actually is cross layer two Bridging infrastructure. Right now is exactly the time when the ethereum layer two ecosystem is really kind of coming into its own and moving from being theory to be something that exists in practice. And in order for the layer two ecosystem to work well, it has to be able to work across the different layer twos, right? Like you can't go from being ethereum to having five different silos that don't talk to each other. And in order to avoid that world, there need to be ways to move assets between the roll ups. So that includes definitely tokens. Like any kind of token, it also includes NFTs. I made a proposal for a way to move NFTs between roll ups quickly.
01:22:54.496 - 01:23:43.488, Speaker A: So that would be like one example of something that someone could just implement. You actually could even use that exact proposal to implement a dex for moving tokens around, interestingly enough, but that's kind of a harder challenge. But just like making kind of cross roll up Bridging infrastructure that is decentralized and that does not require the user to either wait a week or touch the base chain is the Holy Grail here. So whatever you come up with and whatever you biddle is greater. Yes. Plus one, by the way. I'm clearly a bit of a roll up Stan, so yeah, plus one.
01:23:43.488 - 01:24:39.990, Speaker A: Please build these cross roll up bridges. So what advice do you have for these hackers? Building their projects, fulfilling their dreams? You clearly did a bit of a hack and your hack seems to be relatively successful. So you might actually have a bit of advice for people who want to create bitcoin magazine, the bitcoin magazines of the future. I think the important thing is to just not give up after a weekend, to just keep going. And if there's a project that you're passionate about, kind of start building out your community and actually persist and keep doing it for a year, keep doing it for two years. And if you keep on persisting long enough, then eventually your project will kind of make it into the ethereum public consciousness and you'll have made it. Persistence is important.
01:24:39.990 - 01:25:23.570, Speaker A: Nice. And you seem to persist and be ever optimistic and full of ideas. How do you do it? I don't know. How do you do it? Okay, if you were going to answer iced coffee, then that's not really transferable because my tea lately has all been decaf. But yeah, no, I know. Even without caffeine, you can still be optimistic. Like you just look at the world and don't look at the doomer voices kind of interpretation of the world and just see all the actually existing bright stuff.
01:25:23.570 - 01:26:00.750, Speaker A: That's beautiful. Okay. And I will say, okay, the way that I would do the optimistic and persistence thing is visualize what the future is going to be. Be excited, be curious and not take things too seriously because really, it all really matters, but it also doesn't matter that bad that much. So just don't take things too seriously. Enjoy. Go with the flow, listen to what other people say because you definitely don't know the right things.
01:26:00.750 - 01:26:26.052, Speaker A: That's really the move, to be honest with you. Yeah, just go with the flow because you don't know. And that's the way to grow and move away from Poe. Yes. And also have many freestyle sessions walking around various neighborhoods. These are all great questions. Okay, so I have one final question.
01:26:26.052 - 01:26:49.448, Speaker A: It's the most important question of all that we have asked so far. Everyone's been wondering since we started this. You don't have to tell me. You don't have to send the question. I knew you had it. The price of ETH will be $30,000, but I'm not going to tell you what currency that's denominated wait, did I say dollars? No, it's not what I meant. I meant it'll be 30,000, but I don't know what currency that's the joke.
01:26:49.448 - 01:27:25.748, Speaker A: No. Did I screw up the joke? No, I screwed up the joke. Oh, no. I don't know what the price of youth will be it will be 30,000 something. It could easily be Venezuelan boulevards. Okay, well, that was the other question you already know, but for our final questions what's up, ceiling? Hey, thanks, y'all. Good luck hacking and shout out to East Global.
01:27:25.748 - 01:27:57.588, Speaker A: All my peeps at East Global. That was a lot of fun. Carl, Vitalik, that was indeed a lot of fun. And I'm sure we'll talk sometime about our freestyle rap, so can't wait for that one. Thank you so much. Glad that you were able to talk about this thing and make this mean. I learned a lot of cool things, and I'm glad that we were able to cover not only just retroactive funding, but also all the other things in life that are important or maybe not important.
01:27:57.588 - 01:28:13.368, Speaker A: So this is great. Thank you. Thank you. Amazing thing. Perfect. All right, so we are ready to move on to our next piece, which is me talking about all the prizes for the sackathon. I'll quickly go back to just our slides here.
01:28:13.368 - 01:29:04.276, Speaker A: I hope you enjoyed the conversation with Carl and Vitalik. They'll be doing a few more talks over the next few summits. So if you're interested in keeping up with everything that's happening in that world and what's happening with Ethereum and Scalability, you'll be able to see them again. So moving on to our prizes and our sponsors, I want to start off by thanking a few of our sponsors. So I want to specifically say thank you to ave grants program sublime finance balancer compound grants program scale ethercard skynet uniswap grants program superfluid finance morales and wearable protocol. They are some incredible sponsors that are going to be a big part of this event. And to really kind of tell you about why they're excited to be part of Ethanline and why they're excited to be here as a sponsor and giving up prizes.
01:29:04.276 - 01:30:34.160, Speaker A: We asked them to sort of record a short video to talk about who they are, what they represent, and what is it that they do and why they want to be helpful to all of you. So we're going to play those videos for you here, and then after that, we'll get into all the prizes that you can win as part of the hackathon, and then we'll close off the day. And without further ado, let's check out some of our sponsored videos from the Auver Protocols genesis Team. So we are the team that built the Aux Protocol and gave the protocol to the community ownership and so excited to be here in this hackathon, participating and being able to judge different projects here and to give some context what Ave is. So Ava Protocol is a decentralized interest rate market where you can come and deposit different kinds of cryptographic assets and see those assets grow in terms of interest rate in form of balance. And your deposit also acts as a collateral in the protocol, meaning that once you deposit into the protocol, you can actually borrow other assets from the protocol or you can delegate that borrowing power to someone else. And as a protocol, the market consists of different kinds of assets that you can use and the protocol is deployed on the main Ethereum network and also testnets such as the Common testnet and also in the Maddok network.
01:30:34.160 - 01:31:32.330, Speaker A: So if you're building on Matic or the main Net or Common testnet, this is very interesting proposition for you to test the cross chain operability, especially if you have some sort of hack in mind that could empower both of these communities. And anyone who is participating should also mind that we as a team are here to support you and the Ave grant style as well. And there's various prizes that you can actually win during this hackathon. So most of the prices are for example, for the best hack you will get 7000 USDC and for the second price you get 3030 2000. There's various things you can actually build on top of the protocol itself and we'll go more into detail in that. Or you can ask any questions in the Discord. Happy to be here and thank you everyone.
01:31:32.330 - 01:32:07.504, Speaker A: Hey guys, this is Fernando from Balancer. It's really cool to see you guys participating in ETHGlobal. We're very excited with these hackathons. We're a longtime partner of ETH Global. We really see lots of cool projects and protocols ideas coming out of these hackathons. So what is balancer? Balancer is a protocol for programmable liquidity. Our V One was all about index funds so you could provide liquidity with different weights of different tokens.
01:32:07.504 - 01:32:46.624, Speaker A: Instead of just two tokens 50 50, you could have 30% ETH, 20% Die and 50% NKR for example. And that was really a proof of concept. We talked to a lot of teams who actually forked Balancer V One like Idle and Powerpool and Ocean Protocol and we realized that we could do a lot better. And that's balancer v two. Balancer V Two allows for and it's two very interesting features I would stress here or that stand out. One is that you can have pools with customized logic so you can create your own AMM. You have to define the swap functions and that's it.
01:32:46.624 - 01:33:17.812, Speaker A: So you focus on what matters, which is what type of AMM you want to provide or you want to have. The second nice feature is asset managers. So you have full control of the underlying tokens of your pool so you can use them to vote or to do whatever you want. So I'm excited to see you guys building cool stuff on top of Balancer V Two. Please use balancer V Two, not Balancer V one. And we'll be answering questions and talking to you throughout the hackathon. See you on Discord or any other channels that you might prefer.
01:33:17.812 - 01:33:38.108, Speaker A: But yeah, we'll be on Discord. See you soon and happy coding. Bye bye. Hi everyone, I'm Adam from Compound. I'm here to help you out with your development related projects. Compound Grants is sponsoring ETH Online once again and we're really excited to see what you all build in the hackathon. For those that aren't familiar, Compound is an interest rate protocol.
01:33:38.108 - 01:34:22.684, Speaker A: Suppliers of crypto assets will earn interest on their tokens and also you can borrow from the protocol if you want to borrow a different crypto asset. Prizes this year for Compound Grants are the best use case of supplying, the most original use case of borrowing as well, and also the best open source interface for Compound. Compound Grants is an awesome opportunity to upgrade the protocol and also get paid for your efforts. You can apply for a grant@compoundgrants.org. I'll be presenting a workshop shortly to get you started on your hackathon projects. So a little bit of an introduction to Compound from a developer's point of view. In October, we'll be doing a one day summit that is all Compound centric, so you can learn about Compound on that action packed day.
01:34:22.684 - 01:34:56.120, Speaker A: Please ask questions in discord. I'll get back to you as soon as I can with answers and happy hacking and we're excited to see you again soon. Hello. This is andresh Krishtov. Ethercards is a platform for anybody with a community to grow, engage and monetize that community. Among the many tools that we have in order to achieve these engagements are traits. Traits are features and functions that make sense in the context of the given community and provide value to both the owners of the cards and the person or entity who issues those cards.
01:34:56.120 - 01:35:31.220, Speaker A: These are the cards that were created for the Ether Cards community. As you can see, these cards have a lot of dynamic features. For example, you can turn them around and see the layered art on the other side. When you use the same platform and issue your own card, you can define your own art and your own layer sets. But more importantly, these cards have traits. For example, the REForce trait enables you to reroll your layers and get a different layer set created by different artists. If you have an art drop trait, it's a passive trait that lets you receive NFTs from different artists that you are using the platform.
01:35:31.220 - 01:36:19.156, Speaker A: Among other things, you can have a Punk Battle ticket, which is a ticket that enables you to enter an online gaming event and win valuable prizes. But different partners of ours are using the system in different ways with different trades. For example, Dirty Robot is issuing cards with the print rate, which is a redeemed trade. By burning this trade, you can redeem a physical copy signed by the artist itself. Or Mike Tyson used our technology to issue traits on his NFTs. And one of the NFT has a trait that enables you to meet Mike Tyson or Steve Aoki. The musician and artist created a trait with our platform that enables you to use a previous steve Aoki NFD to redeem a new one that he created in the platform.
01:36:19.156 - 01:36:47.144, Speaker A: So trades can be used in many ways. We have a $12,000 price pool for you to create innovative trades that make sense for you, for your project, and for your community, and to optimize the data storage in our smart contracts. Thank you. Good luck and have fun. Hey, guys. This is Ivan from Morales, and I'm here to explain to you how our platform can make you a better DAP developer and how you can win this hackathon if you adopt this technology. Now, for this hackathon, I'm sure you have a lot of ideas.
01:36:47.144 - 01:37:07.056, Speaker A: Maybe you want to build some kind of NFT DAP. Maybe you want to build some kind of DeFi DAP or cross chain DAP. Whatever idea you have, you need to do the following things. You need to log in a user. You need to fetch the balances. You need to fetch transactions of the user. You need to be able to watch blockchain for real time alerts in smart contracts, to watch events and topics.
01:37:07.056 - 01:37:37.368, Speaker A: And all of this you normally do by connecting to an RPC node and then building a behemoth of infrastructure around it. And everyone has to do it. And this is your biggest mistake, because this border plate infrastructure, you don't have to build from scratch. We give it to instead of you verifying the signature when the user logs in, we give it to instead of you syncing user transactions from the blockchain, we give it to you. Instead of you maintaining and managing this huge infrastructure, we manage it for you. Because you should never be building your DAP like this. This is very, very low level programming.
01:37:37.368 - 01:38:05.296, Speaker A: You're speaking directly to an RPC node. An RPC node will really ensure that you build slowly. You cannot move fast. So Morales SDK and Morales server gives you a crypto backend with everything figured out. It can be thought of as firebase for crypto because you log in a user with one line of code, and then as soon as the user logs in in your Morales account, you see all the information about the user, like here in the database. This is cross chain, by the way. If the user is active on any chain, you have all of their tokens, all of their NFTs, all of their smart contracts that they interact with, everything.
01:38:05.296 - 01:38:20.340, Speaker A: Everything you have here. This database auto updates in real time. So when the user moves their assets, you get real time updates, real time reflection in the database. You can query the database with an easy SDK. You can read the database using your own queries. You can do filtering. You can do aggregation.
01:38:20.340 - 01:38:46.396, Speaker A: You can watch smart contracts. So instead of doing some kind of subgraph, you can just tell Morales, hey, watch this smart contract, and Morales will give you database entries whenever a new event happens in the smart contract. And you get all historical smart contract events. You can send assets, you can receive assets with a few lines of code. We have plugins, which means that with one line of code, you can get a fiat on ramp into your DAP. With one line of code, you can swap any asset to any other asset. Using, for example, our one inch integration, we're going to add bridging between different chains.
01:38:46.396 - 01:39:02.010, Speaker A: We're going to add staking modules. All in all, opportunities are endless. And most importantly, you don't have to build this backend. We give you the backend. Morales is your crypto backend. Think of it as firebase of crypto, where you just use a simple JavaScript SDK. Everything is figured out for you.
01:39:02.010 - 01:39:29.788, Speaker A: Hey, everyone. My name is Eric Arsenal from Rarible Protocol. Super pumped to be here at Ethanline. Today I'm going to talk about the protocol. The Wearable protocol is a set of smart contracts as well as an open source indexer currently deployed on Ethereum, releasing on flow and polygon. Applications can use these tools to get up and running really quickly. There's about 20 applications currently building on a protocol and a lot more in the pipeline.
01:39:29.788 - 01:40:14.560, Speaker A: Some of the features that we have include a decentralized exchange, obviously, for NFTs for swapping tokens with ERC twenty S. The protocol itself has a shared order book, so all the applications building on the protocol benefit from the other applications that are building on top. You can list an item for sale in one app, and it can sell in another app, and everybody benefits in that process. There's fee splitting in the protocol to allow different apps to monetize in that process. Lazy Minting to allow really easy onboarding. There's a royalty standard which works for externally minted NFTs as well. And there's collection of factories to mint new collections of 1155 and 721 tokens.
01:40:14.560 - 01:41:06.748, Speaker A: Some use cases include NFT marketplaces selling NFTs from basically any interface, minting applications that just focus on the Minting and then as well NFT discovery and analytics applications as well, using the indexer, as well as all sorts of new ways to use, own and sell NFTs. In terms of prizes, we have $12,000 in prizes. We have one prize for the best Lazy Minting application, another prize for the best application that natively sells an NFT within the interface and takes a fee split out of that process. And then another prize for gamified or game based NFT applications. Thanks a lot for listening and happy hacking. I'm Jack O'holler, and I'm the CEO of Scale Labs. Very, very excited to be here today.
01:41:06.748 - 01:41:17.632, Speaker A: And hey, I love these ethereum hackathons. I think this is the 10th hackathon Scale has supported, and we have over 100 submissions. We love this. We live for it. For those of you this is your first time hacking. Welcome. For those of you who've done it a number of times, pleasure to see you.
01:41:17.632 - 01:41:37.332, Speaker A: I wish you could be in person, like it normally is. But hey, these online hackathons have advantages too. More time to build, more time to plan, and more fun. So let's kick it off here. Scale is an Ethereum native multi chain network. What does this mean? Instead of scaling one blockchain, scale is one network with pooled security as many, many blockchains that are all EVM blockchains. Okay? Now, what scale is not is scale is not a single independent side chain.
01:41:37.332 - 01:42:12.108, Speaker A: Scale is a multi chain network where there's pool security properties. A lot of the issues with side chains are mitigated because of the fact that Ethereum is supporting a multi chain network in terms of being able to have collusion and bribery prevention by random assignments of nodes and rotation of nodes throughout the scale network, throughout the different chains. And that's, again, thanks to $400 billion of value in Ethereum that protects and ensures that there cannot be collusion properties in terms of getting malicious nodes onto one chain. So what we have then is a MultiChain network that allows for that can grow in a limitless fashion and help Ethereum drive value. The other piece of the scale is not a competitive product to Ethereum. Scale is actually value accretive and allows Ethereum to capture value every time the scale network is used. So if you want to use scale, guess what you have to pay? Gas fees.
01:42:12.108 - 01:42:34.396, Speaker A: Ethereum. This is very different than other layer one ETH killer chains that are trying to just suck value out of Ethereum and let transactions run on their blockchain scale. You always have to pay Ethereum in order to run scale and you always have to. And that means staking, slashing node assignments, no rotation chain setup, et cetera. The token even is built on Ethereum. Scale cannot run without ethereum. And scale helps bring value back to Ethereum and pays in almost a decentralized revenue share model, which is a new business model.
01:42:34.396 - 01:43:02.544, Speaker A: That's very exciting. Scale also can support billions of daily active users. Now, do we need that today? No. But at some point, are we going to need that? I believe so. And in order to get there, you need economics that allow many, many blockchains to keep growing while not having security issues by having smaller sets of node operators. And that's how scale functions where as a network gets overloaded, the fees for chains go up and more nodes come to the network and it drives the price back down. So scale is able to grow and handle supply and every time it's doing that, sending money back to Ethereum because you need to pay Ethereum to use scale.
01:43:02.544 - 01:43:29.576, Speaker A: All right, so our goal is to help Ethereum be successful and number one, help developers be successful that are building blockchain applications and smart contract applications. We're really excited about the scale NFT mint that's happening or NFT launch. So you'll be able to mint NFTs directly on scale chain starting in October. This is due to scale file storage. There's a container, a docker container on every single scale chain. And what this means is you don't need to link to another database, IPS gateway, or centralized storage to store images. That metadata, that data gets stored right on the chain.
01:43:29.576 - 01:43:49.108, Speaker A: All right, so let's talk about prizes. Hey, we've got $12,000 in prizes given to five projects. Also, anybody who hacks will have the ability to access the scale store and get some Shrag. All right, hey, let's have some fun. Hi, everybody. Hi, everyone. I'm Prathic from sublime, and we're super excited to be one of the many amazing protocols supporting the ETH online hackathon this year.
01:43:49.108 - 01:44:24.296, Speaker A: So what is sublime? Sublime is a decentralized protocol enabling credit by collateralizing social capital. Conversations around under collateralization so far have mainly focused on centralized credit scoring. But credit scoring is hard. It's extremely data intensive. Tala, for example, authentic platform used in Africa, uses thousands of different data points with features ranging from simple ones such as your age to less intuitive ones, such as the number of typing mistakes made or the amount of time spent reading terms of conditions to actually build a credit rating. It's exclusionary, and there simply isn't a one size fits for all solution. Different jurisdictions, and in fact different categories of loans have entirely different approaches.
01:44:24.296 - 01:45:05.388, Speaker A: In fact, 67% of the world's adult population is not even covered by a credit bureau. However, this does not mean that they have never borrowed money in their life. They've just relied on different means of credit, mainly focusing on their friends, family members, and trusted circles. Loans in such cases are majorly collateralized by reputation rather than any tangible inventory of assets. With sublime, we are trying to take this idea to the next step connecting users across different social graphs to enable the free flow of credit. We envision our social graph to encompass different kinds of stakeholders, whether it's Dows, their community members, consumers, institutions, or even pseudonymous identities. Whenever there's need for loans, we aim to provide the most capital efficient path to fulfill that loan request, even from lenders the borrower might not be directly connected to.
01:45:05.388 - 01:45:45.768, Speaker A: So how does Sublime work? We rely on four flexible building blocks to achieve this, providing the means for verification pools and credit lines to enable the loans, and a savings account to park any idle capital. Our architecture is open and flexible so that users can build products on top of us that suit their specific needs, whether it's issuing bonds for dows, credit lines for institutions, or structured products like clos and CDOs. So we'll ask us be beginning our private alpha starting next week. And we couldn't have imagined of a better way to start off than working with this amazing developer community that the event will be bringing together. We've also sponsored a bunch of different prizes, so we really look forward to interacting with all of you over the next month. Thanks. Hello, everyone.
01:45:45.768 - 01:46:26.240, Speaker A: My. Name is Francesco. I'm one of the founders of Superfluid, and I'm very excited to welcome you to ETH Online. It's going to be an amazing event. Now what is superfluid? Superfluid is a decentralized protocol for money streaming, which is a crypto native way of doing recurring payments, which enables things like salaries, subscriptions, but also Dow rewards. And it enables all of this without capital lockup and with programmability, which is very important because it means you can build very cool applications. So what is money streaming? It's this way of transferring funds from one account to another over time without requiring intermediate transactions.
01:46:26.240 - 01:47:01.776, Speaker A: So basically, you set up a stream, and then as soon as it's set up, money starts flowing from your account to the counterparty without you needing to do anything else. And it doesn't have an end date, so it will go on forever or until you close it or run out of funds. So using money streaming and DeFi, you can build real time finance. So these are applications that use money every second in a completely new way. So these are free examples of applications that you can build using Superfluid. They're all live. They've all been built at hackathons just like this one.
01:47:01.776 - 01:47:29.376, Speaker A: And I'm showing you this to encourage you to think of this as the first step of your career in Web free. If you build something amazing here, we will support you afterwards until you go live, just like these guys did. If you want to check out Superfluid, you can go to our dashboard. So app. Superfluid finance. This is a dashboard which enables you to open streams and you'll be able to understand what money streaming really means. So for the hackathon, we have $12,000 in Bounties.
01:47:29.376 - 01:48:00.960, Speaker A: These are five main prizes, a $4,000 price pool to everybody building on Superfluid. And on top of this, we also have $8,000 from MakerDAO for anyone using Dai in their hack. So, looking forward to see everybody at our discord, and good luck with your hacks. Hello. My name is David Vork, CEO of Skynet Labs. What makes Web three amazing is decentralization. With Web Three, we can build untouchable uncorruptible user applications.
01:48:00.960 - 01:48:47.908, Speaker A: Unfortunately, this control frequently extends only as far as the blockchain. Users still access their smart contracts through centralized front ends, where they are exposed to malicious attackers and evil developers. Even where the developers are trustworthy, the developers are frequently compelled by regulators to hide and block certain assets. With Home Screen, we can help eliminate this point of control and ensure that the user is the one who has the final say. Here's how it works. You go to Home Screen, you make a Skynet account, and then you install all of your favorite applications. When you install an application to Homescreen, home Screen will perform a download that fetches all of the code, all of the assets and all of the resources for that application and stores them in your personal decentralized cloud in the future.
01:48:47.908 - 01:49:31.136, Speaker A: That application loads directly from your decentralized cloud storage without any centralized middlemen and without any interaction from developers, regulators, or malicious attackers. Home screen even supports versioning. If there's an update for your favorite application, you can have Home Screen perform an update by fetching all of the new assets and new code. If you decide later that you don't like the update, you can go into Home Screen and download to your favorite previous version. With Home Screen, the user is truly in control. That's why we've created a $10,000 prize pool that will be split between all of the applications that add support for Home Screen throughout the hackathon. We've also added a $2,000 grand prize for the best Home Screen application.
01:49:31.136 - 01:49:53.912, Speaker A: Supporting home screen is easy. Even beginners can add support with less than an hour of effort. We'll be available throughout the hackathon to answer any questions about Houghton Screen and to talk about Skynet in general. You can find us on the ETHGlobal Discord channel. We're super excited to be involved in this hackathon, and we can't wait to see what everyone builds. Hey, guys. Boris from Uniswap Grant program here.
01:49:53.912 - 01:50:40.964, Speaker A: First off, I'd like to introduce uniswap grant program and Uniswap protocol. Uniswap Grant Program is a grant program established by the Uniswap Governance, and our goal is to provide valuable resources to help grow the Uniswap ecosystem. Sponsoring hackathons is just one of the ways we aim to do so, and we are very grateful to the Eid Global team for organizing this great event. If you are unfamiliar with Uniswap, it is an AMM decentralized exchange built on Ethereum. There are three major versions deployed on the Ethereum mainnet, and there are also Uniswap e three deployments on optimism and Arbitrum, which are getting a lot of traction lately. In essence, there are two types of users in Uniswap Protocol traders and liquidity providers. Liquidity providers lock up their liquidity in pools and earn fees on each trade executed by traders.
01:50:40.964 - 01:51:21.664, Speaker A: As for the challenges we prepared for this hackathon, there are three categories. In the first category, we're looking for the best hack that integrates a project which is part of the Uniswap Grant program. List of all such projects can be found in our Hacker Guide. There you can find different libraries, SDKs, and similar projects that we think will be great help in building something of your own. In the second category, we're looking for hacks that improve Uniswap's user experience. Often we can see people complaining about the DFI user experience, especially if they are still not used to the DFI space. Uniswap at one point had over 1 million active users within a month, and we want to make their experience while interacting with Uniswap more enjoyable.
01:51:21.664 - 01:51:50.908, Speaker A: In this category, you can, for example, fork the web app built by Uniswap core team and add more information for traders, or rework the process of adding liquidity to Uniswap. Third and final category is any hack that is uniswap related. We don't want to limit your creativeness and are looking forward to see what you come up with. Happy hacking. And if you have any questions, we'll be in the ETH Global Discord. We will give our best to provide all the answers. Amazing.
01:51:50.908 - 01:52:37.016, Speaker A: Well, I want to thank all of our sponsors who took a few minutes to talk about who they are, what they do, and why they're excited to be part of ETH Online. And with that, let's get into talking about all of our prizes and thanking some of our other sponsors. So I want to quickly thank our pillar sponsors. We have alchemy, one inch, 88 mph BitCo enzyme chain link, e block, art fluence paraswap pocket network. There's a polygon zero X filecoin black peer radical MakerDAO. The graph conjure. There are our pillar sponsors and I want to also quickly thank our provider sponsors byconomy covalent ENS Metis NFT port Newsypher, reflexer Teller textile Umbrella uma urine Finance vxdo.
01:52:37.016 - 01:53:10.040, Speaker A: Swivel Finance zora Status and POAP. And lastly, our supporter sponsors. We have Aztec coinspect, charge particles, ChainSafe, Zktube, near Protocol, lemonscap Blockdemon, Quant Stamp and Maple Finance. So let's talk about all the prizes. So similar to the videos that we talked about, we also compiled a video of all of our prizes that are going to be announced by the sponsors themselves. So we'll play all the videos. You can see every sponsored prize that's listed here for this event.
01:53:10.040 - 01:53:58.336, Speaker A: And without further ado, these are all the companies that are going to be talking about the prizes that they're giving out for this event. So top three projects on the other protocol side are able to win from the other grant style three different kinds of prices. So the first main price of the winner of the protocol usage will get $7,000 worth of USDC and the second one will get 3000 worth of USDC and third, 2000 worth of USDC. There's different examples with Imran. Is going from the Aveground stock going to elaborate? Yeah. Thank you, Sani. So there are three areas of focus for Aave in order for Ave to grow to the next billion users.
01:53:58.336 - 01:54:36.196, Speaker A: The first is looking for integrations startups that are looking to integrate with Aave as a protocol and building on top of Aave. The second is really understanding growth and understanding what are some of the tools that users need. So things like credit delegation, dashboard, or thinking about bringing real world assets into Aave or Aave Pro. And then finally, it's bringing more analytics and tooling to Aave and its users. So things like being able to build out Aave Transaction Explorer is something that we're looking deeply into. And these are the three areas of focus for us. Please ping any of the Ave team members and we can give you more details on the types of startups we'd like to support.
01:54:36.196 - 01:55:00.150, Speaker A: Thank you so much. Thank you everyone. Hey guys, this is fernando. I'm happy to announce balancers prizes to the finalists. So we're going to give out two prizes. One is $8,000, and the second one is $4,000 for the first and second places. And the cool thing is that this is just the beginning.
01:55:00.150 - 01:56:08.458, Speaker A: You can apply for a grant with the grants committee that we have, which is community led, you can apply for a grant and get up to $75,000. This would be a nice push for you to start a business or really take your project to the next level and make something out of it. So the prizes are only the beginning. And we want you to apply for grants and make businesses out of your cool ideas. Thank you. Hi, I'm Larry, and I'm the program lead for the compound grants program. If you haven't heard of us, compound grants program is an independent community led program that really exists to fund development happening on top of compound.
01:56:08.458 - 01:56:48.378, Speaker A: We funded dozens of grants in the last few months, and we plan to fund dozens, if not hundreds more over the coming months and years. We're really excited about partnering with Ethanline, and as part of that, we've got four prizes we want to tell you about. The first prize goes to the most innovative use of supplying assets to compound. And the prize there is $3,000. The second goes to the most innovative use of borrowing assets from compound, and that's also a prize of $3,000. The third prize goes to the most beautiful and full featured open source interface of compound. The prize there is also $3,000.
01:56:48.378 - 01:57:13.982, Speaker A: And then finally, the fourth prize is a prize pool for everyone else who's building on top of compound, and that's $3,000. We can't wait to see what you'll build. Good luck. Hey, guys. This is Ivan from Morales, and I'm here to tell you about our price pool. We have one of the biggest prize pools in this hackathon, so listen carefully. If you use Morales, you can win $7,000 if you build the best DAP using Morales.
01:57:13.982 - 01:57:40.154, Speaker A: If you build second best DAP using Morales, you get 3003rd, place gets 2000. And we are judging based on usability, based on innovation, and based on Morales utilization, how much of the power of Morales have you actually used? And to learn that, you can go to docs Morales IO. Once again, Docs Morales. IO. You can see it here in the URL. And you can go through documentation step by step. We have very good documentation, as you can see, with code examples, with images, with videos.
01:57:40.154 - 01:57:56.990, Speaker A: We even have cookbook right here. If you want to have a fiat integration, you click here. If you want to build token swap, you build here. Really go through this, understand what Morales is, and I hope that you will win. Good luck. Hey, everybody. I'm from the future here to talk to you about the Rarible protocol.
01:57:56.990 - 01:58:17.270, Speaker A: NFTs are going mainstream, if you haven't noticed. So get with the picture. There's a lot of cool stuff you can build. The Rarible protocol makes it very easy to build applications and different tools you might want to use. Check out wearable.org to get some ideas. There are $12,000 in prizes in this hackathon.
01:58:17.270 - 01:58:45.758, Speaker A: Best Lazy Minting application, best application that sells NFTs within the app with a fee split, and best gamified or game based NFT application. Social applications are a huge plus as well. Happy hacking and see you in the Discord. Hey, everybody. We're going to cover the scale prizes for the hackathon. So number one, we're here to support you throughout the entire event. Number two, build something cool and we have a prize for you.
01:58:45.758 - 01:59:22.186, Speaker A: We love also highlighting our prize winners and pushing those out to the scale blog and our Twitter followers. And we appreciate the work you do and we're here to support. So number one, we've got $12,000 in scale given to five projects. We've got a Denali prize, Kilmanjaro prize, a Fuji prize, also an NFT prize. So the NFT prize, as you may have heard, you can mint NFTs directly on a scale chain through scale file storage. There's no need to link to an external IPFS gateway or centralized storage facility to hold the metadata of an NFT. So we'd love to see some cool stuff happening there.
01:59:22.186 - 01:59:49.410, Speaker A: That's obviously a booming market. We also have an integration partner hack where we're giving 2500 worth of scale to somebody who builds on ethereum scale and another partner. Okay, every team that builds, even if you don't win, you have ability to get free schwag, so you'll get a credit to the store that's linked below. You also see the developer portal linked below, and you can get all those assets through Discord. All right, hey, let's have some fun. Let's build cool stuff. Let's change the world.
01:59:49.410 - 02:00:15.462, Speaker A: All right, everybody, good luck. Hi everyone. I'm Hrithik from Sublime. We are super excited to be supporting the ETH Online hackathon this year and working with all of you. Sublime is a decentralized protocol aimed at democratizing access to capital. We provide the frameworks for others to build debt products, whilst we ourselves build the onchain social graph for credit. Fully customizable bonds or structured products like collateralized loan obligations are the sum of the things that can be built using Sublime.
02:00:15.462 - 02:00:44.054, Speaker A: For this event, we are sponsoring the following prices. Our first place price will be 4000 USDC and our second and third place price will be 2000 501,500 USDC respectively. Additionally, we'll also be sponsoring a pool price of 4000 USDC to be distributed amongst all the submissions under the Sublime category. Docs. Sublime Finance is the best place to get started with us. Our team will also be available in a space on the ETH Online Discord Group as well as our own channel. We are looking forward to seeing what you guys build over the next month.
02:00:44.054 - 02:01:30.440, Speaker A: Thanks. Hello, I am Daniel Helm, dev evangelist at Skynet Labs where we believe the DWeb needs decentralized front ends. We are putting up $12,000 in Psycoins because DFI needs decentralized front ends. Join the $10,000 prize pool by spending under an hour to deploy your project to Skynet and use home screen to let your users store versioned copies of your front end. Why? Because web3 users need decentralized front ends. You could win $2,000 if you have the best home screen build that shows why DApps need decentralized front ends. So tack Skynet and Home screen onto your project scope and find me in the Discord to learn more about decentralized front ends on Skynet with home screen support.
02:01:30.440 - 02:01:57.962, Speaker A: Hello everyone. I'm Francesco, one of the founders of Superfluid, and I'm super excited to invite you to ETH Online. So, Superfluid is a platform for money streaming. We enable a way to do recurring payments in web free, without capital lockup, and with full programmability, which means you can build anything you want. Visit hack. Superfluid finance for more information and hacking materials. For this hackathon, we will be providing $12,000 in bounties.
02:01:57.962 - 02:02:22.118, Speaker A: These will be divided into five top prizes plus a price pool of $4,000 for everyone building on Superfluid. On top of this MakerDAO is putting up $8,000 for anyone using Dai in their hacks. So get hacking and join us in Discord. Cheers, everyone. Good luck. Hi guys. Boris from Uniswap Grant program here for ETH online.
02:02:22.118 - 02:02:58.222, Speaker A: We decided to split our price pool in three different categories. In each category, the first price is two and a half uni, while the second price is one and a half uni. In the first category, we're looking for the best hack that integrates a project which is part of the Uniswap grant program. For instance, there are a couple of very cool Python libraries that were built with the support of UGP. In the second category, we're looking for hacks that improve Uniswap's user experience. We know that UX in DeFi has a long way to go and are looking for new solutions. Third and final category is any hack that is Uniswap related.
02:02:58.222 - 02:03:47.898, Speaker A: UGP team wishes you happy hacking. Hi everyone. Welcome to this year's Ethanline hackathon. My name is Megan, and I'm an integrations engineer for the Zero X API at Zero X Labs. Here at Zero X, our mission is to create a tokenized world where all value can flow freely, and we're doing this by building infrastructure for the emerging crypto economy in order to enable the creation of markets that just couldn't have existed before. So why should you build on the Zero X API during this hackathon? Well, it's an easy way to source liquidity from the Zero X ecosystem, and it offers smart order routing that will split up transactions across different decentralized exchanges and other liquidity sources. In order to return to you the best price for these transactions, we're offering eight K in prices during this hackathon across four categories.
02:03:47.898 - 02:04:22.490, Speaker A: So we'd like to see what you come up with for using the Zero X API in DeFi and in NFTs. And then also we have a price for the best use of the Zero X Data API. And if you have some ideas that just don't fit into any of these categories, we're offering an open track, so please feel free. Whatever ideas you have to build them. We are just so excited to be sponsoring this year and to see what you will come up with. And if you have any questions, please reach out to us on Discord, either in our Discord or in the ETH Online CRX channel. And happy hacking.
02:04:22.490 - 02:04:59.602, Speaker A: Hi, everyone. I'm Artem from one inch. For this hackathon we prepared four bounty prizes, each worth of $2,000 in one inch token. You might heard of One Inch network and One inch protocols. It's high efficient and secured protocols in DeFi space. For this hackathon you can think of protocol just as a set of smart contract and three of our bounties is related to One Inch limit order protocol, we want to see that you use it for building margin trading solution. Second one is to build adapter between limit order and Dex.
02:04:59.602 - 02:05:36.926, Speaker A: We just want to see the swap on Dex through limit order in the way that gas fees be paid by third party. And the last task is trading strategy. You can take two stable coins for example, and extract profit from price fluctuation of this stable coins pair. We also have open track price. So here if you have any creative super cool ideas in DeFi space, we'd like to see it show it to the world and we looking forward for submissions. Thanks. Hey everyone, this is Mike Fly from 88 mph.
02:05:36.926 - 02:06:21.394, Speaker A: During the three weeks, we will support and encourage you to build cool products with 88 mph V, three smart contracts and subgraph. We will award more than $7,000 of prices to projects that make it simple and easy for nontechnical user to use Aktmph override. These include integration of Akmph into existing or upcoming product and tools. For example, easy mass fixed interest rate lending, multi cig, government surgery management, improved solvency, and new DeFi primitive that could range from interest bearing derivative or structured product to in game or half bearing assets. Looking forward for your participation. Good luck everyone. Hey everyone, this is Jason Shaw from Alchemy, the leading blockchain developer platform.
02:06:21.394 - 02:07:01.230, Speaker A: I'm here to tell you a little bit about Alchemy and what we're offering to support you here at ETH Online 2021. Alchemy is the leading blockchain developer platform supporting ethereum, polygon, arbitram, optimism, flow, crypto.com and more. Alchemy powers many of the top DeFi, NFT and other decentralized applications and protocols. We provide a supernode product in addition to a suite of developer tools to help you go from idea to product to scale. At ETH Online 2021, we're offering three prizes as well as a pool prize for anybody that uses Alchemy in their application. Happy hacking.
02:07:01.230 - 02:07:41.066, Speaker A: Hi, my name is Thomas Taylor here over at BitCo. I am the engineering manager of the ETH DFI and Wrap Bitcoin projects. For this hackathon, we have a total of $8,000 in prizes. The number one prize is a $2,000 reward, followed by one $500 and 1000. The remainder of the contestants will get a $3,500 split amongst them. What we're looking for in terms of project ideas are best use of the SDK, our smart contracts library, or the wrapped Bitcoin project in terms of integration. In addition, smart contract improvements and then statics upgrades are good as well.
02:07:41.066 - 02:08:13.686, Speaker A: Thank you and good luck, hackers. Hello, my name is Patrick Collins, developer advocate on the chainlink protocol. When we're building our smart contracts, we know that these run on blockchains. However, these blockchains have this crucial flaw. They can't actually interact with the real world and get access to outside data or any external computation. This is going to mean that we can't work with anything outside the chain. So chainlink nodes offer a decentralized way to get data and are currently being used on some of the biggest protocols in the space.
02:08:13.686 - 02:09:40.526, Speaker A: You can get randomness pricing data, you can do computation and do upkeeps and really anything else that you want to do in this blockchain space outside of your blockchain to empower your smart contracts. At this hackathon we're giving $4,000 in link to first place, $2,000 in link to second place, $1,000 in link to third place, and $3,000 in pool prizes. For any project that uses chain link. Head over to docs chain. Dot link to get started now. Hey everyone, this is Mona from the Enzyme Council and we are very excited to be sponsoring ETH Online this year. For those of you who are not familiar with enzyme, it is a decentralized asset management protocol which enables people to build, scale and monetize investment strategies in a matter of just a few clicks.
02:09:40.526 - 02:10:23.402, Speaker A: Today we're connected with hundreds of digital assets via dex connectivity and we also have various plugins which enable you to access other D five functionality from within a vault such as borrowing and lending, farming, synthetics derivatives, et cetera. We're sponsoring a total of $8,000 worth of prizes this hackathon. We've left some suggestions in the docs for you to be inspired by, but we're also valuing creativity. Our teams will be available in the discord channels and we cannot wait to meet you. Hi there, my name is Adrian. I'm here to talk about E block card prizes. For those that don't know, E Flu Card is a protocol combining creative coding, launching data and NFTs.
02:10:23.402 - 02:11:04.794, Speaker A: And we have 8000 dyeing prizes for hackers across three categories. 4000 die will go to the winning composability hack for projects extending the capabilities of our contracts. 2000 die for the best curation project aimed at the overall collector experience around blockchain NFDS. And three winners will get 500 die each for the best creation. Exploring a block style primitive hacks outside of suggestions would also be considered, but do reach out before coding to make sure your project fits. Good luck hackers, and have fun. Hi everyone, I'm Yvgene from Fluence and we at Fluence are working on a peer to peer application platform which allows to avoid using proprietary clouds and centralized backends.
02:11:04.794 - 02:11:46.460, Speaker A: Fluence is a missing decentralized compute layer for webtree that everyone is waiting for. Sounds cool so far. Fluence is compatible with many webtree protocols, ethereum and IPFS today, but potentially any storage identity DNS, Oracle on chain apps and so on and so forth. So you can use Fluence to build peer to peer applications, serverless backends, open APIs and monetize them in the future. Our bounty prizes include beginner prize, which is free money basically, and also prizes for best use for the DAP, best tool, and best use of luance with other sponsor. Find more details by the link below. Thank you.
02:11:46.460 - 02:12:21.902, Speaker A: Hi, I am Eric Tang from the Livepeer team. Livepeer is a decentralized live streaming infrastructure platform that allows anybody to build a live streaming application with a fraction of today's cloud infrastructure cost. The theme of our sponsorship this year is the Creator Economy and NFPs. We have a list of great prizes for you that totals up to $8,000, and we have a prize pool for anybody who picks live peer as a part of their hack. Here's a list of interesting ideas for you to think about. We want to see a great mobile live streaming app for NFT drops. We want to see live streaming applications with NFTs acting as royalty or event tickets.
02:12:21.902 - 02:12:49.466, Speaker A: We want to see a great clip and mint experience for live streams where people can clip an exciting moment and create an NFT out of that. We want to see live streams from interesting locations around the metaverse. We've gathered some great resources for you. We're building an in browser broadcasting tool that will be available later this week. And we have some great example applications so you don't have to start from scratch. So come hang out with us at the Discord Channel. We'll be there answering technical questions, talking to you about your hack.
02:12:49.466 - 02:13:40.954, Speaker A: Happy hacking everybody. Hey web. Three developers pocket Network is super stoked to be sponsoring ETH online again. Why Pocket? It's as easy as RPC, access the full spectrum of multi blockchain data. Within a few clicks, you'll be able to mint up to two censorship resistant endpoints, each with 1 million release per day through the Pocket portal for any of our supported blockchains, all powered by a decentralized network of 5000 plus nodes. For the hackathon, we've put up 8000 die in prizes, earn an equal share of the 4k price pool for Minting, and using a Pocket powered endpoint in your project, there's two K up for grabs in each of our name prizes one best hack using Pocket, and two most creative hack incorporating both Pocket Network and the Graph protocols. Hey guys, this is Muskan.
02:13:40.954 - 02:14:19.574, Speaker A: I lead developer relations at Polygon and I'm really excited to be part of Ethanline hackathon again. So I'll quickly cover about Polygon a bit. Polygon is a well structured, easy to use scaling platform. All the scaling solutions which exist out there, you'll be able to find it on Polygon. As of now, there are more than 500 plus applications which are deployed on Polygon and it's very simple to deploy your DAP on Polygon and scale it. So yeah, that's all about Polygon and about our bounties. So we are offering total of 8000 USDT in our bounties and that is where into four tracks.
02:14:19.574 - 02:14:39.538, Speaker A: First is Best implementation of given ideas. We have shared some ideas with you and if you implement one of them, you'll be eligible for this prize. Second is best refi project in Polygon. Third is best NFT gaming project in Polygon. And Fourth is, of course, open track. So yeah, that's all about our prizes. Hello everyone.
02:14:39.538 - 02:15:05.122, Speaker A: I'm Discordian from Protocol Labs and I'm excited to be here for the ETH online hackathon. We're offering prizes around our products. Web Three Storage and NFT Storage. I'll briefly go over those. Now, Web Three Storage is a service that allows you to quickly and easily upload your data to an API and immediately have it available long term over IPFS via filecoin deals that are brokered in the background. NFT storage is similar to web3 storage, but with a focus on NFTs. It's the perfect solution for storing your NFT assets.
02:15:05.122 - 02:15:25.434, Speaker A: We're offering prizes to the top projects. Which use NFT Storage or Web three storage. I invite you to check out their websites which are loaded with docs to allow you to quickly dive in, come learn and build. We'll have mentors to help get acquainted with our tech available during the hackathon, so please be sure to reach out. We're eager to hear from you. Hey, everyone. This is Abby from Radical.
02:15:25.434 - 02:15:54.170, Speaker A: Over the next three weeks we'd love to support you in hacking on the Radical stack. We have three named prizes for hackathon participants with $4,000 up for grabs. We're looking for hacks that expand on the potential of the Radical stack by demonstrating new and cool ways to integrate Radical into developer workflows. Maybe you build with radical. Orgs, our decentralized code management tool built on ethereum or work on a CLI tool for deploying a radical seed node. We have a bunch of ideas on our prize page, so be sure to check it out for some inspiration. We're excited to see what you come up with.
02:15:54.170 - 02:16:28.142, Speaker A: Good luck. Amazing. So those were some of our top prizes from our sponsors, but I have a few more that didn't get to be on the video. So I'm going to quickly list off some of the remaining prizes and then we can wrap this kickoff and get back to hacking. So first I want to talk. About the Graph and their prize. So the Graph will be giving five prizes of 1500 die for the best use of existing subgraphs of any of the other sponsors on their Graph Explorer.
02:16:28.142 - 02:17:32.194, Speaker A: Then they will also be awarding three prizes of a total of $3,000 in die and that'll be an amount that sums up our grand prize and two runner up prizes. Then we have maker Dow. Maker Dow will be giving 4000 die for the most outstanding project using Maker and then 2000 die for the runner ups. For the best use of Maker Dow, then we have BitCo. BitCo will be giving $8,000 in form of a full price which means that anybody who uses the Bitcoin SDKs or WBTC or the Smart Contracts Library Extension will get an equal split of the $8,000. Then we have Paraswap and Paraswap will be giving $2,500 for the first place of the best use of Parasop Protocol, $1,500 for the second place team that uses the protocol Paraswap the best and then $1,000 for the third place for the best use of paraswap. Then we have new cipher.
02:17:32.194 - 02:18:35.530, Speaker A: New Cipher will be giving $4,000 in the pool prize which means that anybody who uses new cipher technologies and SDKs will get an equal split of this $4,000. Then we have NFT Port. An NFT port will be giving 4000 USDC in a pool price which means that anybody who is using the NFD port API in a meaningful way will get an equal split of the $4,000. Then we have status. And Status will also be giving a $4,000 pool price for the best use of the integration of Waku into any project submission and anybody who does that will get an equal split of the $4,000. Then we have Biconomy and Biconomy will be giving $3,500 in a pool price which will be an evenly distributed amount to anybody who uses the Biconomy Gas list API to enable meta transactions or the new Hyphen module to enable instant transfers between polygon and ethereum. Then we have reflexor.
02:18:35.530 - 02:19:57.960, Speaker A: And Reflexor will be giving $4,000 in a pool prize which is distributed evenly between any project that integrates the Coven or the Mainet version of Rise Stablecoin as their payment method, collateral type or a leverage solution. Then we have Textile and Textile will be giving $4,000 in a pool prize for anybody who uses ETH storage to store data from ethereum or polygon to filecoin. Next up we have Teller Protocol and Teller will be giving $4,000 in a pool prize which means that the amount will be distributed evenly between any project that uses Teller or the Teller playground as their oracle. Then we have, uma And Uma will be giving $4,000 in pool prize as well for anybody that uses the long short pair contract to build a new financial product or make use of their optimistic oracle. Then we have Zora and Zora will be giving $4,000 in pool prizes for anybody who uses zora in a really interesting way as part of their hack and submission. Then we have ENS, and ENS will be offering $3,000 in ETH or USDC as a pool prize. And in addition to the prizes, the winners will also be invited to the ENS community event.
02:19:57.960 - 02:21:03.866, Speaker A: And the pool prize will be the best use of ENS in any hack. Then we have the Umbrella Protocol and Umbrella Network will be giving $4,000 for the best use of their decentralized Oracle technology, especially for DFI solutions. Then we have Swivel Finance. And Swivel Finance will be giving $4,000 in USDT for anybody who integrates N tokens, ZC tokens or uses the Swivel exchange in their hacks. Then we have Metis, and Metis will be giving prizes to the three best projects that build on top of the protocol to the EVM compatible metas layer two roll up, where the first place will get 2500 in USD, the second place will get $1,000 and the third place will get 500. And then we have POAP, and POAP will be awarding $3,000 for the hack that makes the best use of Poop in their submission. So I know there was a lot of information thrown at all of you because there's so many prizes over $350,000 of worth.
02:21:03.866 - 02:21:55.826, Speaker A: We have all of these details with the clear criteria on what the prizes are, the details around how you can be eligible, how you can learn more about each of these projects from a documentation to a video tutorial on how to use the SDKs, all that is available on online Ethglobal.com prizes. So you can just head over there and get a much more detailed version of everything that we have communicated over the last 40 minutes. And with that, I want to thank everybody for sticking around and hope you enjoyed this kickoff and the amazing chat by Carl and Vitalik. We'll all see you on Discord from here. For those of you who are still interested in finding team members for your project, be sure to check out the team building session later today in a few hours, and then another one that will be on Monday. And we'll all see you here oncologo TV for next Friday with our NFT summit.
02:21:55.826 - 02:21:59.210, Speaker A: So take everybody and I will see you on Discord. Happy hacking.
