00:00:05.210 - 00:01:24.230, Speaker A: Hey everyone, welcome to my talk today. So today we're going to give a presentation about cross chain Ava protocol. And the idea is to kind of like give briefly introduction on what AVA is as a protocol, as a community on protocol, and also how does the protocol work in terms of cross chain functionality and what kind of interesting things this crosschain ability brings and how it actually empowers the whole ecosystem and also kind of like how chain link plays in role what we are as a community constantly building. Yeah. So those who probably you all know, many might, and many of you might be newcomers into the web3 space. So Ave is a decentralized liquidity protocol that is currently the biggest one in decentralized finance. And what it means is that as a liquidity protocol, you can deposit and supply funds into the protocol and then draw liquidity against your funds that are being there as a collateral.
00:01:24.230 - 00:03:25.134, Speaker A: And it's a way to create a yield market on chain that then other developers can actually build different kinds of protocols and products on top. And that's how the AVA liquidity itself comes to the protocol. So AVA is very developer friendly protocol. And because of the reason that we've been building a developer friendly protocol, it has grown quite substantially over this year and last year, and currently it's the biggest d five protocol out there and quite substantially important web3, kind of like a component, piece of component in this space. And recently we have included also not just the Ethereum market that we have, where the protocol has been deployed on Ethereum, but also in other markets such as now as first is the polygon, and we will during this talk, kind of like assess how do you evolve something that has been deployed in one particular blockchain and governance there, and how do you actually can expand your community across multiple networks, and how does the other community solve these challenges. So essentially how the protocol works is that you supply assets into the protocol, and then as you supply and generate yield, that particular deposit becomes essentially also a form of a collateral, which allows you to draw other kind of assets from the protocol as well. And you can of course delegate that kind of like a drawing power to someone else.
00:03:25.134 - 00:04:57.798, Speaker A: So someone else can actually draw behalf of you and create this kind of like a trust network as well with this credit delegation feature, which is something that we are currently experimenting and hoping that more developers get interested in that feature and building more trust based DeFi applications on top of this feature. And also there is a component of liquidators also as market participants in the protocol who are the liquidator network is decentralized, the same as the supplier participants and the borrowers as well, which means that liquidators are running autonomously and competing to liquidate unhealthy collateral positions within the protocol. In that way, keeping the protocol healthy. And this has been very resilient way to keep collateralization and position management across DeFi, especially when assets are volatile. We've seen the plaque Thursday a year ago, and now during last May, when the asset prices decreased substantially, which caused a lot of liquidations. And the AVI protocol has been very resilient towards that. So it's interesting to see, mainly because there is so much liquidity because of automated market makers and flash loans that kept the DeFi protocols solvent during fluctuations.
00:04:57.798 - 00:06:19.418, Speaker A: So this is the base concept. And of course, most important part, especially to me, is that average protocol is owned by the community and its users. So what this means is that the team has originally deployed the protocol and build it, but now anyone, any part of the board can actually contribute, and do contribute on continuing building the protocol and improving it. And at the same time, when you have some kind of a changes, whether it's new builds or new features, or risk parameter changes, all of this has to go through a decentralized governance, meaning that the original team or any other development team can't arbitrarily change the protocol. And it has to go to the governance process, where the token holders come together and vote on matters that are important to them, either for or against. And of course, what's fascinating is that this decision making power can be also delegated, either the proposition power to put proposals on chain, or voting power to other participants. And we've seen for the past year that a lot of universities have become very active in Defi governance.
00:06:19.418 - 00:07:17.080, Speaker A: And it's fascinating to see this kind of movement where stakeholders are delegating their proposition power to protocol politicians, universities and other entities. And this is kind of a very good direction. And of course, the average protocol has so called safety module, where you can deposit the avid tokens and then against incentives, you are pretty much backstopping the potential risk of the protocol, such as if there's some sort of a failed equation or some sort of smart contract vulnerability. The protocol itself has been audited by five different auditors and formally verified. So it's been working for quite a long time. But in case there is something, there is this safety module as a backstop mechanism. So this is how essentially the whole protocol governance and the backstopping works.
00:07:17.080 - 00:08:29.354, Speaker A: And the AvE version two, which was deployed last year, December, the market itself has been growing very much as the whole DFI ecosystem. So we see where we are at the gross value locked in the protocol. This means how much of the value of those deposits are and supplying is in the smart contracts and what is the amount of borrowing from the protocol against those collateral assets is. And especially for the past year, DeFi has grown substantially. And abe of course has been growing as DeFi is growing, but also because of the fact that the protocol has wide range of different assets that are listed. But compared to other protocols, the asset parameters are very conservative. So there is specifically the governance votes on how much you can actually draw liquidity against which kind of an asset, depending on their risk profiles.
00:08:29.354 - 00:09:34.798, Speaker A: So that's the kind of like a key metrics on the main market. And we deployed with the community in a market in Polygon. And polygon essentially is proof of stake. Side chain, which has EVM, which is Ethereum virtual machine, kind of mimics the same functionality what Ethereum itself has, meaning that you can run the same smart contracts there, pretty much with the same configurations, but just different network settings. And the easiness of deploying to polygon has been kind of like also driver not just for Aave, but the whole defi community to experiment there and try kind of like grow their user base in polygon network. And polygon is interesting because of the proof of stake. The transaction costs are fractional compared to what we have on Ethereum main network.
00:09:34.798 - 00:10:43.260, Speaker A: And I think the takeaway about that being a cross chain protocol is that by tapping out different kinds of communities, especially in Polygon, where the transaction fees are low, you reach out to a wider audience. And we have in the protocol currently 72,000 or so active users, and in the polygon market over 140,000. So this just showcases the amount of users when the transaction fees are lower. And interestingly, more liquidity is in the layer one. So it's kind of like a way to create more inclusiveness as well when you deploy to another network where you have less transaction fees. And this is kind of like been very good approach for Aave to be cross chain, and has also urged other protocols to do the same. And we can compare, for example, the numbers I showed previously on the layer one and L2.
00:10:43.260 - 00:12:14.870, Speaker A: But the key component is that deposit amounts are actually smaller compared to what we have in layer one, but way more users. And this is also interesting, because in the future, when you go in the market, you somehow need to include those smaller kind of like transactioning sizes and users that are participating in governance also be able to vote on the polygon market with low gas fees. And we have been researching quite a lot on the fact like where as a cross chain protocol, where the community would like to move next to. And pretty much the sentiments, what we have been reading is that they're sort of interested in a few of different kinds of chains. For example, there is avalanche that actually has very fascinating consensus mechanism, but it's EVM compatible. There is proof of stake like polygon and other examples is optimism, which is l two, which means that you're using the kind of like ethereum security, but you're transactioning on a separate layer and then rolling up the transactions back to the main network and using that security where you lower transaction fees. Whereas if you go back and look at the avalanche, for example, it's a completely separate chain with its own kind of fundamentals.
00:12:14.870 - 00:13:25.550, Speaker A: And then we have example arbitrum, which works similarly as optimistic roll ups, but it has EVM, which means that it's easier to deploy there from technical perspective. And there's of course, other solutions, side chains such as Solana neon and the ability to have EVM there as well. And I guess most importantly, what it boils down in terms of being cross chain protocol is that security is very important. And when you have to build things from scratch, that means that you kind of need to rethink on the security aspect of the protocol itself and how that will affect the deployments. Because building something like Avi protocol is very cost heavy. Not because of the reason that it takes time to develop the actual code base, but because you have to put a lot of effort in the due diligence. And EVM compatible chains are, that's the reason they're easier to deploy for the Ave protocol.
00:13:25.550 - 00:14:19.150, Speaker A: And of course, cross chain governance. So that's important. So if there is a polygon market, how those markets can be governed with a way where you participate as a token holder and governance member. And this is something we've been researching and finding solutions on how we will be able to actually create mechanism of governance where you can vote on the layer one, on decisions on polygon market, or let's say arbitrarium or avalanche, and then we propagate those results into those particular markets. We are governance bridging. This is something we're going to release soon and discuss a bit more once we understand more about the rest of the structure. That's what we are doing in the cross chain governance.
00:14:19.150 - 00:14:56.850, Speaker A: Yeah, of course, other things are the gas costs. I mean, voting is still too expensive. And this is something where we are looking into optimistic voting, where voting is off chain, but then someone takes the vote and puts that actual result on chain, essentially. That's something we're looking kind of like to make the governance more inclusive. Thank you everyone for listening. And I want to thank Nicolo from the ave team as well on helping these slides. And I hope you all have very good time during this conference.
00:14:56.850 - 00:15:00.540, Speaker A: And there's sort of interesting talks going on. Thank you so much.
