00:00:01.760 - 00:00:29.860, Speaker A: Good morning, everyone. Last day of modular summit. Last day of ECC in Brussels, 2024. Hope everyone is still lively and pepped up. I'm excited to get the morning slide and get everyone energized to talk about modular liquidity today. So today we're going to talk about the bridge endgame. I think everyone is kind of working towards the same kind of outcome in terms of a mechanism design perspective from a liquidity perspective.
00:00:29.860 - 00:01:14.410, Speaker A: And we're going to see what that endgame looks like when we're building for the scale that we're going to see in the future, which I think is infinite chains or millions of chains. But quickly, just a quick intro. I'm Jim. I'm the co founder of Catalyst, which is a cross chain liquidity protocol. I've been a PM in crypto for about seven years now in various organizations, and I'm also a really big bridge enthusiast, which means I read a all the bridge articles, I talk to all the bridge people, I live it, I love it and I breathe it. And then Catalyst is effectively a liquidity engine for all chains. It's purpose built such that we can expand to any execution environment and connect them together and eventually share all the liquidity between them.
00:01:14.410 - 00:02:32.580, Speaker A: So the future, like I said, is infinite chains, right? Millions of chains. And this is something that I've talked about on Twitter for several years now. And then other folks like Nick on the SLEs and now the AxlR team and other interoperability teams are starting to feel the same way. And so I think we're going to see a paradigm shift or a mental shift where we think of rollups and we think of chains as equivalent to apps. App teams are going to be launching their own roll ups and chains because it's just so easy to do, right? Basically, a one click simple and as easy as deploying a smart contract as enabled by something like Celestia as an underlying DA layer. I. And so with this upcoming future, we basically have a choice, a fork down the road where we can enter utopia, which is modular enlightenment, ample block space, and a perfect user experience built to onboard billions of users, and all the transaction flow that's going to come with it, or we're going to go down kind of a very, very terrible route, which is modular dystopia, effectively chaos that ensues when you have all these millions of chains, all fragmented in terms of liquidity, in terms of ux, and in terms of social alignment.
00:02:32.580 - 00:03:40.340, Speaker A: And really the only thing that's actually keeping us on the left hand path as opposed to the right hand path is interoperability, and that will bring us towards this modular alignment path, which is why I personally feel like it's so important to be building interoperability in order to ensure that we stay on that road. However, it's really, really easy if interoperability is kind of faltered at a certain piece of for this modular chaos to kind of unfold. And so this is kind of the thanos that we're kind of facing in this modular endgame that's blocking our way towards this modular alignment future that we're seeing. And so, to quote my favorite person, Steve Rogers, Captain America, this is the fight of our lives, and we are going to win whatever it takes. And so the good thing about modular chaos versus modular alignment is that we're assembling the Avengers team. We're working together collaboratively with a lot of different folks in the team. We're not doing this alone in order to ensure that we're taking down modular chaos and that we're building towards the route of modular enlightenment that we're kind of seeing in the future of millions of chains.
00:03:40.340 - 00:04:37.780, Speaker A: And so, just to quote John Charb a few weeks ago, we're all building the same thing. And what that looks like in terms of modular enlightenment, modular enlightenment is basically what we call the modular mullet. And so we have chain abstraction in front, which is a way in which we can basically abstract away all of the blockchain complexity for app developers and for users. And in the backend, we leverage the millions of chains or the infinite chains they're going to see in order to have all that ample block space and all that customization that chain developers really want and desire. And so what that looks like from a more kind of technical lens is basically cake. It's basically the chain abstraction framework that frontier research pioneered, where we have all these different pieces coming together. These are the Avengers coming together in order to ensure that we're fighting thanos and moving towards modular alignment.
00:04:37.780 - 00:05:21.204, Speaker A: And so what does that look like from a bridge endgame perspective? And so, like with anything with modular blockchains, we go modular. Right. And so across, we kind of pioneered this idea of what the end game bridge looks like with their V three. Announcer and so with that is intents. We have kind of intents that are flowing through all these user intents and all this order flow that's happening off chain. We have solvers, effectively, these middlemen or middle organizations that are fulfilling these intents. They are off chain agents that are able to bundle these intents together and actually form transactions to execute on chain.
00:05:21.204 - 00:05:58.110, Speaker A: And then we have settlement. Right. Settlement is basically a way in which these intents become a reality on various blockchains. And also the solvers are able to repay in order to continue executing intents for these users. And so what that looks like is that we're assembling the avengers, right? From a modular blockchain. Sorry. From a modular bridge perspective, effectively, we have all these different, all these different organizations that are effectively filling in these different pieces of the modular bridge stack.
00:05:58.110 - 00:07:09.440, Speaker A: And so we have the permission layer, or said differently, we have the intents layer of all these organizations that are building off chain intents and off chain permissions. We have the solver layer, where across also fits in, but effectively a way in which we can onboard more solvers and also decentralize more solvers such that there are more of these off chain agents that are able to participate in this end game stack. And then lastly, we have the settlement layer as well, which is where catalyst fits in. Actually, it's a way in which solvers can be repaid and then the actual transactions can be fit into the necessary blockchains. And so that's all great and dandy thinking about all these different frameworks and all these different ways in which existing players are fit into it. But what does that mean when you actually take all these frameworks and push it toward the limit, push it towards what it looks like to scale to a million chains? And so what I'm going to do is I'm going to walk through kind of what a flow looks like of onboarding a new chain. And then what we can do is take that n equals one example and scale it to a million and see how much it can actually hold up.
00:07:09.440 - 00:07:43.694, Speaker A: And so let's take the perspective of a new chain launching. Mind the analogy. It's basically like the big bang, right? It's an explosion. It's something that's created from nothing, and it's kind of the start of the new chain lifecycle. But the issue about this is that there's no life, right? When you create a new chain, there's nothing really there. And that's kind of what we see as an issue with founders right now that are building new roll ups and chains is that they make it. They're really excited.
00:07:43.694 - 00:08:35.832, Speaker A: They can use all these different modular frameworks like Opstack, like arbitrum orbit, but then what? It's kind of in its own planet, and there's not a lot of life really breathed into it. And so what they can do is effectively two options, right? The first option is injecting resources into the chain. And so what you can do is if you are a new chain or you are a new roll up and you need to inject resources into it, this is where the modular bridge becomes really helpful. You can take the intent of onboarding these new assets into this new chain, and there's effectively these solvers that are able to bring these assets onto there. And it's analogous to importing goods in this picture. You can see that there's two projects that are working towards this. There's hyperlane and there's Stargate.
00:08:35.832 - 00:09:34.590, Speaker A: And so what hyperlane does is they have something called warp route, where you can effectively wrap assets on any chain and permissionlessly bring that to a new chain. So you can bring things like ETH and USDC if you want that to be injected into this new chain's economy. And the second thing is Stargate, which is conceptually similar. And so Stargate is a cross chain amm, where you can effectively wrap the assets that are in these different chains that Stargate is deployed on, like optimism and arbitrum, and you can bring it onto a new chain using their omnichain standard that they call oft. So, again, this is analogous to effectively importing goods into a new planet. And so what if you are a new chain and you don't have necessarily the business relationships or the liquidity or the financial ability to actually import all these goods, right? It's not like people are doing this out of the goodness of their hearts. You have to set up business deals in order to inject these chains.
00:09:34.590 - 00:10:23.652, Speaker A: And so you can do something else, which we call basically forming a trade deal. If you have something that's desirable, if you have a natural resource, for example, for a planet. But in this case, let's say you're a gaming chain, and you have access to all these new users that are pretty adjacent to crypto. That's something that's desirable for other chains, and they want to access that. Right? And so what you can do is effectively form a bilateral agreement in which you're working with those chains. And so that's effectively the mindset that catalyst takes when we think about new chains. And so what catalysts can do for these new chains is effectively form ways in which there is an equal kind of agreement of moving value between two different chains.
00:10:23.652 - 00:11:01.642, Speaker A: And so let's say that this gaming chain has a native token, and this is something that powers the entire gaming economy. And that's something that another chain wants to get access to for their users, right? And so there's effectively an amm that's spun up for the native token on the gaming chain, and then, let's say for ETH or USDC or what have you, on another chain. And they're able to actually perform cross chain swaps together. And so the interesting about this is that it's actually an equal agreement of value transferred. And so at no point is there kind of an imbalance in which more value is being injected to one chain or another. It has two native asset pools. They're able to swap against each other.
00:11:01.642 - 00:11:45.536, Speaker A: So that's really powerful for a chain that might not want to have a trade deficit. Basically, there's equal exchange of value, which we think is really important. And what we try to enable for these new chains. And so behind all this is basically solvers expediting the whole process. They're the kind of the space suits wearing spaceship crusaders that are able to actually transfer all this communication between all these chains as they coordinate their economies, as they inject or export different resources. And so that's kind of what it looks like on an n equals one example. And we can actually do this at scale, right? As we add more chains, we can inject more resources, or more chains can form different trade deals with one another.
00:11:45.536 - 00:12:37.650, Speaker A: And so it really doesn't break. And so this is how modular bridges are really able to scale into the world of millions of chains that I think is about to happen really soon. And so with that, you know, we achieve modular alignment. Sorry, modular enlightenment. Right. It's a way for us to ensure that all these millions of chains are connected to one another, feel like they're one chain and abstract that experience using all the permission projects that I was talking about, in order to ensure that app developers and users are able to use them at scale without any sort of added complexity. And so that's all good and dandy, but even as we achieve modular alignment, there's a bit of a bottleneck that we need to address, and that's the solvers.
00:12:37.650 - 00:13:33.576, Speaker A: And so, like I said, in this process of coordinating between millions of chains, we have solvers expediting the whole process. Unfortunately, and this is a research paper that I cited previously this week from the Lifi team. Arjun Chan, the researcher at Lifi, said that a few solvers win nearly all of the order flow, right? A significant percentage of auctions involve only one bidder. And so what that looks like is even though we think of this huge ecosystem of solvers that are actually fulfilling these intents across all these different chains. It looks more like wintermute doing it. And so it's not solvers expediting the process, it's wintermute or other large market makers that have the financial resources in order to actually move these communication methods. And so with that, we kind of have a fork in the road where a second dystopia emerges.
00:13:33.576 - 00:14:33.040, Speaker A: Right on the right hand side, we still have thanos, we still have modular chaos that happens when we don't have strong interoperability primitives. But on the second hand, we have strong interoperability primitives, but they're ruled by our solver overlords who are puppeteering everything. And so is that worse than thanos? Up for debate, but definitely something that I personally don't want. And that we're working really hard with catalysts in order to ensure that that doesn't happen either. And so we need to break this hegemony. We need to find a way in which it becomes easier to be a solver such that it's not wintermute that's coordinating all of the cross chain activity in the future, but it's actually a decentralized, open ecosystem of solvers that can do so. And so how we do that is going back to first principles, looking at the solver flow and looking where the bottlenecks are and seeing how we can help with that.
00:14:33.040 - 00:15:28.730, Speaker A: These graphics are actually from the Everclear team, but I think they're incredibly helpful in showing what happens in the current solver state. But we can basically see, well, not basically, but bit complicated. I can say it at a high level is that solvers need to have cross chain inventory in order to enable solving to happen. And so on the left hand side, you could see that users intents are being fulfilled cross chain, but it's actually the solver that is holding different assets on different chains in order to facilitate that. And so what needs to happen is that even though the user is moving funds to different chains, the solver needs to hold these assets on different chains and then eventually rebalance back to the origin chain based on the flow they're seeing. And so you could see that this is quite arduous, requiring a lot of different chains that need to be managed. And of course, there's latency required to rebalancing.
00:15:28.730 - 00:16:17.586, Speaker A: And so from a research paper that came out earlier this year by Chitra et al, you could see that it's actually really difficult to become a solver. You have multi chain rebalancing, you have congestion costs, you have to pay more if different chains are more expensive. You have cost to source liquidity from centralized exchanges, and of course you have the always looming legal considerations. And so the quote argent again, but sometimes, this time more simply. Running an agent, a solver, is not easy. And so the question becomes, how do we make it easier? And so the solution that the Everclear team is talking about is lowering the barrier by netting. And so instead of having all this rebalancing happen on chain and happen n number of times, that becomes quite inefficient at scale.
00:16:17.586 - 00:17:22.526, Speaker A: They basically have a netting method in order to streamline that. Is there a way in which solvers can be repaid using the net balances of another solver? And this is conceptually really similar to what transferwise does for cross border remittances. And so that's a way in which we can streamline the inventory needed from solvers. The second approach that catalyst takes is let's not do netting. Let's just ensure that there's a way in which solvers can always access assets on different chains such that there's no arduous need to rebalance between chains. Our hope is that solvers don't need a whole cross chain inventory because there's an underlying liquidity layer that they can always access assets towards. If they're moving assets from ethereum to various l two s or from Ethereum to the Cosmo space, is there a way such that solvers can always just access the assets on the destination chain such that they don't need a whole cross chain inventory? And if that doesn't make sense, I'm sorry, I'm abstracting away a lot of details.
00:17:22.526 - 00:18:17.910, Speaker A: Feel free to ask me after the talk, and I'm happy to explain that more in detail. But basically, what I'm trying to say is there are various ways that we're thinking about ensuring that we go down the path of modular alignment. There are various ways that we think about breaking down the barriers to become a solver such that we're not beholden to Wintermute and the other solver overlords. And that's the beauty of crypto, is that we're all building towards the same thing. We all want to achieve modular alignment. And in the interoperability space, there are a number of teams, like catalyst, like Everclear, like across Hyperlane, Li Fi, and Stargate, and a bunch of our logos that I didn't add because they didn't fit into this Avengers picture that I found on the Internet that are working towards this, and as a result, it becomes a beautiful canvas of perfection. And so that's the beauty of working in crypto and interoperability.
00:18:17.910 - 00:18:18.690, Speaker A: Thank you, guys.
