00:00:00.240 - 00:00:12.566, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the deli Grey refuel, where I recap the latest news in the theorem ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Sasano. Today's the 3 July 2023. Right everyone, let's get into it. So, something you may have missed over the weekend. I know I did.
00:00:12.566 - 00:01:21.428, Speaker A: I only came across this just before, was a tweet here from Ryan Berkman's, who said that yesterday, yesterday being July 2, the CFTC, or commodities Futures Trading Commission in the US, announced their new digital asset markets subcommittee. Advisors to this subcommittee include BlackRock, Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan, Fidelity, Moody's, Nasdaq, HSBC, which are the obviously giant tradfi companies, but also Polygon and Uniswap. So it seems that members from Polygon Labs and Uniswap labs have joined this subcommittee in order to try and I guess like have a voice within, obviously, the US regulatory bodies here and make sure that CFTC regulation, as well as anything that extends beyond that, is regulated in a way that he's not, I guess, harmful to crypto. And now the CFTC has generally been friendlier to crypto than the SEC. They are in a little bit of a turf war with them as well, because the CFTC obviously regularly calls ETH a commodity, whereas the SEC has stated before that they believe that the 8th is a security. And I mean, it's just kind of this back and forth, which is just weird. I mean, obviously I believe that 8th is a commodity.
00:01:21.428 - 00:01:55.548, Speaker A: I think it should be, should be labeled as such and then regulated in the tradfi institutions as such. But until there's actual clarity from Congress, is still going to be this kind of back and forth between the CFTC and SEC. But that shouldn't stop us from trying to inform policy, you know, at the CFTC level here with, as I said, people from Polygon labs and Uniswap labs joining this new subcommittee. Now, there are a lot of members as part of this subcommittee. You can actually see them on this list, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. And usually these things can take a while to play out. Obviously, governments are slow moving, especially regulatory bodies.
00:01:55.548 - 00:02:25.396, Speaker A: I wouldn't expect anything tangible from this to happen anytime soon. But it's still awesome that we have a voice at the table, right? We have a seat at the table here in order to, to kind of inform these things. And you know, there was, it was funny, there was some rumors over the weekend that, well, not rumors, it was blatant fake news and was pretty obviously fake news. But but some Twitter accounts were tweeting that Gary Gensler had. Had resigned from the SEC. Now, of course, that's fake news. I mean, if that was real, you wouldn't be seeing it from random, unknown publications.
00:02:25.396 - 00:02:45.828, Speaker A: You would be seeing it from, you know, some of the biggest publications out there, because they would get that scoop if it was, you know, if something like that was to happen, because that's obviously a big deal. What I wanted to focus on was the reaction to that news. The people who actually believe that news, the reaction was obviously very positive. Everyone's like, yeah, okay, awesome. Gary Ganzler stepping down. That's great. You know, it's gonna be awesome for crypto if it actually were to happen.
00:02:45.828 - 00:03:39.824, Speaker A: I was like, well, not necessarily, because I think, obviously, Gary Gensler has a bone to pick with crypto. He's using it for his own kind of, like, political ambitions, stuff like that. But at the same time, if he resigned and then someone else replaces him, there's no guarantee that that person who replaces him is going to be friendly to crypto. And nothing has changed either. The SEC still doesn't have, you know, a guideline or guidance for crypto, so doesn't have a framework in place for crypto, and there's no telling that someone who replaces Gensler would actually put that in place. We could end up with someone worse. So I think that while him resigning, you know, could be a positive catalyst, if there was something better, someone better that came in, I think that really, we shouldn't be cheering on that sorts of stuff, but we should be cheering on Congress actually passing positive legislation for crypto so that these regulatory bodies can't do this, overreach, because the SEC is definitely overreaching.
00:03:39.824 - 00:03:54.568, Speaker A: Right. But they're doing it that, because there is a void. There is a. An opportunity there for them to do that because there is no legislation for these sorts of things. Right. So. And that goes for, like, basically most of the regulatory bodies in the US when it comes to financial markets.
00:03:54.568 - 00:04:35.584, Speaker A: So I think from that lens, there's no point cheering or hoping that Gensler resigns because it's not going to rectify the actual core issue, which is that we need our. Well, at least the US needs to put forward actual frameworks and regulatory guidance and legislation in order for the crypto ecosystem to be able to thrive without, you know, different teams within the US not doing airdrops to us people or not letting them kind of access their app because they don't want to get in trouble for doing that. Right. So it's it's just, it's crazy that that happens, but that's the way it kind of is. But yeah. Anyway, as I said, you can check out the full list of members as part of this subcommittee and read more about it. I'll link it in the YouTube description below.
00:04:35.584 - 00:05:25.234, Speaker A: All right, Christine Kim is out again with a breakdown of the Ethereum all core devs contentor Slayer call number 112. So she starts off the thread by saying this week Ethereum developers discussed the inclusion of a builder override flag in the engine API and increase to the target and maximum blob limit to three six from two four, and ongoing research around changing the maximum effective balance of validators. Now these are all things that I've talked about on the refill before, but you can read Christine's thread for a breakdown here of this. Now, in terms of kind of like timelines around this. I mean, the engine API thing is something, something separate. I wanted to maybe focus on 48 44 and the effective balance of validators. So 48 44 I still think is on track for, you know, for later this year, as I've described before, I'm not going to rehash that there the effective balance of validators.
00:05:25.234 - 00:06:35.188, Speaker A: This is kind of up in the air because there was all that noise about it when it happened, I think last week or the week before when people finally clued into it. Obviously the post had been around for a little while since then, but there was a lot of noise about a lot of people getting confused thinking that it was the minimum eat stake going up, when in reality, no, it was just going to be the maximum ethic going up and had a lot of interesting conversations with people about, you know, my views on this stuff and my view on how I think that it is, you know, neutral, like the upgrade itself would be neutral for the Ethereum network with a slight positive lean. And I got agreement from many people on that that I talked to about this. But in saying that, you know, it's all about a priority thing for core developers, so, or prioritizing which upgrade should go into the network. So if all we're getting from increasing the maximum effective balance of validators is a neutral to positive kind of, I guess, like change for the network, that means it wouldn't be prioritized over other upgrades that may be more positive than, than this would be. So in terms of timelines around that, if it were to happen, obviously we do, you know, there's not even an ip for this yet, but if it were to happen, I wouldn't expect to see it on the network till late next year, to be honest. I mean, I don't expect to see it in the upgrade after den kun.
00:06:35.188 - 00:07:15.286, Speaker A: So if it was to happen, probably late next year. But honestly, I don't know. I don't think it's something that should be prioritized because I don't think it's something that's going to. I mean, I've said before how I do believe there are a lot of positives, especially for solo stakers, but I don't think it's more important than a lot of the other stuff on the ethereum roadmap right now. So in saying that if it's able to go in, if it's able to be quickly coded up and doesn't require a lot of core developer effort and core research effort, sure. But yeah, that's my kind of general view on that. Whereas something like 48 44, definitely critical upgrade that requires all of the core devs and researchers to work together in order to get it onto the network and make sure that it's done right.
00:07:15.286 - 00:07:49.634, Speaker A: And that has been happening right. They've been hard at work doing that and that's why we're going to be seeing that towards the end of the year. Now related to 48 44, Devnet seven went live over the weekend. So you can see here FLCL, who is a core dev at Nethermind, put out this screenshot saying AIP 4844 Devnet version seven over 9000 blocks and counting. Much stable, very diverse. You can actually see all the clients that are participating as part of Devnet Seven. You have a lot of diversity here, you know, nevermind, Prism, Lighthouse, Lodestar, Tecu and Nimbus, which is, which is great to see here.
00:07:49.634 - 00:08:33.370, Speaker A: So and geth of course, and Basu and you know, the El clients here. So yeah, it seems that Devnet seven has gone well. I remember I mentioned to you guys Devnet six had a bit of a rough start and didn't actually start from my, my understanding. So Devnet seven was just a Devnet six, but working essentially. So seems like things are stable. I haven't really seen any updates since, since yesterday on this, but great to see that it was stable for over 9000 blocks, which obviously is a positive sign there. And yeah, this is 4844 running live on a Devnet now as I've said before, there'll be maybe, I don't know how many Devnets they're going to be, but maybe there's one more after this, maybe maybe two, I don't know if there's going to be one or two here, but then they'll start doing the test nets.
00:08:33.370 - 00:08:59.166, Speaker A: I did mention the other week how there's a new testnet being spun up on September 15 called whole whole sky. Apparently there are different ways to say that, by the way. I'm saying it's whole sky, but apparently some other people say it's holish key or something. I think Holeshki is the right pronunciation or the correct pronunciation of it, but I'm just saying whole sky. I think Holeshki is maybe a german word or something, I'm not sure. But I'm just saying Holsky because I'm an english speaker, so that's how I read it. Right.
00:08:59.166 - 00:09:20.496, Speaker A: But anyway, enough about the naming. But yeah, that's scheduled for September 15. I don't know if that's a hard deadline or a hard date. I think that might be a soft date right now, but that's what they're aiming for. And then once it goes live, maybe they want to let it bake for two to four weeks. And then we get, you know, 48, 44 go live on there as the last testnet to fork. And then we fork basically mainnet after that.
00:09:20.496 - 00:09:41.964, Speaker A: So that's why I got to the November date the other day when I talked about this. But anyway, you can check out both of those tweets from Christine and FLCl. I'll link them in the YouTube description below. All right. A couple of tweets here from Tony, who I've spoken about a lot on the reef before. You know him from the MeV Boost Pix website. So he says here, the share of MEV Boost blocks is on the rise recently.
00:09:41.964 - 00:10:25.726, Speaker A: Now, over 95% of the blocks go through MEV Boost. So this was at 90% for a while. But it has been going up, as you can see on the chart here towards the right hand side. And that only makes sense because obviously, if you're running a validator on the network, if you're not running MeV boost alongside it, you are missing out on potentially a lot of money from the MEV rewards. So it only makes sense for people to be running MeV Boost. And this is why I've said a lot of times on the refuel about how MEV boost is great, but the fact that it is outside of the core protocol leads to issues for core devs and researchers when trying to reason about the core protocol, because this isn't integrated in directly, it is sidecar software. And that's why we have efforts like PBS.
00:10:25.726 - 00:11:05.602, Speaker A: So the fact that 95% or over 95% of the network is now running this means that, I mean, it's effectively the whole network, right? I mean, it was effectively the whole network once it got over that 60. That's kind of that kind of threshold, the consensus threshold. But I mean, it's kind of weird though, because block building and block proposing and a testing, they're all different things. But when looking at the network, you have to consider Mev Boost. Now, when you're a core dev, you have to think, okay, well, how is the change to this client going to affect MeV Boost? Because, you know, 99.5 times out of ten, the people running your clients are going to be running MeV Boost as well. So it basically becomes a core core thing to think about for the core debs.
00:11:05.602 - 00:11:58.488, Speaker A: And that's why we want to integrate it directly into the protocol so that we can have a better reasoning about it and so that the core devs can have it as part of the spec and the core protocol itself for an easier way of developing things and leading to a reduction in bugs and a safer and healthier beacon chain. So, yeah, just this chart's available on the Mevboost Pixar website for you to check out. But I mean, it can only go up a little bit more from here, right? It's going to go up like, what, four or 5% more from here to get to 100%? I don't think we're going to get to 100%. I think there's always going to be those stragglers who don't run mev boost. But, yeah, I mean, it doesn't surprise me that we are at this level, which is over 95% now. And the second tweet from Tony is talking about latency in the MEV game. So latency plays a huge part in MEV relayers and which relayers get blocks and which ones are potentially the most profitable.
00:11:58.488 - 00:13:08.296, Speaker A: And Tony has a big tweet here breaking this down and kind of explaining how ultrasound money's relay is using something called optimistic relaying, where essentially they optimistically, or they basically assume that every block that is, that is kind of sent to the validators from the, or sent to its relay is a valid block. So then the relay sends it to the validator to be proposed without running a simulation to make sure that it's a valid block. And what the things that would make it invalid is if the transactions included weren't following the rules of the protocol and stuff like that. And the way they, they mitigate any kind of issues around that in terms of these kind of builders submitting blocks on purpose that, that aren't, you know, that aren't, that aren't proper blocks that aren't going to be proposed and aren't going to be accepted by the network is that they require a bond from the builders to do this. And by using optimistic relaying, this has catapulted ultrasound money to a huge part of the MEV kind of like boost market share or MEV boost relay market share. I believe they're over 40%, which is obviously huge and bigger and the biggest at this point. But Tony does a great job of explaining this here with a chart as well that you can check out.
00:13:08.296 - 00:13:36.812, Speaker A: So I'll link that in the YouTube description below. All right, Eigen layer is increasing its restaking capacity for LST's and native restaking. I believe this is going live on July 10. Yeah, their week. Sorry. And they, they say here we expect the caps to be raised sometime during the week of July 10. At that time, the caps of lsts including ReTh Steth and CB ETH will be increased to 15,000 tokens per LST with no individual deposit limit.
00:13:36.812 - 00:14:28.516, Speaker A: Once the sum of all total of all LSD deposits reaches 30,000 tokens, a global pause on LST restaking will be initiating initiated. The significant increase in restaking capacity empowers more users to actively participate in future restaking opportunities. So you can read obviously the full blog post here for a detail on that, but then they go into detail about the rest of their roadmap here. So in Q three there is going to be an operator testnet. This phase will allow operators to familiarize themselves with Eigen layer infrastructure and prepare for seamless service of AVS validation tasks. It serves as a crucial step towards the operator mainnet launch which is scheduled for the end of Q four and Eigen Labs is currently in active development of Eigen data availability, which is the first AV's or scheduled for launch on the Eigen layer platform. And they're collaborating closely with a variety of roll up teams to leverage this offering.
00:14:28.516 - 00:15:24.262, Speaker A: And Eigenlayer team is also engaged partnerships with multiple projects to develop and introduce a wide range of actively validated services or avss on Eigen layer. So yeah, exciting times for Eigen layer. They are moving very quickly here with a expectation of mainnet going live by the end of this year and they're testing that going live in Q three here. You know, I know the eigen layer stuff is divisive within the Ethereum community. I think that there are a lot of different opinions on what the end state of Eigen layer is going to look like for the Ethereum network. There was recently that restaking podcast on bankless with a bunch of different panelists and tray ram from Eigen layer. And you know, it's funny, whenever those kind of podcasts come out where you basically have some of the smartest researchers in Ethereum meet some of the smartest people building infrastructure like Eigen layer, and they all just talk openly about concerns about the benefits of things.
00:15:24.262 - 00:16:14.514, Speaker A: And it was, it was quite a, I wouldn't say drama filled episode, but it was very spicy. That's the word I was looking for. It was a very spicy episode because essentially there were a few specific takes. Given that I think are worth focusing on. One of the takes was that if, I mean, I think the researchers generally agreed that if Eigen layer was to pose an actual existential risk to Ethereum or restaking generally, I should say not just Eigen layer, that the core devs and researchers would move to basically make restaking not, not possible or not economically feasible on the ethereum network, which I think is the right approach, because just generally, anything that poses an existential risk to Ethereum should be treated in that way. And doesn't matter if it's restaking or something else, I think that the bar should be set that basically says hey. Or the expectation should be set that basically says hey.
00:16:14.514 - 00:17:10.754, Speaker A: If you develop something that presents an existential risk for the ethereum network, then the Ethereum social layer is going to kick in and basically say, well, we need to fix this, right? We need to make sure that this cannot pose this kind of risk to Ethereum and then work together with the researchers and developers to develop a solution to this. Which I think is what the researchers were saying on the podcast. And the other main takeaway as well, was that I think that there are a lot of unknowns within restaking. There are a lot of things that people think, think might go wrong or think might, you know, be positive or think might be a risk that we don't, we just don't have enough information to, to have a measured take on that, because restaking has never been done before, especially not in Ethereum or at the scale that Ethereum operates at. We need to stay, we need to see rest taking live in different market conditions. Obviously, it's going to be very different in a bull market as it is to a bear market. We need to see what, where people put their lsts.
00:17:10.754 - 00:17:40.864, Speaker A: If they want to put that in restaking or if they want to put it in money markets. We need to see potentially what happens when a mass slashing event happens on an Eigen layer. Av's right? So let's just say there is a big data availability network that's leveraging restaked ETH via Eigen layer. And let's say it has 10% of all ETH on there, right? 10% of all, sorry, I'm. 10% of all staked ETH on there. Now that would be at current, I guess, like ETH stake amount, what, like 2,000,002.5 million or something like that.
00:17:40.864 - 00:18:10.316, Speaker A: Probably not, not that high, but to 2.5, let's just say. So let's just say that gets mass slashed. And let's just say that a healthy chunk of that needs to be withdrawn from the beacon chain to, to make everyone whole. So that's the thing that we need to see play out in the wild, to see how the market would react, how the secondary market reacts. Because there, there are lsts at play. Let's see if anyone's, if anyone jumps in and says, here, I'll take that off your hands for this discount, and then I'll go arbit against the beacon chain.
00:18:10.316 - 00:18:45.498, Speaker A: And then, you know, I'll eat the kind of like time risk here, I'll eat the volatility risk. There is a lot that goes on because of the secondary markets here. So I don't think we're gonna have answers to exactly what's gonna happen. We can have hypotheses, we can have theories about this, but we're not gonna get any hard answers until we actually see this play out in real time and play out, you know, on a main net instead of like on a testnet or in theory land. So that's what I'm looking forward to seeing. I mean, I hope there is never a mass slashing event that ends up being like that. But the existential risks and the things that the researchers generally talk about is, is that kind of mass slashing event.
00:18:45.498 - 00:19:41.116, Speaker A: Right. What happens in that, in that scenario? And I've discussed that before on the refill where I've said that I don't think it's a huge concern because of the fact that we have validator cues in place. And I think that just generally, when you, when you look at that and when you look at the existing measures in place to make sure that the Ethereum beacon chain would be okay, even in that scenario, then you have to reason about, okay, well, what does the secondary market do? What does the exit queue look like? Is there going to be a mass exiting of validators? Is there going to be a mass, you know, exiting of stake, sorry, exiting of lsds at the secondary market, which puts LST at non fair value. There's so many open questions, and we're not going to get answers to those like definitive answers to those until we see it play out in the wild. So that's why I'm excited for Eigen layer. I mean, I'm also an investor in Eigen layer, I should disclose that. But I've been talking about them for ages and I think that given the unknowns here, there's no point speaking in definitives.
00:19:41.116 - 00:20:31.486, Speaker A: There's no point taking a binary thinking approach to this. We need to take a nuanced approach, a nuanced thinking, and see where it goes from there. Now speaking of that, there was another research post here that you can read called restaking an Eigen layer aggregate security, which talks all about how Eigen layer leverages ETH staking to aggregate security and obviously offer better security guarantees than you otherwise would by issuing your own token because you're leveraging staked ETH. And you can read this process from YQ here, I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. But anyway, enough on Eigen layer there. As I said, excited to see it all play out as time goes on. All right, speaking of staking, Jasper has another thread around our rocker pool today, and this one's all about the PDAO and how it is set to get millions in additional funding and you know what they're going to be doing with it.
00:20:31.486 - 00:21:30.724, Speaker A: So this funding is coming from rewards being redirected from the ODAO to the PDA. And I've discussed this before about how the ODAO is getting a pretty substantial reduction in rewards and that reward those rewards. Instead, those RPI rewards are going to be going to the PDA, which is used to do things like incentivize liquidity in the rocker pool ecosystem for things like RPL and you know, and grow the rocker pool protocol. So the main two things that Jesper talks about in this thread, deep RPL liquidity plus oracle and cross chain are ETH incentives. So you can read this full thread. It's only twelve tweets long for a for a breakdown of what Jasper is talking about here, but I'm curious to see what kind of impact this has on rocket pool's growth because I think that there is always valuable insights to be had even if something fails. So for example, Jasper says here, you know, the PDA is getting millions in funding to, to, to grow rocket pool by incentivizing more liquidity or doing things with cross chain r eight incentives.
00:21:30.724 - 00:22:25.886, Speaker A: Well okay, but what if that actually doesn't lead to the outcome that, you know, the Rockerpool community wants? What if these RPL rewards get used and then it doesn't actually lead to growth for Rockapool? Well, that's, in my mind, still not a failure. I still think that's very positive because what it does is it shows other LSD protocols what didn't work. And then you can work around that and you don't have to waste money and you don't have to use additional money or additional token incentives on things that didn't work. In saying that different protocols offer different things and different incentives and they're at different stages of growth in their lifetime. So it's going to be difficult to kind of translate that data one to one, but it's still valuable. And again, and in saying all of that, I think that generally these rewards are actually going to lead to growth for rocker pool. I think that, as I've said before, economic incentives and economic rewards within crypto have shown time and time again that they do work when done properly.
00:22:25.886 - 00:23:16.348, Speaker A: And what by properly I mean when it's done for a protocol that has a long term growth vision and just long term mindset generally, which obviously Rocketpool has, but also that it's done in a sustainable way because a lot of protocols, what they do with the liquidity mining incentives is that it's not sustainable at all. They basically give away a lot of their token, which, which just puts a ton of pressure on the token. And if the token isn't valuable, then no one wants to farm it, right. It doesn't become worth it to farm it. You go farm something else, you go get token incentives from somewhere else that's paying you. So the RPL price is actually pretty resilient, and the RPL token is actually just pretty resilient generally against both USD and, and ETH. So for these token rewards to work and continue working, that price just needs to basically remain stable, if not trend up over time in order to be attractive for people.
00:23:16.348 - 00:23:51.604, Speaker A: But it's going to be interesting to see if that happens or if it doesn't happen with this RPL, with these RPL incentives going to different parties, because it's not going to the Odao anymore, it's going to various different parties within the rocker pool ecosystem. And, you know, in saying that the Odo, it dependent, I mean, the Odo consists of around 20 members. I think I actually, I remember I said the other day I wasn't sure. I went and checked. It's like 18 members and each of those members were getting, you know, 600 and something RPL right now per month. Some of them were selling it. I think some of them were selling it all.
00:23:51.604 - 00:24:34.732, Speaker A: Some of them were selling a portion of it for taxes. I'm obviously donating mine to the protocol guild who maybe one day will sell it. So yeah, it kind of depends on what the different ODA members we're doing and what the new recipients of this RPL are going to do with it. And that will, that will obviously play into the price. But at the same time, I think that it can act as a really nice flywheel effect because if there are incentives to become node operators and then stake RPL and you know, and kind of like drive demand towards RPL, it kind of balances itself out where the rewards are being paid. But people still bought RPL in order to stake and become node operators to service the, to service the demand for Reth and stuff like that. So yeah, I think it can work and I'm curious to see it play out.
00:24:34.732 - 00:25:08.426, Speaker A: But yeah, we'll have to see how that goes and that'll play out over the next few months. All right, so you guys will remember that optimism. Mainnet or op? Mainnet, recently upgraded to bedrock while op Labs is sharing some metrics highlighting the impact of this upgrade. Now, you remember that the gas fees dropped by over 50% since bedrock went live. And I remember showing you guys that. And here's a nice, nice chart showing going from the legacy system to the bedrock system and the massive drop in transaction fees. And then they explain, you know, how savings like this are kind of possible here.
00:25:08.426 - 00:25:37.092, Speaker A: And secondly, the bedrock system has achieved more predictable core data compression performance so far, as you can see here. And then there's a bunch of other charts describing things like how is this all playing out on op mainnet? End users have noticed and responded. User transactions per day are up by 66%. And L2 gas used per day is up by 50%. So op mainet has been growing because of this. But yeah, you can check out this thread here. It's not too long of a thread with all of these different metrics.
00:25:37.092 - 00:26:06.858, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, last few minutes here to talk about something. Firstly, you're going to see my face again on the bankless weekly roll up for the next two weeks because David is off climbing mountains this time. So I'll be doing it with Ryan, not David. So be sure to keep an. To keep an eye on that one there. And then another thing that it's probably going to take me a few minutes to talk about is the general kind of sentiment right now around nfts.
00:26:06.858 - 00:26:58.060, Speaker A: And I don't talk about nfts very often on the refuel. I have said many times before, and I've been saying this for a very long time, that I am bearish on 99.9% of the nfts, especially their profile picture projects generally. But I don't want to focus on that. What I want to focus on is when you kind of have people who make bets on things and then those bets don't play out, what ends up happening is that things turn very toxic. And this can be very detrimental to a community because it can begin a death spiral for communities, where essentially what happens is that if the majority of your community was only around because they wanted to make money from buying the nfts, and this goes for tokens as well, but just talking nfts specifically, if the majority of the community was only around to speculate and to make money, then those people are going to capitulate. They're going to sell what they've got because they think it's going to zero.
00:26:58.060 - 00:27:16.992, Speaker A: And then what you're going to have left is just bag holders who are being toxic to each other. The community turns in and of itself. They start asking questions like, can devs do something to pump the price? They start thinking or feeling like they're being rugged with. A lot of. A lot of times they actually have been rugged in NFT land. Unfortunately, in token land as well. Don't get me wrong, it's the same thing.
00:27:16.992 - 00:27:47.184, Speaker A: But that is why it leads to a death spiral. And that's why I always go on about this difference between mercenaries and missionaries, where the missionaries are going to stick around, you know, most of the time, even if the price is going down. That's what happened with Ethereum in 2018 2019. There was a core missionary group that kind of saw Ethereum through that. But if it's just mercenaries, then what ends up happening is that you have a community that's left over. That is, as I said, just very, very toxic. It is not a missionary driven community.
00:27:47.184 - 00:28:21.046, Speaker A: It's a community that's only sticking around because they think that what they're holding can pump again and they can just exit and be on their merry way. Uh, and the, and the longer it doesn't pump, the longer it keeps going down or just stays flat, the more toxic the community becomes. It means no new members are coming in because they don't want to be part of that community. And it doesn't lend itself to, to forming any kind of like missionary vision behind the actual project. I think that's happening with a lot of NFT projects. I think that's happened with a lot of token pro, token, uh, a lot of projects generally that had tokens over time. Um, and it's just the way it works.
00:28:21.046 - 00:28:51.972, Speaker A: So I guess my point here is that when you invest in something and you plan on holding it for the long term, you best be sure that the people behind the project are missionaries and not mercenaries. And you best be sure that that project is actually going to be around for the long term, for the duration that you think you're going to be able to hold the thing for in order to profit from it. Because if not, you're going to be in for a world of hurt. I have held things down. I know what it feels like. I've held things down over 90% and sold them there. I know what it feels like.
00:28:51.972 - 00:29:12.868, Speaker A: It doesn't feel good. But at the end of the day, you need to just cut your losses if you fall yourself into that position. And don't just, and don't get involved with all the toxicity because it just makes it worse. And it doesn't make you a better investor. It ironically makes you a worse investor because you just keep repeating the same mistakes over and over again. But on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching.
00:29:12.868 - 00:29:19.124, Speaker A: Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
