00:00:00.240 - 00:00:30.804, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deli Gray refuel. I recap the latest news in Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Dan Denise Asano, and today, the 26 May 2023. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So starting off today's episode, we have a fresh recap thread of the latest Ethereum all core devs call from Tim Biko here. Now, what they covered on this call was mostly got to do with the removal of something called self destruct, which I'll talk a little bit more about in a sec. Some 4844 spec changes, opcode management, and potential final cancun additions.
00:00:30.804 - 00:01:17.062, Speaker A: Now, the self destruct stuff is mostly, or pretty much all got to do with developers. It's not something that an end user generally kind of interacts with or really cares about. So if you're a developer, if you're someone just curious, there is a great thread here from ddorb. Ddorb, I think is how you say it, where they say next version of Ethereum or the Denkun upgrade will remove a self destruct, allowing a future transition to verkle trees. The Ethereum team had asked them to establish to what extent will this break existing protocols, and this is their summary of, of what they found. So basically this shows that there are some protocols that will unfortunately be broken by this because they're using self destruct as part of their code base. But the impact can range from low to high.
00:01:17.062 - 00:02:02.996, Speaker A: And you can see on this table here that some projects are impacted more than others. And obviously a lot of these projects can just upgrade or change their contracts around to, to basically rectify this. Now, this is something that Ethereum as a network has done in the past, where basically removing or changing an op code has resulted in certain contracts breaking. And I don't think, I mean, there are some people who say this goes against the immutability of Ethereum. I think like there is an argument to be made there, but at the same time, the self destruct opcode actually leads to more negative stuff than positive stuff on the network and it actually harms the network. So removing it is being done for the health of the ethereum network and it should never have really been put in in the first place. And it has been recommended not to use self destruct for a long time now as part of your code base.
00:02:02.996 - 00:02:39.354, Speaker A: And anyone ignoring those recommendations did so at their own risk because there is strong consensus around removing this, this kind of opcode here. So as I said, it is most likely, I believe, getting removed or changed in some way here. And you can read this thread to see all about that and the impact on that. But that's what was basically discussed for most of the call yesterday. There's also some news on 4844. I believe that there's getting ready to spin up Devnet six. I think there was something here from Tim about, yeah, Devnet six will be the last 4844 exclusive Devnet, and then after that they'll start pulling in other eips to test as well.
00:02:39.354 - 00:03:26.774, Speaker A: So so far the Devnets have only been testing 4844, but obviously they want to begin testing on the other eips that are slated for inclusion in the Den Koon upgrade. And then after the devnet will move on to private testnets, and then, or I guess like permission test nets and then permissionless testnets and then the live test nets and then mainnet. Of course, I'm still expecting this to go live on main net, probably Q four at this rate. I'm not sure exactly when in Q four, but, but, but Q four nonetheless. But you can read Tim's thread for the full recap of the call, as well as his thread from the daub for the impact of what removing self destruct will have on the network. All right, moving on to a quick faq from Domothy. So this faq was answering some common questions that Domothy has seen about the idea of burning Mev.
00:03:26.774 - 00:04:03.334, Speaker A: Now, Mev Burn has been the talk of the town, I guess, for the last few months, especially since Domothy first proposed that it has gone through a bunch of iterations and changes since then. So that's why Domothy put together this faq that basically answers all the questions you have around it. And this is pretty detailed. I highly recommend giving this a read if you're interested in learning all about MEV Burn. And maybe you have questions that are answered on here as well. This thing that stuck out most to me was something that was highlighted in the daily grade discord channel as well. So I think that there was a calculation done that if we had burned the MEV.
00:04:03.334 - 00:05:00.040, Speaker A: Yeah. So here, as of early May 2023, it is estimated that burning the MEV since the merge, so since, since September 15 last year, would have resulted in the supply of ETH declining roughly three times faster. So it would have been a huge, I guess, like burn on top of the already big burn of ETH since the merge, if we had burned MEV instead of giving it, obviously to, to validators and the MEV boost network. Now, in saying that, as I've said before, I still want to reiterate this point that MEV Burn isn't being done primarily to drive value to ETH, or to just burn ETH so that we can burn more Ethan and make ETH more deflationary. It's being done in conjunction with things like PBS or proposal builder separation, because we want to remove as many of these negative externalities that MeV generates on the Ethereum network as possible. So Mev Burn is obviously one way to do that. And you can read this faq from Domothy to get a full breakdown on that below.
00:05:00.040 - 00:05:44.160, Speaker A: Now, speaking of PBS, there is a new post here. So Mike, who works at the Ethereum foundation, has put out a tweet saying I'm super stoked to share a new piece written with Justin Drake on the past, present and future of PBS. So if you're curious about the relationships between MeV Boost epbs and optimistic relaying, you can check out this post on ETH research now. Again, highly recommend reading this post for yourself. It goes through basically the pros and cons of EPBS. So propose a builder separation here, and how that will lead to a healthier and more mev resistant ethereum network. And I mean, it's quite a lengthy post, it's quite technical, but it's not so technical that you need to know fancy math or anything like that.
00:05:44.160 - 00:06:40.856, Speaker A: So I highly recommend giving this a read if you haven't yet. Now, as I said, like this goes hand in hand with something like Mev Burn. And this is going to be a big, big part or of the general kind of, I guess, work being done on the core protocol next year. So this year was all about getting withdrawals done, laying the groundwork for verkle trees, and also obviously putting in 48, 44. I think next year and possibly the year after that is definitely going to be mostly about these much more, I guess, like less end user facing things and more, I guess, like core protocol, core network facing things like PBS, like MeV burn, like single slot finality, like vertical trees, because a lot of these stuff all feeds in onto each other. This current design for epbs, as far as I understand from this post, can't actually go forward without single slot finality being put in the network. And it's part of the the scourge kind of roadmap item here, which also includes things like MeV Burn.
00:06:40.856 - 00:08:01.324, Speaker A: Now, MEV Burn is not, from my understanding, a necessity for this, but it's something that they would obviously like to get in at the same time. And this is going to take a bit of testing, of course, so I don't know if it's going to happen early next year. It may end up happening late next year, but this is something that is going to obviously be the focus of core developers and researchers for next year, and possibly the year after as well. It is critically important that we get this sort of stuff deployed onto the network and make sure that we can make the Ethereum network much healthier. I ranted about this, I don't know if it was this week or last week about how people were saying that they wanted the MEV payments to remain because they were getting nice rewards being an ETH stake or an ETH validator, and I basically said that I think that the Ethereum network should do what's best for the network, or the Ethereum ecosystem should do what's best for the network first and foremost, then worry about the other, I guess, stakeholders in the network. Because at the end of the day, if MEV isn't dealt with in, I guess, like a proper, healthy way, the logical end state of the Ethereum network and of any network that has MEV on it, which is pretty much any network that has anything of value to be extracted, ends up death spiraling and it could potentially kill the network altogether because it leads to instability of consensus. That is basically the worst case scenario.
00:08:01.324 - 00:09:37.982, Speaker A: And what, and the practical outcome of that is reorgs and reorgs, obviously not great, not great for a number of different reasons, and I've discussed this before, but, but having things like single slot finality and PBS and MeV Burn are going to greatly diminish those risks, as well as just making the Ethereum network overall more healthy and making it so that the Ethereum, and this is particularly important for Ethereum core developers and researchers. So they don't have to pay attention to these out of protocol software known as Mevboost, because as I've explained before, MevBoost is out of protocol sidecar software, but it is so dominant across the network, over 90% of validators, I think, use it, that it basically is part of the core protocol from a perspective of a core development researcher having to test things using MeV Boost, and making sure they account for edge cases with MeV Boost, making sure they account for the MEV boost network being able to work with any further upgrades after a hard fork. So it is definitely something that I think that the core devs and researchers are interested in just enshrining as part of the core protocol with PBS instead of allowing to exist as sidecar software, because then it becomes a lot easier to reason about and manage when doing things like upgrading the Ethereum core protocol, and it becomes much healthier for the network overall. But anyway, as I mentioned, you can read this new post here. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so Eric Connor today put out a great tweet that I thought was worth discussing. He said, years ago, Sassle, Zero X and I often discussed the three pillars of ETH value accrual.
00:09:37.982 - 00:10:07.476, Speaker A: Those three pillars are trustless collateral for DeFi, staking returns via network security and fee burn based on usage. It's beautiful to see them all working cohesively today. ETH is a thing of beauty. So the amazing thing about this is that we were discussing this all the way back in 2019. It may have even been 2018 when we were discussing this. And what's amazing about that is that ETH use as trustless collateral within DeFi in 2019 was very muted. There wasn't much going on at all, and it was really dominated by just maker.
00:10:07.476 - 00:11:00.952, Speaker A: I think Maker had like over 90% of all the TVL of Ethereum based DeFi. There was no proof of stake network that was live, that went live in December of 2020, and there was of course no fee burn because that went live in August of 2021. But in saying that, these things that we were talking about were in progress from when we were talking about them in 2018 and 2019, and that was our major bull case at the time. And obviously the price of ETH was pretty depressed during 2019. It had a little pump, I guess, like into the middle of the year, but then blocked, bled out again later in the year and obviously bled out pretty hard against bitcoin as well. But we always believed in these three core pillars for ETH value accrual that fed into things like ETHB becoming a store of value and accruing a monetary premium and stuff like that. So I think that when we look back on this and look back on how far we've come, it's just great to see that they're all working so cohesively today.
00:11:00.952 - 00:11:33.464, Speaker A: Right? We have a massive defi ecosystem with a theory within Ethereum that just keeps growing and growing as, as time goes on. ETH is still used as pristine collateral within that ecosystem. And now obviously we also have lsts which are used as collateral as well. Staking returns. Obviously proof of stake has been live for quite a while now. Since December 2020, we had the merge go through and the APR has shot up because of the execution layer. Rewards going to stake instead of miners, and proof of work is a distant memory at this, at this stage for Ethereum and then fee burn based on usage.
00:11:33.464 - 00:12:04.194, Speaker A: Well, we've had that for a while now. It's almost, I mean, it's going to be two years in August since we've had ErP 1559. And it is worked, has worked way better than we ever thought it could. Like in 2019, the fees on ethereum l one were not that high. So the most optimistic, I think, fee burn projections, when we're nowhere near what they were, what they have been since 1559, went live because Defi summit came in 2020, and that's when the high fees started. So that's just been an amazing success as well. And that's all fed into everything else within a.
00:12:04.194 - 00:12:58.076, Speaker A: Within ETH as an asset, such as it becoming, as I said, a store of value and having a monetary premium. And also just looking back and seeing how hated ETH was as an asset back in 2019 and even 2020 to today, where ETH is considered the premier asset to own within crypto. I mean, obviously you have BTC as well, but there are a lot of people out there who are very, very vocal about ETH being better as an asset than BTC. Obviously, I am one of those people. Right. Uh, and we've seen this bear market, how the ETH BTC ratio has really stayed relatively flat, whereas the last bear market, it nuked like almost 90%, I think, from its, from its high, uh, which I think is an incredibly positive signal for its value accrual, not just against USD, but against BTC. Because as I've said, when you're measuring different assets within crypto and you're trading and investing in them, you want to have, obviously, a fiat benchmark, but you also want to have a crypto benchmark.
00:12:58.076 - 00:13:40.290, Speaker A: And the only two crypto cryptos that I benchmark things against are BTC and ETH. I only benchmark most things against ETH, but then I obviously benchmark ETH against BTC. And if I, if ETH is not outperforming BTC over the long term, then it was. No, there was no point owning ETH over BTC. But in saying that, you also have to factor in things like staking returns, you also have to factor in things like holding ETH gives you much more exposure to other ecosystems, like, like Ethereum and L two S and other L1 s. And that brings with it more opportunities to profit and make money. So I think I mean, Ethos has outperformed bitcoin for most of its life, and I expect it to continue doing that, especially into a bull market.
00:13:40.290 - 00:14:17.534, Speaker A: But it's just nine day difference between what it was in 19, 2019 and 2020 to what it is today. So, yeah, just great for Eric to bring that up then. It kind of was a bit nostalgic for me as well, because a lot of you will know that Eric and I ran something called ETH Hub, and we ran a podcast called into the Ether, which was a weekly recap of all things that were happening in Ethereum, where Eric and I just bounced off of each other for 45 minutes and talked about everything that was happening. I missed doing those episodes. Maybe it comes back one day, I don't know. But I know those were the episodes where we discussed a lot of these things. But obviously I've continued on the work with the deli Gwe and continued to carry the torch there.
00:14:17.534 - 00:15:04.474, Speaker A: All right, so this is one for the developers out there, anyone interested in decoding the EVM. So bytes zero, three two has put together an EVM handbook. So basically this is a pretty extensive handbook of everything got to do with the EVM and all the moving parts around it, such as solidity, memory storage, all that good stuff there. So not much more for me to say on this other than you should definitely go check this out because I figured it was just very interesting for people who were interested, who were interested in learning about the EVM and especially developers out there. But for someone like me, who I guess is less technical and not a developer, it's. It's not something that I will be using personally, but it's definitely something that I think that you guys should go check out. So I'll link that in the YouTube description below for you to do so.
00:15:04.474 - 00:15:37.704, Speaker A: All right, so you can now participate in the KZG ceremony if you have only sent 16 transactions or more in the past. So I've been covering the KZg ceremony for many months now. We are almost at 100,000 total contributions. We're at 99,700. And you know, the most amazing thing about this is that, I don't know if I said it on the refill, but I did say to some friends that I expected us to get to at least 100,000 total contributions throughout the entire contribution phase of the KZG ceremony. And we are pretty much there. So just amazing to see that turn out.
00:15:37.704 - 00:16:12.278, Speaker A: I know there are, you know, there is a lot of contributions that are probably attributed to people farming an airdrop when there's not going to be an airdrop for this. But obviously people don't want to, don't want to take the chance of maybe there is one. You know, even if there is like a 0.1% chance of some kind of airdrop, then I guess it's worth it. And the funny thing is, is that the KZG ceremony, I guess, like coordinators themselves don't have to airdrop anything. Other people from other ecosystems and projects can basically say, okay, well, you're eligible for an airdrop of our token because you contributed to the KZG ceremony. So it still works in either way here.
00:16:12.278 - 00:16:51.364, Speaker A: But the contributions, I think, will be sorted and filtered out and things like that as well. And obviously we'll know which ones are the strong ones, which ones are the weak ones. But as I've mentioned before, you only need to have one honest contribution out of the entire set. It's a one of n trust assumption out of the entire set for the KZG ceremony to be secure and trustless. So if you trust that your contribution was, was done properly, then that's it. You don't have to trust any of the other contributions out there, which I thought is pretty, pretty cool. But yeah, if you have an address that has only done 16 transactions, you, you can now contribute to the KZG ceremony.
00:16:51.364 - 00:17:27.490, Speaker A: And maybe you tried to contribute originally back a few months ago, and you weren't successful. Well, there are zero participants in the queue right now, or I should say in the lobby, because it was, it's not actually a queue, so you should be able to contribute straight away. So I'll leave this link in the YouTube description below for you to do that. All right, so Ryan Berkman says, given us an update on the tokenized US treasury bills that are thriving on Ethereum. So he's put together this little fact sheet where he said TvL has gone from zero dollars to two hundred million dollars in three and a half months. There's half a dozen good competitors with more coming, and the yield is around 4.75% plus.
00:17:27.490 - 00:17:54.944, Speaker A: So. But today, direct access is usually whitelisted for qualified investors, both US based and non us based. But yield arbitrage and treasury is looping similar to steth looping and driving up stable coid stable coin yields towards t bill yields. See unincentivized 3.8% USDC yield on on flux, which is a fork of compound v two. And Stakefi also has made an excellent t bill dashboard for you to track this. So this is really cool.
00:17:54.944 - 00:18:27.384, Speaker A: I guess it's natural that this sort of stuff would be taking off within DeFi right now, considering that treasury yields are so high. Obviously when rates were low, the treasury yields weren't great, but now that the rates are much higher, treasury yields are much more, I guess, appealing to people. And it's great to see this coming into, into Ethereum and growing so fast. I mean, zero to 200 million in three and a half months is great. I mean, I believe a lot of that is unincentivized as well. Most of it is probably unincentivized. And as I said, there is this dashboard here from Steakhouse that you can go check out.
00:18:27.384 - 00:18:49.734, Speaker A: Everything got to do with this. Like the protocol is doing it. And you can see here the protocols and different products doing the bills here, the market caps of each of them. So it seems like Ondo and Matrix Doc are the leaders right now. And you can see that there, you can see the growth over time. So, I mean, it's really just been like up only most of it, most of the growth here. And then there's a bunch of other metrics here.
00:18:49.734 - 00:19:39.952, Speaker A: So, I mean, I'll link the dashboard in the YouTube description below for you guys, but this is great to see. I've said before that I thought that this year and next year particularly, we're going to be a really strong year, really strong years for real world assets within the ethereum ecosystem or in the ethereum defi ecosystem. And there's actually one other narrative within defi that I've been paying a lot of attention to lately, and that's this concept of, I guess, minimal defi protocols. And what I mean by that is DeFi protocols that don't rely on oracles, that don't rely on governance, that don't rely on these centralized points of failure, these true kind of DeFi protocols that can be rather autonomous. So something like uniswap, for example, where it can be immutable, it can be autonomous, it doesn't need an oracle. It doesn't need centralized control and centralized, you know, pseudo centralized governance and stuff like that. Also decentralized governance, I should say.
00:19:39.952 - 00:20:27.434, Speaker A: So I think those two things are definitely something to pay attention to, especially the real world asset stuff. Because at the end of the day, as I've said, it can't just be like the crypto native assets. Like if we want to expand DeFi, if we want the DeFi to become the global backbone of a new financial system, then it has to incorporate every asset. It can't just be limited to digital assets. And I guess like digitally native assets, we have to digitize or bring the other assets such as stocks and treasury yields and bonds and real estate and everything like that, into the crypto world, into the DeFi world. And that's how ethereum becomes the global settlement layout, by just being that backbone. But for that to happen, obviously we need people to go out there and do it, and it's great to see that there are projects working on this and they're actually getting traction.
00:20:27.434 - 00:21:07.686, Speaker A: They're not just dead in the water and trying to get traction, they're actually getting traction, even though it's obviously relatively small at 200 million. But it's more about the growth trajectory, which has been pretty fantastic here. And obviously I expect this growth to continue, and I think it will. If rates remain high for quite a while, the treasury bill yields will actually be quite popular, I think, for a while. And even if they, even if they go low again, hopefully we get some clarity around tokenizing things like stocks and being able to trade them. So that's more real world assets that can come on chain. But we already have a huge amount of real world assets on chain in stable coins, obviously USDC, USDT and other centralized stablecoins.
00:21:07.686 - 00:21:53.664, Speaker A: But I personally am much more interested in non currency real world assets because those are the things that we haven't traditionally seen being brought into crypto just yet. But anyway, you can go check out all of this. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right. Monet supply has put out a tweet, in case we missed that, saying that USDC is now around 25% of die backing down from over 40% one month ago and 50 plus percent for much of the past year, the dicolliteral basket is becoming increasingly diversified. This is really great to see. I think that the caveat here is that while USDC is down, there are other stable coins like GUSD and USDP, which have kind of filled that gap, and other centralized stable coins, I should say.
00:21:53.664 - 00:22:43.174, Speaker A: And there are obviously other real world assets as well, as you can see here, that have filled that gap too. So most of the basket, from what I can tell here, is still centralized assets. But the thing is, I said this a while ago. I said that it's a concern when it's only one centralized asset being the backer of most of the, I guess like being the collateral for most of the DAI, but it's much less of a concern when you have disconnected centralized assets being backing up the thing, right? So if you have like ten centralized assets backing daisy in equal proportions. Let's say they all have 10% share each. That is much better than DAi being backed by 50 plus percent just of USDC and 50% of maybe decentralized cloud or maybe 25% ethan, 25% something else. Right? So from that perspective, this is a lot healthier.
00:22:43.174 - 00:23:03.320, Speaker A: It's a lot healthier version of DAi. And as I mentioned before, Dai needs to scale and needs to continue scaling. And I don't think it can do that by just having 8th only as collateral or just decentralized assets as collateral. It needs to have everything. And I'm fine with that. But I think people just need to be aware that DAi is not a truly decentralized stable coin anymore. But that's, that's okay.
00:23:03.320 - 00:23:39.766, Speaker A: I actually don't think that a stable coin has to be truly decentralized for it to be successful. We've seen plenty of examples of this, but I do, do think we can do a lot better than what we've seen with USDC and USDT. They're great, they serve a purpose. But if we want something that's a lot more resilient and actually, you know, not just totally centralized within one company or one entity, then we obviously want to see things like Dai succeed and be backed by many different types of collateral, which is exactly what we've been seeing. And I hope that this trend continues. So great tweet from Monet supply here just to put this back on our radar. All right, Astaria has launched.
00:23:39.766 - 00:24:25.034, Speaker A: So they announced that they have launched today, the 20, or I guess yesterday, the 25 May here. So Astaria is a novel NFT backed lending protocol and I've talked about them on the refill before and I've also disclosed that I'm an investor in them before. So basically Astaria is a borrower borrower centric platform with instant liquidity, fixed terms and no forced liquidations. You can simply borrow from the supported collections. And there are a bunch of popular NFT collections that are supported here. Liquidity providers that deposit one ETH into the, into these pools here will receive an LSD token redeemable in July for a piece of physical blotter paper, which you can see here as well. So there are incentives going on here to basically obviously incentivize usage in the Astaria protocol.
00:24:25.034 - 00:24:59.450, Speaker A: And yeah, you can go check this out for yourself at the link here at Astaria XYZ, but this is really cool. I'm glad to see that this is live. I know there are other NFT, I guess money markets, I guess you could call them, or the borrowing lending platforms out there. But Astaria, obviously, I'm a backer in them. So anything I say is probably going to be biased here. But Astaria is great because I think it's being built by true crypto natives that have built products before and that have been very involved with crypto before. One of the founders is Justin Bram, who you know from his YouTube channel where he did a lot of great defi videos.
00:24:59.450 - 00:25:29.564, Speaker A: He's very, very knowledgeable and all things crypto. And then also Joseph Delong, who was at sushi for a while and before that he was an ethereum core developer. So these people have a lot of experience in building products, bringing them to market, and a very crypto native. So I just love seeing that. I love seeing that they've built something exciting in the NFT infrastructure space. And I'm very curious to see what kind of traction they get, especially in this massive NFT bear market that's currently underway. Because, yeah, nfts pretty much in the worst spot that they've been in.
00:25:29.564 - 00:26:19.172, Speaker A: But the funny thing is, is that they're still in a much better spot than they were just a couple of years ago. So it's more of that kind of, they have their slow growth period and they have like their massively inflated growth period and they come back down and they have this kind of like peak of disillusionment where most people aren't interested in anymore, but people are still building stuff to add more value to the NFT ecosystem, which is exactly what Astar is doing. So I do think Astar is going to be a big player when obviously interest comes back for, for NFTs in a big way, which I don't think is, is too far away. I do think interest in NFTs comes back with the general bull market because there is a lot of value there, not just for, for things like collectibles, but anything unique that can be brought on chain. So definitely go check out Astaria for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, last up here, just a shout out.
00:26:19.172 - 00:26:47.620, Speaker A: I am doing a Twitter spaces with Oval Labs next week. We're going to be talking all about solo staking, staking in general distributed validator technology. My experience and the people that are going to be on the spaces with me is experience with setting up an oval cluster and being part of a distributed validator set here. So if you're interested in that, I'll link it in the YouTube description below and you can set a reminder it's going to be at 04:00 p.m. On Thursday, June 1. So 04:00 p.m. Australian eastern Standard Time.
00:26:47.620 - 00:27:10.402, Speaker A: But if you go to the link to the Twitter spaces, you'll actually be able to see the time in your, in your local time. And of course, it will be automatically recorded anyway. So if you miss it, you can check it out there and I'll be sure to link it to you guys once it happens. But yeah, this is going to be happening next Thursday, 04:00 p.m. Australian Eastern Standard Time. But on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching.
00:27:10.402 - 00:27:17.914, Speaker A: Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet, give the thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter, join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all next week. Thanks everyone. Bye.
