00:00:00.320 - 00:00:22.678, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Way refuel, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Cisano, and today's the 2 December 2021. Hi everyone. Let's get into it. So as I mentioned yesterday, Gitcoin grants round twelve is now live with over $2 million in the matching funds up for grabs. I've seen a bunch of people already donate to the daily way, so thank you very much for that. Really, really appreciate that.
00:00:22.678 - 00:00:50.632, Speaker A: But of course, definitely go here and donate to all of your favorite projects. Just a reminder for you guys, I'll remind you again in a few days. But what I really wanted to talk about with regards to Gitcoin was this donation that was made by the kind of like noun NFT project here. Now they've made a donation of 169 ETH to Gitcoin for the matching round twelve, which is worth about $750,000. This is really, really awesome. And I don't think this tweet thread is 69 tweets. No, it's not.
00:00:50.632 - 00:01:23.118, Speaker A: It's, it's only a few tweets. So you can go read this thread to get more information here. But the reason why I think this is cool is because it's in embracing Danny Ryan's kind of like idea from it's about a month ago now where he basically said we should make it a social norm for all daos and other network tokens building on Ethereum to allocate 1.5% of their tokens to the individuals building and designing the l one infrastructure that they rely upon. These researchers and devs do more for most tokens than any VC. So I talked about this at the time when Danny put this tweet out because I thought it was great. And we haven't really seen much movement there until now.
00:01:23.118 - 00:01:59.290, Speaker A: Until this noun kind of like NFT project voted to donate $750,000 worth of ETH to get coin, which I think is absolutely amazing. But seriously, if you. Whoops. If you actually consider kind of like how much money could actually go towards public goods funding, not just through Gitcoin but through other kind of like avenues, when you take into account how much money a lot of these kind of like token, I guess like new tokens have, all these tokens have in their treasuries. It's a lot, right? It's potentially billions of dollars. I know that native tokens in a treasury isn't a real treasury. It can't really be relied upon too much.
00:01:59.290 - 00:02:41.198, Speaker A: But there are plenty of examples of these treasuries having more than their native token in them to the tune of kind of like billions of dollars. And then you allocate 1.5% of that over the years, and I reckon you could get to billions of dollars worth of funding eventually for these sorts of things. Probably it only starts out with a few million, but still that's a few million that we didn't have before, going to supporting the people that are keeping the ethereum network alive, upgrading it, keeping it, you know, maintained and keeping it and stewarding it and getting us to where we need to be, not just at the core protocol layout, but also with L2s, roll ups, supporting infrastructure, all that sort of stuff. So I was just really happy to see that kind of like neon did this donation here. I'm hoping to see other projects follow suit because we need more of this. We definitely need more of this.
00:02:41.198 - 00:03:15.634, Speaker A: And especially with projects that have like large treasuries or kind of like large war chests, they definitely need to kind of like step up here and donate. Cause I think it's just a great public good thing to do. Anyway, enough on that one. There's an interesting tweet from David Hoffman here today called, where he shared basically a pie chart with the caption. Here's a more detailed pie chart of the ETH Genesis allocations. Now, by Genesis allocations, this is basically, I guess, like ICO plus, plus all the ETH that has been mined since then. So you can see here that the total ETH supply is currently 118,000,060.1
00:03:15.634 - 00:03:46.476, Speaker A: million of that went to the Ethereum ICO, essentially. So that was part of the public sale that happened in 2014. There was no KYC required for this, there was no accredited investor, kind of like check. There was nothing like that. It was literally, you sent some BTC to an address, and then a year later, when the Ethereum network went live, you were issued your ETH on the network, and away you go from there. Now, there was a bunch of other ETH also issued at the time to various parties. The Ethereum foundation were issued 3.48
00:03:46.476 - 00:04:10.624, Speaker A: million ETH, of which they only retained 350,000 today. They sold a lot in the early days because they needed the money for funding. There was 8.4 million ETH given to early contributors. Those were kind of like founders and just like anyone who worked really early on with Ethereum. Now, reminder, if your ETH was worth $0.30, well, that was an implied valuation at the time, because the ICO raised, I think $30 million or something like that.
00:04:10.624 - 00:04:46.152, Speaker A: So yeah, the implied valuation was about thirty cents per token, which I'm sure we all would love to get our hands on a 30 cent ETH, but back then they had to pay like thousands of ETH just to pay someone a normal full time wage. Right. That's just kind of like the way it was back then. And then there were then there's also the largest single recipient here, which is Vitalik, who got 696,000 ETH at the time, of which he today retains about 350,000 of that. He has given away a lot of it, he has donated a lot of it, and over time he has sold some, obviously for his own expenses. But that is a very, very small percentage of the network. I think it's 0.7%
00:04:46.152 - 00:05:18.488, Speaker A: of the network. Now, the rest of the coins that make up the 118 million total ETH supply come from the coins that have been mined since then, of which 45.9 million have been mined, where anyone could acquire these by setting up mining hardware. Now we all know that the ETH supply is not capped. It's going to keep growing over time, even after the merge. But, you know, post merge is going to grow at a much, much lower rate, less than 1% issuance per year, and then we have the burn to offset that extra issuance, which makes us deflationary at current fee levels. But yeah, I thought this was a really cool pie chart that David kind of shared here.
00:05:18.488 - 00:05:54.810, Speaker A: It really does show that most of the network has gone to, I guess like the openly, it's gone to the people, hasn't gone to like any vc, hasn't gone to any insiders. You know, 60 million went to the public sale, 46 million has gone to mining. And the rest of it went to kind of like funding the development of the thing. Because I mean, if the Ethereum foundation didn't have this ETH, then they would not been able to kind of like fund themselves. And, you know, Vitalik taking his share. I mean, as I said, the implied valuation at the time was $0.30. So 700,000 ETH that almost 700,000 ETH that Vitalik took at that time wasn't worth very much, right, compared to what it's worth today.
00:05:54.810 - 00:06:40.122, Speaker A: Obviously, it's worth billions of dollars today. And as I said, he sold some, he's got 350,000 ETH left, but he took a very, very, very small share. And I think he did that on purpose because Ethereum is supposed to be decentralized network there is not supposed to be any one kind of like party or, sorry, any individual or entity that controls a large portion of the supply. And I think that, you know, there were people, or they probably even are people who own a large portion of the supply, but they had to buy it on either through the ICO or on public market. There are probably people out there that have, you know, 1 million plus ETH, like individuals that have 1 million plus ETH, but they either bought that at the sale or bought it or kind of mined it. I mean, I doubt they mined that much ETH, but they bought at the sale. They bought it on the open market like everyone else had the opportunity to do.
00:06:40.122 - 00:07:10.528, Speaker A: They were not allocated it as part of some insider allocation. Even the early contributors, I mean, there are a lot of early contributors that kind of, like, helped Ethereum out, and a lot of them actually sold their stake early on, too. Like, funny enough, it's actually, it's very hard to describe how different it was back then. Like, I actually wasn't around in the 20 14, 20, 15, 20 16 era of Ethereum, but I have a lot of friends who were, and they described it to me. It was just a night and day difference to what it is now. There was no guarantee that ethereum is going to go anywhere. Like, absolutely anywhere.
00:07:10.528 - 00:07:45.450, Speaker A: And when Ethereum actually went live, the price of ethanol, I think, went to like a dollar or $2 initially, and then just like, up over time, fell back to, I think, $0.40 or something like that. And then it stayed pretty flat for a while, you know? And then, you know, 2016 was a big year for ETH. Went to, like $25, but then went back to six because of the Dow stuff. So during that kind of, like, period of two and a half years since Ethereum kind of like, did the ICO, there was a lot of uncertainty. There was absolutely zero guarantee anything was going to happen here. No one in their wildest dreams predicted that ETH was going to $1,400 basically at the end of 2017.
00:07:45.450 - 00:08:08.472, Speaker A: I mean, technically January 8, 2018, but no one predicted that at all. No one even predicted that ETH was going to $100, right? That was just, like, the craziest things to say. So a lot of people sold, and they sold early. Now, looking back, but if you consider it at the time, it wasn't early. It's just like relative. You know, we're looking at relative kind of like sale prices now. So that actually worked to distribute ETH in an even better way, especially from miners who are mining it.
00:08:08.472 - 00:08:34.890, Speaker A: They didn't get too much of a control of the network. ETH went through many market cycles which distributed the tokens out. And I think it's pretty safe to say that there are only a handful of individuals today, if that would own, you know, more than a million ETH, which is still less than 1% of the supply, mind you. But I don't. I don't think there's actually many of those people. I would probably wager there's maybe two or three of those individuals. I don't even know if Joe Lubin, who was one of the biggest ETH holders because he bought a lot of.
00:08:34.890 - 00:09:12.286, Speaker A: Of it, would even have that much anymore. So that is what multiple market cycles do, they distribute tokens out. That is what that is. Something that's unique to Ethereum as well. Is that when it launched or when it was concepted and then launched, it didn't launch into a industry like we have today. It launched into a very, very nascent industry where the only thing that was considered legit at the time was bitcoin, because everything else was either an offshoot of bitcoin or a direct fork or a pure scam. Now, we obviously have a lot of legitimate projects out there, but a lot of them are very heavy, insider allocated, and it's extremely hard to decentralize ownership of a token over the short term.
00:09:12.286 - 00:09:42.458, Speaker A: And over the long term, it kind of relies on a lot of luck as well, and relies a lot of timing, getting the timing right. So I think that ETH is in a very, very unique position there. I don't think it can be repeated. Bitcoin and ETH are the only ones that had this kind of, like, I guess, immaculate conception and had this openness, because you can't actually do a raise like this these days. And if you do it, you kind of like, bring on the eye of regulators. Back then, regulators weren't even looking at this industry, really. I mean, the biggest regulatory action that got, that took place that had to do with crypto was the shutting down of Silk Road.
00:09:42.458 - 00:10:25.130, Speaker A: But that was shutting down of Silk Road that had little to do with crypto itself. It's just that bitcoin obviously was used a lot on that marketplace, but it wasn't really about crypto, it was about shutting down Silk Road. So, yeah, as I said, thought this was interesting from David. Just wanted to kind of walk through it a bit for you guys, but moving on. So proto lambda put out a great tweet today about EIP 4488. Now, I discussed this EIP last week, but I want to run through it again for those who missed it. So this EIP basically kind of like proposes that we should lower the gas cost of core data from 16 to three, which would lead to a five times increase in, sorry, five times decrease in gas fees for roll up, specifically because rollups, a data hungry.
00:10:25.130 - 00:10:59.856, Speaker A: They love to chew up that core data, which is layer one data that's used to secure the roll up. Now, I've talked about off chain data, kind of like communities before and things like that, but that makes something not a roll up. It's like a volidium or a volition or a ZK porter. But optimistic roll ups can't take advantage of that. They are constricted in that way where they must place their data on layer one to even work, which means that it's currently pretty costly for them. I think a swap can be like six or $7 on an optimistic roll up, or, sorry, on optimism, or arbitrum. If this ERP was to go through, that would come down to one or $2.
00:10:59.856 - 00:11:24.688, Speaker A: And this is before the optimistic roll ups do their own core data compression and amortize the gas fees. So you could easily see sub dollar one swaps on these things if this EIP was to go through. Now, in this thread, proto lambda goes through this and explains it in better words than I can. You guys will know about Proto. I've talked about him before. Used to be an Ethereum core developer, now works at optimism as an optimist, as he likes to call himself. But yeah, this is a big deal.
00:11:24.688 - 00:12:16.248, Speaker A: And, you know, people may be wondering, what's the trade off if we were to do this? The trade off is that the chain gets larger and it becomes marginally harder to run the blockchain, which means that we may suffer some kind of like loss of decentralization because of this. Now, I don't think it would be any huge impact. I actually think the trade off is worth it, because right now the impact is that, yeah, okay, we're super decentralized, but there's only a very few users who can even use layer one. And then you go to L2, and the costs are still, you know, higher than where we want them to be. So this AIP is very, very simple. As I said, it just reduces the gas cost of call data from 16 to three gas per byte, which is, which is a five x kind of like decrease there. And then proto goes on in this thread about kind of like how there's an improved version of this called 4490, which you can check out, as I said, what the trade offs are, and then kind of like a link to the discussion on the Ethereum magician.
00:12:16.248 - 00:12:40.230, Speaker A: So definitely go check this out if you haven't already. I'll be discussing this as time goes on. I think they're trying to get it done before the merge, but I doubt it's going to go through before the merge unless there's like a massive push for this. But again, it's a small, relatively small change. It doesn't require any kind of like massive overhaul of anything. It's, if I had to guess, it's probably like a few lines, maybe not even that of code change here. But you obviously need to do the testing.
00:12:40.230 - 00:13:04.282, Speaker A: You need to do kind of like the auditing. You need to make sure everything's good to go before this hits main nets. And you also need to get community buy in. There are still people on the other side being like, is this worth it? Sort of thing. Will this delay the merge? Blah blah. If it, if it did delay the merge, it'd probably only be by a couple of weeks, which, you know, is that really a big deal? I don't think so. It gives the merge kind of guys more time to test out the merge and to kind of like make, make sure things are cool.
00:13:04.282 - 00:13:42.886, Speaker A: But there's no date for the merge yet anyway, so I don't know if I'd even consider it a delay. But, but yeah, go give this thread a read. It'll be linked in the YouTube description below. So I put out this tweet today where I said ZK teams need to stop constantly taking cheap shots at optimistic roll up teams and just work together to scale Ethereum. There, I said it. Now this comes from a little bit of a frustration seeing various ZK teams and ZK researchers, not all of them, but you know, many of them take these cheap kind of shitty shots at optimistic roll ups, saying that they're inferior technology, they're obsolete, they're this, they're that. But then I look at it and I'm like, okay, well show us what you got.
00:13:42.886 - 00:14:04.686, Speaker A: ZK teams. Do you have a generalized EVM ready for users today? That ZKVM ready fuses today? No, none of them have that. None of them even have close to that as I described. Stocknet is really, really cool, but it is not EVM compatible and it's still really early in an alpha kind of like fashion. ZkeVM is still a research project. It is not live yet. It will be live eventually, but it is not live yet.
00:14:04.686 - 00:14:34.972, Speaker A: And it's probably a little while away still. So we have optimistic rollups live today. They are EVM compatible, or EVM equivalent in optimism's case. They work, projects can easily deploy there, users can easily onboard to there and bridge to there. And the fees right now are cheaper than Mainnet, we can get them cheaper than what they are, and we will over the coming months. So why are we kind of saying, oh, it's obsolete tech and kind of like taking these cheap shots when in reality it's the tech that's live today? Who cares if you consider it obsolete? It's what's live today. It works today.
00:14:34.972 - 00:15:09.640, Speaker A: It keeps people in the ethereum ecosystem, and it lets us kind of like fight these other l one s off that offer kind of like cheaper scalability, sorry, cheaper fees and more scalability at the cost of decentralization. So, yeah, I just kind of like put that out there as a social signal today and Mahalo from the Polygon team. You know, said Polygon ZK teams never do that. And the reason why they don't do that is because as I, as I replied here, you know, polygon is a great example of an ecosystem embracing all scaling solutions and working on them for the betterment of Ethereum. As I've discussed before, polygon is just doing everything. It's not taking kind of like any side in this debate. They're saying, okay, we'll do ZK.
00:15:09.640 - 00:15:28.840, Speaker A: Okay, we'll do optimistic roll ups. Okay, we'll do like hybrids or, okay, we'll do side chains. Okay, we'll do standalone chain. You know, okay, we'll do all this sort of stuff. And the thing is, is that even the, even the even polygon, from what I can tell, knows that ZK is the long term solution. But they're very, very pragmatic about it. They're like, ZK is a long term solution.
00:15:28.840 - 00:15:47.356, Speaker A: Let's throw money at it. Let's throw research and development at it. Let's get this thing going. But in the meantime, let's have our polygon pos chain. Okay, well, now that we have the optimistic roll ups live, let's do those sorts of things. You know, let's kind of like embrace all these solutions and not kind of like become ZK maximalist. I just, I don't get the logic there.
00:15:47.356 - 00:16:55.690, Speaker A: And I know that, like, there's a lot of people on these teams that don't take these cheap shots, but I just think it's counterproductive. I think the real battle shouldn't be l two s fighting each other it should be l two s fighting off these other l one s because that's who they're competing with. Like, yes, okay, to an extent they may be competing with each other, but at the end of the day, the pie is going to get so much bigger from here that if they're trying to compete with each other right now over the limited users that we do have, and especially when one of these kind of like technologies, ZK, it doesn't even have something that's EVM or generalized EVM compatible yet. I just don't understand why this needs to be a thing. So hopefully we can see less of this. You know, I send the social signal out there because I want to make sure that we can kind of see, see less of this and just work together, no matter the technology, to scale Ethereum and stop being elitist about it. Like seriously, as long as you're honest about the trade offs of these things, as long as you're not trying to mislead users, and as long as you're not selling something and saying, oh, it does this, but it actually doesn't, then I see no issue with kind of like embracing these solutions, even embracing things like side chains or kind of like in polygons, pos chains case the commit chain, that was the same logic I used back then.
00:16:55.690 - 00:17:11.250, Speaker A: It was ready users on boarded to it. They got a cheap defi experience and now optimistic roll ups already. So they're on boarding to that. And then hopefully ZKVM roll up roll ups will be ready in the near future. I think it's going to take longer than people think. But you know, when it's ready, people will use it. But use what's ready today.
00:17:11.250 - 00:17:43.674, Speaker A: Don't just sit around, you know, kind of like circle jerking, being like, yeah, we're the best technology ever when there's nothing even live yet. Less. Okay, in theory your technology is great, but at least have something live, right? At least have a ZKVM live before you start swinging, you know, your thing around, trying to kind of like measure it against everyone else in the room. So anyway, that's kind of like my little summary of that tweet there. Moving on. Speaking of optimistic roll ups, litter Cohen did another great thread today, this time about projects on Arbitrum. So you can see here, premier launched on Arbitrum recently.
00:17:43.674 - 00:18:13.534, Speaker A: I've been talking about them. GMX is on their treasure NFT, which apparently is an NFT platform or treasure dao that is getting a lot of traction on arbitrum right now. You have spell on there, or I guess like abracadabra. I can't even know what their name is anymore, but yeah, spell abracadabra on there and then you can bridge using hot protocol, of course to go to arbitrum. And then there's kind of like Defy llama that keeps track of things and a bunch of other things you can read through the thread. I just wanted to highlight this thread because I highlighted his optimism. One, love these things.
00:18:13.534 - 00:18:41.834, Speaker A: Love being able to kind of like spread the word about these l two s. As I said, they're live ready today on board onto them, experience cheaper defi, and it'll get cheaper in the near future as well. So hi fi finance is now live on Polygon. So they were live on the Ethereum main net, but now they're also live on Polygon. This protocol offers a fixed rate, fixed term borrowing against your crypto. So it's in beta right now of course. But you can go to the kind of like site here, check, connect your wallet, check it all out.
00:18:41.834 - 00:19:19.716, Speaker A: It is very early days, I think for, for hi fi, but still good to see another kind of like defi related app go live on Polygon after also going live on Mainnet. So definitely go check that out. If you haven't already. Update here from element finance. So component, the component team has launched the first iteration of a yield token compounding tool built on top of element finance that you can try out today. So in this thread, they describe how a user got 9% variable exposure to $134,000 by spending 3.4k. Now the TRDR, from what I understand, is that the user basically just bought the yield bearing token of that $134,000.
00:19:19.716 - 00:19:51.846, Speaker A: And that's why it only costs 3.4k, which is just a really cool thing that element finance kind of like enables people to do, and it lets kind of like these other products like component build on top of it to offer these sorts of things to users. So definitely go check out the thread for more details on this. It's very detailed. So if you want to learn how all this stuff works, it's here, but that's kind of like the TL doctor from my end there. All right, so Lyra Finance announced today a retroactive community reward program to give back to everyone who has played a part in their journey so far. So they're actually airdropping tokens to the Lyra discord community.
00:19:51.846 - 00:21:01.360, Speaker A: So if you active in their discord, you got some tokens, early traders and pre ignition liquidity providers. So if you kind of like read this blog post here, it's got all the details of it. Their token seems to be going live next week or, no, sorry, in two weeks on December 14 at midnight UTC, and all the tokens will be claimable on optimistic Ethereum for six months. Now what I really like about this is the fact that apparently a lot of users got a healthy airdrop if they were active in the discord community, which is cool because I've said before that protocols need to airdrop tokens to more of the kind of like long term aligned community members. And I can't think of anyone better long term aligned than community members who are active in a discord channel, especially for longer periods of time because you're not going to be active and be in a Discord channel every single day for like a month, for example, if you're not genuinely talking about kind of like the protocol, genuinely getting to know the community, participating, adding value, and if you know, if you're just spamming in there, you're going to get banned. So it's a really, really great way to distribute kind of like tokens to more of the long term aligned community. And as I said, it seems to be a healthy distribution because people like to do, I think, their, their own kind of like napkin math of what the market cap would be.
00:21:01.360 - 00:21:37.644, Speaker A: You know, they compare Lyra to other options protocols out there and compare kind of like the valuation and things like that. I don't know what numbers they came to. I'm not even going to speculate here because I am an investor in Lyra, but I just think it's one of the cooler ways to do, to do an airdrop. And I'm sure they kind of like filtered out for any kind of bots or spam or just low quality kind of like content on their discord. But as I said, it wasn't the only, that wasn't the only people they distributed tokens to. Also for early users and LP's of the protocol, which is kind of standard these days, and also early traders as well, which was really, really cool to see. So definitely go check out the blog post for more information on this.
00:21:37.644 - 00:22:20.982, Speaker A: So lemma lemma or lemma finance is now live on Mainnet. They build themselves as the first basis trading vault and stablecoin backed by decentralized derivatives to launch on Mainnet. So if you are not familiar with what these products are, never fear, neither am I. As I said, there's a lot of exotic products coming to defi now, and this is kind of another, another one of them. Essentially what, you know, kind of like a basis trading protocol allows you to do is earn yields or a USD denominated yields on your crypto. So just another way to earn yield in crypto. So this is powered by their stable coin called USDL, which is a fully decentralized, 100% capital efficient, USD pegged stablecoin, or at least that is how they bill it.
00:22:20.982 - 00:22:43.368, Speaker A: USDL is backed by a yield generating, market neutral position, also known as basis trading. And they explained it here. You can think of basis trading as a loan to long term long traders with volatile but historically superior returns. The profits and losses from the USDL basis trading position are abstracted away and distributed pro rata to staked USDL holders. So the vault is now open. You can go check this out. You can go try it out.
00:22:43.368 - 00:23:17.876, Speaker A: I think this is really, really cool. From my understanding, a basis trade is the kind of like trading the spread between long and short positions. This is very popular in traditional finance, has been used for a very long time, if I understand it correctly. It's basically the notion of a lot of kind of big crypto traders do this, they'll kind of like long something on one exchange, shorter on another, and then they make the profit difference on the kind of like basis trade. Or essentially because each exchange has different funding rates for longing and shorting, there is a profit opportunity there. And this is lemma. What Lemma is doing is kind of bringing this to the ethereum mainnet.
00:23:17.876 - 00:23:50.682, Speaker A: So definitely go check this out. Check out their blog posts and check out their website for more information on this protocol. So a blog post here from Starkware today on big blocks sync time execution layer consensus zero knowledge proofs swagnamus prime, which is awesome to see. See him on this. And Louie from Starkware or Luis from Starkware in this blog post, unpacked the concept of scalability. So it's a really great blog post, only about an eight minute read, but it explains the concept of kind of like scalability for blockchains very succinctly. So if you want to go check, and it's got numbers as well.
00:23:50.682 - 00:24:22.008, Speaker A: It's got like lots of numbers and kind of like lots of metrics to look at and really just explains it in a very simple way. So definitely go give this a read. It will be linked in the YouTube description below. All right, so Brantley is added again with an update on the November or on November for Ens. So in addition to the Dow and EnS launch, there are some new stats here so 89.9 thousand new ETH registrations all on ETH L1, despite high gas fees, which is really, really awesome. I mean, that's a lot of new ens.
00:24:22.008 - 00:24:58.858, Speaker A: Sorry, ETH registrations here. You can see that that is the biggest month by far in history. And obviously that is in due, that is due to the token leading to an incredible amount of increased marketing for, for Ens. Right? Like it just, it was everywhere for like a couple of days or two or three days, which is enough because it just disseminates across, across like the crypto sphere, $7.6 million in protocol revenue, which goes directly to the Dow, which of course is controlled by Ans token holders or delegates, over 99% of OpenSea volume in its category. So there's really no second best when it comes to domain name services. And now there's over 200,000 owners.
00:24:58.858 - 00:25:54.404, Speaker A: So absolutely awesome to see the growth here on Ens. I mean, we all know Ens is the, you know, everyone's favorite kind of like domain provider. If you don't have a ETH, are you even in Ethereum? Really? But you know, I do wonder like how many people registered a ETH name expecting to get an airdrop. I think there's a fair few people who did this, but I wouldn't say that it was the majority because as kind of like Brantley points out here, there's high gas fees for doing this. It's, it's not a cheap thing to register a dot e name on layer one. So unless you were sure, or unless you knew, or unless you kind of like for some reason just assume that you were getting Ens tokens, I don't think there's a lot of people that would have done that because there are people that would have seen the gas cost and maybe double checked and be like, okay, am I actually going to get Ens tokens out of this? And they would have seen that they're not, and no one is going to like, the only ones that got rewarded were from the snapshot they took, which is the 30 October. I think it was 30 of October.
00:25:54.404 - 00:26:22.980, Speaker A: Any after that is not getting any Ens tokens. But I think a lot of people know that. And I think people are just registering ETH names because they heard about ENS because of the token. And as I said before, a token is the most powerful marketing vehicle in the world. Like, it is insane, especially when done right and they did it right, I believe by airdropping it to all the old kind of like ens owners and and kind of like giving them a healthy airdrop. And it's the same with what happened with uniswap. So really, as I said, there's no second best.
00:26:22.980 - 00:27:15.056, Speaker A: When it comes to name services on Ethereum, ENS has a near monopoly. Is that a bad thing? I actually don't think so. Because when it comes to name services, it's actually better to have kind of like just one service rather than like multiple competing ones. Because if you had multiple competing EnS's, you would basically have to, the interface providers and the wallet providers, like metamask and all that kind of stuff, would have to basically delineate between the real Ens and the forked ens, for example, if there was a fork of it. Because what ends up happening is that sassle ETH is registered to the real ens contracts. But if someone forked Ens, I would have sassle ETH on the forked Ens contract, but it would be a separate contract that wouldn't have anything to do with, with the real Ens contract. But the front ends would have to actually delineate between these and would have, have to actually tell users you're using the original, kind of like ens.
00:27:15.056 - 00:27:46.084, Speaker A: If you want to use the forked one, here's how you do it. But it gets super messy, and it's not something you should even have to worry about. So when it comes to something like ens, I'm fine with it having a, pretty much a monopoly on, on naming in Ethereum, especially now, because it's actually decentralized. And it's not just, you know, um, controlled by multi SiG holders anymore. So, yeah, that's my kind of, like, logic and thinking behind that. If you disagree with me, that's fine. I mean, I'm happy to hear your thoughts in, in the, just in the comments or on the Discord channel, but, yeah, I think that from that perspective, it makes a lot of sense.
00:27:46.084 - 00:28:30.170, Speaker A: All right, so last couple updates here out of immutable. So they have integrated with Moonpay, which is a fiat on and off ramp, and they've integrated it with immutable x, their L2. So here we have a L2, you know, the, the IMX L2, which is an NFT kind of like hub, integrating with moonpay, which is a fiat on and off ramp. This is exactly what we want to see. As I've said before, there are major things we want to see to get l two adoption going, fiat on ramps, batched onboarding from layer one, and centralized exchange or service on an off ramps as well. So, you know, I don't expect moonpay to be kind of like the last fiat on ramp that immutable x on boards. And I expect all the L2s to do this because going to Ethereum layer one is not an option for new users at all.
00:28:30.170 - 00:29:22.790, Speaker A: We shouldn't be pushing them to Ethereum layer one. If we're committed to the vision of a roll up centric Ethereum, then we should be pushing all users, all new users and even existing ones of course, but especially new users, to use any L2 that is available to them and that is easy to onboard for them. But you know, the funny thing is, I was having this discussion today with a few people. I actually think the end state of these kind of like L2s is just being abstracted away and people just interacting with them through some kind of like interface, for example, something like a zappa or even a centralized exchange where they don't even have to know, kind of like that. They're using arbitrary optimism and they certainly don't have to know that they're using ethereum, but they're still getting the benefit out of it. And the simplest example would of this would be like a yield, kind of like, sorry, stablecoin yield protocol. The user could just see on their interface, hey, if you deposit your stable coins here, you can earn a 5% return and they'll just do that.
00:29:22.790 - 00:29:59.360, Speaker A: And then in the background everything is handled for them. The funds are put into the relevant l two, uh, the, into the relevant protocol and everything's just completely abstracted away. Because if we don't do that, there's zero way we're getting mass adoption. There is no like, there's absolutely no way my parents, just as an example here, would ever withdraw crypto from a centralized exchange to an album or optimism or whatever other l two. And that, you know, I would even say that they wouldn't even set up an account on a centralized exchange without me walking them through how to do it. So don't take the current crop of users as kind of like the ones that are going to be, quote unquote, the mass adopters. The current crop of users are the early adopters.
00:29:59.360 - 00:30:39.468, Speaker A: Anyone going to these, one of these l two s is an early adopter. They are not part of the mainstream mass adoption, which is going to come later, but that's not going to come until we fully abstract this stuff away and make it very, very simple for users. And I think, you know, it's still very important to have these fiat on ramps directly to the l two because that again, is just another way of extract abstracting away, kind of like these onboarding frictions for end users. So yeah, congrats to immutable X and Moonpay for this integration. And last up is just a quick shout out here that immutable x immuno, I mean immutable. The company are advertising for 30 plus business development and customer service managers at all levels. 30 plus.
00:30:39.468 - 00:31:12.914, Speaker A: So if you're interested in a job in crypto and you think you've got what it takes to either be a business development person or a customer service manager person, go check this out. This will be linked in the YouTube description. Go apply to this. Definitely a huge opportunity here to work for one of the fastest growing kind of companies and startups within the Ethereum, if not the crypto ecosystem that has a, you know, a bunch of like mega partnerships already and has a product market fit. That's amazing. Already. I couldn't think of like a better team to work for right now than kind of like immutable in the BD customer, you know, service management.
00:31:12.914 - 00:31:36.006, Speaker A: You know what, I actually say that pretty much all the l two s, and I don't know how like, I don't think any of the l two s are hiring this many people, but I couldn't think of a better team to work for than any of the l two s right now. But especially immutable if you're into like nfts and stuff like that. So definitely go check this out. It'll be linked in the YouTube description, but on that note, I'm going to end it there. So thank you everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up.
00:31:36.006 - 00:31:39.814, Speaker A: Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
