00:00:00.520 - 00:00:51.468, Speaker A: I tried to make on time. I'm from University of Chicago. I'm Booth business school, a professor of finance. So, the talk I'm giving is very much on economics finance taste, but glad that it's a great scheduling in the sense that this paper could we think about the natural extension of the first talk that you see on the mining. Mining. And what if miners are risk averse and what if they form pools? And what would be the evolution of the structure of the industry? It's also related to the second paper, which is on this waste of resources, et cetera. We would like to link the formation of poor to the excessive use of the energy, etcetera.
00:00:51.468 - 00:01:18.450, Speaker A: So these are these two things that are putting together. So I think there's some top gets cut. But anyway, so I didn't adjust my slides that much. So these slides are just not like. I think for this audience. I don't need to talk more. I would like to talk about a little bit about this proof work on this we call arms race.
00:01:18.450 - 00:02:02.534, Speaker A: I think arms race is will be there in any zero sum game. It's basically that, you know, as long as you're imposing weekly increasing over your reward function, as well as that it's always budget balancing. Then you have this issue where it's total poor. Everybody, if they do a little bit, gonna get a little bit more. But obviously because it's a budget balance. So obviously stealing someone from others and this creates this competition where in a way that if we from an economist perspective, that you potentially will need a lot of inefficiency going on. So I'm not.
00:02:02.534 - 00:02:39.350, Speaker A: So this is the second slide, basically saying that in reality, even though that what we know, it's a decentralized. A lot of, you know, people would like to keep individual miners so nobody can dominate the network. However, that in reality is always mining pools. Oh, it's not always. It's just nowadays it is completely dominates the solo mining. So I'm gonna have two, from my perspective, a very quite interesting pictures for you. One is this mining war during the BCH four king.
00:02:39.350 - 00:03:08.962, Speaker A: I happen to know one of the, the big main top guy. So he gave me some data on that thing. And then the mining pool evolution, you probably already seen it. Just basically telling you that this industry, everything is about the big guys. It's become a kind of oligopoly or monopoly. I will explain to you what do we mean by oligopoly monopoly. And there's a concerns over sustainability and all these things.
00:03:08.962 - 00:03:57.744, Speaker A: Okay, what we are trying to do in this paper is from economist perspective, where the miners not only can just join in one pool, but also can join a lot of pools, which seems like in practice, they are doing now to clarify certain fallacies on whether you gonna have one big pool or not. The answer is no. So you're gonna see that why this is getting, this is related to this coalition proof logic that behind the analysis you're seeing in the first paper, and then highlight one important mechanism linking the pools and the rising mining power, which now people seems to agree that this is a pretty excessive. All right, so this is one thing. Oh, you don't see the top. How can I just make this smaller so that the top title showed up. Close and open.
00:03:57.744 - 00:04:19.382, Speaker A: Close it. Control L. Maybe this is a fan already. Control L. Whoa. All right, this is a PcH. Great.
00:04:19.382 - 00:05:02.830, Speaker A: All right. Pch. Hard working in late 2018. So if you are in this space, you know that they announce it, and here is the folk starts, and then all of a sudden, this is a hash power, total hash power between these two. And then you have this thing. And when I thought about all these things, saying, oh, this is very interesting kind of fighting war without any, I guess, general or bad things, but actually not. So this is the decomposition of the wall, hash power wall of these pools of the mining powers associated to each team.
00:05:02.830 - 00:05:46.894, Speaker A: So basically, this is like two armies working, and you have different squads, and these squads are just set on lines of each other and fighting over each other. So these are the mining pools. And obviously, I'm not trying to tell you too much about fork, etcetera, but I want to tell you that as economists, to think about incentive and how do you coordinate all these things? It just completely changed. When you think about, it's like individual guys, peasants, versus, you know, very, very disciplined soldiers. Right? So these are the things that this is just telling you the illusion of bitcoin mining of the pools. Each. Each color represents one pool.
00:05:46.894 - 00:06:33.794, Speaker A: So you're already seeing this type of thing, and then you see that the rise, also rise of a hash power. The red line is a hash power over time. And we like to, you know, link these two with a purely, purely economic economist type of a model, and then we want to see that why the poor seems growth and then slow down. It's not like someone is taking, taking up the world. Okay, so preview of results is that we know that if you have a risk aversion, that's exactly the first paper was talking about, is that you have risk aversion. It seems like you want to pool, because we would like to diversify. So indeed, pooling implies the significant risk sharing benefits.
00:06:33.794 - 00:07:12.944, Speaker A: And the first order thing is saying that, okay, once you diversify, then actually you worsen the arms race. So remember that the underlying is basically people killing each other. In my perspective, if you think about it like you're killing each other as a proof of work, maintain the stability. That's totally fact in this model. There's no network stability thing. It's just people engaging in the hash power war, et cetera. Then with the idea of allowing them to participate in the pools that basically improve the individual payoff, but hurt everybody else.
00:07:12.944 - 00:07:53.600, Speaker A: And we want to show its quantitative significance. So, therefore, this could link to the egregious energy used with the pools. And basically, once you have a pool, that if there's no pool, then when I do it, I might not do it just because it's individual miner. There's a lot of risk going on, given that potentially the price of bitcoin is big. But alternatively, you could have put it into the pools. Then a lot of people just getting. The second point is that the risk aversion implies pools, but it doesn't imply pulls to merge or centralization.
00:07:53.600 - 00:08:34.728, Speaker A: So that's the point that I probably, you know, when I read all these literature, etc. Was not emphasized that much. But slowly that I see, people start to discuss the reason, can join multiple pools and they can diversify themselves. And you can see this logic very clearly when you write down the. Write down the model. So this is a link to the very, very old economics and finance kind of a logic, which is the following, is that we know all these investors, like everybody. You think about your investors who buy, purchasing some stocks, buying some stocks, etcetera, right? You are risk averse.
00:08:34.728 - 00:09:07.986, Speaker A: That's why we need putting to the funds, etcetera. But you should not ask saying, oh, because I'm a risk versus. So therefore, Google should merge with Facebook. Facebook is not a good example, because these two things, it seems like it's moving together. Let's think about it. Someone else that you could provide a good hedge. We never should do that, because if you are the risk averse investor, you just put half the money into the Facebook, half the money into someone else's, so that you diversify yourself.
00:09:07.986 - 00:09:44.180, Speaker A: You don't need to merge these two companies together. They diversify for you. Okay, so that's basically the idea that minus in here is like inverse. Then we build an equilibrium model of mining industry. And then you will see that, how do we put it? Mining pools. I will basically just skip this, the slide. Just because everything here should be very obvious, is that, you know, they repeatedly competed to record transactions, then they get this coinbase, and then you have a tunamon.
00:09:44.180 - 00:10:46.114, Speaker A: Or there's another thing that it's very important from the economist perspective, is that they will find a way to resolve this moral hazard issue that later on will explain to you basically using the partial solution. And here, the difficulty adjustment is exactly the source of so called arms race. It's basically saying, if you have a lot of, a lot of people get seen, the difficulty gonna digest initially, if only several people that you put in, okay, everybody's happy. But then other people come in the very first moment, the other people come in, make everybody else harder. So that's, that's the so called arms racing in terms of like, this is kind of like the, the military war. This is basically the analogy that we are doing. Okay, so let me just telling you the details of the setting we are working on.
00:10:46.114 - 00:11:15.096, Speaker A: So we have the, let's say you are solar mining, and in the end, I will put a risk version there. So solution, the poisson gonna arrives with rate proportional to a share of gas hash rates. So we assume it's a proportional rule and minus payoff. Look like this. X solo equals b solo times r minus the c lambda at. So this is a. Think about it, just a one period model.
00:11:15.096 - 00:11:37.714, Speaker A: This is only just static model. Okay? Then we have this standard way of modeling the payoff function. The outcome here, big lambda, is global hash rates. In the end, we will endogenize global hash rates. A lot of people are coming in, and you have these constants. It's not a really big important thing. The r is dollar reward.
00:11:37.714 - 00:12:30.584, Speaker A: Everything is standard. Here is the cost of operation electricity of the linear in the hash rates that we'll consider. And then what's the pool? Okay, a proportional mining pool. So here we. I will explain to you that in the end, why I, why we focus on the proportional mining pool instead of this pps thing. Okay? A proportional mining pool is basically combines everybody's hash rates together to solve one puzzle and distribute their rewards in proportion to the hash rate's contributions. And here is basically this partial solution that initially we were discussing about, that you could use the partial solution to approximate this hash contributions to an economist.
00:12:30.584 - 00:13:10.350, Speaker A: Typically, you will say that this is. Usually, it's hard. It's like you're working, working, and in the end, you just surveyed your workers, how much hard you are working, and everybody just inflates you being ra, you know, a lot of times you just like do a little bit of inflation over the working hours, et cetera. But in this environment, we know we have the solution of the hash rates. So then if you joining a pool, what you get is that this is the pool big lambda. Big lambda. I typically just denote whatever the big pool existing big pools, hash rates.
00:13:10.350 - 00:14:08.576, Speaker A: And what you get is basically lambda a divided by the whole thing. Because after you're joining this add up, and then the pool gonna generate this part of reward and you have all that also, you just minus your contribution. And here the pool becomes pool. The chance of a pool together, the reward becomes one over two. So, and you can show that because the risk aversion then those ax solo had x poor, the expectation is identical, but the distribution is a second order stochastically dominated. Therefore, that I would like to joining a pool to smooth out stuff. Okay, so, so far, that is just saying that, you know, as risk averse individual agents in this world, they should participate in a pool to self insure.
00:14:08.576 - 00:15:25.526, Speaker A: And here is a slide to tell you that the gain from participating in a pool versus not to participate in a pool. First of all, if I'm joining a bigger pool, the gain will be bigger that this slide is trying to show. The second point I want to deliver is that even if I joining a light, like a pretty small pool, the gain, the first thing you do getting there will be very, very big, which is like 20% of the pool of the boost. So 20% boost measuring in terms of the certainty equivalent, okay? However, this doesn't mean that, you know, one caveat as the core logic of the behind this leg, whether we should see a big pool or not, just because due to the risk aversion reason is that the miners are decided how to locate across pools, not whether or not joining the pools. Okay? So this is just saying that they would like to put joining the pools. It doesn't mean that they always put all the eggs into to one basket. Okay.
00:15:25.526 - 00:16:06.712, Speaker A: So I will spend some time to talk to you about the fee contract structure for the audience like this, that I can talk a little bit more, although that I'm not really the expert on the way that exactly designed on this first end rule audit these things. But let me just give you what we find. So there's a poor manager, okay. He is coordinating all these high hash rates and then basically charge poor fees. So this is the one thing that, you know, in a way that actually interests me. It's a business, okay. It's a business.
00:16:06.712 - 00:16:34.674, Speaker A: It's not like something that people putting together and play with. It's a business. The poor fee is, could it be very substantial. Okay. And the contracting variable of all the workers coming, you think about a leftover, right? Think about that. It's basically that you get your reward based on your partial solutions. And then this is basically the harsh partial solution block is below a lower threshold than the true solution.
00:16:34.674 - 00:17:07.984, Speaker A: So I believe that everybody here is know, let's say that in the true solution you need to hit 16 zeros. But in counting your partial solutions, you only need to hit, let's say, twelve zeros, which is, you know, during the finding. The finding the true solution, it's, you got to collect a lot of, a lot, lot of partial solution which represents that you're working. All right, so this is already you seeing it in the, in the, in the first talk. And here is basically saying that you. I can use these partial solutions to allocate the rewards. Okay.
00:17:07.984 - 00:17:37.200, Speaker A: So there are three kinds of the compensation contracts. The first one is ten slightly different countries in three categories. The first one is a proportional. And that's what we are emphasizing on what we are working on. And here is basically that what you get as the participants get is basically the same thing. Lambda a over lambda a plus lambda b. You see already seeing without a one minus f.
00:17:37.200 - 00:18:01.514, Speaker A: But now because you are participating and you acknowledge the manager is helping you, therefore that you are paying this, you only get a one minus f. The management get f a little bit. Okay, so with B. Tilde, this is basically output wage that you work there. We collectively produce something. Then we share. The second one is a PPS.
00:18:01.514 - 00:18:45.454, Speaker A: And that's the kind of like hourly base, the wage, which means that you just, you know, this is related to the deterministic payoff that initially that the first paper was talking about here is basically you work there independent of the outcome. Just to show you that this is the hours that I'm working at. There's a also cloud mining seems like it's extremely opposite of pps, which means that the guy who is an individual miner would really, really like to get some, some computation power. Instead of he's renting out, he's basically borrowing. Okay. He's just trying to get that and pay the other side as a machine provider some money for them. So that's, this is the option we focus on proportional pool just because it's like a prevalent.
00:18:45.454 - 00:19:30.716, Speaker A: And also that in here is, is relevant for the risk aversions or these things. So in the future, in potential extension that I saw that. I remember that some of the comments in the first paper were saying, oh, what if you have different risk aversions? What were going to play out? And those things will be suitable to study in this framework with slightly different contracts of proportion of pools. So what we do is basically that assuming proportion of pools and assuming every agents in this economy all have the same risk aversion. Same risk, including the managers, okay, including managers. Otherwise you think about if manager a risk aversion. That's why.
00:19:30.716 - 00:20:09.712, Speaker A: That's basically my comments to the first talk on team, which is that if the managers are risk averse, yes. Then it's optimal for him to just rent out, give the workers as a determinist and he bear all the risk. Basically, that's the point. And now here in this framework, because the managers have the same risk aversion, they also would like to equalize the risk. This is the data and basically behind what we try to show. First of all, first column is on the total hash rates. It's rising number of pools.
00:20:09.712 - 00:20:44.604, Speaker A: Total now is 43 top 5%. So that just is showing you that how concentrated they are. Top 5% is pick the top five, calculate their sum of hash power divided by the total is about 62. Now, 2017, the highest is 75. Here's the average fee that the managers are charging. So every block coming out, the manager going to charge that part of the fee. It's vary over time a little bit, but it's around like two, 2%.
00:20:44.604 - 00:21:24.084, Speaker A: And here's a fraction of proportional one paper. One thing that typically, you know, economists write papers will say, you know, I would like to explain the world. Some particular pattern, some particular pattern. One pattern we would like to explain or kind of like telling you that, you know, this is true in the world and I can generate it. This is the fact that the top five guys are charging a little bit higher fee. The bigger funds, bigger pools are charging a slightly higher fee, or, you know, it's 2% versus 1.2. This is the top five pools.
00:21:24.084 - 00:22:07.174, Speaker A: This is all pools. And that is the thing that we would like to, would like to deliver. Here is the current contract sample. And then here is the, basically that we were in the first talk towards the end about this, why the mining pools would like to cheat by hiding the observe discovered true solution a little bit. It's basically reflected all these, like a little bit of fancy of d something. But at given time that I will not go for that. All right, so here's really the, given all these preparation, then we would like to set up the model.
00:22:07.174 - 00:22:30.242, Speaker A: Okay, so model going to be very simple. As I said, you have the risk averse agents, okay. So that the risk participating in the pool become a real concern. The second is that you have a lot of active miners who are trying to find a home to the go to the pools to work. Okay. And they will acquire hash rates. Lambda A.
00:22:30.242 - 00:23:17.198, Speaker A: Here we assuming selenium, it will be very easy to add a fixed cost. What's important is that the M poor managers will set FM to compete. So in this environment is basically all the active, active miners. They could buy certain hash power. They're facing a bunch of the poor managers offering that service and then they could go there to mine and obviously they get the reward because it's the contract that they get backup part of it. So we're going to analyzing the baseline first. Just take these as assumption and then add on a little bit of a friction, which helps you to clarify a lot of things.
00:23:17.198 - 00:24:12.108, Speaker A: So we will first analyze this and then saying that, okay, let's add on a little bit of a friction, which means the following. Friction in the economics typically means that there's some firms that had a little bit of the difference among these pools relative to the other firm, okay? So poor m, we said it's a pool endowed with some passive hash rates, which means that these hash rates will not move. You think about it, it's like themselves, et cetera. You think of lawyer firms, proprietary hash power, et cetera, audit these things. And those. A little bit of the endowment is related to this so called monopolistic competition, which means it's a very, very easy way to explain it is just, I'm offering the handbag. There's some handbag called a Gucci.
00:24:12.108 - 00:25:06.894, Speaker A: It's really, really high level. I have other handbag, let's say a little bit of coach, a little bit lower, and all those handbag which has no brand name. Okay. And the different people will come into different market, right. But if the good, you know, some of the handbag prices a little lower, you're gonna, on the margin, attract the customer a little bit. Here is basically the same thing, that we have a different pool because the owners probably have a lot of money initially, let's say the Bitman guy, and he had this manufacturer, and he is able to attract a lot of risk averse miners to come into joining that pool. Okay? And that is in a sense that it's, you know, given that other active miners are participating in that, the other active miners also would like to participate because of the risk aversion effect.
00:25:06.894 - 00:26:10.614, Speaker A: And those things are the key thing that we would like to analyze. All right, so what's the active minus problem? That this is what basically that this paper is for, is we have the utility function of the whole thing. That if they participating of the lambda m, which is the contribution of their acquired hash rates to pool m, okay, they buy the whole thing at a linear cost. So they just pay minus c thing. And then obviously each pool, they calculate the sum of these rewards. And then you have those things, okay, they are taking the total pools hash rates as a kmn, ok? And you can show that, ok, just because it's exponential, there's a nice property of this Poisson distribution, et cetera, you're basically getting this problem. You don't need to remember those things.
00:26:10.614 - 00:26:38.544, Speaker A: We needed a risk aversion, obviously. Otherwise it's just everything become reduced to the risk neutral. That's not what's also more important. In the end, we have to close the model. Because there's a global hash rates, lambda is equals to the many, many pools. Putting together one, the cost c is included in the utility function. Ah, this is the.
00:26:38.544 - 00:27:20.284, Speaker A: So, so there's a, there's a way to write, because short answer is, this thing is, is deterministic, right? It is. You know, this utility is over the, over the money, right? This is the money, it's measuring money, right? And then here, from here to here, I'm already transformed into something called a certainty equivalent that initially people were using. This is in terms of money as well. This inside is in terms of money. And when you put a utility there, it's there. And that's the active problem. What's poor manager's problem? Okay.
00:27:20.284 - 00:28:04.246, Speaker A: Poor managers are facing a little bit more sophisticated problem, is that what they have to do is to know that the other guys competitive advantage, etcetera. And also that take as a given that how much the fees that the other firms are charging. Think about basically, you know, different, let's say gasoline firms that you drove on the road, you're always seeing different prices in different roads, etcetera. They're pricing very strategically. But what they have to do is so taking others prices given, and they can adjust their prices. So that's basically what we do. And this manager with M has this cash flow debt.
00:28:04.246 - 00:28:46.544, Speaker A: So then he has to, has to maximize the following. Okay, so let me emphasize a little bit what these things are. Okay, first of all, you should see that there are three places that FM showed up, okay? And this is very important. To understand what's going on, the first thing is the FM here. This is just basically captured the idea that if I'm charging a little bit higher, if I fixing how many people participating, then my benefit go up. You just charge a price, higher price here. This is saying that if I'm charging a little bit higher price, the people coming in.
00:28:46.544 - 00:29:24.986, Speaker A: This is am is active minor, coming in is lower down, okay? And then here is basically saying that when you. When I changed this FM, I took into account that when I lower down the price or increase the price, the global hash rates is changing because I'm a big enough firm, big enough poor. There's only like, let's say six top 70, top 50. So they will take that into account. The last part of the year is really what drives the main results. That saying that the larger firms. So here's the main results.
00:29:24.986 - 00:30:11.164, Speaker A: The larger firms will charge a higher price because, not because they're getting more, et cetera. I will show you that everything is proportional. The reason they charge a higher price is because they took into account the fact that if they lower down the price, there's more hash rates coming in and they are hurting themselves. Okay? They understood that this is a zero sum game, which is arms race. So they took into account, therefore, they increased the price to deliberately shrinking the total hash rates in this world. Okay? So here's the equilibrium definition. You see that optimal fees, optimal hash rates are location market clearing.
00:30:11.164 - 00:31:40.174, Speaker A: And that's. And what we are linking back in the end is that this passive rates we could think about is like, how big the funds initially has. And then they try to understand that. What's the implication on the different distribution of the poor size, that in the next period of growth, all right, so here is as a promise. This is a frictionless benchmark, which says that. This is saying that suppose take the most plain vanilla model, like the first paper, we see that you have a bunch of people who can participate in the, who can join the pool by themselves and try to figure out the optimal way to do so. The proposition is follows that in this world, where there's no big poor managers to start with, right? Because in this world, there's no bid man, no other people to charge all these fees or the ability to set up funds, then FM equals zero for all m and then any allocation, as long as you make sure the total size of different firms that are adding up to some number, which is making sure that nobody wants to get in further, will be the equilibrium.
00:31:40.174 - 00:32:15.014, Speaker A: So here is basically saying that the miners you don't need to pull them together. Okay, so one obvious way to show it is basically one scenario. You have one big fund, you have 10,000 people everywhere. Body gets in here, you have another situation, split this guy into two. The same thousand people just put half here, half here. The result is exactly identical. There's no incentive to change that.
00:32:15.014 - 00:32:55.414, Speaker A: So that's the, so the way we call the fellows of risk diversification, Puma. So interestingly, I would like to get some comments from, I would like to get some things saying, oh, seems like this point is valid, or, you know, people realize it. So this is an interesting forum post. After we wrote the paper, obviously initially we didn't, you know, we were debating on whether this results is interesting or not the mining. So this is from a forum post. Obviously this is a guy who is actively mining. Okay, mining in multiple, not only helps variance for individual miners, but it is healthier for the network.
00:32:55.414 - 00:33:53.586, Speaker A: In the current standard usage, there's a rich get richer, the poor get a poor tendency where larger pools are more attractive and thus grow even larger. So that's the lot of debate on that. But basically this guy is saying that, you know, if the miners actually think a little bit that they could have put it into different forces, then this force is not there. Sorry, are you saying that's wrong? I'm saying this is a correct. You're saying this is correct? Yeah, I'm saying this is a correct. And I'm saying that we are basically pointing out the same issue here and happily that the industry person, we converge. And a lot of times, you know, that the finance industry and academia just goes the opposite, because industry person would like to make money in the financial market while academia tell them, no, no, don't need to, because there's no money to make.
00:33:53.586 - 00:34:51.350, Speaker A: So this is why I would like to get some, ideally that if the guy who doesn't have the mental cost of different things, which I think that at this point probably that I know some people allocating two or three, but not everything, obviously putting their hash rates in every pool. That's an exaggeration. This is exaggeration from the model. What we know from the standard of finance textbook, which is like back to 1970s Gene Pharma. Gene Pharma basically showed that if you really think that diversification is very beneficial, the first twelve stocks is the most important one. After twelve, it's like a zero, almost zero gain. So here I don't put any mental cost of allocating a little bit more.
00:34:51.350 - 00:35:10.784, Speaker A: So therefore you should diversify 100. But technically you should only like twelve. But the twelve, I think it's already big enough. Nowadays it's like twelve. All right. Okay, so then I want to, given the term. Yeah.
00:35:10.784 - 00:36:37.078, Speaker A: So I want to tell you, the dark side of sharing or mining pools is basically saying that, you know, we have a mining race. And what we can show is that if there's a no mining pool, then the marginal benefit, if it's a solo, the total mining pool lambda is only this one. But once you have a mining pool to allow them to diversify to much greater extent, then the total mining hash power is way bigger. Is it because that you allow them to diversify to a great extent? Let me just tell you, we did some empirical results, but that's not important. I think this is a very important concept that this is worth 1 minute to talk about, is that this model, if you would see that, is like IO industrial organization, where we look like we like to understand the evolution of the mining industry and the entry and exit from the, is kind of an interesting perspective to look after. So what we hear is basically we say we have Mi incumbents and they could pay some cost to acquire these passive rates and enter compete with the rest of it. Typical results will say, okay, as long as you allow for, let's say, k equals zero, k equals zero.
00:36:37.078 - 00:37:21.154, Speaker A: And when k equals zero, that means that the entrance will not have passive rates. Then everything going to go. What we show proposition is that the incumbent pools in our model has a very, very stylized fact about the finance industry, that income pools will always enjoy some market power. The reason is because the incumbent pools have a little bit of initial magnets. Whenever you have initial magnets, which is this passive rates, that they can provide better services to all other people. It's like a bank of America, think about Wells Fargo, et cetera. The fact that they already have a certain base of the branch network.
00:37:21.154 - 00:38:05.050, Speaker A: Even though the new guys come in, they cannot compete with them on this front. So this is just showing that in our model, it's a free from the competition force. All right, so here, let me just wrap up. So I hope that this is two things I want to deliver. One is a risk aversion implies poor, yes, but the diversification across forces will sustain decentralization. And I, at some point, I would like to do some empirical work on that. Just try to see if, is it indeed true that from the same ip people across Ireland, this speaks to the blockchain sustainability.
00:38:05.050 - 00:38:55.136, Speaker A: And what we also try to show is the fact that the kind of having pools actually could generate some social bad, which is a lot of egregious energy consumption due to the fact that you could allow people to diversify at doing bad things. Okay, good. Since I sit in the front, I'll take over. So, any questions? Yeah, might be question, but you mentioned there was a estimated ash rate. Oh, yeah. Yes, yes, yes. Yeah.
00:38:55.136 - 00:39:37.300, Speaker A: I think it's a lot of practice called people, I wouldn't say industry persons, that they also use the same methodology. What if I stop mining when I find partial solutions and I never try to find the real solutions? Would I get paid? You could get the page. You just do it and then you left. Because, say, your kids in hospital, you have to stop assume, and then, you know, assume, I don't know. Then you just submit there. So whatever your partial solution is there, you get a proportion of a partial solution. It's the same price to try to mind for the partial one than the real one.
00:39:37.300 - 00:39:56.608, Speaker A: Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. It's the same. It's the same. If the contract is like, try to people coming in to understand that there's some diversification effect, which means that exposed, I'm the winner. But I have to diversify everybody. I have to. Okay, good.
00:39:56.608 - 00:40:42.144, Speaker A: Sorry. Yeah. What takes for this result to hold? Like, how far can you stress the risk assumptions and how easy is it to, like, break into, like, being more advantageous to have consolidation? The first result is, is very general. The first result is very general in the sense that, you know, whenever you think so, there are different forces why that we think poor rise. Right. One thing I think Neha mentioned was there's some little bit of at the main cost, like set up cost. Set up cost, which we typically interpret as a fixed cost.
00:40:42.144 - 00:41:41.414, Speaker A: If it's a fixed cost, then it's obviously, it's much better for just to let one guy do it and let too big, because then the average cost becomes very, very small. So this is a standard force that we've seen in many other kind of context. What I'm trying to refute in this particular paper is that it's not the idea of saying that the risk aversion, therefore, people joining a bigger, bigger pool, that logic is broken. I tried to say that it is indeed true. You have a risk aversion. You should participate in pools, but you don't need to let the pools to merge, because if you could have a lot of pools, but these guys just put their hash rates in different places. And I truly believe the cost of splitting my own hash power will be much smaller than let these pools to merge because all these, you know, firm merger is much harder in typical.
00:41:41.414 - 00:41:46.554, Speaker A: Okay, thank you.
