00:00:00.250 - 00:00:43.174, Speaker A: Oracle networks are highly configurable to meet the demands of a specific user and their specific contract. So, for example, we have some oracle networks where the nodes are actually the data providers themselves. And so there are some oracle networks where the data providers are running their own nodes and they're feeding the data. And, you know, that's a preference that maybe a user might have. There are other oracle networks where there's a different model of consensus because that's the preference the user might have. The most common preference that we see is that as the amount of value secured by an oracle network increases, the amount of nodes in the oracle network should increase. And what this does is it actually provides two very valuable properties.
00:00:43.174 - 00:02:07.490, Speaker A: The first one is efficiency, and the second one is a scaling of security efficiency in the sense that if you have a smart contract that secures $1,000, you probably don't need a lot of nodes because the chances that an adversary is going to go and spend a substantial amount of money and resources to compromise those nodes is very low. And so you can have an oracle network of a certain size, but then as that smart contract achieves a million dollars, 100 million, a billion, 5 billion, there are contracts we work with with those types of numbers. And those contracts do need larger amounts of nodes, a larger distribution of different data sources, various additional security methods such as circuit breakers and trusted execution environments and zero knowledge proofs and any number of other things that go on to guarantee greater and greater security. And this is really where oracles are foundationally different than blockchains, right. They're different in that oracle networks are generated on a case by case basis to solve specific problems around triggering contracts with certain specific goals, such as what is the weather in this specific geographic location, what is the value of a certain asset, and so on. And then they are also, if they're built correctly or built in the conception of oracle networks that we have, they are highly configurable to meet the demands of the smart contract.
