00:00:00.280 - 00:00:36.298, Speaker A: I've been dealing with a strong opinion thing. I think people just need to relax and let people choose whatever they want to. If security is the issue, just use something that is more secure. Pay more gas. People just need to be more open into whatever innovation there is. I really hate it because I see constantly over the years where there is sort of camps where it's just tech. They have different kinds of use cases eventually where they're going to steer towards.
00:00:36.298 - 00:00:43.710, Speaker A: So it's more interesting to just be heads down in building things than just arguing.
00:00:44.370 - 00:01:06.478, Speaker B: 100% agree, and I appreciate the pragmatism. Thank you for joining me, stani. Super excited to make this happen. I just cold DMU and we ultimately got this podcast set up. So really appreciate you taking time. I've been a longtime fan of what you've been building. Think you're a pioneer in the industry, kind of pushing the space forward.
00:01:06.478 - 00:01:08.830, Speaker B: So I've been looking forward to making this happen.
00:01:08.950 - 00:01:26.798, Speaker A: Yeah, definitely. And I'm super excited to be here. I do get a lot of DM's and I barely can ever respond to them. But I found that it's an interesting opportunity to talk about what's happening on lens and also in the AavE ecosystem.
00:01:26.894 - 00:01:59.392, Speaker B: 100% well, maybe just to start it off there. I think a lot of people are ultimately kind of familiar with what you originally built with Aave, and I think people are now starting to become even more aware of your push with lens. But could you maybe just speak to the high level of not transitioning but deciding to venture out and build a social product? Because I think that's not a 180, but definitely different than what was originally built or what you built in the Defi ecosystem.
00:01:59.536 - 00:03:02.046, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, I've had the way I usually see that there's different kinds of challenges and opportunities to solve in the society and in humanity in different industries. And I think with blockchain and web3 you can apply the technology to solve different kinds of things. So for me, I started to program very early, so I think it was 13 or so years old. So we used to play a lot of counter strike with my brother and we used to build servers to host Lam parties back in Finland. And we got super excited about. He got super excited about programming kernels on the hardware side and the Linux infrastructure. And I got more excited about basically programming more on the Internet that was getting more and more adoption.
00:03:02.046 - 00:04:28.590, Speaker A: So I started to build, I would say social media applications as well back in the web two era, and I was super young, I wasn't sure what I was doing. And everyone wanted to build some sort of better version of Reddit or a, as some sort of a way of actually curating everything, all the content that comes from dig and Reddit and a bunch of other platforms. So that was a very exciting time. But later, when I got a bit older and I was, I think I was just applying for university in my early twenties, I got more excited about finance. So with my last years of studying, I basically started to get more excited about what Ethereum can do and the programmable part of finance. So definitely there's two different areas, and I always been excited about more than one thing. So I kind of knew that DeFi was a part where I want to dedicate a lot of years from my life going onwards, I want to contribute, but also I know there's other challenges to solve beyond finance as well.
00:04:28.710 - 00:04:48.090, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, you're tackling two massive industries, I think finance being huge in its own right, and then the other being kind of with social, just like the fabric of society. So no small problems indeed. I think the earlier choose something easier, for sure.
00:04:50.030 - 00:05:50.210, Speaker A: But honestly, everything built on web3 is so early and it's so nascent that I really respect everyone who is in the space, especially right now, and obviously built in the past and achieved to move the space forward. But especially now on the DeFi space, a lot of the gaps are, so to speak, filled. So you have a lot of financial infrastructure on chain. So I appreciate people who are here and trying to build the next generation deFi, but also I appreciate also kind of like going beyond finance and trying to figure out how we could use blockchain to maybe secure your online profile, your content and data availability and figure out greater monetization, other challenges. So I think everyone in this space is tackling very cool issues and hard things to solve as well.
00:05:50.510 - 00:06:28.586, Speaker B: 100%. And I was going to say, ultimately, I think Defi uniquely lended itself and Amm borrow and lending to the early versions of Ethereum because you didn't need super high throughput, you just needed the smart contract capability. And then I think as you've been expanding on the social side, to me, in my point of view, it's kind of the opposite end of the spectrum. You need the most throughput and kind of a lot of computation or quite a bit, but not as much, but on the throughput side, you need quite a bit to ultimately make these happen. So you kind of took both ends of the spectrum.
00:06:28.738 - 00:08:01.746, Speaker A: Yeah. Also I think that that's actually a very interesting observation, because we on the DeFi side, we definitely approach from the kind of like a more security aspect of, and ensuring that you have the strongest finality and execution layer for financial transactions. And a bit later, actually, with the L2s and networks like Polygon and Avalanche, we basically realized that, well, actually these networks are bringing a lot of users. So how we could actually expand beyond the Ethereum and the security guarantees that Ethereum is bringing, including then also L2s. But with the web3 social, it's completely different kind of a perspective because you will have to think about, because finance, you're moving figures of numbers in a database, but you need to be very, I would say you need to have quite good security on those numbers because obviously they affect the whole system like DeFi, the blockchain system, financial system. But when it comes to web3 social, actually there's different kinds of artifacts. So for example, there's a concept of a profile, there is a concept of like a follower graph and content application, and basically different things that relate to social media.
00:08:01.746 - 00:09:10.218, Speaker A: And then you have to think about like what is the amount of security you're applying to be successful on what you're doing. So it's kind of like a more of granular approach. And we realize that you kind of need a hybrid stack. And I think this is the reason why previously the blockchain based social media networks and also kind of like the perception isn't really appealing because it's not like one, you know, you're not, you shouldn't supposed to use blockchain at the same security level into all these artifacts, but you need to figure out which of these artifacts need that security. And we recognize that profiles, you know, the names, handles that you might have, and also your follow up graph might be those that actually need that. And then for content, you might only need in content amplification, you might need only data availability. So just one of the components that the blockchain has and that reduces the cost and increases throughput significantly.
00:09:10.394 - 00:10:20.338, Speaker B: Yeah, it's kind of like you're pioneering a maze and trying to figure out how to ultimately put all these pieces together. I think. Yeah, as you mentioned, it's trying to figure out which parts should be on chain, which parts should be off chain, and then ultimately, like the big bottleneck of like true scale is kind of that high throughput on the data availability layer and making sure that you can actually have enough data to post all these transactions on chain. And because it's not easy, and I think, as I said, like finance can kind of be one aspect and kind of especially in what we built early on, but social media, especially at scale, is completely different game. So kudos to you, for you and your team kind of pioneering this new space in terms of ultimately, maybe let's start with lens, the product in itself, and then I would love to talk about the infrastructure stuff afterwards too. But on lens itself, what is kind of like the vision? I know ultimately we have kind of the social media monopolies today. There's not very many choices.
00:10:20.338 - 00:10:39.210, Speaker B: And when you blend in the web, three aspects of ownership and even the money aspect, it lends kind of a lot of unique properties that you now have to possibly integrate into the social stack. Can you kind of think about how you approach it when creating lens and the product?
00:10:39.590 - 00:11:54.812, Speaker A: Yeah, the way I see it is that lens is a protocol that has, that's on chain, blockchain based components that secure certain type of artifacts in social networking. But then you have actually also the data availability component. That's the momoka, what we released very recently actually. And then there's other types of breeze layers that are part of that off chain component. And the idea there is that what we believe is certain aspect of networking, social networking, should be decentralized, meaning that there shouldn't be actually someone that has an access control, let's say, over your online profile or your audience. So what we do believe is that the kind of like Internet and social networking should be built in a way where whatever you create or create in terms of social capital and your presence online, you should have a full access and control into that. So that's very valuable.
00:11:54.812 - 00:12:47.512, Speaker A: And I think that's the kind of like a key component there. And you should be able to build audience and connect with different people and create also have an easy way of monetizing from your creativity or whatever you are sharing, trading. And those things are kind of like a built into the lens protocol. So there's a monetization, monetization layer which is a bit more web3 native. So it's based on the idea of collecting content and being able to share and amplify content by mirroring. You can also distributed fees. So in some ways what we are envisioning is that the social media in the future and Internet itself should be kind of something that benefits all.
00:12:47.512 - 00:13:03.740, Speaker A: So this also means that different clients that are built on lens. Ironically, when we launched the lens protocol last year, so now it's a bit over a one year anniversary of Lens main net release.
00:13:04.280 - 00:13:05.888, Speaker B: Got to feel good to cross the.
00:13:05.904 - 00:13:58.012, Speaker A: Year mark, it feels very weird because I think we've been building for two years now, and it just feels that the time goes super fast and there's so much to actually do before it starts to be in a place where it's super flexible and scalable. But lens, it launched without any clients and front ends. So what happened is that a lot of these community members, they actually started to build that infrastructure that didn't exist. So we have lensr, which is a purely open source client that anyone can go in and use. They can even fork it and create their own version. There's orb, butterfly. These are mobile clients, lens and Pinsta.
00:13:58.012 - 00:14:54.126, Speaker A: Some of them actually mimic quite a lot of the existing social media applications. Some are more original. There's a project called Enzo, and it's basically creating a digital wardrobe for you where you can collect variables, and it's powered by lens protocol. So there's sort of exciting things happening in novel experience, including music, nfts. So riff is another application where they focus on actually the music creators and empowering them with the NFT collections. So it's interesting that kind of like you have all this whole ecosystem of applications, and it just creates a way of benefiting between different applications. So for example, one application might be involved in the content creation.
00:14:54.126 - 00:15:30.830, Speaker A: So you might be using orb and the content is created there. Another user might share it on lenser, and a third one will see it on butterfly and collects that content. So you can actually share fees across all the participants, and even algorithms and creators and users that were involved in creating in that process. So what we are envisioning is that the future is kind of a very shareable environment where it's basically controlled by those users. And I think that's a path we're moving towards.
00:15:31.130 - 00:16:09.734, Speaker B: It is a beautiful vision. Ultimately, the important aspects live on chain or in Polygon, and you can remake and kind of remix those, as you were kind of describing, with different front ends, different kind of product suites. I can imagine in the future even different algorithms that you would want for your feed versus others. It is pretty remarkable and much different than the world that we currently exist in today, where there's only one way to really monetize your content, and that's kind of with ads or subscriptions, and then you can really design it.
00:16:09.822 - 00:17:41.274, Speaker A: And I think it's kind of interesting because of the monetization model. It really steers all the applications towards the same metrics. So I think we should be using the exact same metrics across all these social media applications that we have also even between the lens clients. So what's interesting is because the monetization is ad driven, it also means that the engagement and how much you can charge of those ads are based on how much the users are spending time on the applications. Meaning that if you have an interesting idea that you want to build where users will come maybe once a week to that application and it's social, maybe it's even like, you know, it's kind of like a mental health aware social application rebuild in that direction. You can't really build a good system or a good product and monetize if the whole industry has the same kind of like a model of monetization. So I really think that flexibility for developers and also eventually what you mentioned, choice for the users is the big use case because you can actually start selecting things that are the valuable for you without and actually having that choice in the first place.
00:17:41.274 - 00:17:52.802, Speaker A: There's no incentives for social media platforms to basically open up their network because that will mean that a lot of people will be grabbing that traffic.
00:17:52.946 - 00:18:42.606, Speaker B: Yeah, you're disrupting them from the very core at the social graph, which is not easy. I think maybe going back to you spearheading this charge on the social media side and social platform really I would say blockchains and whole are still very early in kind of scaling and we're trying different solutions. Ethereum was obviously the first with smart contracts and then really pioneered l two s and pushing this space forward. How was your design decision ultimately to deploy on Polygon? And then what did you learn on lens just in the past year of actually being live on Polygon? And what pushed you from Polygon to then?
00:18:42.638 - 00:19:39.770, Speaker A: Momoka I think it's been quite amazing experience. So the way we see the, especially initially and even now, I think there's a big compatibility between web3 applications in general. So something that we kind of learned from the Aave playbook is that we tend to build in a way where the applications are able to talk to each other so even legal ends. Protocol itself has been built in a way where we haven't built every single thing that you can, even on a protocol level. But we have left a lot of design space as much as we can for community developers or entrepreneurs that want to create a business by using Linux protocol or build even a game. End of the day it's a web3 social layer. So you can plug it in into pretty much any use case.
00:19:39.810 - 00:20:12.850, Speaker B: Do you feel like composability is like a core fabric of web3 that is uniquely enabled? I'm curious how you think about composability, because some of the different architectures, not fragmented, but just make it a little bit harder. And I think even being involved early on in DeFi, we saw what awesome stuff ultimately happened with DeFi summer in 2022. There's a lot of interesting things, maybe not good deals. Yeah. Good yields, good food tokens. It was definitely interesting.
00:20:13.830 - 00:21:29.112, Speaker A: Yeah, I think there is a lot of value incompatibility. So I do think that it creates some sort of interesting dynamics, because at some point, the infrastructure we're relying upon, the users are very, they can switch from one provider to another one relatively easily. I have this concept called liquid Citizen, which basically means that you might be like, the switching cost between one thing to another is relatively low, and you might even have the relatively same risk reward there. So it's going to be very hard to keep users in one particular protocol. And the aspect of loyalty becomes very interesting topic on how you can actually retain users. And I think one of those ways to do that is to basically ensure that those users also are owning and governing a protocol that they're contributing into and using. I think that's the vision of our team as well, where we see kind of like a more people powered Internet that basically benefits all.
00:21:29.112 - 00:22:44.000, Speaker A: And that means that you could still have an infrastructure and Internet where you have businesses. So the biggest problem about Internet is that it's very much driven and owned by the businesses. So, you know, the most traffic and the most interactions and activities happen actually on a business owned platforms, and the users really don't get part of that benefit. And what we're saying is that in the future, users become valuable part of the Internet, where they are getting that part of, they're getting part of that upside that Internet brings. But it doesn't mean that the companies will disappear. I think it just becomes more democratic environment. And I think so going back to this idea of loyalty is that it's definitely going to be a hard way to retain users, but at the same time, what's amazing is that if you create something very exciting and innovative, you can attract a lot of users from the same network.
00:22:44.000 - 00:22:52.040, Speaker A: So the way I usually try to explain is that. Do you remember the loot game? So that was the.
00:22:52.160 - 00:22:53.560, Speaker B: It was super popular.
00:22:53.720 - 00:22:54.608, Speaker A: Yeah, exactly.
00:22:54.664 - 00:23:07.112, Speaker B: Well, at least for a moment on the venture capital kind of bought a lot, and I'm curious, ultimately, where it's going to end up. I think they're still kind of charging forward on the different aspects.
00:23:07.256 - 00:23:51.580, Speaker A: Yeah. And I think what was cool about loot is that they just gave a little bit of piece of information in form of nfcs, what a game could be. And you saw other people coming and contributing into that game in an extremely organic way. And if you already had the loot back, you could actually, with that NFT, claim other things in the ecosystem. So you're like you're reigniting existing network effects. And I think the same thing happens on a larger scale on ethereum and other networks. So for example, if you have a wallet, you have Ethereum address or polygon address or whatnot.
00:23:51.580 - 00:24:58.670, Speaker A: What actually happens is that you see constantly different kinds of social events. That might be the DeFi summer, that might be NFT summer, people minting monkey pictures, then it might be some sort of other event, like the meme coins, for example. So you see this kind of like a behavior that is just attracting a lot of users in at one particular point, and those are social events. So the way lens works is that once you create your profile, you can now access the whole lens verse, and that consists of different applications, use cases, what people have built and developers have built on the ecosystem. So for example, there's currently 117,000 profiles minted on lens. But what's fascinating is that it's not a really big number, but it's just a number that is interesting to follow. It's not our North Star metric either, because the lens protocol is still beta.
00:24:58.670 - 00:25:49.412, Speaker A: But it was fascinating is that if you create a new game, for example on lens, you can take the same user base and provide them that game and reengage. I think that's the power and the beauty of the system, because that way leverage the existing user base. But at the same time you can also bring new users into the ecosystem and some of these applications that might be even a bit more disposable. So you might have an application, a game that has only you can play it, let's say 10,000 times, and then it's over and it becomes you don't have access anymore, or there's some other rules. So it's really fascinating how open the design space is.
00:25:49.596 - 00:26:14.160, Speaker B: I fully agree. And 120,000 ish users does not. Or active addresses does not seem crazy on the surface. But I would say for web3, that's very impressive because there's not very many people actually doing things on chain, at least not on skill yet. So really kudos to you and the team. You said, if that's not the North Star, at least at the moment, what would you describe as the North Star of Lens.
00:26:14.540 - 00:27:35.290, Speaker A: It's an interesting question because we've been trying to figure out what is the North Star from the protocol perspective, and then a bit more widely. So I think on the protocol perspective we know that something that is very important is obviously what is the quality of the graph. So the user base, what kind of activity the users are having and how. You know, it's hard to say. That's how, like, I would say like in nature you have this idea of biodiversity, and biodiversity has some sort of a value, but it's very hard to quantify. So our kind of like a North Star metric in some ways is that biodiversity that applies to specific lens protocol, but also the component of actually how much value the protocol creates for the users. So the monetization layer does have a lot of impact, especially if we think about that, if people in the future, that they get benefit on all the services that they're using because they're users and they get some sort of upside, that component is very valuable.
00:27:35.290 - 00:28:02.140, Speaker A: But we are still, we don't have anything locked in because it's a very hard question to answer. But I think every application and client that has been built on lens, they definitely should have some sort of custom north star that is important for them. That necessary isn't what the traditionally like social media space has used to.
00:28:02.520 - 00:28:41.940, Speaker B: I do fully agree the monetization is super important and can ultimately push the application in a variety of ways. So it is hard to get correct. I think in crypto more broadly, we're still trying to figure out different monetization methods, what works, what doesn't work. But I say the other side of that is also just figuring out, scaling the applications versus building the application. How much of the time do you feel like the team that you built has been focused on like either scaling the core infrastructure with MoCA or working with the Polygon team to actually like focusing on like product development.
00:28:42.480 - 00:29:54.928, Speaker A: Yeah, so we, we usually try to solve issues as they come, so, and I think it's valuable also like guidance and lesson for everyone. So not to build a complete system, but build something small, see how it works and iterate. Obviously on the smart contract level it's more harder because you're able to maybe deploy something new once a year, maybe every six months, depending on how big of a change it is, but not usually more frequently than that, unless it's small incremental changes. And I would say that the scalability challenge came to us when we saw actually that there's more users using actively on daily basis. The protocol and it generated a lot of gas costs. So the cool thing how the user experience works across all the clients is that whenever you create a post or a comment, it reflects in the UI right away. So it feels like a normal social media application.
00:29:54.928 - 00:31:07.022, Speaker A: But what happens in the backend is the background is that a on chain transaction is initiated, it's set to the queue and submitted on chain. And also you don't pay gas, you don't sign transactions. Those are delegated to a so called dispatcher that is managing all that activity. So that's kind of like in terms of user experience for web3 applications, it's really powerful and it feels intuitive. With Momoca, the difference is actually that we create transactions, blockchain transactions, and we simulate, as we will submit normal transactions, we simulate whether those transactions are valid against lance protocol on chain rules. And if they are, we take the transaction that is signed by the user's wallet and we submit it through bundler, kind of like an aggregation transaction management service for Arviv. And Arviv is a data availability layer, so we submit them there.
00:31:07.022 - 00:32:01.110, Speaker A: So we basically create lens protocol compatible transactions. Instead of actually putting on chain, we submit into data availability. So you also have this concept of verifiers that actually verify that the data structure and the verification process work correctly. And now anyone can run that verifier, but in the future it's also kind of like a network agreement. And what it does is that we can substantially reduce the cost. But most importantly, we don't have any more. We are not limited on the concept of, let's say block space or block time, because if you think about Polygon, you have a new block every 2 seconds and you have certain amount of block space that you need to share with other applications and actions that are happening on polygon.
00:32:01.110 - 00:32:50.882, Speaker A: So you don't have that challenge anymore. But we are using Polygon for things where you want to have blockchain security and execution. So profiles, for example, and handles are stored on polygon. And then if you want to do smart contract based interactions. So for example, if you want to create things like collectible content, you can make an on chain transaction as well. Or you can bring an existing transaction that is in moka and laser on chain if maybe your user actually gets excited about the content and wants to mint. So it just showcases how different solutions they are, but also how much throughput it allows because you don't have the component of block time and block space.
00:32:51.066 - 00:33:07.486, Speaker B: Yeah, the throughput, I think the industry is starting to learn is the true bottleneck. That is really hard to scale on these block chains and these off chain data availability committees are definitely pushing to make that easier for quite a few people.
00:33:07.638 - 00:33:54.160, Speaker A: Yeah, exactly. I think Momoka is quite unique solution and it's really hard to say what it is, whether it's some sort of optimistic hybrid solution or a roll up, because end of the day data valid delayers are also, they are layer ones, but there's no execution. So it's a completely different animal. But this just showcases that these kind of solutions are needed for social gaming. Everything that has a lot of data that you can't necessarily manage efficiently and in scale with a blockchain infrastructure.
00:33:54.460 - 00:34:38.480, Speaker B: Yeah, no, it's super interesting to kind of watch it all unfold. I think it's been fascinating just looking at the different architectures, seeing what people are doing. Ethereum obviously took the l two path. Avalanche did subnets. Some of the newer chains such as Lana and Aptosui took the high data throughput and parallelization. When you were doing some of the, the analysis on different infrastructures, ultimately you decided to deploy on Polygon and then use the data availability layer with Momoca. Did you explore any other chains? Because as I said, there's a lot of different ones.
00:34:38.480 - 00:34:54.976, Speaker B: And obviously I think because it is so early in the industry, a lot of people have very strong opinions about all these. I'm curious just how you and your team ultimately settled on Momoka and what other solutions you ultimately looked at. At the infrastructure side, something that was.
00:34:55.008 - 00:36:09.532, Speaker A: Very, quite important for us is that we have a lot of flexibility for developers and the users and some way kind of like unintentionally Momoka allows to actually go in a bit direction where lens could be web3 social layer across all of these networks. In a way where for example, if a user is using something like Solana, or they could store their profiles there, they could store their handles, for example, they can even mint, if they see an interesting transaction, let's say they see an interesting music. NFT, that is a momocat. They can actually choose where they mint it. So they can mint it on solana or l two or avalanche. Those things are possible now because of Momoka. So in some ways Momoka is kind of like a big decentralized database where you can actually grab the data and then decide what you want to do with it, where you want to tokenize, where is your audience.
00:36:09.532 - 00:37:17.074, Speaker A: This flexibility is very important, especially when we're looking back into how we actually, we were interacting with a lot of the communities in Aave, because Aave was first, that went to first of the biggest protocols, that went to Polygon, avalanche and Altoos. And even in the asset listing process in a very early, we were, as a community, listing assets that were seen very early, a bit slightly more long term tail of risk. So we always saw these different communities as new audiences. And because we are building something that is infrastructure, you really want to be as unopinionate as possible and provide flexibility. And I've been dealing the kind of like a strong opinion thing. I think people just need to relax and let people choose whatever they want to. If security is the issue, just use something that is more secure, pay more gas, you know, people just need to be more open into whatever innovation there is.
00:37:17.074 - 00:37:41.566, Speaker A: And I really hate it because I see constantly over the years where, you know, there's, there's sort of like, kind of like camps where, you know, it's just tech, you know, and they have different kinds of use cases eventually where they're gonna steer towards. So it's, it's, it's more interesting to just be heads down in building things than just arguing.
00:37:41.718 - 00:38:13.194, Speaker B: 100% agree. And I appreciate the pragmatism. I think especially as early as we are in the industry, being very pragmatic, focusing on building the best possible products and creating user experiences that people love is the thing that I think sometimes crypto can be missing, just because we're always debating different nuances on Twitter. But we forget that at the end of the day, if we want to grow the pie, we need to get people excited and love the products that we're building.
00:38:13.322 - 00:38:14.882, Speaker A: Exactly, exactly.
00:38:15.026 - 00:38:35.936, Speaker B: Yeah. So, no, it is interesting, with Momoka being this data availability layer, do you see ultimately more projects or people interested in using the services now that you've kind of migrated lens and kind of a big name to do so.
00:38:36.048 - 00:40:01.842, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, end of the day, what Momoka currency supports is that you can create Momoka posts and comments, and also you can create Momoka mirrors, basically sharing content. And the cool thing is that regardless what you're using in the background. So if you're creating on chain posts or data availability posts in terms of like an integrator, you're dealing usually with something like lens as they k. Or interacting with some reach layer like lens API or some other third party ones where you don't really see the kind of like a change. So a lot of things are abstracted away from the interface and it's easy to integrate, which is quite great because one of our goals was to make it super easy. Not only for the web3 developers but the newcomers as well that are coming to web3 space or first time integrating or they might want to integrate it to a existing web two application down the line. We want to make a support wherever you can actually create Momoka, you can create on chain posts, but also comment with momoka comments into those on chain posts.
00:40:01.842 - 00:40:32.470, Speaker A: So have that kind of like a cross reference referencing. And now we recently wrote also a rust client for Monmoka. So that's something that is coming quite soon, which is quite great. Our team, our engineering team, they didn't love rust. So it just showcases that how flexible and unopinionated we're trying to be as we move forward.
00:40:33.290 - 00:41:02.592, Speaker B: So I guess with being able to execute or mint any NFT on Momoka or use any other kind of execution layer, lens will just expand to all chains on the execution side or be agnostic on the l one side, expanding to different ecosystems and just continue to post that data back down to Mamoka.
00:41:02.696 - 00:41:48.200, Speaker A: Yeah, I think what MOCA actually does is that it showcases that when the data isn't on chain, for example, it can be grabbed from there in case the lens community, they want to deploy infrastructure or on another network they can do so. And then what it actually means is that you can actually have also profiles there. You can actually bring those transactions on chain, for example for tokenization, which is kind of interesting because in the lens community there is tons of creators from music, art and also video sort of podcasts. Actually I think we should get this podcast.
00:41:48.240 - 00:41:52.464, Speaker B: I would love to post my podcast on lens. Yeah, let me know when I can do it.
00:41:52.632 - 00:42:33.520, Speaker A: Yeah, there's also like Lens Tube, which is I don't think it was a hackathon project, but it was like a weekend project of one of the community developers. And it's actually quite super smooth, functional experience and people upload videos there. So there's sort of podcast there. I would love to get this there and even collect this one and have it as an FD. But yeah, so there is sort of creators. So I think that choice is important. And what I'm super happy about, about the web3 space is that the creator user base is spread across.
00:42:33.520 - 00:42:48.250, Speaker A: So they are not only on for example in Ethereum or Polygon, but they're a bit everywhere. And I think that's super valuable because that creates those kind of like a micro communities, which is quite great.
00:42:48.370 - 00:43:24.050, Speaker B: I do agree. Maybe last question on the lens front and then I would love to transition and talk a little bit more about aave with kind of these different solutions. I think one hard part for the user aspect is to understand some of the decentralization nuances, like the l two, l three, l one. They're all kind of confusing, even if you're technical and try to understand the different trade offs. How do you feel like users should kind of understand these? Or do you feel like ultimately the goal is for the engineers to handle some of those complexities and just try to abstract it as much as possible?
00:43:24.430 - 00:44:24.070, Speaker A: Yeah, I think people, I think the abstraction isn't, that's a necessity. So, and I think a lot of the stuff has been abstracted that way. So on lens, the clients, for example, you don't really pay gas, you don't sign for those transactions, the typical things that you do on chain. So that doesn't exist there. And then we need to figure out how we can actually onboard a lot of people in a more scale without actually needing to struggle with the seed words and whatnot. But I think more abstraction is needed. And then when it comes to actually like, what is this interest, what not, I think that's where the community comes into play, where like, either it's like lens, but a larger web3 social or larger, you know, the crypto community can see like, okay, what is decentralized and what should be, what not.
00:44:24.070 - 00:45:21.858, Speaker A: And having those debates and discussions. And I think that's where we find the kind of like fine line where what, what you should be using. And I think that's, I think that's how we find things. And those discussions and debates then will translate into development and all the way back to the users. And I think those users who value decentralization, they will be also kind of like one of those messengers and stewards of, of the ecosystem. And what I think is also important to see is that in defi, decentralization is a kind of like a spectrum. In web3 social, it is a spectrum, but also it goes in a far, far like a wider spectrum, where you have to see where you actually need execution or only data availability or both.
00:45:21.858 - 00:45:33.794, Speaker A: So it's definitely been super exciting time for me to learn everything and how to build social media on chain. So it definitely hasn't been easy.
00:45:33.922 - 00:46:19.376, Speaker B: No. Again, I think you took the most extremes of two very challenging industries to take on by the horn. So kudos to you. And I love the pragmatism. I think that, again, is missing in crypto and just being letting the community decide and go where the users ultimately end up. And I think, again, that is something that has been a little bit of a challenge for the industry, but it's super refreshing just to hear that you and your team are taking this approach. We need more builders that are focused on users and I think it even points to you in the industry just kind of being evolved as early as you have, but learning a lot of the tips and tricks along the way.
00:46:19.488 - 00:46:32.780, Speaker A: Yeah, no, definitely. I think we have to start thinking of that consumer aspect and working from there towards how the tech then has to work. Yeah, I do agree.
00:46:33.640 - 00:47:11.860, Speaker B: So transitioning maybe to the end of the podcast Ave I think again, your push the space forward in AavE and what Aave has been able to accomplish. And I think right before I looked at the or restarted the podcast, I saw Aave had almost 8 billion in TVL, which is a very big number. What I guess looking forward in the future, what are some things that you would still like to accomplish on Aave? What are you looking forward to? Maybe for the rest of the year, but in terms of where you would like to see the protocol grow?
00:47:12.160 - 00:48:35.560, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, there's a lot of things happening during this year, for example, so there's the go stablecoin, there's the tree governance, and there's constant small upgrades as well related to the ecosystem. But I think we're in a place with the other protocol where it's really, first of all, it's quite decentralized, so we're not the only ones that are contributing and there's different risk contributors as well. Gauntlet chaos labs and there's delegate platforms. So there is an actual decentralized governance there. What has been amazing to see how that coordination works and proposals getting voted and discussions have been initiated in different forums and there's like a formal process. So that has been super exciting to see and going forward, I think that the roadmap is quite interesting for end of the year and I think kind of like there's still interesting things that you can improve on the protocol level. And as we find always within our team, like we always looking that maybe this is the last version that actually is going to be good and we don't probably see changes.
00:48:35.560 - 00:48:58.484, Speaker A: It's just a few months later we realize that we can actually improve this a bit more or we have some interesting new things that we could add. I think it's going to be, it's like building probably a game console or an iPhone. You know, this is the version three and you know, iPhone is on version, what is it, 13 or so?
00:48:58.532 - 00:49:35.910, Speaker B: And yeah, just release new versions. Well, I guess, I mean, part of that challenge I think, and this is unique to the crypto and blockchain industry, is that decentralization and governance aspect. It's both a pro and a con. And I think also something that the space is still learning how to do correctly or what different variations going back to the community they really want. What have been some of your learnings on the decentralization and governance side of things?
00:49:36.610 - 00:51:01.210, Speaker A: Decentralization, governance side of things. It's definitely like, I think decentralization really means decentralization. It means that you can go into the forums, propose something and that might not work or you even go as far as you can create a proposal and that might not get voted in. So it actually removes everything from the team to be able to manage or control the protocol, which is kind of interesting feeling because it's basically your baby, but you have things that you could see, kind of like envisioning where the direction should go, but there's actually a different stakeholders and group of people that you have to talk to and coordinate, which is great because as you mentioned, the protocol has 8 billion TVL. The peak probably was 28 or so billion TVL in a couple of years ago or so. So those kind of things, you have to kind of have a lot of diligence and a lot of people around. And I think one of the biggest reason why DeFi will take over is that because of the transparency, the smart contract execution, and that like a former governance process, you actually have a financial system that is auditable every single second.
00:51:01.210 - 00:51:53.390, Speaker A: So it really means that there's so many people looking at the code itself, we still find people looking at the version, one of the code, and it's quite interesting. So like, and there's sort of people looking at the risk parameters and doing their own assessment. So there's a lot of involvement for, from the community. And it surprises me that how big the community actually is. And I think that's how you want to build public goods, especially that are, you know, very important to the, you know, humanity and society, which is, which finance is. And that's why I think it's just a more better infrastructure and the reason where we're going. And for me now, that has been super exciting to see on the other governance, for example, we have a lot of new delegate platforms.
00:51:53.390 - 00:52:16.194, Speaker A: If someone is listening this podcast, I definitely recommend to become a delegate and just become active in the governance. And our government is one of the most exciting because there is a straightforward process, a lot of contributors in, it's an open, inclusive environment and definitely recommend, kind of like to contribute as well.
00:52:16.322 - 00:53:26.670, Speaker B: 100% no, it's just been fascinating. I mean, watching from afar, definitely not as close as you have been to it, but watching the progress of these decentralized networks, whether that's lens or AaVE, it is fascinating, and I think we're learning, and you've navigated it beautifully as much as possible. These challenges are new and you're really pushing the space forward in that front. In terms of now going back maybe to a little bit of the infrastructure side, Aave has kind of deployed to a lot of various different l two s deployed in avalanche ecosystem on the EVM. Would the community in your mind, do you think you would ever explore like non EVM blockchains or with the Solana virtual machine, or even some of the virtual machines for the newer ecosystems coming out of meta with Aptos and Swe?
00:53:27.170 - 00:54:33.760, Speaker A: That's interesting question, because I think the portability of EVM is fascinating. It really reminds me something like the Unix systems where you basically can port it and you can build operating system and small to run the programs. I definitely think there's a challenge when it comes to building another language, but it's not really a challenge, it's more of a resource question. So how much our team puts resource and time into building something in a new language and then securing those smart contracts. And that's the challenge with DeFi, especially with Aave, is that whatever is being built, it has to be very resilient and it has to work as designed. But also design has to be something that is like, meets the expectations, what the protocol should function. So I don't see it as an issue.
00:54:33.760 - 00:54:59.566, Speaker A: I actually would love to see that happen and getting into a place where we could actually build that and get exposure to a new community. So I will personally love to see that. And I think that will be very exciting because it will really ignite some of the rust specific networks. So definitely will be cool.
00:54:59.758 - 00:55:47.590, Speaker B: The rust is loved by programmers, so no, we'd love to see some of your talents taken to explore to other ecosystems as well. I think what you guys have built really has pushed the industry forward. And on that front, I think for a lot of founders, investors, engineers watch the podcast, it's a little bit more technical. Sometimes we do technical deep dives on different layer ones, L2s, and the kind of small incredibly between those. What would you say to engineers or people that want to get involved in web3 or crypto and just jumping in and building in these different ecosystems from building such a successful product.
00:55:48.290 - 00:56:36.564, Speaker A: I mean, obviously, like, first thing is to build as less as possible and iterate trying something that to see whether it works. So it's way better than going into a basement for two years and building something and, you know, and just moving quickly, trying to iterate things. And talking to users is very valuable. I think we too much listen to the we too much kind of like look into social media and what's happening there, what's people, what people are talking about, and also looking into what exists already. But actually talking to users can help quite a lot to understand what they actually need and what direction you have to take your products. So I think those are the best learnings.
00:56:36.652 - 00:57:09.000, Speaker B: From my side, it seems relatively simple, but often we skip over the simple things, such as talking to users to try to make things harder. So I love it. And in terms of what you're looking forward to, either in the ecosystem personally, whether it's what you would like to see happen on Aave or what you would like to see happen on Linz, what things would you like to see happen for the next, say, year or two years?
00:57:09.400 - 00:58:04.790, Speaker A: Something I would love to see. In terms of concrete, obviously, I want to see the ecosystem still mature and grow. And if there's builders that are excited to build something on lens or aave, feel free to dm me on lens or even on Twitter. Something I want to see being built is a governance forum based on lens. And I think that's where the data availability really kicks in. And the idea of having a decentralized non custodial profile, because you don't really give any data compared when you log into usually web, two social media platforms, you basically give data, you give emails to login. So a decentralized bulletin board for governance forms could be very good.
00:58:04.790 - 00:58:54.300, Speaker A: And some of the clients, they integrated snapshot as a voting mechanism, so there's sort of things you can actually do. So that's concrete. I'm super excited to also see more open algorithms. So the beauty of lens is that all the data is really open, so anyone can come and just build algorithms that are based on openness and gives that choice to the users. And on office side, I really would love to see more payment applications, especially on go. So go is on purely testnet, so you already can build some exciting things there, maybe some sort of a checkout widget or something similar. So yeah, I think those are the things that come coming to my mind.
00:58:54.420 - 00:59:12.188, Speaker B: For now in terms of personally, the state of the different ecosystems, bull market, bear market, what have some have been your personal lessons? Just like building throughout both.
00:59:12.364 - 00:59:40.250, Speaker A: I think there's less of a noise on bear market, but at the same time, it's a time that things move slowly on the bull market, you have a lot of things happening at the same time, so there's a lot of distractions and it seems that there's just like this huge overflow of information, which is quite challenging. But yeah, I think you have to experience both. End of the day.
00:59:40.370 - 01:00:07.188, Speaker B: Yeah. Now there are wild swings for sure. I think crypto is like no other industry where ultimately it keeps you on your toes. There's always surprising news, good and bad, but I think that's what makes it exciting because the space is relatively small. We're pushing it forward, we're getting user adoption, we're bringing finance on chain. Lots of exciting things to look forward to.
01:00:07.284 - 01:00:29.200, Speaker A: Yeah, I'm super excited for the future and also everyone who is building at these times and building the future, huge respect. And if anyone needs help or to chat, I'm always somewhere around.
01:00:30.140 - 01:00:52.538, Speaker B: Perfect. Well, thank you again, Sani, really appreciate you coming on the podcast, sharing the vision for what lens ultimately will become what you have built with Aave as amazing and helped the industry really grow when it was still very small. So thank you again, appreciate you sharing your wisdoms.
01:00:52.674 - 01:00:54.850, Speaker A: Thank you so much. Logan was a pleasure to be here.
