00:00:00.240 - 00:00:50.946, Speaker A: Good afternoon. We've been studying algebra some. In the AF case, you can talk about sister algebras. You can also talk about the. It's more. It's pretty well equivalent and technically simpler to talk about the algebraic conductive limit setting. So you have a sequence of building block algebras, first algebra and second algebra, and the third algebra and so on.
00:00:50.946 - 00:01:39.260, Speaker A: Each one mapped into the next. And the union is the limit. How many people are familiar with the inductive limit? What the inductive limit is, it has two aspects. There's the characterization that works for any category, even an abstract category, in terms of a universal property which determines it uniquely. And then in a concrete category, well, it doesn't always exist. For instance, in the category of finite sets, it certainly wouldn't exist. Because you have an increasing sequence of finite sets.
00:01:39.260 - 00:02:46.194, Speaker A: Then the limit in the category of sets would be the union. But the union isn't finite. So it's not if I set sort of distinct elements or getting strictly larger, and the limit is just not in the category. And if it's an abstract category, then maybe you can't even construct the limit. That's a good question. But if it's a concrete category consisting of sets, and what's the concrete category? Where you have a, first way you look at the category of sets, then if your sets have groups, that means they have an operation, modification or addition. And maps, arrows in the category are set maps that preserve the operation.
00:02:46.194 - 00:03:41.604, Speaker A: Abigail, did that thing clear. Okay. And if you look at the category of groups, we just say that has inductive limits without sequences. We have a sequence of groups. The first one mapping into the second, second one mapping into the third, and so on. And would you say that? Well, to check, I mean, to really be able to say definitely whether there's an inductive limit, you have to have a formal definition, right? Either a construction which you can just do, and then say that's the inductive limit, or a definition which would be in terms of an abstract universal property. So what's the universal property? By the way? Suppose you have.
00:03:41.604 - 00:04:33.232, Speaker A: Suppose you have a category and a bunch of objects. Maps. And then they all map into, they all map into a particular object. Okay. And you have a clearer to the diagram that sometimes that's some abbreviation for, that is just you just put a single arrow instead of all these arrows that obviously start at the finite stage. If you put in a single arrow after the three dots, then that is assumed to stand for arrows from all the finite stages into the. Well into a test.
00:04:33.232 - 00:05:16.936, Speaker A: Object. Into some test object. Okay. Into some object. This may or may not be the limit. So what's the condition for something for which there is a commutative diagram? All of maps from the finite stages into it. What's the condition that a particular test object should be the universal one? Vincent, do you know, are you familiar with elementary category theory? Okay, but this is an abstract category.
00:05:16.936 - 00:05:35.784, Speaker A: I'm not quite sure what you mean by projections. Yeah, but I didn't even understand it in the concrete setting. You're saying if you have a bunch of finite dimensional algebra. Yes, but the projections are sort of incidental. It just happens that a finite dimensional algebra has projections. Right. Importance.
00:05:35.784 - 00:06:04.904, Speaker A: Right. If it's a full matrix algebra. So I don't know how you can. Well, okay, but I don't expect people to make things up on the spur of the moment. Okay, but it seems to me it's a question that you might have asked earlier, because we've been talking about inductive limits for some time. Right. Well, one strategy is if you don't know what something means, just wait.
00:06:04.904 - 00:06:36.634, Speaker A: Okay. Eventually you may know what it means, but there's another strategy. You actually actively seek out what it means. For instance, you look it up on your telephone. That takes about 4 seconds. Right? That's an exaggeration. To figure out from what Wikipedia says, what is the abstract definition and what is the concrete definition in important cases? Well, that might take more than just a few seconds.
00:06:36.634 - 00:07:00.046, Speaker A: Yes, Abigail. I'm sorry. Well, I'm using dots to refer to whole sets. Okay. Whole objects or groups. If we're talking about the category of groups, then a single point means a single group. So that.
00:07:00.046 - 00:07:23.902, Speaker A: That's the note, that's the schematic notation. Sorry? Well. Oh, it's. Well, I think in the language of categories, it's less. It's clearest if you say object, the object. Now, it's true that the category. If the category, sometimes a set, then the objects are elements of the set.
00:07:23.902 - 00:08:40.746, Speaker A: Okay? But since the objects may be sets themselves, and the sets themselves have elements, if the objects are grouped, then the elements of the group are not elements of the category, even if you're looking at a set of groups. Of course, if you look at all groups, that's not a set, because already too many cardinal numbers. Right. That's a good exercise that there can't be any largest set because it would have a cardinal number. It would have to be the largest cardinal number. But Cantor, he was hard on him. I think he had trouble later, but he proved a really momentous theorem that if you take two cardinal numbers and one of them is not equal to one, and you exponentiate it to some other cardinal power, the power of the exponent is another cardinal number, which makes sense.
00:08:40.746 - 00:09:37.792, Speaker A: Take cartesian product, but, and the other cardinal is also not equal to one. Well then the fact, even if it's equal to one, then this exponential is greater than the exponent. Okay? So if it specializes, then two to a particular number, two, which is the smallest one, not equal to one. If you look at two to some power, say three, then that's two cubed is eight. Right? That age is strictly bigger than three. That's an example of Cantor's law. Okay, but that Cantor's law also works if the second exponent is infinite, an infinite part.
00:09:37.792 - 00:10:23.764, Speaker A: Of course, the first exponent can also be an infinite part if you take a fixed. After all, the exponential is, the power is supposed to be just bigger than the exponent. So make the thing that's being raised to a power larger. That just makes it easier for the theorem to be true. Right? So the strongest version of the theorem is where you take two to a certain power and then, okay, but then the point is that if you have a largest cardinal number, then two to that number will be, um, will, will contradict the fact that it's larger because it'll be strictly large. That's what cardinal arithmetic shows. So it means, but in particular, it just means that because sets are by definition have a cardinal number.
00:10:23.764 - 00:11:34.710, Speaker A: Okay? And the definition of cardinal number, um, is what Cantor worked with and was able to group his theorem. Well, we don't want to have too much of the course rest on Cantor's theorem. Right? I mean, but I'm just saying that if we have, if we're talking about a category, then we should bear in mind that some categories are sets, and some categories, like a group. Group has to be a set, or an algebra has to be assessed. Vector space has to be a set. But a category category of all vector spaces over a fixed field, then that's not a, even if you look at all vector spaces of dimension one over a fixed field, if you look at all vector spaces of dimension zero over a fixed field, then maybe that's a set, okay? Because the, at least if you have two different vector spaces and they're both zero dimensional, they only have one element. Well, seems to me they're not just isomorphic.
00:11:34.710 - 00:12:47.358, Speaker A: You can almost say they're equal. Okay, but if, if there's, you need to have a basis. If it's a non zero vector space. Then the basis has labels, okay? And the labels can be anything. So any, anything can. Anyway, this is, it's easy to get into the world of Alice in Wonderland, I guess, but. Okay, so what's the universal property? If I have this particular test object, which is the, which all the finite stage objects map into with arrows in the category, does anyone want to say? So what you do is you bring in some other test object, okay? And you want to say that this particular test object is somehow it takes precedence over any other test object.
00:12:47.358 - 00:14:12.124, Speaker A: So how would that do it? Let me write down some other test object. Okay? So when I draw that single arrow, that means I've drawn a whole sequence of arrows from the finite stages, okay? And so what would, what would it mean that the, somehow the second test object and the arrow and the maps into it are derivative from the first, in the generic sense of the word, are somehow subservient to the universal object regime. Yeah. So, yeah, right. And I guess the first thing is that there should be such a map. It should be such a map, right? There should be some map such that the maps from the finite stage object into the given test object, the random test object, those should factor through the, now uniqueness. Sometimes you say that if it's a concrete category, sometimes you say that the image of the finite stage things in the test object exhausted, okay, degenerated.
00:14:12.124 - 00:15:35.324, Speaker A: And if you say that, then it would follow that this arrow is unique, because I guess if, but, but you can only rely on that in special cases when, when it, when you can prove that if I have a generating subset, if you have a concrete object, concrete category with a, so the objects are vector spaces or something. Well, if you have a subset that generates the vector space, any linear map is going to be determined what it is by what it is on the substrate, on the subset, right. The generating subset. So, but, and so it'll be unique if it is supposed to make this diagram mutative. Okay, but, but you might as well just say it's unique, okay? And then that advantage of doing that is that, that makes sense in the abstract, completely abstract category, okay, you don't have to say what it means that it's a whole bunch of, whole bunch of maps into some other objects into, he doesn't, don't have to say what it means that the image generates. In fact, that might be a definition of generating. If you say that I have a whole lot of arrows from other objects into this particular object.
00:15:35.324 - 00:16:55.624, Speaker A: If you want to say what it means, that the images generate that which a priori, it doesn't have a meaning. You could just say that whenever you have a map into some other, into some other, under some other object, it's determined uniquely by looking at the composition with the finite stage maps. Okay? If it's, if there is restriction, if it's restriction to all the finite stages, or you have a whole bunch of arrows just from random objects, if it's, if the, if you have an arrow that, and these all go into some something and you want to know what it says that the images generate that. Well, you just say that an arrow from this object into any other object is determined uniquely if once you have it, it's determined uniquely by the restriction, by the composition with all the other arrows going into it. Okay, so there is a way of defining what generating means. And then you could say that. And then you can notice that for generating means unique, right? So it's somehow cutting to the chase.
00:16:55.624 - 00:17:45.374, Speaker A: Cutting right to the chase. If you just say the arrow is unique, that's the definition of saying that these things that the images generate. Okay, Finson, is that clear? So that's what the, in that case, you say that this particular test object is the universal one. And they call it the inductive limit, okay? And in different, in different settings, you can have different universal properties. It's a different kind of diagram. Like tensor product can be defined by a, a direct sum can be defined by universal property. And it always says that a certain arrow should exist, making something communitive and be unique with that property.
00:17:45.374 - 00:18:49.594, Speaker A: And then the bonus is that it's that the object itself is unique. This universal object is unique in the sense if you have another one, then the unique map going in either direction, neat map going in either direction. By definition, which makes things commutative, one of them is the inverse of the other, and it's an isomorphism. You have to prove that, okay? Have to prove that. That's a good exercise. And a good question ahead of time is how many times are you going to have to use universal property to prove that the two universal objects are isomorphic in this way, preserving the diagram? Well, so of course you're going to guess. Anyone would guess at least two, right, Rishi? Was that what you were going to say? Okay, okay, we'll think about it.
00:18:49.594 - 00:19:54.698, Speaker A: Exercises to prove that, prove that you have universal object is unique, say for inductive limit, and keep track of how many times you have to use the universal property. Now maybe I can give you a hint. It's a way of telling that your proof is wrong. Okay? If you only get two uses, if you only use it twice, then you're wrong. Okay, proof is wrong. That's my, that's my take. If someone can produce a correct proof using only the two, of course, a universal property means that it comes in whenever you have, whenever you have, whenever you're applying the universal property to another test object.
00:19:54.698 - 00:21:05.552, Speaker A: So you have to have two test objects, and one of them is supposed to be, at least one of them is supposed to be universal, right? Okay, well now, but I suppose that, that whatever that every, the other, so you have the two, two ones you sort of want to use the universal property for. Then in each case you have the other one, right? Okay. It's like counting combinations of things for each and permutations. You have to be a little careful. So for each choice, if you choose this to be your one, you're going to apply the universal property to. Well then you have to say which test object you're going to be applying the universal property to. Okay, and, but there are, how many test objects are there in the picture? We've got two candidates for the inductive limit, right? Two things which have the universal property.
00:21:05.552 - 00:22:47.894, Speaker A: Well that's two objects, right? And even when you specify one of them, there are still two objects. Okay, now, so that's, that's an even broader hint. Okay? Yeah. So, and two times two is what, okay, so what's the answer? What am I saying? What am I suggesting that the answer might be? Okay, so now one of the things I've talked about is the specific class of inductive limit algebra is one gets the matrix algebra, okay? If it's a unital map between matrix algebra over the, over the real or complex number, or even over any field and take algebraic limits, then glim showed how with an explanation more, a little more elegant, a little more somehow. Well, definitely helpful comments by dicksmen on Wim's theorem proof. Wim showed that the, you want to know of how many algebras there are in the sense of isomorphism classes, then they're parameterized in a very nice way. Right? That's what he showed.
00:22:47.894 - 00:23:36.114, Speaker A: And then what I suggested was that we looked also at something that Dix may mention in this paper. And the paper is quite readable, by the way. I would suggest you look at it. Volume one of the journal of Functional Analysis come up in 4 seconds. Maybe after you finish typing as keywords, type in dixmy glim. I bet that might do it, because the title of this paper was on some sister algebras considered by Gwym. Okay.
00:23:36.114 - 00:24:46.424, Speaker A: And so one of the things Dixmeyer did was, besides systematizing in a certain way, in terms of what we can now see as k zero, the classification in terms of supernatural numbers, what Dix may call generalized integers. And a bit of a smart aleck, well known topologist Larry Smith suggested that since they include the natural numbers, we'll go well beyond and maybe call supernatural numbers. But that's a good joke. It's better than a joke. Something else he tried once was not such a good joke, but it turned out okay. When he went, when he wanted to visit the place in Germany, once he was visiting Denmark for some time, thinking maybe he was there for a year. This was before the European Union.
00:24:46.424 - 00:25:35.254, Speaker A: They had the common market. He just went. And then, well, it seemed to have any trouble going either way without his passport. He just left the passport at home and used his danish insurance charge, health insurance. Well, okay, so what something Dixmae did beyond the case of glim was look at what I'm calling the free floating algebra. Okay? So you look at the. What's the free floating algebra over the complex based on the complex number.
00:25:35.254 - 00:26:46.368, Speaker A: So you start with some algebra, any algebra, and you can start the new algebra called the free floating algebra. And if the algebra is already the free floating algebra of something, one of the properties of this construction is if you start with the free floating algebra over something, whatever the free floating construction is, and you do it again, then you get something which is isomorphic, okay? And that's because take infinite matrices over infinite matrices you have every infinity. We're just talking about countable infinity. The natural numbers are in one to one correspondence with the disjoint union of infinitely many copies, accountably many copies of the natural numbers, right? If it's two copies, it's very easy. You take the even numbers and the odd numbers. If it's going to get countably many disjoint subsets of the natural numbers, countably many infinite disjoint subsets of the natural number, which you add up to everything. Of course, if you can do it in the first place, get counter many disjoint infinite subsets.
00:26:46.368 - 00:27:53.402, Speaker A: It should be pretty easy to get them to have union the whole thing. But you've got to think a little, right? But I guess you can do it. But that shows that it's just a question of how you index the rows and columns. If the entries are the are the same, then the question of matrix algebras when they're the same or not, it's a question of indexing the rows and columns, right? So if, if the rows and columns are indexed by an infinite countable, accountable infinite set, well, there's only one such countably infinite set. That's another way of saying it. And so that says that every time you have matrices over any algebra with infinitely many countable, accountable infinity of rows and columns, and you let you take the usual addition operation even with the additional multiplication operators offer operation. Of course we have to be talking about just finitely non zero entries, right? Finitely many non zero entries.
00:27:53.402 - 00:28:39.900, Speaker A: So you can always add the arbitrary entries, but because you add entry wise. But when you multiply, you do the funny arithmetic, right? And that would, that's if you requires just said, oh, that only the rows were finite and the columns were not finite. You could still modify, but you have to check that. That does give you an algebra. Maybe it does. Okay? Maybe that already would give you an algebra and then they could do it the other way with columns and rows, the columns being finite, the row is not, then you get two different algebras. And the question would be, are those isomorphic? Okay, well one, one would be isomorphic to the opposite of the other.
00:28:39.900 - 00:29:12.524, Speaker A: They don't, well, so that's, I haven't thought too much about that. But you see everything leads to a question, right? And. No, well, some questions, they're good questions, they're better questions. And that's a kind of knack. I'm not saying I have the knack, right? I'm not saying that's a good question. We have to think about it before you decide. It's a good question, but I'd be interested in whether someone said that that's a good question or not, after thinking about it, maybe even came up with an answer.
00:29:12.524 - 00:30:22.504, Speaker A: If you take the, instead of saying both rows and columns are finitely non zero, in your, in our free floating construction, if you, you say just the rows are finite, zero, zero is everywhere, almost everywhere, and the columns are arbitrary on the one hand. Or if you said the rows are arbitrary, but the columns are supposed to be finitely non zero. And if it does work out, they both give you algebra. Then let's see, multiplication associated and so on. Can you, because for instance, you have to check, you have to check that if you have a, if you have two matrices which are both, the rows are finite and the column is not two such matrices, and you modify them. You know, you can modify them, but is the product have the same property? Okay, so there's an exercise, and that's. That's good practice.
00:30:22.504 - 00:30:52.178, Speaker A: Of course, it's not the only thing you should do, but good practice to invent exercises and take a look at them. Well, I'm not saying you invented that, but you can take and make a choice to look at it. Okay? And you, in a sense, you invented it by entertaining this discussion. Okay. Nobody just walked out. I mean, it's a bit, it's, it's, um. It's a bit discursive discussion, right? I mean, this is supposed to be k theory.
00:30:52.178 - 00:31:16.200, Speaker A: We're just talking of algebra, and not just algebra. So where's the k theory? Come in. Well, someone wrote to me. Um, uh, it was all. It was, um, chan yi zhou, he's. He's on the. What is the free floating.
00:31:16.200 - 00:31:59.534, Speaker A: Why would you look at the free floating construction? Well, why would you look at infinite cardinals? Gemoff wrote a children's book. Well, it's not really a high school level. One, two, three, infinity. And he said this was actually very concrete. It was maybe in a less politically correct comment, which was common in those days, he said that there's a whole. He pointed out that there's a whole group, a whole tribe of Africans, apparently, that count that way. One, two, three, infinity.
00:31:59.534 - 00:32:36.866, Speaker A: But I guess children do go up to a certain age. Okay, well, infinity just meaning bigger than any number you can give a name to. So we. We know how to give a name to it when we, after a certain age, we know how to give a name to any finite number, right? And we maybe even have. Have a motivation to do it. That's not clear what the motivation is. But we have a system.
00:32:36.866 - 00:33:07.138, Speaker A: We supposedly have a system which is supposed to be able to give a name to any finite natural number, right? Okay, so that means we can, and we know how to compare two natural numbers, even. Even. Well, okay, but what does it mean to have a number which is not an actual number, and they're bigger than any natural number? I mean, it might not be bigger, might lie between. Might be halfway between two natural numbers. Right. Okay, so the idea of numbers is already important. Of course.
00:33:07.138 - 00:33:53.636, Speaker A: That's an important area of mathematics. Number systems is important area of mathematics. Well, the famous, the late, late John Conway, the victim of the pandemic, one of the early ones, wrote a book called, well, surreal numbers. So they're not real numbers, they're surreal numbers. It's a bit along the lines of Larry Smith's joke, but it's. You can look it up, right? If you know how to you don't even know how to spell. This is a terrible joke.
00:33:53.636 - 00:34:51.333, Speaker A: But you only have to know how to spell surreal, right? Because the computer will do that for you. And. Well, it's. That's a. I guess the basis of numbers is quite important. And Conway fits all known number, four versions of number into his, putting, I guess, imaginary number into his system and then some. Okay, so two times two is four.
00:34:51.333 - 00:35:54.830, Speaker A: That's my calculation of why you need four applications of universal property to prove the uniqueness of the universal object. With respect to any universal property, you don't have to know what the nature of the diagram is that the test object respects. Okay, based on. Okay, but so what did Tianji mean, I wonder, by usefulness of the free floating algorithm? Well, one reason for looking at the free floating algebra based on the. On the given algebra, is it as a pedagogical reason, okay. If you look at the glim, uhf algebras, you could say their classification is too. A bit too simple, too easy.
00:35:54.830 - 00:37:09.794, Speaker A: If you want to have something a little more challenging, look at the free floating algebras based on them and ask a few, has it possible to classify them? And the. What's, what's the answer? By the way, Arisa, do what you say. It's possible to classify the. There's some sense in which it makes sense to classify the free floating algebra, what I'm calling the free floating algebra space on UHF algebra. Okay, does anyone, can anyone recognize, can anyone recall any aspect of our discussions up to now which might refer to that? Larry? Yes. Well, okay, so the UHF algebras, the classification is just the data in which they were constructed by. Right.
00:37:09.794 - 00:37:36.710, Speaker A: You have the supernatural number. You construct the infinite tensor product with those. The matrix algebras of those prime power orders. Right? Yeah. So that. So that's one way to say it, yeah, but the. And in fact, you don't have to go beyond talking about the supernatural numbers.
00:37:36.710 - 00:37:54.174, Speaker A: You don't have to go beyond talking about the data. And you could say that this group is one role it has as just a tool. We need to express the theorem in terms of the group that is very important. Right. Because that's what generalizes. Okay. The k is a real group that, together with the special element being a number one.
00:37:54.174 - 00:38:28.854, Speaker A: Right. Okay, but if you, if you just say that, just notice that that group together with the. Well, as a concrete subgroup of two containing z, and you know what it is, because you know what the number one is that determines the supernatural number. Well, then you can express the classification just purely in terms of the data. Right. So data in, data out. You don't lose anything.
00:38:28.854 - 00:40:29.250, Speaker A: Okay. But if you start with a piece of data, namely a supernatural number, and construct the UHS algebra, then look over the free floating algebra, the infinite matrices, I just find that in many entry how long it was on. Not very long. Okay, good. Yeah, good. Okay. Okay.
00:40:29.250 - 00:41:03.300, Speaker A: So everyone knows what a functor is. What about a forgetful function? Forgetful? Well, okay, well, that's. I guess if it's not a forgetful functor, then in some sense, it's a classification function. I mean, it must. But I don't think that's the use made of it. I mean, so classification function is what distinguishes isomorphism. Non isomorphic objects, right? They always take isomorphic.
00:41:03.300 - 00:41:53.148, Speaker A: Any functor takes isomorphic objects into isomorphic objects. But if it takes non isomorphic objects into non isomorphic objects, then you can call the classification function. And so the supernatural number. The function. The construction of a UHF algebra is a classification function because it takes distinct, um, it takes distinct supernatural numbers. So it's a technical usage because we talking about classifying supernatural numbers and some. Does the UHF algebra determine the supernatural numbers? Well, the answer is yes, you have two distinct supernatural numbers.
00:41:53.148 - 00:42:16.152, Speaker A: Then the UHF algebras are non isomorphic. And the proof of that is you go to Larry's group, you, um. That's a functor also. And. And, um. And if the, um, supernatural numbers are distinct, and it's easy to see that the groups are distinct. Okay, that's a number theoretical question.
00:42:16.152 - 00:43:09.940, Speaker A: Nothing to do with algorithms. Which proves the divisional functor is a classification function. That's a number theoretic, purely number theoretic proof. After you construct functions of class equation, classification number, theoretical outline of it, right. Still have the construction, but. Okay, if you look at the floating algebra, then as Carissa points out, if you take the given supernatural number and you multiply it by two, which will always be. Will almost always be different.
00:43:09.940 - 00:43:39.444, Speaker A: It won't always be different. Okay? Because if it's. If the original supernatural number is two to the infinity, then it's. You multiply two to the infinity by two, you get two to the infinity. And so the construction will give you the same thing. So it's. It's not a question of two distinct supernatural numbers, but.
00:43:39.444 - 00:44:16.654, Speaker A: Well, what's the important role. What's the important phenomenon involving the preflooding algebra? Well, the point is that they can be. They can be isomorphic with. With the. When the algebras that they're based on are not. Okay, they can forget sometimes what they can forget something. They can forget some things about the structure of the algebra they're based on.
00:44:16.654 - 00:45:19.474, Speaker A: It's like looking through a telescope a bit. It's like looking at the base object through a telescope. You can't quite recognize all the details of it. But from a pedagogical point of view, that's very good, because in fact, the new isomorphism classes of the free floating algebra, the Wim UHF algebra, these are not even nicely, isomorphism classes are not nicely parameterized. The parameter space is the 10% modulo an equivalence relation, which is something like modifying by two. Modifying by two is an example. I suppose if you could go backwards too, it's got equivalent relation of symmetric, right? If the first, if the second one is two times the first, or if the first one is two times the second, they're still going to give you isomorphic.
00:45:19.474 - 00:46:27.404, Speaker A: So I think it's very, it's a good exercise to find out exactly what the circumference relation is and what the, what the quotient space looks like. What are the. I conjectured last time, I may, I made the bold suggestion last time that the quotient space might be completely trivial, that no open sets except the empty set and the whole space. But in fact there are open sets. Okay, with a good question, how many open sets? What are the open sets as a quotient space? Anyone look at that? But it's certainly not a house door of topology. Everyone know what a house door space is? Okay, but so it's a good example of a non host dwarf topological space. Someone ever asks you, what's the good example of a non host topological spaces? You can just say, we'll look at the free floating, look at the free floaters of UHF algebra, look at the isomorphism class, the natural topology on the isomorphism class.
00:46:27.404 - 00:47:19.370, Speaker A: Well, okay, so. And at the same time, it was pedagogical in that sense. Also, it's pedagogical because it's a simpler invariant in this UHF case for the floating algebra. It's, um. Not if you express it in terms of the group, it's not. You don't have to look at it as a group together with a special element which determines it as a subgroup of two containing z, right? You say the special element, you go into the number one. So basically, in Wim's theorem, you're looking at the k zero group together with the special element coming from the class of the unit.
00:47:19.370 - 00:48:10.212, Speaker A: But that's more complicated than just looking at the k zero group, right? So that's so it's actually, in a way, the classification of the free floating UHF algebras. Free floater free floating algebra is based on the UHF algebra. The classification of those is simpler in a sense. It's simpler when you express it in terms of a functor, because instead of the invariant being a order group together with a special element, which ties it down to being a subgroup of q containing z. Okay? And the special element is the number one, you don't have to mention the number l. You don't have to mention the number one when you're saying it contains number one, right? Because there it is. It's there.
00:48:10.212 - 00:49:14.034, Speaker A: Everyone knows what the number one is. Okay? As long as you don't get it mixed up with it. Additive inverse. I have a, that's a bet. And water for me. If you can talk about, if you can talk about negative one to mean minus one, why doesn't anyone say positive one? And why is it that the square roots of one are not called negative and positive one instead of plus or minus one? It's really an anomaly, something abnormal about this. I blame it on misguided teaching, but I know it's maybe better late at the hands of fashion.
00:49:14.034 - 00:50:19.354, Speaker A: Fashion can be helpful thing, but mostly it is. But obviously it cannot sometimes not be helpful. All right, this, this is the situation for af algebras. Now, if you look at af algebras more general than UHF, that's where the finite stage algebra is not just full matrix algebras, they're finite direct sums of full matrix algebra over scale over the complex number. And in this case, the, the, you have to keep track of the, of the semi group. The Murray phone admin. Semi group inside the, it turns out it's embedded inside the developing group, just as it is for UHF.
00:50:19.354 - 00:50:45.964, Speaker A: So the invariant is k zero. Considered as an order group for the UHF algebras are free floaters. All right. Okay. Okay. So the, the, um. I'm trying to make a case for looking at the free floating algebra.
00:50:45.964 - 00:51:08.314, Speaker A: Another thing I'd like to look at is the, um. Well, we have to keep reviewing the isomorphism theorem for af algebra, and it's probably simplest. Well, I don't think it's too much of a, too much extra work to carry along the parts of the unit.
