00:00:02.970 - 00:01:01.790, Speaker A: Thanks for tuning in to this week's news. Recap alameda CEO confesses to using Customer funds and SBF may have used a backdoor the New York Times reported that Caroline Ellison, the CEO of Alameda Research, declared in a company wide meeting that the trading firm used customer funds from the now bankrupt FTX to repay its loans. El Listen stated that the earlier crypto collapses caused some of Alameda's loans to be recalled. According to her, the firm didn't have enough money to repay those loans, so it agreed with FTX executives to transfer FTX customer funds to repay them. Reuters reported that Sam Bankman Free, the founder of both Alameda and FTX, built a backdoor to FTX to change financial records and move funds to Alameda without triggering internal compliance checks. The news agency said that SBF could also use the tool to modify records so the state of affairs wouldn't be visible to external auditors. Bankman Fried denied the allegations.
00:01:01.790 - 00:01:46.618, Speaker A: In an interview with Vox, SBF blamed messy accounting and margin exchange for the collapse of FTX. Based on the first declaration in the bankruptcy and SBF's admission to Vox that customer deposits went straight to Alameda. The commingling may have begun far earlier than several months ago. FTX failure Sparks Crypto lending Contagion FTX's collapse quickly spread to the rest of the crypto lending market. Genesis Global Capital, the lending arm of Genesis Global Trading, paused withdrawals, citing unprecedented market turmoil. Genesis is one of the largest institutional lending companies that services crypto platforms, offering yields to retail investors. If Genesis fails, customer funds held on these platforms could be at risk.
00:01:46.618 - 00:02:46.978, Speaker A: For that very reason, Gemini, one of the more well regulated crypto exchanges in the US, warned its customers that they might suffer delays when withdrawing their assets from its earned product, which lets users earn yields on their crypto. However, Gemini reassured customers that all funds on the exchange are safe. Retail crypto lender BlockFi paused withdrawals and deposits after FTX filed for bankruptcy, and it's preparing to file for bankruptcy proceedings on its own. According to the Wall Street Journal, the lender received a 400 million dollar line of credit from FTX US in July. The Block revealed that back in July, crypto lender Nexo Disclosure, a former sponsor, made an offer to acquire Blockfly and a deal worth $850,000,000 contagion spreads across the globe. Japanese crypto exchange Liquid Global, which is owned by FTX, halted fiat and crypto withdrawals from the platform. Salt Lending, a crypto lender, also paused withdrawals and bank to the Future scrapped its deal to buy the company.
00:02:46.978 - 00:03:52.178, Speaker A: Plenty of major investors in FTX, including Paradigm, Sequoia and Tomasic, have written down their investments, in some cases to zero. Others affected include hedge fund Multicoin Capital, which held a $25 million stake in FTX through its $430,000,000 venture fund bankrupt crypto lender Celsius, whom Alameda owes $12 million and troubled Crypto Exchange Vault, which had $10 million of funds in FTX. The Ontario Teachers Pension plan also held $95 million in FTX, but said it will have a limited impact. House to call hearing on FTX as regulators announced investigations lawmakers and regulators haven't ignored the exchange's startling collapse. The House Financial Services Committee calls on bankman free to testify about the fallout of FTX in a hearing to take place in December. The hearing will examine how FTX blew up and to work out the broader consequences for the digital asset ecosystem. California's Department of Financial Protection and Innovation also announced an investigation into the failure of FTX, as did prosecutors from the Department of justice.
00:03:52.178 - 00:04:43.366, Speaker A: US authorities are also investigating the role Binance played in the collapse of FTX. Changpang Zhao, or CZ, the CEO of Binance, triggered a liquidity cris on FTX when he announced that he would sell the company's holdings of FTT. FTX's exchange Token Binance is reportedly cooperating with authorities on the case. Lawmakers use FTX's example to regulate the industry in addition to tanking the markets, the implosion of FTX grabbed the attention of American lawmakers, who said that it proves that the industry needs stricter regulations to protect retail investors. The anti crypto US Senator Elizabeth Warren said that the collapse of FTX must be a wake up call for Congress and financial regulators to hold this industry and its executives accountable. Additionally, Warren, together with Senator Dick Durbin, sent a letter to SBF demanding information on its shocking collapse. U.
00:04:43.366 - 00:05:36.134, Speaker A: S. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen, known for her hardline stance against crypto, also called for more effective oversight over the crypto markets. Senator Pat Toomey, a former guest on Unchained who has been vocal about his opposition to the SEC's enforcement actions on crypto, said that the crypto industry has been operating with ambiguity because regulators don't provide a proper framework and lawmakers refuse to act. After spending months talking to regulators and lawmakers, SPF told Vox Fuck them, they make everything worse. He later apologized for his comments and said that some regulators command impressive knowledge. Binance forms a recovery fund as exchanges rush to prove reserves Exchange giant Binance announced it will form a recovery fund to stem the contagion from FTX's implosion. Crypto exchange Okx plans to fill another fund with $100 million to provide struggling projects with liquidity, CZ said.
00:05:36.134 - 00:06:24.338, Speaker A: The exchange also plans to implement a new proof of reserves protocol developed by Ethereum creator Vitalik Buterin. Last Friday, Finance disclosed that it held $69 billion in assets, but it didn't use Buterin's protocol to prove the figures. Nine other exchanges announced similar plans after Zhao published his proposal. The effort should bring more transparency to exchanges, but proof of reserves only shows how much an exchange holds, not how much it owes to other people. Without that information, it's impossible to know whether the exchange has enough liquidity to back customer assets. Speaking of exchange, CoinDesk reported that Binance US is preparing to bid for bankrupt crypto lender Voyager after the news broke, Voyager's Token VGX jumped by over 50%. Audit provides transparency on LFG and TfL funds.
00:06:24.338 - 00:07:18.866, Speaker A: The Luna Foundation Guard, or LFG, the nonprofit created to develop the Terra ecosystem, published an audit on how the foundation and TerraForm Labs fought to defend the Ustpeg. During Terra's Crash in May. According to the report from auditor JS held, LFG spent $2.8 billion, mostly in Bitcoin, to defend the Ustpeg. The audit showed that TerraForm Labs spent $613,000,000 of its own money in its failed attempt to prevent UST from falling into a death spiral. The founder, Do Kwan said it is natural to suspect fraud when something goes wrong, but if we sweep all failures in crypto as scams and say there are some bad doubles, but everything else is fine, then we never have opportunities to learn from our mistake. FTX Hacker becomes a Whale last Friday night, after FTX announced its bankruptcy, an unknown person that many suspect as an FTX insider hacked the exchange's systems.
00:07:18.866 - 00:08:07.986, Speaker A: The wallet tied to the attack on FTX swapped some BNB tokens and stablecoins for ETH. The hack doesn't appear to have been well thought out. The attacker lost significant amounts of their holdings on several transactions. They've hastily tried to do whatever they can with the funds, seemingly without much of a plan, Miguel Morel, CEO of Arkham, a crypto intelligence firm, told CoinDesk. Despite that, they became the 31st largest ethereum holder, currently holding 241,000 ether, worth about $300 million at press time. Was DFI the only winner? Chaos is a latter used to say famous Games of Thrones character littlefinger, even though the effects of FTX have been catastrophic for many, there were also some winners. This week decentralized exchange uniswap beat Coinbase and became the second largest venue for ETH trading.
00:08:07.986 - 00:09:06.794, Speaker A: And Ledger, a hardware wallet provider, saw its biggest sales day ever following the collapse of FTX. Both achievements perhaps signal that users are finally moving to non custodial and decentralized platforms. Time for fun bits. In a morning Brew video on TikTok the Tale of SPF and FTX, he plays every character from SPF himself to an everyday investor, to a crypto bro named Captain Laser, who snorts ice crystals to bolster his credentials to the investor, SPF sets himself apart from Captain Laser by saying, now take a look at me. I don't sleep or bathe. The investor is increasingly confused as he watches numerous investors put money into FTX, and he's absolutely baffled when he hears Sam's pitch for face tissue tokens, or FTT. As the frenzy increases until SPF is seen testifying in front of Congress, saying, i, and only I can save crypto, a shadowy figure appears, and it's Binance saying, oh, only you.
00:09:06.794 - 00:09:41.490, Speaker A: I created you. And the hooded Binance figure lights his face tissue tokens on fire. All right, thanks so much for joining us today. To learn more about Wasi lawyer and the first declaration of FTX's bankruptcy case, check out the show notes for this episode. Give us your input on Unchained. We want to hear your feedback on the podcast, our premium offering and more, visit surveymonkey.com r unchained 2022 unchained is produced by me, Laura Shin with out from Anthony Yoon, Matt Pilchard, Wanda Ranovich, Sam Sriram, Pama Jimdar Shashank and CLK Transcription.
00:09:41.490 - 00:09:42.290, Speaker A: Thanks for listening.
