00:00:00.280 - 00:00:33.534, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Way refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Sosano, and today's the 6 december 2021. Right everyone, let's get into it. So today is Daily Gwei first anniversary NFT mint day, as you guys know. So the mint will be going live at 2200 UTC today on the mirror platform. Now, of course, I shared this tweet last week and the link to kind of like mint will be shared closest to the time here. But I did want to kind of make a few notes here just for those who are hoping to, to mint one.
00:00:33.534 - 00:01:02.948, Speaker A: I don't know if it's going to sell out quickly, whatever. I don't think there's going to be a gas war around this. This isn't like some 10,000 hyped up profile picture NFT Mint thing, but who knows, right? They could go really quickly or it could take a little while for them to, to sell out. I'm not sure. You know, the price is relatively cheap to other mints that I've seen out there at 0.7078. So I don't know. But to give you guys the loyal daily kind of like listeners and watches a chance to mint one, I'm going to share the link half an hour before I share it publicly in the Discord channel.
00:01:02.948 - 00:01:31.464, Speaker A: So I'm not going to tag everyone in the, in the, in the channel. I'm just going to share a link to it in the announcements channel in the Discord server. And for half an hour, everyone in the discord that says that link will have the ability to mint before I share the link publicly on Twitter. Now that should give, you know, everyone ample time to mint, you know, you guys know what time it is. So obviously the public mint will be at 2200 UTC. The kind of like discord Mint will be at 21 30 UTC. Now it's not locked or anything.
00:01:31.464 - 00:02:12.046, Speaker A: So if that link gets out into the open, then anyone can mint it. But I did want to give kind of like the best opportunity to all of you who are active in the discord or kind of like active watching and listening to the refuel all the time to mint one. Cause I know there's only 365 editions, so not enough for the thousands of listeners and watchers, of course. But you know, I did want to make it a bit exclusive as well because another thing I wanted to announce that I kind of decided over the weekend, holders of this NFT will get access to an exclusive private channel in the discord server with, with myself and whoever's got the NFT in there. Just something a little, little fun to do. And there's actually going to be a royalty on the NFT as well. So there's a 15% royalty which is going to a theorem core developers as well.
00:02:12.046 - 00:02:46.622, Speaker A: It's not coming to me or going to go on a kid air. It's going directly to the Ethereum core developers. And same, you know, same with the 80% of the proceeds from the sale itself going there in perpetuity. But the royalty is there just so kind of, kind of like, you know, if people want to trade these things, if people want to get access to that channel on the discord, we can raise in more money for Ethereum core developers. So I decided over the weekend that I wanted to do it like that. So yeah, just to recap, 30 minutes before it goes live publicly, before I share the link live publicly, it'll be shared in the Discord announcements channel. I am not tagging every like that everyone tag.
00:02:46.622 - 00:03:35.496, Speaker A: I'm just going to share it there. It'll be on you to kind of like keep up with that and pay attention to it. And then at 2200 UTC it'll be shared publicly from there. But without further ado, I have the full nft with the music that I would like to show you guys as the final preview before minting goes live. It is here in my browser, so enjoy for the next 24 seconds. Well, alright, so there it is, guys. The full nft in all its glory, with the music and everything.
00:03:35.496 - 00:03:58.682, Speaker A: This is what you will be purchasing. Obviously you've seen kind of like previews of it. I get previews of it last week, so yeah, that's in its final form there. So very much looking forward to seeing how the mint's gonna go. I'll be up nice and early for it in the morning. I tried to do it at a time zone where it suited most of the world, um, you know, without kind of it being a ridiculous time for me. Unfortunately, I think the time zones that suit most of the world for me are like four or 05:00 a.m.
00:03:58.682 - 00:04:13.738, Speaker A: Or something. Um, this is going to be happening at 09:00 a.m. I usually get up at like 11:00 a.m. As some of you may know. But getting up, I'm very, very excited for this and very excited for you guys to get your hands on on this one here. But anyway, enough about the NFT. You guys know what the drill is here.
00:04:13.738 - 00:04:43.013, Speaker A: Hope to see a lot of you get it if you want it. All right, onto my regular reminder that gitcoin grants matching round twelve is still live. Thank you again to everyone who has donated so far to the deli, Gwei and to ETH hub. You can see here that awookie, the founder of Gitcoin, shared all the, I guess, projects that are part of the matching pool funds. There's so many of them now. It's absolutely awesome to see kind of like all these projects giving back in some capacity to the matching pool. I mean, there's $2 million up for grabs right now.
00:04:43.013 - 00:05:03.284, Speaker A: Lots of projects getting funded. So if you haven't got your donations in yet, be sure to do so. You only have about, I think, ten days left at this. At this point. I mean, it's still a little bit of time, but, you know, the days can get away, can get it, can get away from you. So, yeah, that's just your kind of like regular reminder there. So I saw this reply to Spencer Noon's tweet over the weekend that I thought was interesting.
00:05:03.284 - 00:05:34.912, Speaker A: So Spencer Noon tweeted out like this message, if you think Coinbase should turn on ETH l two deposits slash withdrawals. And Jay, who works at Coinbase, said, we are on it. So we already knew that they are on it. But it's good to kind of like get, you know, double confirmation here that they're still working on it. They haven't forgotten about us because, remember I covered that blog post from a few months ago where Coinbase had set up a new protocol engineering team that was focused on kind of like doing integrations with things like the Polygon Pos chain and obviously L2s on Ethereum. All the most popular ones, of course. So they are still working on it.
00:05:34.912 - 00:05:54.656, Speaker A: Of course. I'm hoping this comes like really soon. Like, I think the most bullish thing to happen to Altoos will be Coinbase integration. I know we had arbitrum get integrated with binance. They still haven't done withdrawal as far as I know. I haven't checked on it lately, but I'm sure I would have heard about it if they had enabled withdrawals. But those, as I've said plenty of times before, are the most bullish things to happen for L2s ever.
00:05:54.656 - 00:06:15.540, Speaker A: Like, I mean, everyone on boards via a centralized exchange, or most people do. But we've also been getting these kind of like fiat on ramps lately. I mentioned them last week, you know, the fiat on ramp to ZK sync. Fiat on ramp to immutable x. So those kind of like fill the gaps and kind of like out for another venue for people. And crypto.com has a great kind of like onboarding off boarding process into arbitrum.
00:06:15.540 - 00:06:45.730, Speaker A: But, you know, Coinbase and binance there, that's where the users are. They have tens of millions of active users. That's where we need to be hitting. And I'm really, really excited for when Coinbase goes live with a full integration like deposits and withdrawals. And I'm excited for binance to do it as well because that is just going to open up the floodgates. Being able to withdraw directly from an exchange to an l two is going to just seriously, you know, supercharge these things just like, it supercharges every blockchain that gets integrated with a, with an exchange. I think it's gonna be a really big deal.
00:06:45.730 - 00:07:03.138, Speaker A: So great to see that they're still working on it, of course, but no timelines, of course. Unfortunately, I doubt we're gonna get any timelines. Maybe one day they're just gonna announce it and be like, hey, you know, it's live now. Go check it out. That'd be really cool. And maybe their strategy is that they don't want to kind of like play favorites here. Maybe they want to support all the major ones from the get go.
00:07:03.138 - 00:07:48.338, Speaker A: They did say that we're going to support the polygon pos chain first, which is fine because, you know, that that's not a technically a layer too. It's kind of like, I mean, I wouldn't call its own blockchain, but you kind of get what I'm saying here. It's, it's kind of like a different beast. Whereas the L2s, it'd be cool if they kind of like supported from the get go both arbitrum and optimism, at least, because if they only supported optimism or if they only supported arbitrum, it's kind of playing favorites. I mean, then they're under no obligation not to play favorites, but at the same time, it would be cool to see them support kind of like both of those solutions and then obviously add the other ones as time goes on on as well there. So very much looking forward to that, as usual. And speaking of L2s, I mean, I put out this tweet the other day, bullish on projects deploying to L2 Ethereum and skipping layer one entirely.
00:07:48.338 - 00:08:26.552, Speaker A: I've been talking about this forever with you guys about how natively deployed projects on L2 are kind of like the next big thing or the current big thing even, because as I've said plenty of times, layer one, Ethereum is not getting new users. New users coming into the ecosystem are not going to outlay 5001 hundred, $5200 to, to do anything on the network, you know, per transaction. They're just not going to do that. We shouldn't expect them to do that. And then when they see kind of like the alternatives, whether that be side chains or, you know, alternative, kind of like blockchains or L2s on Ethereum, they're obviously going to gravitate towards that. Like, we all love decentralization. We all love kind of like keeping Ethereum, layer one decentralized and secure.
00:08:26.552 - 00:09:16.656, Speaker A: And we understand why the fees are high there, but new users don't. And that's just the reality of it. So it's on us to give new users, uh, the decentralization, decentralization and security that they should enjoy. But at the, at these L2s, where they can actually enjoy it on the cheap, because I mean, decentralization and security is extremely important. And there's a reason why the whales are fine kind of paying that because they can afford it. But at the end of the day, if you're only playing around with a couple hundred dollars, it doesn't make any sense for you to use layer one ethereum, even if you are doing things that are kind of only available on there, it just doesn't make any sense at all. Because, you know, even the simple things, like, kind of like yield farming, if you're putting stable coins into a yield farm and earning 10% on, on, on kind of like those stable coins, well, if you're only putting in a $1,000, you're probably going to eat $100 of the gas fees, you know, just from the approves and the, and the deposits.
00:09:16.656 - 00:10:00.724, Speaker A: So that's already a year's worth that you have to kind of like leave that money in there just to get your print, just to get your, um, your, your gas fees back. So obviously that doesn't work. The calculus completely changes when the fee is even $5, right? Like $5 on a L2, such as arbitrary optimism to get involved with this, with these sorts of things. And hopefully we get that down even cheaper than that, down to $0.50, maybe even cheaper than that. So it changes completely. So, yeah, and that's why I'm really bullish on projects that are deploying natively to L2, just skipping layer one entirely, because layer one becomes tech debt for a lot of these projects, because eventually, as I've said plenty of times, layer one is just going to be the settlement layer for roll ups and for whales and the kind of like the new projects trying to get off the ground.
00:10:00.724 - 00:10:25.252, Speaker A: They're going to have limited success on layer one. They'll have much more success on L2. They'll have much more users to tap into on L2. And that's why I think we're seeing more of a shift there. So very, very excited to see that keep happening as time goes on here. So argent teased their staking integration on L two. So they've got staking with lido finance, which is now kind of integrated on Zksync.
00:10:25.252 - 00:10:46.980, Speaker A: So essentially you can swap ETH for wrapped steth, which is kind of like staked ETH on Lido. The fees were a dollar, not $1.88, €188 or pounds. Man, I'm a noob here. Not knowing the fiat symbols proves how much I pay attention to fiat these days. But anyway, it's super, super cheap. Doing this on main net would cost like dollar 50 to dollar 100 to do this kind of like swap here.
00:10:46.980 - 00:11:16.774, Speaker A: But with Arjun's ZK sync integration, which some people have access to at the moment, by the way, I unfortunately don't have access to it still. Maybe I should ping the argentine and be like, hey, guys, like, I really want access, but, like, I've seen a lot of people kind of, like, have access to it right now, which is really cool to see. But, you know, these kind of things are what we need for mass adoption as well. Like, imagine just one click. Ethereum staking. Now, I know staking through Lido is kind of like not decentralized it. It's a, it's a centralized service, and you're kind of like holding an IOU token and relying on Lido and everything like that.
00:11:16.774 - 00:12:00.126, Speaker A: Um, but I think it's marginally better than a centralized exchange, to be honest. But I also think that this is kind of like, I mean, if you're a user with 32 ETH, you're probably not going to mind the gas fees to get into staking to begin with, but most users are not going to have 30 to eat, especially the new ones. And, you know, 32 e these days is worth, what, 100 plus thousand dollars? Most people are never going to get that right to solo stake on their own. So we need to offer them fractionalized staking via lido or via rocket pool, which is obviously like the decentralized staking solution, which is probably better than something like lido if you care about decentralization. But at the end of the day, if those things are still gated behind high gas fees, it doesn't matter, people aren't going to pay them. So we need those kind of really, really cheap fees. And that's exactly what Arjun is doing here with Zksync.
00:12:00.126 - 00:12:25.990, Speaker A: And I'm, you know, I'm super excited for that. They've been teasing their L2 integration for a while. They're doing both Dksync and Starkware, hoping they do arbitrary and optimism as well, of course. But yeah, this little kind of video here gives you a demo of how it all works. So you can check this out. It'll be linked in the YouTube description below. And speaking of Zksync, they're now listed on the l two fees dot in fo website where they're powering, obviously the argent wallet, the zigzag exchange, NFT marketplaces and more.
00:12:25.990 - 00:12:46.340, Speaker A: And you can see on here that Zksync cost a swap is about $1.85 on loop bringer to dollar ten. And then arbitrary and optimism are obviously a bit more expensive here at $5 and $5.60 respectively. And obviously ethereum mainnet was dollar 70 at time of screenshot. You know what I mean? Dollar 50 to dollar 100. Not economical for most users, of course.
00:12:46.340 - 00:13:07.188, Speaker A: Now when you look at these kind of costs at l two fees dot in fo, you really. Maybe I'll send this feedback to David, but like there needs to be some context around here. I don't know if he's actually got it already in there. I haven't checked this website lately. Maybe I should check it. I go, I'll go to the website here, I'll load it up. So if I go to swap tokens, it's actually even cheaper today to do this because layer one gas fees are cheaper.
00:13:07.188 - 00:13:39.904, Speaker A: But I mean, on ZkSync to swap is $0.78. That's, that's insane, right? That's how, that's crazy. You get layer one security with that. But anyway, I think it's good to contextualize these things where if you click into kind of like this, it does link you to kind of like more details on, on l two beat here.com, which is another, you know, website that obviously I've been kind of like talking to you guys about. And this gives a much kind of like more, a much better breakdown of everything happening here. But I think if people just like look at the raw numbers, they don't get the full picture, because with arbitrum and optimism, they're not doing core data compression.
00:13:39.904 - 00:13:59.792, Speaker A: They're still very limited. So that's why they're kind of like, their fees are higher. Their fees could easily be under a dollar if they were doing that. They just aren't right now because they're generalized platforms. Zksync and loopring right now are not generalized platforms. They're limited in what they can do. But because of that, they're able to offer cheaper fees right now, at least in their unoptimized forms.
00:13:59.792 - 00:14:39.634, Speaker A: So I'm really looking forward to kind of like when optimism and arbitram do that core data compression, kind of like the networks get more use, so the fees become amortized across all the users. But still, I mean, this is just, even at these costs, it's so much better than Mainnet. I mean, it costs ten times more on Mainnet just to do a swap, as opposed to arbitrary and optimism, you know, over more on optimism. And it cost 40 x plus more to do a swap on layer one ethereum than it does on loopering or Zksync. The difference is staggering here. And as I've said to you guys before, I think that if someone is kind of like trading on a decentralized exchange, there is a certain threshold of fees that they'd be willing to pay. I think a dollar fee is, is is probably fine.
00:14:39.634 - 00:15:02.854, Speaker A: Like, it gets ridiculous when it obviously grows exponentially from there. But anything a dollar or less is fine for most people, I believe. Cause if you think about centralized exchanges, they take more than that because they do a percentage based fee. Um, and, you know, they, they actually gouge customers on fees, a lot of them. But because they, they hide the fees, a lot of customers don't notice this. Whereas on Ethereum, the fees aren't hidden, the gas fees aren't hidden. They're, like, right there, front and center for you on metamask.
00:15:02.854 - 00:16:06.522, Speaker A: And, you know, I've seen all the screenshots on Twitter about all the fight around the gas fees. So, you know, I'd actually like to see a psychological experiment done where if you hid the gas fees, would people just, like, pay them and not complain about them? I actually think they would, yes. Depending on, like, what they're doing, they would actually notice the, their kind of, like, balances going down dramatically, and they'd be like, what the hell? You know, what happened here? But I think that it's just like, there's a very big psychological play there, which is always funny, especially, you know, if you did it at L2, because really, if the fee is a dollar or less, like, yes, you can show the user if they click through to like, you know, advanced view, but like in a simplified view, did you even need to show them at that point? I mean, I'm all for showing users as much information as possible, but when we're talking about like one click mass adoption stuff, that information is probably going to be under an advanced section. It's really irrelevant for what people are trying to do, I believe. But still, it's good that it's there. I'm not saying to remove it or anything like that, but it's going to be interesting to see how different interfaces show fees to users if they show it separately or if they just kind of collapse it down. And then if users want to, they can expand it and see the kind of like line items of what they're paying.
00:16:06.522 - 00:16:43.162, Speaker A: But it's going to be interesting to see kind of how that all shakes out there. But yeah, still cool to see that these costs are so dramatically lower. Really cool to see that Zksync is on here now as well. All right, so poly now making another appearance in the refuel with a great kind of like twitter thread here that I hadn't thought about it from this, in this kind of like context before, but this was great. So they said with today's technology, it will take over 10,000 years for a crew to travel to Proxima Centauri. In 50 years, we could save the tech, sorry, have the tech to do it in less than 100 years. So why not wait? The year old crew can milk a lot of attention in the short term and be absorbed later.
00:16:43.162 - 00:17:08.290, Speaker A: And then polynyard goes on to say, this is the fate that awaits megnomaniac blockchains, aka l one s. And a couple of years from now, they'll be utterly obsolete, leapfrogged by 1000 x. But there's still users and devs to onboard now. While the next gen tech roll up slash data availability layers is maturing, soon they'll be assimilated. I love this analogy because I am a massive SCi-Fi geek. I love reading Sci-Fi watching Sci-Fi everything got to do with Sci-Fi absolutely. Massive geek.
00:17:08.290 - 00:18:24.698, Speaker A: And this is something that I've thought about a lot as well, is like, how crazy is it to think that if we were to launch people to Proxima Centauri today, launch a spaceship there, it would take 10,000 years with the current technology that we have. But if we waited for technology to get better, you know, over 50 years, because technology gets better exponentially, especially space technology these days. Like, there's so much money going into it, we, you know, those kind of like, people traveling in that, in that spaceship would only take 100 years to get to Proxima Centauri, and they would easily kind of like pass the ones that are on the old, kind of like old ship. So you could launch the, the ship today and then just go kind of like pick up this crew on the way in your new ship. But, you know, there's a lot more that goes into it than that. But it's just funny how, like, even today, if, you know, if you kind of like, look at the technology, we're still doing it with the full knowledge of the fact that we know that technology is going to get drastically better and it's going to get so much better that we're going to save like, 95% of the time that we normally would. Now, if you contrast this with what's happening with kind of like crypto and blockchains and how all these layer one blockchains are spun up today, even though if you just wait a couple of years for roll ups to fully mature, for Ethereum sharding to come into the game and everything like that, they will literally completely obliterate all these layer ones, like, overnight.
00:18:24.698 - 00:19:06.060, Speaker A: Like, it's not even a question of kind of waiting for it to happen. It's only a question of waiting for the things to be rolled out. And then from there on, just completely obliterates the layer ones because they are obsolete tech, but they're only being promoted because of the fact that you can make a lot of money doing it. And they have made a lot of money doing it. Both the, the team, the investors, the people riding these waves, you know, that's fine. As a free market, they can do what they want, but from a purely technologically technological standpoint, they have, they have been obsolete since rollups came into existence. And the more and more we go through kind of like the roll up rollout phase, the more and more we kind of, kind of like get better technologies that go live with roll ups and we improve them and we get more adoption there, the more obsolete these layer ones.
00:19:06.060 - 00:19:21.890, Speaker A: Look. And I've, I've talked about this a lot. I know, but, like, seriously, I just, you know, I get, there's a lot of money involved. Here's a lot of money involved with these layer ones. They can't just, like, pack up shop and be like, oh, we'll just like become a roll up on Ethereum. There's a lot of egos at play here as well. You know, I think that plays a bigger part than the money, to be honest.
00:19:21.890 - 00:19:51.098, Speaker A: There's a lot of egos when it comes to these sorts of things. I was actually talking about this in the Discord channel the other day. Most of the other layer one founders have massive egos. Like, I know, you know, I'm not gonna. I think I spoke about this on the refuel and, you know, I'm not going to kind of like, go into detail about it, but there's always ego at play as well, as well as money. So I think that's why, you know, the layer ones are still kind of around. But as I've said plenty of times, I doubt we're going to see any new layer one spin up, and any that do spin up are going to be just like small, short lived things.
00:19:51.098 - 00:20:05.008, Speaker A: We're going to see lots of L2 spin up, and we're already seeing it. We're seeing forks, we're seeing new things come to town. We're seeing lots of money going to it. Billions of dollars literally going to ZK technology. A billion dollars from polygon alone. Right. And they're not the only ones doing it.
00:20:05.008 - 00:20:46.440, Speaker A: There's a lot of teams doing it, and that's just going to kind of like grow exponentially from here. So if you're in it for the tech, like, if you're actually in it for the tech, then you should only be focused on roll ups, on data availability layers, on the modular blockchain revolution, focusing on layer ones, except Ethereum, I think. Ethereum and maybe some other kind of like quote unquote l one's like Celestia and Polygon avail are interesting, but focusing on these monolithic l ones, it's just, in my opinion, not worth your time past. Kind of like understanding. Kind of like how they work, what their trade offs are. And that's kind of it because the innovation, I would argue none of them have any kind of like innovation at l one. They've done nothing except trade off decentralization for scale.
00:20:46.440 - 00:21:27.504, Speaker A: There's a little bits of innovation here, here and there, maybe, but nothing that's zero to one, whereas l two s are zero to one. They are the biggest breakthrough in blockchain technology since bitcoin came to into existence. And they could potentially be the biggest breakthrough in technology, in computing technology since computers were invented, especially ZK proofs, because they are just so amazing at kind of like what they do at kind of compressing computational integrity and kind of like using those ZK proofs to prove something without even having to tell someone that it's that, or kind of like tell someone or show them how you worked it out. It's crazy moon math. I don't, you know, I don't understand it at the deepest levels, but it works. Like, the fact is, I don't even have to understand it. That's the beauty about math, is that you can see that it works.
00:21:27.504 - 00:21:55.836, Speaker A: I don't. You don't have to actually understand it yourself. It can be proven to you that it works, kind of like, even if you're a five year old. So, see, I just, I thought this analogy from Poly now was, was absolutely amazing here. But anyway, moving on. So this video from token terminal or this GiF, kind of like showing the effect of ERP 15 nine, visualized how each became a productive asset. Now, you can see in this kind of like GIF here that transaction fees were paid, kind of like, to miners from Genesis.
00:21:55.836 - 00:22:15.204, Speaker A: Sorry. So over the last 365 days, and then in August, obviously, August 6, when ERP 1559 went live, the transaction fees were still kind of like, some of them were still being paid to miners, but most of them were being burned. And you can see the dramatic kind of like, burn. We've seen over $4 billion worth. I mean, I think it's one point over $1.1 million. 1.1
00:22:15.204 - 00:22:50.688, Speaker A: million ETH that's been burned so far, which is still over $4 billion at today's prices of around $4,000. So you have kind of like just, I mean, just looking at this kind of chart here, it's an amazing kind of visualization of just how many, how much fees were kind of like being paid to miners before, how many are burnt now. And as I've stated to you guys before, this is part of the active supply. This ETH, this is not like, most of it isn't dormant ETH that's just been sitting around. This is ETH that is being actively used by the people paying the fees on layer one. And you know, where what most of the fees are on layer one, they're mev related stuff. Like they're arbitrage related stuff.
00:22:50.688 - 00:23:12.912, Speaker A: They're whale related transactions, traders. Everything going on on layer one, which means that it's fresh. Eat. They have to buy eat. They're probably buying it every day off exchanges and then putting it directly onto the market and burning it. They're not just kind of like selling it, they're burning it, which, when you really think about it, is the exact reason why ETH is performing so well. As I've explained before, this reverse gravity effect, it's there.
00:23:12.912 - 00:23:41.830, Speaker A: It's plain as day to me. Like, if anyone can't see it at this point, I don't get it, because there's so much evidence that shows that. Now, think what happens when the merge goes through, guys? Like 80% to 90% issuance reduction instantly. All that cell pressure gone from miners just. I mean, yeah, I'm not going to go on about it anymore because I go on about it too much at this stage. But I thought this was just a great way to visualize just how much fear avenue has been burned compared to what we were paying to miners before who were dumping it. They were selling it because they had to.
00:23:41.830 - 00:23:58.334, Speaker A: They're forced sellers. This isn't just like, oh, you know, we'll hold ETH for a while, and it'll be fine. Some of them do that. You know, that's fine. But a lot of them have to sell because they have costs to cover. They can hedge and things like that. But at the end of the day, the least risky, risky thing for them to do is sell that, ethan, to the market.
00:23:58.334 - 00:24:26.898, Speaker A: Now, the ETH market has to absorb a lot less sell pressure each day from miners due to fees. And then once the merge happens, it'll be. It'll have to absorb 80% to 90% less. So there's billions of dollars, guys. This isn't small chump change right, right here. So, you know, I'm expecting kind of like 1559 to keep acting as that reverse gravity, and then you have the merge with the kind of, like, turbo boosters just setting us into the stratosphere. Maybe the merge is what gets us to Alpha Centauri, proxima centauri, as polynomial states here.
00:24:26.898 - 00:24:46.532, Speaker A: But, yeah. Anyway, moving on from that one, Brantley from the ENS team shared kind of like this cube with the, kind of like an inscription written on it. Weight of responsibility. 00500. It's a tungsten cube. I'm sure you guys have seen kind of like the memes about tungsten cubes and how they're really small, but they weigh a lot. I'm not sure if this is a real cube or not.
00:24:46.532 - 00:25:14.086, Speaker A: It may just be a photoshop. I don't know if Brantley actually followed it up. He said that he's thinking of launching Ens merch token called responsibility, or resp redeemable for an actual weight of responsibility here. Um, but, yeah, I don't know if this is actually a thing or if it's just a photoshop. But anyway, I kind of replied to this saying, I want it, I need it. And you know what the coolest thing to do would be to allow people who didn't sell their Ens airdrop to claim one of these. I think that'd be really cool.
00:25:14.086 - 00:25:56.086, Speaker A: Not that people should feel bad for selling the ENS airdrop. It was a healthy airdrop, don't get me wrong. But at the same time, it's just something cool to show that, hey, if you held on to your tokens, if you delegated them, if you participated in governance, you have a chance at kind of like getting this, I guess, physical collectible. And I mean, I for sure would buy something like this 100%. Like, you guys know I love my physical collectibles, so this would, this would be like a day one purchase for me. But yeah, I just wanted to kind of like show that off there because I thought it was pretty cool. So lion from the chain safe team announced over the weekend that Lodestar, which is an ETH two client, just released an ethereum consensus lite client, which tracks the head of the chain, the head of the consensus chain, aka the ETH two, aka the beacon chain, trustlessly with only.
00:25:56.086 - 00:26:30.088, Speaker A: So syncing to head is only 25 day worth of data, and following the head is only 81 day worth of data. And you can try this out here as part of the demo. This is amazing. I don't know how much you guys know about following the head of the chain and how it can be data intensive because the Ethereum chain is very rich, statefully. But even if you're just following the head, it can be very kind of like intensive, it can cost, it can be like, you know, lots of megabytes a day, potentially. I mean, I don't think it's gigabytes a day at this point, but like, lots of megabytes a day, probably tens, if maybe not hundred, maybe hundreds. I'm not sure.
00:26:30.088 - 00:27:02.660, Speaker A: I haven't done the math there. But I mean, it's nowhere near as efficient as this. I mean, 25 day of data tinking to head and following the head is only 81 day. I mean, you could do this from mobile phone, and that's exactly what load star is optimizing for, by the way, or at least trying to, they're trying to optimize for a very, very lightweight ethereum client. Same with Nimbus. You can do this easily from your phone. Imagine just having like a little like client running on your phone, being able to trustlessly follow along with the ETH two chain or with the kind of like post merge chain, that'd be absolutely amazing, right? Like that is kind of.
00:27:02.660 - 00:27:45.114, Speaker A: I mean, that is the dream for a lot of core protocol engineers. They really want to see actual lite clients come to ethereum, and this has been a long time coming and we're going to get it with kind of like the ETH two effort. So super, super exciting. And the fact that it's like, like, you know, I mean, I don't even think this is an optimized state either, but the fact that it's already this kind of like cheap data wise to do it is pretty amazing. So really love that. And on the topic of kind of like optimizing clients, Peter from the guest team announced that guest next version will see 30% faster chain download during initial sync. So you can see here kind of like a little bit of a chart about the ingress rate and kind of like how syncing is 30% faster in geths next version, which is awesome.
00:27:45.114 - 00:28:33.134, Speaker A: And brings me to one little thing I wanted to talk about just, just before I wrap us up. When it comes to core clients such as Geth and Aragon and all the 8th two clients and all that sort of stuff, and Nethermind and you know, all the, all the a two clients, they are constantly evolving, they are constantly being optimized, they're constantly being upgraded. And these optimizations and upgrades just make it easier to run the chain, to sync to the chain, to make sure that everyone with consumer hardware can follow the chain. Because that is why we have optimized for decentralization on ethereum. That is how we do it. Decentralization is a lot of things, but the core of it, and the core of it at the technical level, is that an end user, regular end user, can trustlessly verify the chain by running their own full node. That is like literally the crux of it at the technical level.
00:28:33.134 - 00:29:12.940, Speaker A: Now, there's a lot of stuff that goes into that, but if you or I, on our own consumer hardware and our own consumer pc or laptop can't run or sync in ethereum full node in a reasonable amount of time, you know, maybe if it takes a couple of days, it's fine. Then the chain really realistically cannot be considered decentralized and trustless. And we have a lot less full nodes that would be online. So we kind of like have to trust like a small subset of nodes. So that's kind of like the crux of it, then that's why these improvements and these efficiency improvements and are so important at the core client level. And these things are always being done, always being worked on and kind of like a lot of them. A lot of it doesn't get much fanfare because it's not quote unquote sexy upgrades, but at the same, it's not like a 1559, for example.
00:29:12.940 - 00:29:45.912, Speaker A: But at the same time, it is extremely important for what we all care about with decentralization and security and also health and sustainability of the ethereum chain. So just wanted to kind of point that out there for you guys. And just to wrap us up, wanted to give a quick shout out to Ben Edgington again with his latest what's new in ETH two newsletter. I think this is the first one in a couple of weeks. Covers the last couple of weeks worth of worth of ETH two news, such as stuff happening with the Beacon chain, such as the anniversary, the merge, how Kintsugi is going. I think they're up to milestone four or five at this point. Stuff about Mev, you know, a bunch of different links in here.
00:29:45.912 - 00:30:04.276, Speaker A: As I said before, Ben's newsletter is the absolute best way to keep up to date on ETH two and even ETH one. To be honest, he does a lot of ETH one coverage as well. So definitely go subscribe to this. It'll be linked in the YouTube description, but I think that's going to be it for today. So thank you everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up.
00:30:04.276 - 00:30:08.164, Speaker A: Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
