00:00:00.250 - 00:00:24.590, Speaker A: I am Susanna's Hype woman today. So I just want to get everyone excited. I want to say welcome to the third Zero Knowledge Validator event, which is focused on cosmos. It's so cool to be doing this again. The last two were really successful and really interesting. This edition looks at privacy in the context of DeFi in cosmos, in the cosmos ecosystem. And we have a really good group of people speaking today.
00:00:24.590 - 00:00:35.640, Speaker A: So going to hand this over to Susanna, who is from the ZK Validator. She has also put together this event. So, yeah, take it away, Susanna. Yeah, and I'm going to bounce out. I'll see you guys later.
00:00:37.130 - 00:01:00.334, Speaker B: There we go. I'll just go into present mode. So I've just got a few slides to introduce the event. So, first of all, thank you, everyone, for joining us. And as Anna mentioned, this event's focusing on DeFi for the Privacy and Cosmos event series. Let me try and change my slide. Yeah.
00:01:00.334 - 00:01:45.742, Speaker B: So this event is brought to you by the Zero Knowledge Validator. And we have our media partner, the Zero Knowledge podcast, which Anna is going to be taking more of an active role in moderating the panels and guiding discussions later on during the event. And this event is made possible by the support of the Cosmos hub. So we have funding to do four events for the cosmos ecosystem, and they're focused on privacy and zero knowledge technology. And this is actually the third event that we're doing. So the first event we did was kind of testing the water, seeing whether you guys are interested in these cosmos focused events. And, yeah, you guys seem to like it, so that's why we carried on.
00:01:45.742 - 00:02:24.870, Speaker B: So this is the second event in our funded event series, and we have another online event, and then we will do another in person event. And at the end of every event, we'll have all the recordings available online on the Zero Knowledge Podcast YouTube channel. And then we'll do a write up, so a blog post, the findings. And that's really important to note that we'll be sending around a feedback. So please, please give us your feedback, because that's really going to help us improve our future events. So just a little bit about the Zero Knowledge Validator, what we do, who we are. So we are a mission driven validator.
00:02:24.870 - 00:02:52.766, Speaker B: We support privacy and zero knowledge research. We do this in a number of ways. We actively participate in governance on the networks that we validate on. We advocate for privacy. We act as a bridge between privacy and zero knowledge teams. We support emerging teams, help them with connections, funding, advice. And we also have a number of zero knowledge initiatives, which I will touch on in the next slide.
00:02:52.766 - 00:03:22.150, Speaker B: So, currently, there's five of us. There's, Anna. And Will, the co founders. And then there's Tor, who's also at the Ethereum Foundation and Kobe from C Labs. And then there's me and we're also looking to expand our team. So if you have any DevOps experience or if you have marketing and community development experience, then we want to hear from you. So get in touch and we can discuss some job opportunities.
00:03:22.150 - 00:04:10.982, Speaker B: We currently have two postings, so yeah, we'd really like to hear from you if you want to get involved with the zero knowledge validator. So, touching on those other initiatives, just wanted to bring your attention to three things that we're also doing. So the ZK hack, hopefully some of you have already heard of this because it should be right up a lot of you guys. Street. So it's a series of events starting on the 26 October. It's a combination of workshops to teach you more about zero knowledge tooling and puzzles with prizes. So this is kind of like a capture the flag style competition and if you're the first one to complete the puzzle or second or third, then you'll actually win monetary prizes.
00:04:10.982 - 00:04:59.910, Speaker B: So yeah, it'd be really cool to see a lot of you getting involved there. And Anna has posted the link in the chat so have a look. The next initiative is the Open Legal Working Group. So here we're trying to kind of demystify some of the legal challenges that zero knowledge teams that are trying to implement zero knowledge might experience. So we're currently writing up our initial report and then to keep your eyes peeled for this, this autumn we're going to be launching some grants to help support early stage Zero knowledge teams. So keep your eyes open for that and need to get to grips of changing my slides. So yeah, that brings me on to the goals for this event.
00:04:59.910 - 00:06:12.270, Speaker B: So we wanted to explore why privacy really matters in DeFi applications in the cosmos ecosystem, bring together people interested in privacy and zero knowledge and generally raise the profile of privacy in blockchain. So I won't take up too much more of your time, but just to quickly go through the agenda and how this event is going to run. So it's going to be a little bit different to how we've done it previously because we took on board some feedback and looked at kind of the viewing statistics and we found that people were maybe slightly less engaged with really long panel discussions. But at the same time there were a lot of things, interesting points that were raised and things that we could explore in more detail. And for instance, there were some talks which didn't have time for questions at the end. So we've structured this event to have three kind of medium length talks and then we'll have panel discussions which are kind of interacting with the themes of the talks. So our first speaker will be Sunny from Osmosis and we'll be looking at the theme of front running and mev.
00:06:12.270 - 00:06:32.100, Speaker B: Then we'll have Henry talking about IBC bridge privacy and private zones and then we're going to have SJ from Terra talking about Stablecoins. So, without further ado, I think, Sunny, you should come up and share your screen.
