00:00:00.200 - 00:00:34.314, Speaker A: Hello, everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Deli Gwei refuel, where I recap the latest news near the theorem ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Zosano, and it is the 18 July 2023. Right, everyone, let's get into it. So Gary Gensler has, I guess, replied to the ruling that the courts made last week in the SEC versus ripple case. And he said that he was disappointed that the court ruled that XRP is not a security, and I quote, tweeted this news and said, I'm disappointed with pretty much every single thing Gary Gensler has done since becoming the head of the SEC. It's time for him him to delete his account and resign.
00:00:34.314 - 00:01:35.894, Speaker A: So I wanted to just talk a little bit about this and expand on my comments here. For starters, I don't believe Gary Gensler should be disappointed in a personal capacity about this, given that he is representing a government regulatory body and his personal feelings really shouldn't play into this, and we know that they have been, because he is, in my opinion, a compromised regulator. He is not looking at these cases and bringing these cases against crypto companies in an impartial way. He definitely has his own agenda. Now, what kind of lends more credence to this fact is the fact that today as well, I believe Gary Gensler said that he was basically going after AI companies or something like that, or going after AI in general and trying to protect investors from AI related securities fraud. And when I saw that, I'm just like, okay, Gary, you're doing exactly what I thought you were doing. You're just going after the, I guess, like, most popular thing at the time in order to get yourself in headlines.
00:01:35.894 - 00:02:04.454, Speaker A: And that's exactly what happened right there. All the headlines are now reading, Gary Gensler is going after AI, because AI is the buzzword right now. It's the thing that everyone is talking about. So when you think about it like that, as I've explained before, Gensler in particular is really just doing his master's bidding, and his master's bidding is Elizabeth Warren. And the reason he's doing that is because he wants to get promoted to treasury, as I've, as I've mentioned before. So really, at the end of the day, Genzel doesn't hate crypto. I don't think he really has any personal feelings towards it.
00:02:04.454 - 00:02:37.478, Speaker A: But it was something that was very visible for him to go after order to promote himself and to promote his overlords, namely Elizabeth Warren. Right now, obviously, that at this point in time, has backfired quite spectacularly. I feel like the SEC not only has lost the ripple case, but has really lost. I guess they're maybe not lost, but like basically failed in their stance of doing regulation via enforcement, and it's going to be down only for them from now on. But of course, I don't think Gensler gives a shit. Right. All he gives a shit is about himself.
00:02:37.478 - 00:03:12.752, Speaker A: And if his superiors are happy with him, even if he's losing cases, right, then that's all that matters. Now he's, as I said, pivoting to AI or going after AI kind of securities related fraud. I mean, at least that's what he says he's doing. And that is just another highly visible thing for him to go after in order to get his name in the spotlight, get his name in the headline. So, yeah, I guess the boogeyman that was Gary Gensler seems to have been defeated so far in crypto. Obviously there's a lot of work left to do, there's a lot of fighting left to do. But the ripple case, losing the ripple case was a huge blow for them, as I mentioned last week.
00:03:12.752 - 00:03:49.552, Speaker A: But yeah, just wanted to kind of talk about that for a little bit, but moving on from that now. All right, so I came across this tweet thread today from ether fan, and they said here, by launching ether fans have introduced an innovative way for users to stake ETH, generate rewards, and prove their commitment to decentralization. So by minting one of these nfts here, users can deposit a minimum of 0.1 ETH in the ether fan protocol and mint one of these nfts. And this NFT represents a user's staking deposit plus any additional rewards. So that's pretty cool. I usually don't highlight nfts on the refuel like any singular nfts on the refuel.
00:03:49.552 - 00:04:39.438, Speaker A: And I'm definitely not highlighting this because I, I think you should speculate on it or anything like that. But it's basically giving utility to an NFT here because as I said, the NFT represents a user's staking deposit. So essentially your ETH is staked and the NFT represents that stake in, in the beacon chain here, which I thought was. That was very cool. Now, I believe this project is working closely as part of the, the project that is trying to get more solo stakers on board, the one that Dap node was running, I believe, and was trying to get more people to, or trying to sponsor people to solo stake. So yeah, I just want figured that that was worth highlighting for you guys to say that you can go mint this NFT if you would like, with ETH that eat the staked and the NFT will then represent your staking deposits plus any additional rewards that you can get from that. So just another way to, to stake here.
00:04:39.438 - 00:05:23.084, Speaker A: And you know, I've said before that there's going to be plenty of different ways to stake and there's going to be different amounts that you can put in and things like that, that, that can try, that can do it in a decentralized way, not just a centralized way. Obviously. Right now, if you had 0.18, you could go to a coinbase or a binance or a kraken or even buy Ste or ETH, right, and start staking that way. But those things, except maybe buying, are, ETH aren't decentralized, right? So when you want to do something that, and contribute to something that is, that is more decentralized, that is uh, I guess on the solo staking side of things, you can do stuff like this. As I've mentioned before, there are other tools coming along, such as stakewise v three, which I'm going to highlight again in a sec. Uh, there is squad staking by using DVT, all those sorts of things.
00:05:23.084 - 00:05:56.638, Speaker A: So there are more and more solutions coming online, um, as we, as we speak, really. Uh, but this is just another one of those. And you can check out this Twitter thread, I'll link it in the YouTube description below. Now, as I mentioned, stakewise v three is topical again today. You can see here they have a thread where they say stakewise v three give stakers the power to access liquid staking from any node, prioritizing control, self custody, yield and decentralization. And you can try stakewise v three on testnet right now at Pacific stakewise IO. Now I have mentioned before that once, this is live on Mainnet.
00:05:56.638 - 00:06:30.342, Speaker A: I do plan to set up a deli gwei stakewise v three vault for you guys to stake with me. I'll be running the software myself. I'll be running it as part, as my, part of my setup. And all rewards, well, not all rewards, the, the commission that I take on the rewards. So I don't know what it's gonna be. Maybe five or 10% will be going towards funding public goods such as the protocol, guild or otherwise, right? As I've said that before, I don't want to be taking any, any kind of commission here. So it's a way for you guys to get involved staking via someone that you maybe trust, such as myself.
00:06:30.342 - 00:07:02.236, Speaker A: Right? To run these things for you in a decentralized and highly efficient way so that you actually do get those, those rewards and that you don't have to run the software yourself. But you know, it's being run by myself. And also any commission that is earned get that goes towards the, goes towards, I should say the public goods funding. Now some people will ask, well, what about the running costs? Right? I'll eat the running costs. It doesn't cost that much to run these things in terms of electricity. I already have the hardware. I have so much hardware it's not even funny.
00:07:02.236 - 00:07:44.482, Speaker A: My Internet costs are going to be the same because I have unlimited Internet already. So it's not really going to be something that's a huge cost for me. But I am more than happy to eat the cost in order to fund public goods, as you guys know there. So yeah, you can go give a read of the stakewise v three thread going over basically all of the features of the testnet, which will be obviously going live on Mainnet, how it all works. And just to give you a quick recap, guys, the way it works is that it's basically a decentralized version of Lido where essentially anyone can spin up and become a node operator as part of stakewise v three. Instead of having to be permissioned to join, anyone can basically join. And then anyone can bring stake in or get people to stake with them.
00:07:44.482 - 00:08:41.268, Speaker A: They can run the software, and it adds to the decentralization of the Ethereum network, of course, which is all we want to be, which is what we all want to be seeing over time. All right, a big announcement out of Uniswap yesterday. So this was announced that ETH CC, they're launching something called Uniswap X, which they're calling a new permissionless, open source, auction based protocol for trading across Amms and other liquidity sources TLDR. Over time, it'll give users more liquidity, better prices, mev protection and gas free swapping. So if this sounds familiar, that's because it is. For all intents and purposes, Uniswap X is basically, I'm not going to say it's the exact same thing, but it's very similar to cow swap. Right? And for anyone who's used cow swap before, you know what I'm talking about, it gives you those gas, that gas free swapping, that mev protection, gives you better liquidity, better trades, because it's using those off chain orders that Uniswap X is going to be using.
00:08:41.268 - 00:09:01.292, Speaker A: Now, this is all described in this Twitter thread here how this is basically achieved. And you can check this out for yourself. I think this is really, really cool. I think it's good to have more of these products and services, all these types of products and services out there from trusted brands. And as I said, cow swap exists. One inch, I believe, has a version of something like this. I think there are four.
00:09:01.292 - 00:09:28.628, Speaker A: Couple of other protocols as well. But Uniswap has the biggest brand in defi by far, I would say. So them bringing out something like this obviously means that more people are going to be using it because the Uniswap brand is just so strong. But this wasn't the coolest thing that they announced. I believe they announced something else, which has got to do with cross chain. And they said here later this year, we'll launch a cross chain uniswap X that combines swapping and bridging into one action. Swappers will be able to swap between chains in seconds.
00:09:28.628 - 00:10:07.678, Speaker A: This includes native asset swaps, reducing the need for bridge tokens. Now, the reason why this is a bigger deal in my mind is because people have always gone on about the liquidity fragmentation issues of l two s, right? And I've talked about how we have plenty of solutions for that already, like cross chain bridges and stuff like that. But the cross chain bridges, they're relatively slow still. They're not, you know, they can't do things in seconds. It usually takes minutes to do it. And if you're not in a rush or anything like that, that's totally fine. But with this, with what Uniswap is launching, with Uniswap X, you'll be able to swap between chains in seconds by using this, this kind of off chain order book system here.
00:10:07.678 - 00:10:41.334, Speaker A: So essentially what that means is that if you're on optimism, or op mainnet, I should say, and you want to trade ETH for a token that's only on arbitrum one, you can do that through this tool, and then you'll have the token on arbitrum one. Or I believe you could also have the token still on op mainnet. It just sources the liquidity from arbitrum one. And as I said, the reason why this is possible is because it's done off chain. You sign the order, and then an off chain ecosystem of kind of. I think they're called, I think they're called. I don't think they're called searchers.
00:10:41.334 - 00:11:18.964, Speaker A: There. There's another name for it. I've lost the name on me right now. But, but, yeah, that would happen, and it would happen in this in a way that protects you from MeV, in a way that allows for gas free swapping because the gas fees basically baked into the price and you get better execution across the board. So that, to me, is the bigger announcement of this, because it, not once and for all, but it solves a huge pain point of the l two s, kind of like across liquidity issues here, liquidity fragmentation issues. And as I've said before, that was an issue that was, that was going to be solved. There wasn't a fundamental issue that would be a showstopper for l two s.
00:11:18.964 - 00:12:15.798, Speaker A: And Uniswap has kind of done it with Uniswap x, y, and, and there's still all those other bridges that are out there and people are still going to use those sorts of things. I mean, at the end of the day, if you don't want to swap, then this is going to be useless for you, right? For example, if you want to take your ETH from op mainnet to arbitram one, well, you're not going to swap your ethan to something else and then swap that on the other chain back to ETH because you'll probably be worse off from a fee perspective because you'll be paying the exchange fees. But also, it's a tax obligation for most of us where we have to record that as a capital gain or loss, and then, you know, the cost basis is reset and it's just unnecessary tax burdens. Whereas bridging the ETH from op Mainnet to Albatrum one will be done via these bridges that we all know and love. And it doesn't matter if it takes a few minutes. Like, honestly, I never gotten to a point where I've been frustrated with waiting even like 2030 minutes for assets to be bridged across chains, because nothing I do is that time sensitive. And those time that, that time will come down as well.
00:12:15.798 - 00:12:45.810, Speaker A: Over time, it's not going to be that long. And there's also going to be other ways of, of natively bridging between these, these kind of things and interoperating between without having to do swaps. But for people who want to swap, people who wanted to source liquidity from all these different l two s, and especially the people filling the orders, this is huge. This is absolutely massive. And I think people are under rating just how big of a deal this is. And I can't wait to see it go live later in the year so you can check out the whole uniswap x announcement for yourself. If you haven't yet, I'm sure you guys have already seen it, but that was my take on it.
00:12:45.810 - 00:13:40.986, Speaker A: You can check this out, I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, ETH Global has announced the hackathon that I forgot to cover from a few days ago. So this new virtual hackathon is called Super Hack and this is being hosted from August 4 to August 16 and it is a 8th global event that is that they're running in order for people to experiment with the op stack surrounded by first movers in the ecosystem such as obviously optimism, base, world, coin and Zora. So the fact that this hackathon starts on August 4, is this when Op Mainnet is going to be live? Hope you Maine is this when Base Mainnet is going to be live for everyone on August 4? It could be, but they said early August so I mean it fits nicely in there. But even if it comes earlier or later, I don't think it really matters. You can still build on base as part of the hackathon because it's open to developers right now. But yeah, hopefully it's open to everyone by then as well.
00:13:40.986 - 00:14:19.762, Speaker A: So yeah, if you're interested in developing on experimenting with the op stack then this hackathon is for you. You can now register on this website, which I'll link in the YouTube description below, but just wanted to put that on your radar there. All right, Taiko has announced something today called the Aldfal l three alpha four testnet. So it's, it's live right now. This is Taiko's first experiment with something called inception layers and a new staking based proving design. So you can see the full details in the blog post here, but also check out the tweet thread. So they're basically trying to test two key things.
00:14:19.762 - 00:14:57.190, Speaker A: Deploying Taiko on Tyco as an l three inception layer. Basically a roll up on a roll up and a new staking based approval prover, economics. So they continue here by saying inception layers are a neat property from having an Ethereum equivalent Zk roll up a type one ZkVM. You guys know that Tyco is the only team building a type one zkvm right now. It means we can deploy Taiko as an l two, an l three, and even further layers like an l four. Now for those of you confused of what this kind of looks like in practice, basically it looks like this, this graphic here where essentially you got ethereum as the l one, then you have Tycho as an l two. That settles to ethereum l one.
00:14:57.190 - 00:15:55.250, Speaker A: Then you have Tycho as an l three that settles to Tycho as an l two, which settles to ethereum as an l one. So it's like Taiko all the way down, but basically each layer up settles to the layer below it, which then settles to the layer below and then settles to ethereum layer one, because that is the final layer. So, and the benefits of this, obviously at the higher layers you go, the cheaper the fees become, because essentially what ends up happening is that you're now as an l three, you're now settling to the l two, which, which the l two capacity could be filled with just l three transactions. So it further kind of expands the available block space for everyone by, by doing that. And this is a design that is getting more and more traction lately, not just with Tyco, but with a lot of different l two s out there where they're basically stacking these layers on top of each other. Now, of course, the higher up you go, I believe that there are more security concerns in doing that. I think that for Defi, it's probably just going to remain l two most of the time.
00:15:55.250 - 00:16:39.364, Speaker A: For high value defi, at least l three s could be used for things like an l four s and stuff like that, could be used for things like NFTs and crypto games and low value things. But generally, as I said, the higher up the stack you go, the more security considerations there are and the probably less security guarantees you get. But it depends on the construction as well, right? It depends on how the teams do this, what kind of admin keys exist, what kind of centralization vectors exist, and we're going to have to see on a case by case basis what that looks like. Now, they also talk about the staking based prover economics, which works by managing a pool of provers, which you can read about. But yeah, you can go read the Twitter thread for yourself. For more information about this, as well as the blog post, I'm not going to read through it all here. I'll link those both in the YouTube description below.
00:16:39.364 - 00:17:22.284, Speaker A: But great to see Tyco continuing to experiment with more bleeding edge things in the l two space with this new launch today. All right, speaking of the l two space, I came across a tweet from optimism, which basically really bought like, kind of summarizes the thing I was talking about yesterday with sallow moving from an l one to l two. So they said op stack, enabling l one s to return to their ethereum roots. This is the power of modular extensible scalability tech. This is the power of open source. So there has been a lot of l one s that have kind of been created over the past couple of years, maybe two, three years that I believe were created because the l two infrastructure just wasn't there. And now the l two infrastructure is there.
00:17:22.284 - 00:17:58.116, Speaker A: It makes sense for all these l one s that were created during that time to come back, right, to transition to an l two, because it is now really easy to do that. The tooling is there, the help is there for you to do that. The product market fit is there because these l two s are just so popular at this point. The funding is potentially there as well. If you want to raise another round or something like that, or sell or sell some tokens to prospective investors, things like that. So it makes sense for these teams to come back. And, you know, I've spoken to some of these teams in the past, and I asked them, you know, why did you launch this as an l one? Why didn't you launch it as an l two? And they basically said, well, the infrastructure just wasn't there.
00:17:58.116 - 00:18:58.590, Speaker A: And we saw this with something like Dy DX saying that they were transitioning to a Cosmos chain or Cosmos app chain because the infrastructure wasn't there for them to decentralize with Dy D with, with stockware. And at the time when they announced this, I remember saying on the refuel that I believe that was a big mistake for them to do that because the infrastructure wasn't very far away. And I believe the infrastructure basically got to the point where Dwag Dex could use it instead of creating their own app chain a mere six months later, I believe. And it's actually going to be funny to see if dy Dex end up pivoting back from a Cosmos app chain to an l two design using one of these modular stacks, whether that be op stack or otherwise, in order to, to kind of run their app chain as an l two instead of as a standalone kind of sovereign chain as part of Cosmos. I would actually put good odds on that happening at some point in the future. I don't know if it's bullish or bearish, because there's just been so many pivots in Dodx's life. They are early to be fair, or have been early to be fair.
00:18:58.590 - 00:19:30.192, Speaker A: But. But, yeah, I remember, I remember mentioning that. But I'm going to be curious to see what other l one's transition now to these l two s. I think some of them will do it as a pure opportunistic thing where they believe that transitioning to an l two will be good for their asset, you know, their native asset. But some of them will do it because they really just wanted to be part of the Ethereum family, but couldn't at the time. So they created their own l one or their own side chain, and now they're coming home. There was another thing that got announced yesterday that I, that I wasn't going to cover today, but I think it's worth mentioning that I felt was a bit weird.
00:19:30.192 - 00:20:10.624, Speaker A: So gnosis has their own chain called gnosis chain. It's effectively an l one. I mean, it's pretty much equivalent to the polygon pos chain, I would say. And they have their own token called gno that validates the chain, and it's basically a fork of the beacon chain as well. So they use the same infrastructure there. But they announced something yesterday called gnosis pay, which is a kind of like new payments infrastructure that's working with, with a Visa card that you can get and basically pay with crypto, but they're building it as an l two on top of gnosis chain. So they're using polygons infrastructure to build an l two that lives on top of gnosis chain.
00:20:10.624 - 00:20:50.380, Speaker A: And they're also calling gnosis chain the second most decentralized chain after ethereum, which I felt was pretty gross because that is completely, completely untrue. That is literally false. They say they have like 100,000 validators. Well, that's because it costs basically nothing to validate on gnosis chain. And the number of validators, that does not equal the number of decentralization, especially from an economic security point of view. So that rubbed me the wrong way, and that's why I wasn't going to cover it. But I do wonder if gnosis chain is going to transition to being an l two on top of ethereum, and then that gnosis pay thing will be an l three on top of that l two, because it doesn't really make much sense for gnosis chain to remain a sidechain or an l one.
00:20:50.380 - 00:21:32.234, Speaker A: It makes much more sense for them to transition to an l two, even if they become just a validium and not a roll up like what the Polygon Pos chain is doing. Yeah, it makes a lot more sense in my mind. But we'll see. I know that people have their different reasons for launching l one s and things like that, but we'll see if they come home. I hope they do, because nurses does a lot of great stuff for the ecosystem and launches a lot of great products. But I felt it was weird that they launched this new product that I consider to be very exciting, but they launched it on gnosis chain, which I've always felt was extremely uninteresting. And they've launched it as an l two on gnosis chain, which I found extra weird as well because I know some of the people at gnosis, at least the higher ups, were very bearish on l two s.
00:21:32.234 - 00:22:21.332, Speaker A: And now suddenly an l two is good because it launches on gnosis chain. I don't know, I don't know. I don't want to fight anything here, but I do hope that gnosis chain transitions to being an l two on Ethereum and then that gnosis pay can be like an l three on top of that there. All right, so a big announcement out of the Chainlink ecosystem today. So you can see here that Chainlink God shared that Chainlink CCIP is officially live on Mainnet with Synthetix and Aave as the first users. Supported chains at launch include avalanche, Ethereum, optimism, and Polygon for secure cross chain messaging and token transfers. And you can see here the features of CCIP include arbitrary message passing, simplified token transfer, programmable token transfers, active risk management network token transfer rate limits, smart execution, time locked upgradability, and more.
00:22:21.332 - 00:23:10.202, Speaker A: So basically, CC IP is trying to be a cross chain infrastructure between all of these different chains, EVM chains to start, of course, and basically allow for things like arbitrary message passing, token transfers, all that good stuff that I've talked about in the past. And it's just another solution for doing cross chain basically communications. And I think the reason people get so excited about this is because it's not just doing token transfers, right? It's doing arbitrary message passing. It's doing things like smart execution and token transfer rate limits for extra security, time lock upgradability, time locked up ability, and things like that. And you can see a few examples here that Chainlink God has has shared. And I'll link this tweet thread in the YouTube description below for you to check out, of course. But yeah, exciting stuff out of the chainlink ecosystem here.
00:23:10.202 - 00:24:23.840, Speaker A: And I've been hearing about this CCIP thing for a little while. I don't think I'd covered it on the refer before. What it actually stands for is cross chain interoperability protocol, which I guess is pretty self explanatory given that I was just talking about that. But yeah, I'm keeping a close eye on this now that it's live on Mainnet and I'll keep you guys updated on how things progress on this front. All right, last up here, just a shout out that a reminder here from from zero x NGMI who says reminder to disable batched requests on metamask. It's enabled by default and it leaks all addresses on Metamask to any RPC you use, making it possible to link all of your addresses together. To disable go to settings, security and privacy batch account balance requests yeah, this is kind of shitty that this is enabled by default, to be honest, because if you're using any RPC out there, doesn't matter what it is, and you have all of your addresses in Metamask, such as your hydro wallet addresses or your hot wallet addresses on Metamask, doesn't matter what address it is, it will send all of that to the RPC and then that can be correlated and all of your addresses are basically docked docs to whoever has access to that data on that RPC and then that data could be on sold depending on the RPC that you're using.
00:24:23.840 - 00:24:53.696, Speaker A: So not great. Disable it if you use Metamask. I'll link this in the YouTube description below. If you forget, it's at it's under settings, security and privacy batch account balance requests here. But yeah, as I said, I'll link it in the YouTube description below. Now, of course, to round out today's episode, I wanted to talk a little bit about price. Now, I don't usually do this, but of course I'm talking about it today because I have gotten messages over the last couple weeks, I guess like the last week, especially because I have made comments on Twitter before that.
00:24:53.696 - 00:25:49.326, Speaker A: I don't think that the bull market is going to start until sometime next year. And then I even put a more accurate date on this recently where I said I don't think we're going to get new all time highs on Ethan BTC until the second half of 2024. So next year, and I want to break down the reasoning as to why I believe this. So you can see the chart in front of me here, I've got the last, well, I guess like the last cycle and the current cycle, or at least the crab cycle in kind of these brackets here and in these kind of like defined ranges here. Now, I've talked about this before where I basically said that price stays in a defined range for quite a while in a crab market, right? Once it's bottomed, it tends to stay in a nice range here. Now you can see the last cycle and I'll kind of zoom in here for you guys to see this. So, this is the cycle from basically the end of 2018 or towards the end of 2018 to midway through 2020.
00:25:49.326 - 00:26:16.346, Speaker A: And this shows the defined range that ETH sat in for a very long time. This is the weekly chart. So it may not look like a long time, but it is. And the reason why I've drawn the kind of, like, lines in this way is that what, this wasn't the bottom here in September 2018. Right. This was, like, ethos at $300. But the reason why I've drawn it like this is because that was basically the top of the range on the weekly chart last crab cycle, and then the bottom wasn't really dollar 80 because didn't spend much time there.
00:26:16.346 - 00:26:48.694, Speaker A: You could argue that the bottom of that range was around $110, but we can just say it's dollar 100 for. For our kind of, like, ease of discussion here. So we'll say the defined range was $100 to $300. Basically, on the weekly chart, you didn't want to see a $100 broken. Right. You didn't want to see a weekly price close behind, but below $100 again. And you wanted to see a weekly chart close above $300 in order for the range to be broken here.
00:26:48.694 - 00:27:25.068, Speaker A: And that's exactly what happened, but not before a lot of turbulence. So, from where this range started, this $300 range started here until when it was broken, 686 days were passed. So it took 686 days for ETH to break that range from when it. It started it. Now, if you take it from the bottom, which was dollar 80, it took ETH, what, 588 days to break out of that range there. Now, that range was also influenced by two things that don't exist in today's market. So the first thing was something called a plus.
00:27:25.068 - 00:27:47.700, Speaker A: The plus token Ponzi, which was a chinese run ponzi that. That accepted Ethan, BTC and the founders were originally arrested, but it raised, like, billions of dollars, and that influenced a lot of this. This pump here. And that's why ETH went to 360 here. You can see, but didn't close above it. Right. You can see here it wicked to 360 in June of 2019, but then came back below it.
00:27:47.700 - 00:28:04.230, Speaker A: And. And the weekly closed under this line here. Did not close, um, you know, above 300. And then the second kind of pump and dump you can see here was the COVID thing right at the. At the turn of, um, the year here in January of 2020, e started going up again. It showed up really fast. It went from.
00:28:04.230 - 00:28:28.974, Speaker A: It began 2020 at $126. And it, um, by 17 February. So only six weeks later, it was almost 300. So that was a. It was a very fast ascent there for ETH. But then, of course, the whole COVID dump happened, and ethnic absolutely tanked from that down and retested $80. It went to $90, but then came up from that again and did not close a weekly below $100.
00:28:28.974 - 00:28:51.822, Speaker A: So that range was still respected. Right. Now, this isn't. I should mention, this is not really technical analysis. This is kind of like rudimentary, just range analysis, I guess. But then from then, from March 2020, it took another 126 days until July 2020 for ETH to break out of this $300 range. Now, of course, it didn't break out of it and then not come back to it.
00:28:51.822 - 00:29:26.670, Speaker A: It did retest it. You can see here it retested it a few times, but then the rest is history from there. Now, if we want to say when ETH broke out of that range to when it actually hit a new all time high, it still took a while. So from the range to breaking the old all time high of 1420, it took around another 189 days. So it took pretty much the rest of the year, basically another six or seven months, to break into a new all time high high. And then to set the first new all time high from there of 4400, it took another. It took around 300 days to do that there.
00:29:26.670 - 00:30:15.840, Speaker A: Now, if you want to measure from the bottom, right, the last bottom, which was dollar 80, to breaking the all time high again. So breaking the previous all time high again, it took 777 days, right? It took a long ass time. Now we look at the current cycle, right? And I'm going to power through this because I've gone over time here, the current cycle, where were we? Where are we now? Okay, we bottomed, right? We bottomed at $880 on the chart. Since then, it has been 399 days. Now, keep in mind, it took 777 days to go from bottom to previous all time high again. So, okay, what would that look like if we were to draw that out here? 777 days from the last bottom to breaking the all time high again would be July 2024, second half, 2024. That's where I got that number from.
00:30:15.840 - 00:30:50.016, Speaker A: All I did was look at the range from the last cycle. I took it out, I took the measurement out, I calculated the days, and I said, you know what? This looks like it's actually going to happen like this. Because if you go to the BTC chart, which has more data, this range, this kind of like range and cycle has been respected before. Not to say it's going to play out exactly the same, but that's how I came to that conclusion. Now, in terms of how long we've been in this range, we've basically been in it, as I said, for about 400 days. So if you want to see how many days we've got left till July 2024, it's another year basically. Right.
00:30:50.016 - 00:31:12.500, Speaker A: I should, I should have been able to do that off top of my head since we're in July right now. So it's still another year. That's not to say we can't break out of this range before that. If you want to measure out how long it'll take us to break out of that range based on last cycle, as I said, you measure from the bottom in the last cycle and you say it took 588 days. If you measure it here, I think it works out to the end of the year. Let me have a look. 588 days.
00:31:12.500 - 00:31:36.904, Speaker A: Yeah. Basically Jan of next year was when we would break out of this range. And the range that we're currently in is basically, it's basically $1,000 to like $2,000. But to me it actually goes higher than that. It goes to maybe like 2500. But I haven't drawn the lines up there. I think if we were to close above 2000 on a weekly chart that it start looking really healthy.
00:31:36.904 - 00:31:57.000, Speaker A: So we can say the defined range is basically one to $2,000 here. So if we broke out of that and closed above that right now, it wouldn't have taken 588 days. It would have taken four. I mean, let's, let's say it takes another few weeks to do that. It would have taken maybe 400 and something days. Right. But the COVID dump here actually distorts these things.
00:31:57.000 - 00:32:20.024, Speaker A: A lot of you people believe that if the COVID dump didn't happen, we would have broken out in, in February, right. We would have broken out of the range in, in February. So let's assume that we did do that. What would have looked like last cycle if we broke out of the range here? It would have been 434 days. Right. We are almost at 434 days and we are pretty much, we're at 1900 right now. So we're pretty close to two k.
00:32:20.024 - 00:32:49.624, Speaker A: So what does that look like? Well, it looks like that by August we could potentially be breaking out of that, out of that range there and starting a new technical bull market. Do I think that's going to happen? I don't know. Not every cycle is exactly the same. They rhyme, they don't repeat. But I could see us still being stuck in this range for the remainder of this year, at least, or at least the majority of the remainder of this year. But that is okay, too. But at the same time, this, this chart looks pretty good to me.
00:32:49.624 - 00:33:14.354, Speaker A: Right? I mean, I'm not a chart guy, but the chart looks pretty good to me that we're, we're kind of hovering up, up around here. A lot of the fears around what would make the price dump have been subsided. Uh, yeah, I don't know. I, I'm, I'm always bullish, but I'm feeling particularly bullish lately. Maybe that's a bad sign. Maybe we're going to dump from here. But generally, my kind of play for the next 18 months at least is the rest of this year will probably be crab market action.
00:33:14.354 - 00:33:38.856, Speaker A: If we do break out of the range, we're probably not going to go much higher than that. Next year, we'll be, we'll be climbing that wall of worry to get to the previous all time high. And then the bull market in terms of retail mania will start in earnest in the second half of next year and probably continue into, into 2025. That's how I'm kind of playing it. And in terms of how I'm positioning myself, I'm not really buying anything anymore. I pretty much bought everything I needed to buy at this point. I'm just waiting now.
00:33:38.856 - 00:34:14.948, Speaker A: And this, none of this has been investment advice, but that's how I play these cycles. I always play the long term stuff. I never play short term stuff. Long term cycles, for me, load up when it's like this in these defined ranges. Sell when it's like, basically up here where things start getting real crazy, right? Like, you can see I've just highlighted it on my chart here in the yellow. When things start going parabolic, you do have quite a long time to actually offload. I mean, if you want to measure it from, basically, I gotta know here to here, you have like a year, if you want to take a conservative approach here, to offload at the kind of like higher prices.
00:34:14.948 - 00:34:40.406, Speaker A: But I mean, it's all personal preference. It all depends on where you want to sell, what you're comfortable selling. But my advice has always been set yourself, sell limits. Set yourself prices where you're going to sell, take profit. And just remember that at the end of the day, you sell when you sell, and then you don't look back from there. But as I said, that's not investment advice. It's just my thinking, my kind of like way of looking at these things.
00:34:40.406 - 00:34:54.064, Speaker A: And I hope that helps you guys for the upcoming bull market. But on that note, that is going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter join to the skill channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
