00:00:01.160 - 00:00:26.294, Speaker A: What is up, guys? Heike here. And today I wanted to discuss the state of the markets and also discuss some farming opportunities within the arbitrum ecosystem. So if you like the content, please like and subscribe and check out. The premium discord link is in the description below. So let's get right into it. I'm a, I'm still recovering from a slight sickness, so that's like, you know, if my voice is kind of raspy, that's why that is. But let's first discuss entreme metrics, you know, because with Pepe, right, like going to like $1.7
00:00:26.294 - 00:01:05.746, Speaker A: billion market. Captain, a bunch of other meme coins launching mainnet gas fees have been pretty insane. Even during the weekend, it's been around over 100 way. Right now it's under 100, maybe because some of these meme coins have topped. But regardless, there's no point using Mainnet. It's like, what's the point of farming? On Ethereum, it costs dollar 30 to approve a coin, $30 to stake some token within a smart contract, cost dollar 20 to claim rewards, cost dollar ten to approve the farm token on a dexehen, and then cost like $30 to swap. It really makes no sense to farm on Mainnet unless you're trying to farm for like, a longer term play.
00:01:05.746 - 00:01:46.650, Speaker A: But even then, it's like, you know, like we're starting to experience what it was like back in 2020 and 2021 when a lot of demand, right, like demand for block space, went to alternative layer ones, and we had like, the whole avalanche, Luna, Solana, phantom. Like, you know, those l ones go crazy. But this time we have l two s. And I do think that it's rational to expect the high mainnet gas fees to drive defi activity onto arbitram. I think Mainnet can be a place where people trade meme coins, nfts and speculate on certain things. But when it comes to defi, I think it makes more sense for that type of demand, for block space to migrate to L2s like arbitram. And I'll talk about that later.
00:01:46.650 - 00:02:24.788, Speaker A: Even on bitcoin, with the whole meme coin craze, there's like this, I don't know. Yeah, there's like this already coin reaching a half a billion dollar market, captain, a fake pepe token $100 million market cap. Of course, the 24 hours volume is like 10 million with like almost a billion. I mean, you know, like, this market cap really isn't real. But, you know, we're also starting to see a bunch of demand for block space on bitcoin. And like, of course, prices are down today, and I don't even know what kind of market to, like, call this, right? Bear market, bull market, crab market. But I don't really think that, you know, this is the type of activity we see in a really depressed bear market.
00:02:24.788 - 00:03:19.388, Speaker A: I do think that we bottomed back in November of 2022, and I think 2023 isn't generally getting viewed as a recovery accumulation year. And I think generally, crypto people want volatility. We either only want up only conditions or we want prices to go down so we have some volatility. But I think the most likely path is that we just can't chomp and go sideways and we just let people get tired and get bored. And I still think that in this environment, looking into LP positions is going to be a really good way to just pass time and also force yourself to be involved, remain interested, but earn fees, like swap fees and farming rewards while you're at it. And I'll talk about a tri crypto and GLP alternative later in the video called Muxlp. And also this, right? It's like Ethereum, uniswap users, unique users, up and to the right.
00:03:19.388 - 00:04:02.926, Speaker A: And when I see something like this, it's like, I have a hard time believing that this is, like, real just because, I mean, I'm in the markets every day and it really doesn't feel like there's more people. But literally today, right? Like, I kid you not, I went into my local bank branch just to open some accounts and whatnot, and, like, do other stuff. And then, you know, of course, like, as I'm talking to people, like, like, all these people, like, show me their product. Or it's like, hey, like, here's my, you know, this fund, right? It's yielding like, 6%. I take a 60 basis point expense ratio. Yada, yada, yada. And then I told this guy I work at crypto, and then he was like, oh, how's Pepe doing? How's Pepe doing? And then he was talking to me about how he lost a bunch of money.
00:04:02.926 - 00:05:00.890, Speaker A: He pulled all his money out, but he still has a bunch of money left in the sammo coin on Solana, which I haven't really heard of. And then I'm like, wait. I mean, first of all, like, why are, like, why is this guy trying to show me his, you know, like, fund product with, like, a 60 basis point expense ratio and talking to me about Pepe and Samo, right? Like, that doesn't really inspire confidence in this guy. But also. Right, it's like when I think about people aping into meme coins and like, you know, it's like Pepe, I kind of think about, like, zoomers or like DJ's, right? It's like people like me, but literally, like, there's this guy in a suit in front of me with, like, really well oiled hair, very fresh haircut, a banker, right? And like, literally talking to me about Pepe, and I'm like, okay, I guess this is, these are the types of people that's entering, right? And maybe he's like one of the, one of these people. I hope he's not watching this video. So, you know, it's like, I don't really want to hurt his feelings, but, like, also really, it's like, what the hell is, like, this actually happened in real life, which is kind of hard to believe.
00:05:00.890 - 00:05:25.700, Speaker A: So maybe it's unusable for defined MT's. So the natural step is to think that, okay, defectivity. Let's trickle that into later twos. And of course, today a bunch of altcoins are getting turbo wrecked, including arbitrum. I think it's slightly above a dollar. And arbitrum native altcoins have also been just demolished. However, since they are dropped, L2 activity has skyrocketed.
00:05:25.700 - 00:05:58.650, Speaker A: And the centralized sequencer, the arbitrum and altruism sequencer is printing in fees. And the margins for these sequencers are only going to improve. So, you know, if you look at this data shout out to this Twitter account, two millet, you know, I think you can find some of this data dashboard if you follow Twitter. But, you know, optimism weekly, all two fees indeed up and to the right. And then ever since the airdrop, arbitrum weekly, l two fees also up into the right. And recently, if you try to use arbitrum and like, do a swap, it costs like a dollar. So we still see like, you know, some activity.
00:05:58.650 - 00:06:37.494, Speaker A: And also, you know, it's like L2 scale ethereum in a way, but it still doesn't scale it to the extent that I think we all wanted to. Ideally, you know, we onboard thousands and millions of people and they do things on like, on chain for like two, $0.03. But, you know, even in this environment, even when I don't think there's like that many people that came back, you know, it's still costing like one, two, $3. But, you know, this is going to change with proto Dank charting, with EIP 4844 and, you know, the sequencer right. Arbitrary monopolism that their sequencer is printing in fees and following EIP 4844. This should only go up in terms of the margins. So let's talk about that.
00:06:37.494 - 00:07:07.224, Speaker A: Right? And I think in this market, like, the current market, is starved of a narrative. Maybe like the whole meme coin thing only happened because there was, like, nothing else that could pump. So people just like, you know, turned to meme coins. I mean, I have no idea. I guess, like, general consensus is that meme coins tend to mark tops in, like, rallies. I don't think it has to be like the, like the pquotop. I just think that we're gonna go sideways and, you know, bears are gonna get super excited if we go down, and then bulls are gonna get super excited.
00:07:07.224 - 00:07:45.906, Speaker A: But generally, I just think that, you know, 2033, just generally sideways, I think the people that's gonna make the most, or maybe not the most, but, like, the. One of the best strategies is to this, like, LP and also, like, hold core longer term positions that, you know, you're bullish on and just see those investments. Right? Like, just see the longer term and, like, you know, just ignore the short term noise. So, EIP 4844, prototyping charting aims to decrease the costs associated with roll ups by reducing the amount of data that needs to be submitted to the Ethereum blockchain. And it's rumored to. I mean, it's not really rumored. It's pretty much consensus that's going to lower L2 transaction fees by ten to 20 x.
00:07:45.906 - 00:08:07.816, Speaker A: Right. So, like, by own in order of magnitude. Of course there's more to this, but this is like the simplified versions of this. And this is coming in q three to q four, coming with an ethereum cancun upgrade. And of course, you might say, hey, oh, my God, q three. It's like, I want something that pumps tomorrow. But I mean, you know, it's really hard for me to, like, you know, talk about, like, shorter term stuff on this channel.
00:08:07.816 - 00:08:46.516, Speaker A: But. But, you know, you might think it's too early for the narrative. But also, if you think about the whole LSD narrative, this really caught me by surprise, because I talked about this in December, and I was like, okay, maybe it starts pumping in February or March, right? Because the Shanghai chappelle upgrade was going to be in April. But, you know, Lido was one of those things that started pumping immediately, January 1 of 2033, and the majority of the gains happened in January and February. So even though the Chappelle upgrade happened in mid April, the LSD narrative started happening three and a half months out. Right? So January 1. And, you know, maybe right now, that whole LSD narrative has, has, like, mostly died out.
00:08:46.516 - 00:09:47.462, Speaker A: I mean, I still think it's a strong narrative, like, fundamentally, but I think when it comes to capital gains from coins, like, maybe, you know, most of the gains are behind us. But no, but, like, more importantly, the point is these narratives can just happen, like, in an instant. So I just think it's good to be aware of it. And, you know, I think crypto just needs, like, fundamental narratives that people can actually latch onto that can, you know, that people can actually justify. It's really hard for me to be super bullish either, just because people are buying Pepe, but if proto dank sharding can enable more types of applications, more use cases, and also onboard more people, and make l two s cheaper to use, then I think that can actually be some narrative on the also, right. I talked about this earlier, but, um, you know, as it becomes cheaper for these sequencers to settle on Mainnet, uh, the margins for these sequencers tend to improve. Uh, and though the arbitrary token holders can't really benefit from improved margins, uh, for the sequencer, maybe that can be a narrative, right? It's one of the few.
00:09:47.462 - 00:10:41.132, Speaker A: I mean. I mean, going back to this, right? So, like, one of the few, you know, I guess layer ones. I mean, L2s, uh, that's actually, you know, accruing more fees and making money. So I still think it's really important to keep track of this type of stuff and start thinking about what kind of tokens can benefit if arbitrum does. Well, of course arbitrum is nuking, but this is like, looking at it fundamentally, right? It's like, if you look at the top chains, arbitrum gaining TVL, it's actually at all time highs led by Kronos finance, which I'll talk about later in the video. But it seems like more and more money is flocking towards arbitrum, which makes sense, right? It's like you can't really do anything on mainnet, so, like, like, where else can you do it, right? Like, no one's gonna go to, like, some, most of these alto all one chains, because there's not much to do. And I think the only place that has some resemblance and hope for, I guess, tokens going up is arbitrum, just because, you know, they just dropped a token.
00:10:41.132 - 00:11:20.366, Speaker A: These Daos have, you know, their airdrop allocations, and at some point later in the year, I do expect arbitram, the DAO to do ecosystem incentives. So whether it be to like, you know, paying people to borrow and land on Aave LP on curve, and I think that's going to bring in more excitement. And maybe it makes sense to start thinking about, okay, if arbitrary does well, which types of tokens will do well, okay, so that's kind of like my mindset. Yeah. So, you know, like when it comes, like these Daos, like most of them haven't really done much. Some of these protocols, like GMX, they got their token, like the arch token, they said that they're going to use it for governance. I think most of like the legitimate protocols, right.
00:11:20.366 - 00:11:41.838, Speaker A: They're probably not going to sell or like do anything with it. They're probably going to hold on to it and like vote and be like an active governor. Of course, we've seen some other Daos like Tridentao and cat finance. They took the airdrop and just like dumped it. So I guess, like, this is like the risk that I face as like an arbitrary bull. But, you know, I mean, this is bound to happen. And you know, if.
00:11:41.838 - 00:12:34.314, Speaker A: If the arbitrary token can't withstand some Daos like this selling these tokens, then I don't think that there's much upside to begin with. But I do think that, you know, Arbitrum is going to be one of those tokens that's going to do relatively well. Of course, it's already starting out at a pretty high market cap. But no, I do think that the arbitrum and op token narrative can start picking up in the next coming months. And, you know, the LSD narrative started three and a half months before the sharpella upgrade. So, you know, if the Cancun upgrade is slated in, let's say late q three, or, I mean, we don't really know the timing, let's say mid to late q three, then perhaps the proto dank sharding narrative for l two tokens can begin in late q two. And if this coincides with arbitram incentives, the ecosystem incentives, then maybe this entire ecosystem should be looked at.
00:12:34.314 - 00:13:10.872, Speaker A: So let's talk about Mux protocol. Full disclosure, I do own some of the token, but I'll make a case on why I think Mux LP, which is like the GLP equivalent, is more interesting than the token itself. And I'll talk about like the tokenomics and like, why they're inferior to, you know, things like GMX. So Mux is interesting because, you know, I've never heard of this protocol initially when I discovered it like a month ago or like, a few weeks ago. But actually they pivoted from this product called McDEX in 2019. But McDEx I recognize. I remember back in 2020, I was checking out, like, l two, or maybe it was like early 2021.
00:13:10.872 - 00:13:38.636, Speaker A: But, you know, McDEX has this super Chinese Dex on arbitrum, and I had to use Google Translate, it was impossible to use. And I was like, okay, there's no point buying this token or using this token. But their initial product didn't really do that well. And then in August of 2022, they pivoted it to a cross chain purpose exchange. So a fork of GMX with some twists, which I'll talk about. And they're recently getting a lot of traction. So volume right, doing pretty well.
00:13:38.636 - 00:14:02.440, Speaker A: They aggregate volume through GMX gns and their protocol. So the real volume that, you know, they generate money off of is, like the blue line. You know, it's generally trending up. And then mux LP, which is a GOP equivalent upon eTVL. And then I guess, like, in Mux LP, right, price is doing fine. And recently, open interest in the protocol is, you know, at all time highs. So, you know, I think it's worth looking at.
00:14:02.440 - 00:14:45.134, Speaker A: But, like, let's talk about, like, why I think this benefits from the arbitram token, because there's been so many GMX works that's done decently but, like, have nuked in price. So, like, what makes this different? And to be honest, like, it might not be that different, right? Like, it might not be a good token at all. But let me, like, just make a case for it and why I think it's interesting. So, of course, GMX right now doesn't. On arbitram, they don't list the arbitram, the ARB token, just because, you know, the GMX protocol is so large that, you know, they have to move really slowly. And introducing a new token into the GOP basket is going to introduce some risks. So if you want to trade arbitrum on leverage, the only places to do it is on gains and mucs.
00:14:45.134 - 00:15:27.130, Speaker A: And on the left hand side here, this is the amount of trading volume in the last 30 days. And arbitrap has done roughly half a billion dollars worth of volume. And on the right hand side here, you see the metrics for GNS, and it's only done $7 million worth of volume. So it seems like Mux is the place where people trade arbitrum on leverage. So naturally, I expect, hey, if arbitrum, let's say, goes up 50% in price over the next one, two, three months, I would expect the metrics for mux to only improve because if arbitrum is going up, then naturally people are going to want to buy it on leverage. And then where else, like, where do you do it, right? And the most liquid place to do it is on Mux. And I'll talk about like the whole mux LP basket there.
00:15:27.130 - 00:16:02.658, Speaker A: And so that's primarily been the gross driver. They were the first purpose exchange to list ARb. And, you know, it was like, and they really helped them, like, you know, gain, gain more traction, gain volume, and what we learned from the Joe token. And, you know, the Joe token is also like nuked in price. It like went up like five x right before, since, like before, like the whole arbitrary airdrop. And I guess, like, the lessons there is that, you know, most arbitram native altcoins, sure they like, pumped whenever the airdrop was announced, but it kind of retraced the entire move. But the token that benefited the most was Joe and MCB.
00:16:02.658 - 00:16:29.708, Speaker A: And the reason is because Joe was where people were. LP on arbitrage. Right. In my last video, I talked about, you know, LP on Trader Joe's liquidity book. And similarly, I think the platforms that's going to benefit the most from arbitrum price going up or just like the platforms that's going to enable arbitram trading, it's like arbitram price going up isn't going to make people trade options on Dopex. It's not going to make people, I don't know, mint stable coins on Vesta or something. It's not really going to do any of that.
00:16:29.708 - 00:16:56.302, Speaker A: But if people are speculating getting on ARP, then it's natural to expect these decentralized exchanges to benefit. And I think Joe and MCB are decent tokens. I mean, not great. I'm not sure about the risk reward, but I think LP makes a lot more sense, which I wanted to push more of. So this is like the mux LP. It's similar to GLP. I think the only difference is that, I guess in terms of fees or like rates, the ETH APR is much higher.
00:16:56.302 - 00:17:18.160, Speaker A: And, you know, this gets updated, I believe, every few days or like every week. There's also like this Mux APR, which I'll talk about later, and then I can kind of zoom. I mean, let me actually go to the application so you can kind of see it. So Mux LP is cross chain, and I'll discuss all that later. But they contain more like crypto assets. So it's a lot riskier. I'm not sure why it's not loading.
00:17:18.160 - 00:17:48.582, Speaker A: It's kind of slow, but let's see. Yeah, so it's similar to GLP. It's like 26% ether, 13% BTC, 10% arbitrum, 2.2% Avax bnb op ftm. And then I think it's like 44% stablecoins. But as you can see, it's like a bunch of these bridged stable coins from all these different chains. So there's always the risk that, hey, like if the avalanche bridge gets exploited, then like, what's gonna happen to Muxlp? I don't know, probably not great.
00:17:48.582 - 00:18:13.660, Speaker A: So there's increased risks, but you know, with increased risks, there are some advantages. So let's talk about that. And you know, the rates are pretty good. This used to be like 70%, but it got really diluted because no Mux LPD, you know, the Tbl went up straight up. So let's talk about the token. So MCB is the token, right? The platform token. You can lock your MCB and it's like the ve model, which I'm not a fan of, but let me just talk about this.
00:18:13.660 - 00:18:43.044, Speaker A: You can lock MCB to get ve mux, and it's going to earn you mux as the yield as well as Eth. And Mux is similar to escrow GMX. So if you farm Mux with Mux LP, for example, you can vest your mux by leaving your mux LP in there. And then, you know, if you have Mux LP, you get ETh and Mux as rewards. And then you can invest it over twelve months. And you know, you can get your mux back as MCB. It's kind of amusing, but you know, you can, I mean, it's not even stake, it's.
00:18:43.044 - 00:19:19.130, Speaker A: You can lock your MCV for two to two weeks to four years to get ve mux, and you can stake your ve mux to get Mux and ether, and then you can vest your mux to get MCV. So, you know, MCB is like GMX and Mux is like escrow to GMX. And if you kind of think about it like that, it makes it a lot simpler. But like, the whole ve mux model is kind of annoying. But before I get into that, let's talk about the whole cross chain thing. And I think this is pretty interesting. So for example, let's say the pools on arbitrum, avalanche, BSE and phantom each hold ten, eight of liquidity.
00:19:19.130 - 00:20:13.732, Speaker A: And five ETH are currently reserved for active positioned positions. And I guess like the problem with GMX is that, you know, if the open interest on avalanche is like fully capped, GMx can't really tap into the liquidity on arbitram because each chain is isolated. Right. The liquidity is isolated on each chain, you know, which is fine, to be honest, but I guess like that's one of the problems. But the difference with Mux is that they have this thing called universal liquidity where they have their own centralized thing called dark oracles, and it's going to allow for this unified liquidity. So even though these individual chains only have ten eth, if a trader on arbitrary wanted to place a 28th long, I mean, traditionally you can't really do that, but it will be enabled on Mux just because it kind of unifies liquidity. So the universal liquidity is 48 because there's ten eigth on all these four chains.
00:20:13.732 - 00:20:41.412, Speaker A: And then, you know, using the dark oracle, the market maker slash protocol will allow you to open a 20 long trade. So that's kind of how it works. There is a risk, there's a bunch of centralization risks. So they have their own Oracle GMX gains, they use chainlink. So I mean, that's like an open oracle. But in order for them to facilitate this universal liquidity model, this cross chain liquidity aggregating liquidity, they use their own oracle. So you're kind of relying on the team to not rugged.
00:20:41.412 - 00:21:42.546, Speaker A: You're also kind of relying on a team to not have a faulty product. And if this was like some anonymous team, I would not feel that comfortable. But because I've known about them since 2019, 2020 and, you know, the devs or docs and whatnot, I feel a little bit more confident and, you know, like, I don't really recommend, you know, like, you know, aping into mux LP, but you know, just be aware of the risks. But you know, for like a $50 million mercy app project, it's like you can't have everything be perfect, right? I mean, to be honest, anything under 100 million dollar market cap, it's never going to be perfect, right? If it's already perfect, then it's going to be much higher valuations. So mux aggregates trades through GMX Gns and Mux LP. So they're trying to be like the best place to trade. Because if you wanted to trade, for example, if you go to the trade tab and you wanted to lever long, I don't know, let's say like mana for example.
00:21:42.546 - 00:22:08.356, Speaker A: Right. Then it's going to aggregate trades through GNS. So it's trying to become like the best place to trade. I'm not sure if you can see it, but yeah, you can kind of see that it aggregates the hirns. So it's going to be like the best place to trade. And if you trade, let's say, you know, arbitrum, for example, and you want to, I guess, let's go here, SDC. Right.
00:22:08.356 - 00:22:32.314, Speaker A: Then it shows that, hey, it's going to go through Mux because it's like the most liquid place to trade. So Mux is basically a bet on arbitrum going up. In my opinion. It's like nothing really else, not much else, to be honest. If you're bullish on ARB, like the price of arbitram, then I think it makes sense to be bullish. The Mux protocol, there are some trade offs. They have their oracle, it's much less decentralized.
00:22:32.314 - 00:23:08.812, Speaker A: And there's a bunch of threads online talking about the risks associated. But I think it's, I just think it's a viable alternative to track up, though in GLP, that's kind of like my idea. They also have this concept of protocol and liquidity. And then you kind of look at the fee fee distribution. It's not like, it's not like the 70 30 ratio with GMX and GLP. Sorry, GOP and GMX staking some of the fees goes to protocol and liquidity. So, you know, I guess Mux LP holders and Mux stakers receive less in terms like a percentage basis.
00:23:08.812 - 00:23:42.116, Speaker A: But, you know, if you look at the website, the rates are still pretty competitive. So I think that's more important. And I guess like the whole protocol on liquidity aspect is that, you know, they want their own protocol to, you know, have, I guess like, you know, just like a base liquidity that grows over time so that even if the rates are lower, you know, the mux LP doesn't like go immediately to zero. Kind of makes sense. So 30% of fees goes towards protocol and liquidity, and then the rest of the fees is distributed to ve mux and Mux LP stakers. So let's talk about McB token Mux. Like, not that great.
00:23:42.116 - 00:24:08.086, Speaker A: I mean, I guess the good thing is that most tokens, most of the tokens are fully distributed. So 3.8 million is circulating. I mean, a little bit higher, but you know, like almost 4 million is circulating and then a million is reserved for mux vesting. So you can currently farm Mux and invest it into MCV. And then there's like this ve model where, you know, yeah, it's like the same thing, right? It's like, it's like a VCRV, right? The longer you lock it, the, the more boost you get. The shorter you lock it.
00:24:08.086 - 00:24:41.666, Speaker A: You get barely anything. So, you know, this is like pretty bad because when I first, I mean, this is like two weeks ago, but like, when I first locked it, I chose a two week period because I was like, okay, I'm probably gonna hold this for like over a month. Like, so I was like, lock it. And I was kind of, kind of lazy, right. But basically if you lock for two weeks, you get like this much VDMux. So, you know, you're not really getting like the 28% APR that they're advertising. And at the time it had like 50% APR.
00:24:41.666 - 00:25:06.080, Speaker A: But given that, you know, I'm only getting that much, I'm effectively getting a 0.5% APR. And for me to lock up my tokens for a 0.5% APR, like, that's pretty lame. It's even worse right now because like 28%, right? So if you lock up your tokens for two weeks, you get a 0.28% APR, which is definitely not worth. So, you know, it's only worth locking if you're going to lock it for like at least a year, which I mean, I doesn't also make any sense.
00:25:06.080 - 00:25:43.146, Speaker A: So this might like lower the demand for the token just because it doesn't really pay you. Right. I guess the best way to earn yield is by LP'ing. And there's also this restriction where the locks begin Thursday UTC zero, like am. So if you lock up your token on a Thursday afternoon, then the two week lock period starts like the following Thursday, right? So I made a mistake. I locked it up like a Thursday or Friday or something, and then I effectively had to lock up my tokens for three weeks to get like a 0.5% APR, which is like kind of lame.
00:25:43.146 - 00:26:11.080, Speaker A: So, you know, if you're gonna buy the token, don't lock it, right? The token looks aren't that great. And to be honest, like, you know, is the token even gonna go up? Like, I have no idea. So, you know, like, you know, learn from my mistakes. So. But if you divide, right, maybe, like if you want to yield, like maybe LP, but you know, like there's like no point in locking in my opinion. It's kind of lame. But I guess the benefit that they have is that, you know, they were also recipients of the arbitrum airdrop.
00:26:11.080 - 00:26:43.150, Speaker A: They got the same amount of gains protocol at like a third of the valuation. So that's kind of cool. And also, they were mentioning that, hey, like, we're going to use the arbitrum tokens to boost adoption of the platform. And they're actually, I mean, I actually think that they're like, the first protocol to actually use arbitrum incentives to, you know, to try to drive activity on their platform. Right now they have this $100,000 trading contest, so they allocated $50,000 with the arbitrum and then $50,000 worth of mux tokens. And, you know, depending on how much volume you do, you might, you know, receive some rewards, to be honest. Right.
00:26:43.150 - 00:27:13.302, Speaker A: Like, it's not that much, but, you know, they were trying to get their toes wet. I actually am in the discord. I pushed them to do this, and I'm glad they listened to me. And to be honest, is it worth doing this contest? Maybe not. But if you like trading things on chain, then might as well use Mux over GMX, to be honest. It also aggregates liquidity through GMX, so you're going to get the best rates anyways. I'm more shilling Mux Lp as a form over the MCP token.
00:27:13.302 - 00:27:48.788, Speaker A: I think you kind of hear it in my tone, and, you know, I've gotten a lot of questions around alternatives to try craft on GLP. So, you know, given the rates, current rates and feedback ground, it does pose higher risks. But, you know, that's reflected in the higher aprs. And also, I think there's more upside because right now you can farm mux. So if in six months, it's like a viable protocol, it's like, you know, thriving, then, you know, the current mux that you farm, that you can invest, you know, in the coming months, I think that's gonna be worth a lot more. So, you know, I get early. I mean, I kind of get, like, you know, semi early GLP GMX vibes.
00:27:48.788 - 00:28:56.616, Speaker A: So I just, like, want to share this opportunity, you know, because I think Muxiel P is a pretty good farm. So MCB, in my mind, I thought I might get like a two x on this, and, you know, I can kind of go over, like, my rationale there. But, you know, it's kind of like arbitrum beta, right? If arbitram does all of McBeat as well, if arbitrary goes to Hades now, then I'm gonna get dumped on. But, you know, like, I'm. I'm like, you know, I'm famous for getting dumped on, so it's like second nature to me, right? It's like I wake up, dump on my face, wake up the next day, two dumps on my face, and it's like, hey, you know, like, I guess, you know, I'm eternally gonna smell like a dump, right? It's like, it's fine, right? Mother Nature. I will say that, you know, despite, like, GOP rates being less sexy recently, the important metric is that no Gop has been going up and up and up. And if you do expect, like, the whole selling may go away and I guess, generally choppy conditions, I do think that these types of LP tokens, like GLP and MuXLP is a really interesting portfolio strategy because this is the price of GLP.
00:28:56.616 - 00:29:25.836, Speaker A: So the light blue is the GLP price with fees. And the markets topped January, sorry, November, December of 2021, which is roughly here. And it's been like a year and a half since. And GOP price, despite bitcoin and ether being over 50% from its low all time highs, is at all time highs. And looking at this kind of makes me think that, like, what was I doing in my life, right? Why am I trying to buy coins when I could have, like, just had GLP all this time? Of course. I mean, GLP has risks, but. Right.
00:29:25.836 - 00:30:00.676, Speaker A: But I just feel like, you know, if you're, if you generally view crypto to be in an accumulation here, I just feel like GOP Muxop is great because it protects you from downside just because people tend to be super levered long. So when the markets go down, you know, you get to benefit from those liquidations. And also, you know, mux, LP, GOP, they're like roughly 50% stable coins. So it's going to give you downside protection and also, it's also going to give you upside, you know, some upside. Right. Of course you're going to underperform people. That's like, you know, this is like, you know, naked long ether, but no, that's kind of like the risk you take, right.
00:30:00.676 - 00:30:42.900, Speaker A: I think generally when you buy into these LP tokens, you accept that there's going to be less of a return profile as an upside. But you're saying that, hey, I get less downside, so I'm okay with that type of trade off. So, yeah, I think LP still makes sense. I think Mux LP, like, adding it to the menu also makes a bunch of sense for me personally. I'm willing to allocate up to 50% of my portfolio in the tricrypto just because I think it's safer. It doesn't have, like, the trader piano risks for me, GOP, I'm willing to allocate up to 15% of my portfolio per chain. So, you know, if I really wanted to, like, you know, go full GLP, I don't mind, you know, putting 50% into arbitrum, 50% into avalanche GLP.
00:30:42.900 - 00:31:14.648, Speaker A: And with Mux LP, it is younger, it has bridge risks, cross chain risks, centralization risks. So I'm probably only willing to allocate up to 10% my portfolio in the mux LP. But even then, right, I still think it's good way to, you know, I mean, yeah, this additive menu, right? I mean, I think it's a good protocol and I guess, like, justifying, like, the valuation, to be honest. Right. It's like, the tokenomics are less great. So I'm not even sure if I can do this type of calculation. But, you know, I talked about gains protocol back in September.
00:31:14.648 - 00:31:56.608, Speaker A: I bought it at like a dollar 75, and then I sold it at like 350, and they got like a two x, and I was, like, super happy. And then they like, you know, after the whole FTX thing, it went to, like. Yeah, I mean, it, like, almost went up ten x from, like, my initial entry. I sold me too early. But basically, I kind of get, like, similar vibes to GNS and, like, the whole thesis behind GNS back then, because in September, the market cap of GNS was like 50 million. And if you look at the market cap of mux right now, it's also 50 million, right? So there's, like, similarities there. And back in September of 2020, if you look at the seven day moving average of gains volume, it was doing roughly, you know, $50 to $100 million worth of volume.
00:31:56.608 - 00:32:25.390, Speaker A: Maybe a little bit more, a little bit less, but let's say like $60 million worth of volume, daily volume. But if you look at the Mux LP trading volume now, if you focus on, like, the blue aspects of it, it's also doing, like, roughly $60 million worth of volume. I mean, it's super choppy. So, you know, it's not really reliable. But, you know, I'm kind of getting similar vibes too. You know, the thesis around gns back in September of last year. And I also like the whole mux LP model better than GNS.
00:32:25.390 - 00:33:15.230, Speaker A: I feel like if I'm LP, if I'm putting my hard earned assets on the line by being an LP, being a counterparty, being the house for the casino, then, you know, I want some crypto exposure, right? Like if the markets go up, I don't want to be sitting in this gains dive vault. So, you know, being, you know, just the fact that Muxop gives me some crypto exposure and, you know, you might not be positive on the FTM, BNB, Avax op, but it's only got 2% weight. It's not that big of a deal. Of course, arbitrum, right? It's like, it's like a bigger weight. But I guess like the whole bull case for MCB in Mux is that, hey, there's a decent amount of arbitrum in Mux LP, so it's going to be the most liquid place to trade ARb. So that's kind of like the idea. And, you know, to be honest, like, I can definitely see the case for, like, not buying Mux or MCB.
00:33:15.230 - 00:33:35.416, Speaker A: My idea was, okay, like maybe I can get like a two or three x in like the most optimistic scenario on Mux, and then I can rotate the profits into Mux LP. I might, I might not even get there, right. I might just get dumped on, which I'm okay with. But that's kind of it. Yeah. You know, like, we'll see if that makes sense. But let's talk about this other protocol.
00:33:35.416 - 00:34:04.064, Speaker A: Because Chronos, this other protocol, if you go to arbitrum TVL, it's up, it's at all time highs. And if you go to Kronos, it recently launched with emissions, and the TVL went from zero to quarter of a billion real fast, and it's kind of stagnated. But let's talk about why. I think this is an interesting farm. Potentially it's a solid leaf work. And I know people get tired of solid leaf works, but. But they do have an interesting twist.
00:34:04.064 - 00:35:40.120, Speaker A: Generally, I think solid leaf works are really good at capturing TVL, but it's really, really bad at keeping it because solid leaf tokens go up a lot. Then people rush in to form the token, then as the token goes down, people leave because what's the point? So how do you fix that type of problem? And Chronos is introducing this type of, or this concept of maturity boosts where the longer you keep your lp on kronos, the more tokens you get. So, you know, if you LP for, let's say, eat the USDC and you keep it for six weeks, then you're going to be receiving two times more emissions than someone that's entered on like day one for example. And there's also this element of, I'm not sure if you said, but you know, you can actually like tokenize or like turn your LP tokens into nfts where a six week, like a fully matured PTCE to LP positions can be sold for a premium when compared to like a one day old $1,000 BTCE DLP. So maybe there's, you know, arguments to be made for, you know, if you want to farm save points, why not, you know, deploy capital onto something like USDC or, you know, like LUSD USDC Frac seed stake frac seed, just put some capital on there and then just, you know, you're not really taking on like the pool to risk, right? The token risk of the Kratos token, just like I nuking in price, which it's doing right now. And maybe you can just park your capital there, wait six weeks, and if the protocol is doing well, then cool, right? Like you have a pretty mature LP position, you can sell at a premium if you want to, but if it's not doing well, then you can pull out whenever. So maybe it's an interesting opportunity.
00:35:40.120 - 00:36:39.220, Speaker A: Like I said, quarterblane NTVL team is a non, but they've been working on this launch for a few months now. So I think it's low risk of a rug, but I can't really say much about an exploit. The code base is forked off of Dana finance, which has been around on binance smart chain. So I don't think it's that likely that it gets exploited. But, you know, like, who knows? And to be honest, right? It's like in this type of market environment, it's really hard for me to share farming opportunities that isn't, you know, something like pool one, right? It's like ETHC, stablecoins, whatever, or something like. Like Mux LP GLP. And I know it gets repetitive, right? It's like, how many times can taki say, hey, try crypto GLP mux LP LP, right? But I still think that that's probably like the best way to be allocated into the markets right now just because, you know, like, I think we've seen most of the pain, right? If you think about the market outlook going back to bitcoin price, of course a bunch of coins are going down, right? It's kind of sad.
00:36:39.220 - 00:37:31.912, Speaker A: And you know, if you think about may seasonality, may typically has not been a good month for the markets. And even if it's like, I mean, I guess it went up only in 2019, but you know, macro conditions, et cetera. I think my base case is something like this where, you know, we've seen a fairly decent rally. I don't think we have to just like revisit like lows like this. I don't necessarily think that has to happen. I think my base case is that maybe we just range between thirty six k and like 24k, for example. I'm not, I'm not here to like make a prediction on like what happens to price, but generally I think something like this where for the rest of 23, just like, you know, maybe go down a little bit, go up a little bit, but like generally just be viewed as an accumulation year, then maybe into 2024, into the halving, maybe like something like this, and then you know, like the whole bitcoin there like takes over.
00:37:31.912 - 00:38:12.808, Speaker A: And in this period, I just think that it makes sense. Still pee. There's always recession fears, macro fears, crypto native fears, finance being sued, mount Gox selling digital currency group. What the hell is up with that? There's so many fun events. But if you think about it, when there's so much pain in 2022, that I think most of the pain is behind us, I think it's important to acknowledge that. And if that's my view, it's like, yes, the whole salmai go away thing is a concern, but I'm also not in this game to try to buy low, sell high, and do that over and over again. For me, I'm more of a farmer.
00:38:12.808 - 00:38:59.752, Speaker A: I just want exposure to the markets and just have a longer term approach to things. And my portfolio is structured like this where I have roughly 50% of my portfolio into lp tokens, 20% to 30% into longer term bets, 20% to 30% into short term trading stock and cash. And not gonna lie, like my longer term bets and I guess like my short term coins have nuked in price and I'm getting dumped on, right? You know, like, you know, typical techie. But you know, I still think that this type of mentality is good from a farming perspective. And you know, if you can earn yield while you're at it, like, might as well. So that's kind of my view. My video is kind of getting longer, but oh God, our team's getting really nuked anyways, right? That's kind of just something I want to talk about, I think.
00:38:59.752 - 00:39:25.236, Speaker A: Mux LP. Let's add this to like my list. Like the humble farmer army list of good lp farms. And you know, maybe, you know, the, if arbitram experiences some price appreciation, maybe we can see some fundamental improvements in this protocol. So thank you guys for watching and if you like the content, please like and subscribe. Check out the premium discord link is in the description below. Thank you guys for watching and see you guys later.
00:39:25.236 - 00:39:25.388, Speaker A: Bye.
