00:00:00.160 - 00:00:17.354, Speaker A: Thank you for the nice introduction, Lewis. Actually, I was also a postdoc at the fields briefly. So this is another homecoming in some sense. So this is all very nice. Yeah. So thanks first of all to the organizers for giving me the opportunity to speak at this very nice workshop. I have very much enjoyed the talk so far.
00:00:17.354 - 00:01:18.300, Speaker A: So, the topic of this talk is the global rigidity of periodic frameworks. And I would like to present some new results that I have obtained recently in joint work with Victoria Kasanytsky and Shabakirai. So they are both in Budapest. And in particular, I would like to present a combinatorial characterization of generic, globally rigid periodic body bar frameworks with a fixed lattice representation. So this is a periodic analog of the well known result of Bob Connolly, Thibault Jordan, and Walter Whiteley, who proved this combinatorial characterization of generic finite body bar frameworks some time ago. Okay, so here's, oops, I should be able to switch slides. Yes.
00:01:18.300 - 00:02:00.304, Speaker A: Okay, so here's my quick outline. I will start by reviewing the basic definitions of rigidity and global rigidity for periodic frameworks, and I will mention some of the key results in this area. And then I will mention the key result, really, that we found. So this result says that vertex redundant rigidity for generic periodic frameworks implies their global rigidity. So this is a periodic analog of a recent result of Shinichi Tanigawa, who proved this for finite frameworks. And this is a very useful observation. And we managed to adapt this to the periodic setting.
00:02:00.304 - 00:02:35.364, Speaker A: And this result allows us to obtain this combinatorial characterization of generic, globally rigid periodic bodybuilding frameworks very easily. Okay, so the real main result here is that the vertex regenerative rigidity for periodic frameworks implies the global rigidity. Okay, and then I will finish with some open problems in this year. Okay, so let me start with the background. So the starting point here is that we have a group. I will always call the group gamma, and it's isomorphic to z, to the k. So this is the periodicity here.
00:02:35.364 - 00:03:29.044, Speaker A: And then I would like to define this gamma label graph. This is the same as a gain graph as Daniel Bernstein and others. I think Derek and others have mentioned this before. So anyway, let me remind you of the definition here. So again, my label graph is just a pair of a finite directed multigraph g and a map psi that assigns elements of the group to the edges. And so this gamma label graph lifts in a natural way to a periodic graph, a k periodic graph. And so this gamma labeled graph really encodes this infinite periodic structure, as Daniel has already explained in his talk in particular here we assume that g has no parallel edges with the same label, because if we had those edges, they would lift.
00:03:29.044 - 00:04:23.878, Speaker A: Then to a periodic multigraph we don't want that, and we also don't want any loops in the gamma label graph. This is because when you lift, so to speak, the loop, then that gives you an edge that connects two vertices in the same vertex orbit. And we don't want that either, because we will look at periodic frameworks with a fixed lattice representation. And so there whenever you have an edge between two vertices in the same orbit, that distance is already automatically fixed by the fixed lattice. So a loop of this kind would be redundant and so we don't have enough. Okay, and so given such a gamma labeled graph, as I said, this lifts naturally to a k periodic graph. So we get the covering of this gamma label graph, which I call g tilde here.
00:04:23.878 - 00:04:48.924, Speaker A: And so you get detailed by setting up these infinite sets. And of course gamma here acts naturally on these sets. Okay, I will show you an example in just a minute. Before I do that, let me remind you of yet another important definition here for gamma label graphs. Again, this is something that Daniel also introduced. But let me remind you. Suppose you have a closed walk in the gamma label graph.
00:04:48.924 - 00:05:47.358, Speaker A: Then the gain of this walk you just obtain by taking the sum of all the group labels of these edges with a condition that when you walk ALong an edge backwards, then you have to take the negative or the inverse of that GROup laBel. And so this gives you a group element, the gain of this close walk. And for a given SUbgRAPH H of the gamma label graph, we can look at all closed walks and look at all their gains. And these generate a group, and the rank of this group is called the rank of this subgraph. So INTUItively, this rank of course tells you how the edges of this gamma label graph wrap around the fundamental cell of the lattice, so to speak. So if the rank is zero, you just have a finer piece SITting in the fundamental cell. If the rank is one, then it wraps around in one way and the rank is two, then wrapped around in two ways and so on.
00:05:47.358 - 00:06:14.824, Speaker A: So here's the example. On the right you see a gamma labeled graph, and on the left the corresponding periodic graph. In fact, here you have already Chosen positions for the vertices. So you see a gamma labeled framework on the right. So just a gamma layered graph together with the configuration. And on the left you see the covering. So this is an L periodic framework, g til the p till.
00:06:14.824 - 00:06:44.204, Speaker A: So here it is important to remember that the lattice will always be fixed in this talk. So here the lattice is given by these two vectors. The lattice should be non degenerate. So I call this non singular here. So this means that l of gamma has rank k. Remember, the underlying group here is z to the k, so this is k. And here k is actually at most d.
00:06:44.204 - 00:07:34.394, Speaker A: If k is equal to d, then this definition of a periodic framework that I give here is actually exactly the definition that was established by Cyprian Bozia and Ileana Strenu, who have done a lot of the fundamental work for analyzing the rigidity of periodic frameworks. Here we have just have a very minor extension of their definition. Namely, we allow this k here to also be less than d. So, for example, if you look at this periodic framework up here, we can think of it as lying in three dimensional space. So d would be three, even though it's only two periodic. So that the periodicity here only has rank two. Okay, so this is just a minor adjustment of the definition of border and strain.
00:07:34.394 - 00:08:37.403, Speaker A: Okay, so we have this periodic framework and the corresponding gabble enabled quotient framework, so to speak. How do we define periodic, local and global identity? Well, we do it exactly in the same way as we do for finite frameworks. So we say that two periodic frameworks, so letters l is always fixed, are equivalent if corresponding edge length are fixed. And of course they're congruent if all distances between any pair of vertices are fixed. And then we say that a periodic framework is rigid if in some open neighborhood of the configuration, every periodic framework that is equivalent to this, to this given framework, is also congruent to the original framework. And of course, it is globally rigid if this framework, GP here, is the only framework with a given edge length, right? So if every periodic framework that is equivalent to GP is in fact congruent to GPU. So these are very standard definitions.
00:08:37.403 - 00:09:09.788, Speaker A: For those of you who have not worked with periodic frameworks yet. Let me just show you a little example here. So here we have periodic framework in the plane with rank two periodicity. So the lattice here is just this square grid. The gamma labeled framework has just two vertices, so that is two vertex orbits. And you see the rank here of this gamma level graph is one. There's only one closed walk, and the gain here is non trivial.
00:09:09.788 - 00:09:53.484, Speaker A: It's around zero. And so you have rank two periodicity, but the gamma label graph only has rank one. So this means that you get these infinitely many strip frameworks here. So the strip framework somehow repeated periodically, infinitely often. And this framework is disconnected, of course, but it is still rigid. Okay, this may be a bit strange, but remember that whenever you have a vertex orbit, then, because the lattice is fixed, all the vertices in the same vertex orbit are actually implicitly joined with edges. And if you think of it that way, then I think it looks so strange anymore.
00:09:53.484 - 00:10:37.984, Speaker A: But this framework is not globally rigid. Okay, so clearly we can take each of these infinite strip frameworks here and we can just flip each of these strips in a periodic fashion. And that gives us an equivalent but of course non congruent realization because the lattice here, of course, is fixed. Okay, so I hope that makes sense. Feel free to of course, ask questions. I cannot see the chat, but Lewis said he will interrupt me if, if there are any questions there. Okay, so how do we analyze periodic, local and global rigidity? Well, we look at this gamma labeled graph and we do this standard thing.
00:10:37.984 - 00:11:34.944, Speaker A: We look at the squared edge length function, so, which I call here the rigidity map. So here this map just takes any configuration of the vertices of this gamma label graph and maps it to the length of the edges. And of course we can also look at the rigidity map for the complete gamma label graph on the vertex set v. So this is the ligidity map that I did note here by fvl, v is just the underlying vertex set. What is the complete gamma level graph? Well, here you have that vertex set v and you put all possible edges among these vertices v. So all edges of the form u v, where u and v are vertices in the set and all possible group labels. Okay? And then we can easily see that the following proposition is true.
00:11:34.944 - 00:12:32.464, Speaker A: So if you have a periodic framework and it's a quotient gamma label framework, then this periodic framework is globally rigid. If and only if, for every configuration q of the vertices in the gamma labeled framework, we have this implication here, right? So if corresponding edge length in this coarser structure are the same, then actually all the, all the distances are the same. Okay? So and of course similarly for local rigidity that this holds. This proposition follows immediately from the definition of periodicity. Okay? So we can just analyze the quotient gamma label framework rather than the lifting or the covering, okay? And in fact we can then define this gamma labeled framework cheap. So IP as globally rigid if. Well, for every configuration queue here, right, we have, we have this implication.
00:12:32.464 - 00:13:16.506, Speaker A: Okay, this is fairly standard, I think. Let me now review some basic results in the area of periodic, local and global rigidity. And I will particularly focus on generic results. So, combinatorial characterizations. And let me here start with local rigidity. So, first of all, because we're interested in, well, combinatorial results, let me first introduce the basic notion of genericity. So, gamma labeled framework is called generic if the set of coordinates are algebraically independent over the rationals, and of course, an l periodic framework.
00:13:16.506 - 00:14:17.472, Speaker A: So the covering of the gamma label framework is generic. If the corresponding and quotient framework is generic, then we have the first basic result, which was approved by Elissa Ross, and this was slightly extended by myself and Victoria and Shinichi. So, this theorem says that if you have a gamma labeled framework that is generic and it has not too few vertices, then this framework is rigid, so locally rigid, if and only if the rank of this rigidity map that we just looked at on the previous slide is equal to this number. So, Elisa actually proved this in the case where k is equal to d. So whether the rank of the periodicity k is equal to the dimension. In that case, of course, if d is equal to k, then this binomial coefficient here vanishes. And so we get this top count here of dv minus d.
00:14:17.472 - 00:15:15.198, Speaker A: And of course, that's exactly the count you would expect, because for a periodic framework with a fixed lattice, the trivial motions is a d dimensional space, right? So it's d translations. And so here, we just slightly extended this to the case where k can be less than d, and if k is much less than d, then there are some additional rotations coming back as trivial motions. Okay? So that is quite straightforward. I should say here that, um, for this particular theorem, we don't need the strong notion of genericity that I defined up here. So here it would be sufficient to assume that the configuration here is just a regular point of this rigidity map. So it has max, this jacobian here has maximum rank, because this theorem is proved by adapting the method of Asimov and Roth. But later, we will, of course, focus on global rigidity, and there we will need this stronger notion of genericity.
00:15:15.198 - 00:15:58.788, Speaker A: So let me, let me go with that. Okay, another little remark here. So, this jacobian of this rigidity map is, of course, the periodic rigidity matrix here for frameworks on a fixed lattice. This rigidity matrix is actually a specialization of the rigidity matrix that was established by Cyprian and Ileana some time ago, who established rigidity matrix for periodic frameworks and the flexible letters. So there you have additional columns that correspond to the additional flexibility of the lattice. So here, when we fix the lattice, of course, our matrix becomes simpler so we have a special case of their matrix, if you like. Okay.
00:15:58.788 - 00:16:51.494, Speaker A: And so, using this, Elissa gave Laman type, or pelagic Geiringer type result for periodic frameworks in the plane, again with a lattice fixed. So she showed that generic periodic framework in the plane is rigid if and only if the corresponding quotient graph contains a spanning subgraph that satisfies these conditions. Okay? So we need the top count, two v minus two. That's clear. And then we have these sparsity conditions here that split into two parts. So if you have a subgraph of the quotient graph that is of rank zero. Right? So this means that this graph doesn't wrap around at all around the fundamental cell, then really you have to apply the standard Laman type sub graph count.
00:16:51.494 - 00:17:20.526, Speaker A: But otherwise, of course, you use this adapted periodic count. Okay. Also, of course, you can look at this more generally when you allow the latter to flex. So this makes the problem more difficult. But here we also have a Laman type theorem. This was established by Justin Meyerstein and Lewis Ferrand again some time ago. Okay, let's go back to the fixed letters.
00:17:20.526 - 00:18:13.524, Speaker A: So, what can we say about higher dimensions? Of course, we have necessary maximal type counts, right? So we have the top count equal to dv minus d if the periodicity has a rank equal to the dimension. And you can easily establish subgraph counts similarly to the conditions here. But we do not, of course, have necessary and sufficient conditions because, well, this problem of characterizing generic rigidity in dimensions, at least three is open, of course, for finite frameworks. So it's also open for us, periodic. Okay, one side comment here. So, we do actually have very nice results if we change our problem a little bit. So, if we're only interested in finding rigid periodic frameworks for some labeling of the edges.
00:18:13.524 - 00:18:49.906, Speaker A: So, if we omit the labels of the quotient graph or the gamma label graph from the input, then actually we have complete combinatorial characterizations for generic rigidity in all dimensions. So, this was done for the fixed letters quite some time ago by Walter Whiteley, and it was done for the flexible letters, again, by Cyprian and Ilya. But I do not want to focus on this here in this talk. So, in our talk, or starting structure, is always a gamma labeled framework. So where we have labels, group labels on the edges. Okay. Okay.
00:18:49.930 - 00:18:58.534, Speaker B: So, Bern, there's something in the chat. So, Jim asks, in the definition of genericity for periodic frameworks, does the lattice play a role? It's a good question.
00:19:01.714 - 00:19:16.954, Speaker A: No. So, basically, here we only need the configuration, but we want the lattice to be non degenerate. So we want it to be a full rank, so to speak. If you. I think if you consider flexible lattice, then you have to be more careful.
00:19:18.294 - 00:19:26.834, Speaker B: Sure. I mean, but in your setup, if you make an affine transformation of the whole picture, including your fixed lattice, do you preserve the interesting properties?
00:19:33.254 - 00:20:15.804, Speaker A: I think it's okay. With a fixed lattice, does the lattice have to be generic? I think for the fixed letters, it only has to be non singular, so non degenerate. Okay, I have to think about this. So, if it's similar to the global rigidity you did with periodic stuff, I think your assumption here would be that the. You're generic with respect to the rationals, the field with the rationals and the coefficients of the lattice. Right.
00:20:16.544 - 00:20:25.704, Speaker B: So in flexible lattice, it absolutely needs to be because you have affine invariants of the rigidity matrix rank, but not necessarily of global rigidity properties, just like finitely.
00:20:25.864 - 00:20:43.460, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah. So maybe you're assuming here that the lattice coefficients are rational or something. Yeah, there's all. There may also be a difference between, you know, whether you consider global or local rigidity. Yeah. Okay. I would have to check.
00:20:43.460 - 00:20:54.344, Speaker A: I think. Yeah, I thought that for local agility. Actually, it's okay. It doesn't matter. But I'm not. I'm not 100% sure. Yeah.
00:20:54.344 - 00:21:07.524, Speaker A: Well, yeah. So for the flexible letters you needed for global digility, it may also be a different story. Anyway, I should check. Thank you for the question. Does anyone else know? On the call.
00:21:11.904 - 00:21:19.404, Speaker B: Okay, so Jim says, thanks. He's simulating a student, I think, and not demuting himself.
00:21:20.144 - 00:21:35.464, Speaker A: Okay, well, thanks for asking. My microphone. My microphone is working now. Sorry, it wasn't working there. I was. I was desperately trying to talk, but. Okay.
00:21:35.464 - 00:22:30.438, Speaker A: Right. So we were talking about local agility still. So, what can we say about local agility and higher dimensions? So, as we all know, so, for the finite case, if we consider higher dimensions, then so dimensions, at least three, then we do not have a combinatorial characterization of generic fluidity. But of course, we have essentially complete combinatorial theory for special types of frameworks, namely body bound frameworks and body hinge frameworks and molecular frameworks. And all these frameworks, of course, play an important role in applications. Now, in the periodic case, the situation is not quite so nice, but we do have a complete combinatorial characterization for rigidity of periodic frameworks, of periodic body bar frameworks. So we don't know if this extends to body hinge and molecular and so on.
00:22:30.438 - 00:23:29.482, Speaker A: But we do have a nice characterization for body bar, and this is the result of Shinichi I would like to mention, because later we will talk about global dignity of body bar frameworks. So what is a body bar framework? Most of you probably know this. So it's just a collection of rigid bodies and they are connected by bars pairwise. And so the underlying combinatorial structure here is a multigraph, as you can see on the left, where every vertex corresponds to a full dimensional body. And whenever you have such a body, we can model it as a bar joint framework. Just take a complete framework basically. And the way we do this here is that whenever two bodies are connected by, let's say by an edge, so let's say you have bodies u and v and it's connected by an edge, then we create a new vertex for body u and a new vertex for body v, and then join these vertices here by this edge.
00:23:29.482 - 00:24:04.084, Speaker A: So by doing that we ensure that all these edges connecting the bodies are actually destroyed so they don't share any vertices. Okay, so this is a model of a body bar framework. We can use exactly the same model to model a periodic body bar framework. So here, rather than starting with a multigraph, we start with a gamma labeled multigraph, so to speak. Okay, so here we have a gamma labeled graph. It is allowed to have loops as long as it has a non trivial group label. And it is also allowed to have parallel edges with equal labels.
00:24:04.084 - 00:25:11.394, Speaker A: And that then lifts, of course, to a periodic multigraph that has no loops, but it may have parallel edges. So this multigraph looks exactly like this graph here on the left, except that now it is periodic. And then we can do exactly this type of construction here to model our periodic body bar framework. There's only one slight technical thing. So if you have two bodies, let's say that in the same body orbit and they are connected by an edge, then you do not want to just put a single vertex here and connect it with its copy under the periodicity, because then you actually get, well, two vertices in the same vertex orbit that are joined by an edge. And remember, because the lattice is fixed, this would be a redundant edge, this distance would already be fixed by the lattice. So rather than doing this, if you have two bodies that are connected by an edge, you would create two vertices on each body and whoops.
00:25:11.394 - 00:25:53.246, Speaker A: And you would actually add an edge of this form. Okay? So you avoid actually having these redundant edges. Okay? But this is just a little technical point. So otherwise you can construct body bar frameworks in the periodic case, exactly as we do in the finite case. Okay? And here's the result of shinichi. So Shinichi proved that if you have a generic body bar framework that is periodic, then it is rigid, so locally rigid in r to the d if and only if the corresponding quotient graph has a spanning subgraph that satisfies these counts. And again, these are the natural counts here.
00:25:53.246 - 00:26:33.134, Speaker A: Really? So notice that if d is equal to k, then again this disappears and you get this d plus one, which is two times v minus d count, which you would expect. And of course, similarly for the subgraph counts. I should mention here that the special case of this theorem for d equals three was actually proved by ElisA. But then it was Shinichi who was able to extend this to all dimensions. So this is nice, this is a nice result in higher dimensions for periodic local rigidity, unlike the finite framework case. This is unclear whether this extends to body henchmen molecular frameworks. So these are still open problems.
00:26:33.134 - 00:27:15.294, Speaker A: And we also don't have any extensions of this result yet for periodic frameworks with flexible lattices. So that lets lots of open. The question still, what we do have, again, this is a side comment here, I guess, is a complete characterization in the case where we again omit the labels, the group labels of the edges. Okay? So if you just want to find a rigid periodic framework for some labeling of the edges of the quotient graph, then there is a characterization for generic agility of bodybuilder frameworks for the flexible letters in all dimensions. And this was done by Cyprian, Ileana and Shinichi. Okay. But again, this is not the setting we're looking at in this talk.
00:27:15.294 - 00:28:20.210, Speaker A: Okay, what do we know about periodic global rigidity? Well, actually, not so much. So, problems in this area of periodic global rigidity seemed basically out of reach for quite some time, and no results were obtained, at least on the generic level or the combinatorial characterization level, until a couple of years ago or so. And what changed a couple of years ago was that Shinichi again was able to obtain some new tools for analyzing the global rigidity of finite frameworks. And these tools are very useful. And these were able to adapt to the periodic setting to actually attack some of these combinatorial problems in periodic global litigation. So let me tell you what we do know. So what we have is an analogue of the well known result of Bill Jackson and T.
00:28:20.210 - 00:29:00.974, Speaker A: Bar Jordan, who gave a combinatorial characterization of global rigidity of finite graphs in the plane. And so here are the periodic analogs of the theorem. So there are two theorems here, because the first one deals with a case where the rank of the periodicity is one. So it's only periodic in one direction, even though the framework is in the plane. And the second result is where the periodicity has rank two. And the conditions you see here in these characterizations are not very surprising. So they are sort of the periodic analogs of the Hendrickson conditions that you also see in the result of Bill and T born.
00:29:00.974 - 00:29:38.700, Speaker A: So in particular, you see that redundant rigidity. Periodic rigidity is a condition. So this means that if you remove any orbit of bars, of course the framework stays rigid. So this appears. And then also we, of course, have some connectivity conditions which disallow sort of local reflections of the framework. And these connectivity conditions are a little bit complicated. Let me maybe just focus on the case here where the periodicity has rank two, which is probably the more interesting case.
00:29:38.700 - 00:30:48.454, Speaker A: And let me give you a feel why we have these conditions here without actually formally defining these notions. So the conditions in this case will mean dimension two and have rank two periodicity, as follows. So the framework is globally rigid generically, if and only if the quotient graph is connected, but it can have cut vertices. But if we look at each two connected component, so to speak, then it must be redundantly rigid, and we have two additional connectivity conditions. The first one is that the rank of this quotient graph of this component must be two, so must have full rank, and we do not want to have any zero two block. So again, I don't want to define this formally. Informally speaking, a zero two block is just a subgraph of this gamma labeled graph that has rank zero, and it is separated from the rest by vertex cut of size two.
00:30:48.454 - 00:31:29.198, Speaker A: And let me show you some pictures that I think make it perfectly clear why we need these connectivity conditions for global rigidity. For example, if you have a zero two block, and you can see this here in the quotient graph on the right, as this graph here with the dashed edges. Right. So here, if you look, look at these four dashed edges, then they all have group label identity. And so the rank here is zeros. And we see that this dashed part here is separated from the rest of the graph by these two vertices. So this is a zero two block.
00:31:29.198 - 00:32:41.810, Speaker A: Why do we not want to have that if we want to have global rigidity? Well, this rank zero part here will lift, or will correspond in the covering to just a finite piece that is just repeated infinitely many times. And of course, because it's separated from the rest of the structure by these two vertices here, we can just reflect each of these infinitely many finite pieces locally to get another equivalent but non congruent realization. This is a very natural connectivity condition. We also don't want to have any component, two connected component which has rank one. You see, again here, this dashed part, you can see that the rank here is one because of this walk up here, and it's separated from the rest by this cut vertex here. Again, this is bad, because the cut vertex will lift to a line of vertices here, where you can reflect this dashed part which lifts through this strip framework. This strip framework corresponding to this rank one subgraph can be reflected in this line generated by this cut vertex.
00:32:41.810 - 00:33:29.568, Speaker A: And of course, you can do this periodically across the framework to get an equivalent but non congruent framework. These are the cut conditions. I will not give you the proof of these combinatorial characterizations. It's a complicated proof, and I have talked about this before, but I wanted to mention this recent result. Okay, what else do we know about global periodic rigidity? Well, what do we know in higher dimensions? So if d is at least three, we still have a necessary condition. In fact, this is one of Hendrickson's conditions. So if you have generic periodic framework, and the framework has not too many vertex orbits.
00:33:29.568 - 00:34:16.970, Speaker A: So if the quotient gamma label graph has this condition here for the number of vertices, then if the framework is globally rigid, then it must be redundantly rigid. So this is an extension of, of Hendrickson's result to this periodic case in all dimensions. So this is one result, combinatorial characterizations. Of course, in dimensions d, at least three are still open because, of course, again, they're also open for finite frameworks. But, and so this is the latest result that we have here. We do have complete characterization now for periodic body bar frameworks in all dimensions. And so this is the main result here.
00:34:16.970 - 00:35:07.034, Speaker A: So with Victoria and Java, we proved that if you have a generic periodic body bar framework, then it is globally rigid if and only if it is bar, redundantly rigid. So if and only if it is redundantly rigid. And there's one small additional condition. The quotient gamma label graph must be of rank d if k is equal to d. So if the periodicity is, has the rank equal to the dimension, then we need this small extra condition. But otherwise, the condition, the key condition here really is the bar redundancy, as is the case for finite frameworks. Okay, so this is a complete analog of the result of Bob T bor and Walt in the final case, notice, of course.
00:35:07.034 - 00:36:06.674, Speaker A: So we need this extra small condition here about the rank, because if the rank of the quotient graph is less than the periodicity, then you get these infinitely many subframeworks that are all disconnected. And of course you can flip all of them to get a non congruent equivalent realization. And they can still be vertex, they can still be locally rigid, okay, so they could be rigid. In particular, if, however, so k is less than d and the rank of the quotient graph is also less than k, then you can also not be globally rigid, but you can also not be the bar redundantly rigid. So in that case, you really only need the bar redundant rigidity condition. Okay? So it's only in the case where k is equal to d that we have to make this small extra condition. Okay? So I would like to prove, at least sketch a proof of this result.
00:36:06.674 - 00:37:05.032, Speaker A: And the way we proved it is different from t boy and Walter. So instead, we used an idea that Shinichi came up with recently, who observed that vertex return on rigidity implies global digitity generically in all dimensions for finite frameworks. And so our idea was to adapt that result to the periodic setting and then use that to prove this result about periodic body bar frameworks. So let me explain this result, and this really is the main result, because the result about body bar frameworks follows as a simple corollary of this, of this vertex redundant rigidity result. Okay, so let me talk about that a little bit. So, first of all, the definition, of course, is exactly the one you would have guessed. So, gamma labeled framework is l periodically vertex redundantly rigid.
00:37:05.032 - 00:38:11.082, Speaker A: So this is a bit of a mouthful. So let me just say it's vertex redundantly rigid if for every vertex, of course, the graph g minus v is, is still rigid, okay? So if you remove any vertex orbit, then the periodic framework still stays rigid. And the main result is that if you have a generic framework and it is vertex redundantly rigid, and also if the gamma label graph has full rank, if k is equal to d, then this framework is globally limited. Okay? So we use a proof that is very similar to Shinichi's proof. But there are some added difficulties that we have overcome, have to overcome here in this periodic setting in particular. So in the finite case, it is basically trivial that if you have small rigid graphs, then they are globally rigid. Because if the graphs are small enough and rigid, then basically you have complete graphs, and complete graphs are globally rigid.
00:38:11.082 - 00:38:43.844, Speaker A: By definition. In the periodic case, we still need a result like that. So we still need a result for our proof that says that if you have a small periodic rigid graph, then it also should be globally rigid. And in the periodic setting, this is actually no longer trivial. So you have to do a little bit of work there, and I will explain what we did to overcome this difficulty. And then there's a second issue. So Shinichi's proof actually uses the fact that global rigidity for finite graphs is a generic property.
00:38:43.844 - 00:39:23.584, Speaker A: So all generic realizations of a graph are globally rigid, or none of them are. And we don't know if this is actually also true in the periodic setting. So at the moment, it is not clear whether periodic global rigidity is a generic property. There's actually ongoing work with Shinichi and Lewis on this, but so far, this is still not known. It was certainly not known when we proved this result. Okay, so let me first explain how we overcome the difficulty of dealing with small graphs. So, we want to show that graphs with few vertices are, if they are rigid, are globally rigid.
00:39:23.584 - 00:40:01.074, Speaker A: And the key idea here is to extend a result of the best second and come. Okay, so, result that they used in their proof of the Kinesa powels conjecture. And the key lemma here is the following. So this looks a little bit complicated and technical, but it's really not that difficult. So let me just explain a little bit what's going on here. So, rather than you reading the whole statement in detail. So the starting point here is that we have two periodic point configurations in R to the D.
00:40:01.074 - 00:40:51.194, Speaker A: And because we have point configurations, we can just model this as periodic frameworks with no edges. So you just have these periodic point configurations in R to the D. Then there exists a continuous deformation, which I call here P bar, that takes the configuration p to configuration q. But this deformation is not an RD, but an two reals times d. We double the dimension here, and we can then go from p to q, p to q using this continuous deformation. And as we do that, the periodicity conditions are maintained. So I just added here these zeros here, because now we have doubled the dimension.
00:40:51.194 - 00:41:30.866, Speaker A: So we just fill up the lattice vectors here with these zeros. And importantly, all these distances between the points actually change in a monotone fashion. Okay, so this is the key lemma. The proof of this lemma is similar to the one that Bestik and Connolly gave in their paper, but of course, it has to be adapted to the periodic setting. But this is a fairly straightforward. So how do we use this lemma to show that small, rigid periodic graphs are globally rigid? Well, we do this in two steps. So first of all, a simple consequence of this lemma is this theorem.
00:41:30.866 - 00:42:28.354, Speaker A: So if you have a framework that is not periodically globally rigid, then it is locally flexible in r to the 2d if you double the dimension. Okay, so the proof is very simple. So if you have a periodic framework that is not globally rigid, then of course you have two equivalent but not congruent realizations. So let's say q and p. But then by the previous lemma, we know there exists a deformation that takes p to q in r to the it maintains the lattice, right? And because p and q are equivalent, and because this continuous deformation in r to the 2d has this monotonicity property for the distances, well, all the edge length, of course must be maintained. Okay? So this of course gives you the result. Okay, this is very simple.
00:42:28.354 - 00:43:41.144, Speaker A: And then we get a simple corollary from that, which is the one we want. Namely, if you have a periodic framework that has very few vertex orbits, so the number of vertices in the gamma label graph is at most d minus k plus one, then if it's rigid, then it's globally rigid. Okay, proof again is very short. So we just use the previous result here. So if you take any d capital d that is at least as big as the current dimension d, and you look at any periodic framework in r to the capital d here, what can we say about the affine space, affine span of the, of the points of this, of this framework? Well, we look at the vertex representatives, right? Of course there are v of g of them, and so they can span an affine space of at most number of vertices minus one. And then the framework is k periodic. So the lifting the covering framework can, has the property that the points span an affine space of dimension at most v minus one plus k.
00:43:41.144 - 00:44:22.986, Speaker A: Okay, that is simple. And our assumption here is that v plus k minus one is small, right? So it's at most d. Okay? So any periodic framework here with few vertices has this property that the affine span of these points here of the framework has dimension at most d. But now we are basically done, right? So if the framework is not globally rigid, then by above we have this continuous deformation in r to the 2d. Right. But all our frameworks have affine span for the points at most d. And our assumption was that the framework is written in r to the d, so this is not possible.
00:44:22.986 - 00:45:10.912, Speaker A: So such a deformation cannot exist. So this is our trick here to deal with this problem, to show that small rigid graphs are in fact globally rigid. Okay, so the second difficulty to overcome here is that we don't know whether global rigidity is a generic property for periodic frameworks. And here's the key lemma to work around this issue. This is actually a lemma that, or a version of a lemma that was in the previous paper with Victoria and Cenichi. So the lemma says the following. Well, I need to one little definition to state the lemma.
00:45:10.912 - 00:46:02.924, Speaker A: So if you have your, your gamma label graph and you have vertex oops, have a vertex v, let's say, then we can form, so this is my graph g, let's say g psi, this is my gamma level graph. Here's v. Then we can form this new gamma labeled graph, which is gv. And we obtain gv by taking any pair of edges that leave v, two vertices u and w, let's say, and just put in the edge from, sorry, v is gone. So let me draw it here. So we only have the neighbors left. If any pair of edges that leave v, we just put in the edge here between the neighbors.
00:46:02.924 - 00:47:03.464, Speaker A: When we do that, we just have to be careful that the label we give to this new edge, let's say this one here must be such that when you look at this triangle here, so this triangle consisting of the two original edges with this new edge, then this must be of rank zero, okay. Otherwise, yeah, so this is the only condition. You just add these edges between neighbors of v. Of course, here could be parallel edges. So if you have two parallel edges and a single edge, then in this gv you would have two parallel edges with the corresponding edge. Okay, so what does the lemma say? The lemma says that if you have a generic framework with at least this many vertices, and you have a vertex that is of degree, at least d plus one, and the neighbors of that vertex, this is important. They span the whole space r to the d in the lifting in the periodic framework.
00:47:03.464 - 00:47:56.132, Speaker A: And if the following two conditions are true, then we can guarantee that g is globally rooted. So we need the conditions that g minus v. So the graph that you obtained by just removing v without doing anything else, that must be rigid and gv. This is this new graph that I just explained where we add the edges among the neighbors that must be globally rigid. So if that's the case, add the neighbors, span the whole space, then g is globally rigid. So you can think of this as an extension of, or a stronger version of the one extension result, where we have the statement that one extension preserves global rigidity for finer frameworks, right? Because we have a weaker condition in some sense. Okay, so this is the key algebraic ingredient here.
00:47:56.132 - 00:48:28.654, Speaker A: And again, I will not prove this lemma. It's not so easy to prove. But let's, let's just take that lemma and the previous result on small graphs to actually sketch a proof of the main result. So here's the main result again. So we have a generic framework, periodic, and we assume its vertex redundantly rigid. And also, if k is equal to d, then it's the quotient graph is a full rank, then the graph is globally rooted. Okay, so let me sketch a proof of this.
00:48:28.654 - 00:49:01.414, Speaker A: The proof is not so easy, but I will sketch it on two or three slides or so. So the proof is by induction on the number of vertex orbits. If the number of vertex orbits is small, then, well, we have just seen that, well, if the graph is rigid, then it's globally rigid. And of course, our assumption here is that the graph is vertex redundantly rigid. So in particular it's rigid. And therefore, immediately, by our previous corollary, it is globally rigid. So there's nothing to do.
00:49:01.414 - 00:50:06.514, Speaker A: So what if the number of vertices in the gamma label graph is d minus k plus two? So still small, but not extremely small. Then if you remove a vertex, then again, we have this count, v minus k plus one. And, well, since we know by assumption that g minus v is locally rigid, right, by our corollary about small graphs, we know it's globally rigid. Okay? But if g minus v is globally rigid, then of course, this graph gv that I just tried to explain, where we add edges between the neighbors of v, then it's also globally rigid. Right? So we have the gv is globally rigid, g minus v is locally rigid. And so if all the neighbors of v, f span the whole space, then we can just use this geometric lemma from just now to complete the proof. Okay, so the key remaining ingredient that we need to apply that lemma is to show that all the neighbors of v actually span the whole space, f.
00:50:06.514 - 00:50:46.180, Speaker A: And then the lemma will give us the result. So why is that true? Why do the neighbors of v span the whole space? So there are two cases. First case is very easy. So if d is equal to k, remember, the number of vertices in our gamma label graph is this number. So if d is equal to k, then we only have two vertex orbits. So two vertices in the gamma label graph, but the rank is d, right? So that means that actually we have d plus one parallel edges. And so therefore, because of genericity, all the neighbors will span r to the d so this is the simple case.
00:50:46.180 - 00:51:51.274, Speaker A: If d is larger than k, then we have more than two vertex orbits. Okay? Again, we want to show that the neighbors of v, f I span all of r to the d. Suppose this is not the case. So if the neighbors only spend r to the d minus one, well, then let's remove the neighbor of v, let's say w. Okay? Then what can we say? So the remaining neighbors, other than w, must span a space of dimension at most d minus two. Because if they span the space of dimension d minus one, then together with w, w must also be in that d minus one dimensional space by assumption, because our claim is false that we would have a violation of genericity, right? So the neighbors, except w, must span a space of dimension d minus two by genericity. But this means, of course, that we can now rotate this p of v around this d minus two dimensional space, okay? Spanned by the, by all the neighbors except w.
00:51:51.274 - 00:52:39.974, Speaker A: But this, of course, is a contradiction to our vertex redundant rigidity. Okay, you can easily see that the space of non moving points is actually of dimension d minus one, at least. So this is a non trivial motion that we get here by rotating p of v around all its neighbors except a w. And of course, v minus w is by assumption, rigid. But here we have a non triggered deformation, okay? And the final case is that we have a large number of vertex orbits, so v is at least larger than b minus k plus two. In this case, the key claim is that, well, the framework is. So the framework gv is vertex redundantly rigid.
00:52:39.974 - 00:53:13.904, Speaker A: So if we can show that, then by the induction hypothesis, Gv is globally rigid. By assumption, g minus v is rigid. The rank of Gv is the same as g by definition of Gv. So all the conditions of this geometric lemma are satisfied, and we complete the proof. Okay? So the only remaining claim here is that Gv is. Is actually vertex redundantly rigid, okay? And this we can prove very easily. So this is the last slide of this proof sketch.
00:53:13.904 - 00:54:03.944, Speaker A: So here's again the claim. So this Gv here is vertex predominantly rigid for any v. Well, if it's not true, then of course, there's a vertex whose removal gives you a flexible framework. But now if you look at the lifting, so at the periodic covering, if you like, and we look at one occurrence of v, then the neighbors of v in this graph Gv, form a complete subgraph. This is, by definition of Gv. We have added all the edges among the neighbors of v, and, of course, vertices in the same vertex orbit collected automatically because of a fixed lattice. So that means that if we add v to gv minus u, then it's still flexible because the neighbors of v here already form a complete graph.
00:54:03.944 - 00:54:48.274, Speaker A: Okay, but this is a contradiction because, of course, g minus u is a rigid spanning subgraph of gv minus u plus v. Okay, so this gives you then the contradiction. Okay, so this is the sketch of this somewhat technical proof, but this is the main result. Right? So, vertex to downward agility implies global digility for periodic frameworks in all dimensions. And with this, we can now give our combinatorial characterization of periodic, globally rigid bodybuilder frameworks. Okay, so this is again the result we looked at earlier. So, a periodic, globally rigid generic bodybuilder framework.
00:54:48.274 - 00:55:26.984, Speaker A: So sorry, a periodic generic framework. Bar framework is globally rigid if and only if. Well, it is redundantly rigid. And we have this extra condition that the rank of the quotient graph is d if k is equal to d. So how does that follow? Well, we already know that bar redundant rigidity is a necessary condition for global rigidity. It's also clear that if k is equal to d, then the rank of the, of the quotient graph must be all of d. Otherwise it cannot be globally rigid because you can flip all these infinitely many components in a periodic way.
00:55:26.984 - 00:56:14.134, Speaker A: And if the framework is bar redundantly rigid, then it is also vertex redundantly rigid, because all the bars connecting bodies are actually destroyed by our model of a body bar framework. So bar redundant rigidity implies vertex redundant rigidity. But we have just shown that vertex redundant litigity, of course, implies global litigation. So this is the end of the proof of this characterization. Okay, I want to finish just by giving some tables of our current knowledge as far as combinatorial periodic rigidity is concerned. So here you see two columns or three columns. The last two columns here are the fixed and the flexible letters.
00:56:14.134 - 00:57:01.468, Speaker A: And in the first column here, you have the different structures and dimensions. So let's first look at the first table, where we consider local virginity. So if you're in the plane, then we have full combinatorial characterizations for the fixed and the flexible lattice established by Elissa and Justin and Lewis. Of course, for bar joint frameworks in higher dimensions, this is open. These, of course, are very challenging problems for body bar frameworks with a fixed lattice. Shinichi has the complete characterization, but all the other entries here, as you can see, are still open. So I think there's a lot of interesting work that can still be done here, and interesting work, I think, with important practical applications as well, and for global rigidity.
00:57:01.468 - 00:57:27.814, Speaker A: So we just started to fill in this table. So I mentioned the result for d equals two. So this is for the fixed letters. This is the analogue of Bill's and T boy's theorem for finite frameworks. And again, for the flexible letters, this is open. For higher dimensions, this is open. And the latest result that I presented here is the characterization for body bar frameworks in all dimensions with fixed letters.
00:57:27.814 - 00:57:34.394, Speaker A: But, yeah, lots of further work to be done. Thank you.
00:57:37.054 - 00:57:58.354, Speaker B: So, thank you, Bart, for the really interesting talk and the very nice result. So I guess at this point, I will throw it open for questions. So you have the standard two modalities, which is just demuting yourself and asking, or you can type it in the chat and I'll read it out.
00:58:00.354 - 00:59:10.934, Speaker A: I have a question. What happens if you allow yourself, for a given configuration, to use stress matrices for bar and joint periodic frameworks like you can for the non periodic case? Yeah, exactly. Thanks, Bob. So previously we did not have this tool of periodic stress matrices, but there's ongoing work with Celici and Lewis originating from the recent meeting in California where we establish stress matrices for periodic frameworks both for the fixed lattice and for the flexible lattice. And so this gives us, of course, a new tool, and we're trying to use it to establish various statements about global agility of periodic bar joint frameworks and 10 seconds. But at the time of writing this paper that I reported on, we did not have this tool of periodic stress. But it wouldn't give a combinatorial characterization.
00:59:10.934 - 00:59:50.842, Speaker A: But for a fixed, say, generic configuration, you don't know whether or not you can tell, is that right? Yeah, but we can extend basically your results. So with a periodic stress matrix, we can say if it has, you know, a certain maximum rank, then the framework is globally rigid. Right. So these sort of results are the ones we extend. And of course, we're also trying to extend the result of Shlomo and Healy and Thurston and try to prove the other direction. Yeah, so we would have you. So I think we.
00:59:50.842 - 01:00:07.534, Speaker A: I think we can prove there's some details to be worked out. I think we can prove that indeed, global rigidity is a generic property using these, using these tools. But, yeah, it should be a little. So we are writing this up at the moment, but it's not completely finished.
01:00:09.394 - 01:00:53.574, Speaker B: I mean, also, Bob, I guess maybe other people. So to my eyes, like, somehow the flexible setup is more natural for stress matrices because they encapsulate a certain kind of affine invariance which like the fixed lattice type setups don't have. And so in some sense, like in some sense in his setup, his tools are sort of better adapted specifically to that one. Right. But if you look more generally, then the kind of stress matrix techniques have a more natural emergence in the periodic case too. Right?
01:00:54.754 - 01:00:58.866, Speaker A: You're saying it's more natural if you allow the lattice to change.
01:00:59.050 - 01:01:18.400, Speaker B: Yeah, yeah, I mean, because, well, I mean I learned from you. And the sort of importance of Maxwell stress matrices is that they fix some sort of affine structure. Yeah, right. Um. But like, but fixed lattice rigidity doesn't really have affine invariance. You can't even rotate. Right.
01:01:18.400 - 01:01:23.324, Speaker B: So, so it doesn't even have like full on euclidean invariance. So, um.
01:01:23.944 - 01:01:24.456, Speaker A: Yeah, right.
01:01:24.480 - 01:01:27.164, Speaker B: So, so somehow it fits together. Not in as nice of a way.
01:01:28.304 - 01:01:49.594, Speaker A: True. Well, of course the fixed lattice is easier to handle. The combinatoric factor as actually the proof is very difficult. So it's of course an extension of part. But. Okay, we need this extra lemma that I presented, basically. So there's a lot of things going into that.
