00:00:00.520 - 00:00:45.956, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Way refuel where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Susano and today's the 9 April 2021. Alright everyone, let's get right into it. So I think the biggest announcement from the last 24 hours was the fact that Christie's auction house, the, the kind of auction house that ran the auction for Beeple's, you know, famous 5000 days piece which went for obviously almost $70 million, they announced today that they are going to be auctioning off a set of nine rare crypto punks from lava Labs, his own collection. Now for those who don't know, Lava labs, the original creators of crypto punks, and they have their own kind of collection here. So you can see them in the picture here of which ones they're going to be auctioning off. One of them includes an alien crypto punk.
00:00:45.956 - 00:01:50.430, Speaker A: So one of the rarest crypto punks out there and then a bunch of other ones with unique traits here, which, I mean this is huge, right? Like to see some place like Christie's auctioning off crypto punks and kind of like I guess becoming more and more involved with the NFT ecosystem is a huge validation for both, I guess the NFT space, but also, you know, specifically with the, with the auction here with crypto punks, it just validates crypto punks as something that has lasting kind of, I guess like power here, right? Has, has a kind of lasting value. And you know, after this was announced, the, the kind of crypto punk floor went from like, I think it was thirty two thousand dollars to forty thousand dollars in like a couple of hours. Now what the crypto punk floor means is that the cheapest crypto punk you can buy. So there's usually like a floor price that moves either up or down depending on kind of people's appetite for the most common crypto punks and obviously the least valuable ones. So the floor, as I said, was at 32,000 and last time I checked it was around 40,000. I think it's been at 40,000 before and maybe a bit above that, but it's going to be curious to see if it keeps going up. Right.
00:01:50.430 - 00:02:31.964, Speaker A: I think these, this auction is going to bring a lot of, I guess, like a lot of attention to, to this kind of, I guess this ecosystem in terms of like the crypto planks and other kind of crypto collectibles, you know, outside of I guess things like beeple stuff and you know, I'm actually really curious to see how much this collection goes for. I mean, I'm betting easily 10 million plus here on this collection. And, you know, that's going to be obviously not as big as Beeple's kind of people's sale, but it's still going to be a big sale and it's still going to be a big kind of thing for Christie's. And, you know, Christie's are now signaling that they're going to be doing more and more nft things here. So. Yeah, really, really cool to see that. I think, obviously, as I said, that was the biggest news from the last 24 hours.
00:02:31.964 - 00:02:53.050, Speaker A: You know, I'm very curious to see kind of what this happens. Sorry, what happens at the sale in May. So, yeah, they haven't given a date here. I don't think they've just said May. You know, May is actually turning out to be a pretty big month. Right. We have like uniswap v three going live in maybe we have, you know, hopefully a L2 implementation of uniswap going live in May.
00:02:53.050 - 00:03:27.614, Speaker A: We have this Christie's auction. There's a few other things that I'm kind of, you know, I guess, like, forgetting right now, but that I know that is coming in May. So, yeah, I guess the next, even just the next two, three months, four months leading up to EIP 1559s launch in July seems to be pretty bullish for Ethereum. Right. We have obviously, the continued growth of nfts, all the L2 stuff going on, you know, all the, all the kind of work going on the protocol layer. I mean, you know, we have obviously, you know, a lot of work happening on ETH to the merger and things like that. So, yeah, looking to be an exciting next few months, you know, I guess, in the Ethereum ecosystem here.
00:03:27.614 - 00:04:04.714, Speaker A: So the index co op announced today that there are two votes live now for new index products. So one of them is the bed index, which is basically index product that consists of bitcoin, etherium and DeFi and the DeFi pulse index. And this has been put forward by the bankless kind of guys here. So if you are an index token holder and you want to vote on that, you can go do so. And also a synthetix debt mirror index as well. And I've explained how this works before on the refuel. Basically what this is is this is a place for people to put their s USD to protect themselves against the kind of the debt pool volatility if you're a synthetic staker.
00:04:04.714 - 00:04:30.984, Speaker A: So if you don't know what that means. You're not a synthetic staker, then you don't need to worry about that sort of stuff. But this debt mirror pool would be, you know, a very great tool for. For kind of SUSD borrowers when they're staking their SNX to protect against that volatility there. So, yeah, as I said, if you're an index token holder, you can go vote for and against both of these proposals now. And they're at basically what, what the index co op likes to call decision gate one. Now there's two of these decision gates.
00:04:30.984 - 00:05:09.818, Speaker A: Then there's like a further process to kind of get this to being a product. So this is still the early stages here, but I'm really excited to see both of these go live. I think the bed makes a lot of sense, right? And to see bankless kind of leading the charge here makes a lot of sense as well, because who doesn't want just like easy exposure to bitcoin, Ethereum, and Defi pulse index, right? That basically covers the main themes of crypto right now. So, yeah, excited to see these kind of, you know, go live if they get voted in. So a bit of news from the block here. There's been a class action lawsuit filed against both Ledger and Shopify here. So obviously this was done due to customer data breaches.
00:05:09.818 - 00:05:42.122, Speaker A: And, you know, we're all kind of well aware of the ledger data breach here. The one where it basically leaked everyone's personal details that had pretty much bought a ledger before a certain date. And it was a pretty bad leak, if you all remember correctly. And then there was also, I guess, like Shopify data breach as well here, actually, I think. Oh, wait, no. If I'm looking at this closely here, I think this is another leak related to ledger customers personal data being exposed due to a rogue Shopify employee here. So this is actually a separate case.
00:05:42.122 - 00:05:56.552, Speaker A: So. Okay, that's fine. I didn't even know about this one, so that's. That's bad. I guess that there's been multiple kind of leaks here, but, yeah, I guess, like the class action is. Is. Is lobbied at Shopify here over this kind of, I guess, like ledger.
00:05:56.552 - 00:06:20.700, Speaker A: Ledger leak here. But maybe if I'm reading through here further, maybe they mentioned the ledger leak itself. I don't think so. You know, I do expect class action lawsuits to come at them because of this anyway, but. But it doesn't seem to be in this one. But still, I mean, you know, this was kind of inevitable. People are going to kind of like, put lawsuits forward, especially if their personal details have been kind of compromised here.
00:06:20.700 - 00:07:03.634, Speaker A: And I mean, you know, so, so they should to an extent. I mean, I'm not, I know that, like, it's funny looking at the different cultures, and I know that in the US, you know, there's, there's, I don't know if it's a culture of it, but like, people are more prone to, I guess, like just lodging these lawsuits, right. And some of them are, are very frivolous. Some of them are justified. We don't really have that in Australia. From what I've seen when people just like, you know, throw lawsuits at different people. But regardless of that sort of thing, I think that this is a case, you know, you know, this leak and the, the ledger data leak itself is definitely a case to bring a class action lawsuit against because people need compensation for this, this, you know, it's, it's, it's unacceptable that that much personal information was leaked and, and was able to be leaked in such a huge way.
00:07:03.634 - 00:07:36.668, Speaker A: You know, people's home addresses were leaked. That's, that's obviously not very good. Um, so, yeah, we'll see, we'll kind of see how this goes and progresses here. I'm sure that there'll be a settlement or something and ledger will end up paying out some sort of compensation to the affected kind of customers here. So we'll have to keep an eye out on that. So Cryptx Finance has announced a new product called, uh, the total crypto market cap token, which is basically an index that tracks the total crypto market cap. Now the last time I checked it was at 2 trillion or just over $2 trillion.
00:07:36.668 - 00:08:14.716, Speaker A: The total crypto market cap, which is up from like, I think, you know, one or $200 billion just a year ago or something like that. So it's already up ten x. So if you just want kind of, I guess, some just like passive exposure to the total crypto market. So not just like one sector, like the DeFi pulse index gives you kind of exposure to DeFi. Obviously this gives you exposure to everything, right. All of the crypto tokens that are kind of listed on popular websites like Coinmarketcap and Coingecko. And the way that they track the price here is that they use a chainlink oracle, and that pulls, I think, data from six different data sources for the total crypto market cap here.
00:08:14.716 - 00:08:37.000, Speaker A: And the way that this is minted is that you can collateralize it with, with ETH or with Dai right now I think, as well. And in the future, they're going to add more collateral types as well here. So. Yeah, yeah, this is really, really cool, I think. Not a product that we've seen before, as far as I know. I know there's other indexes on centralized exchanges that track a certain subset of crypto. Like as I said, there's defi indexes.
00:08:37.000 - 00:09:06.582, Speaker A: There's one on FTX called like the shitcoin perp index or something like that that tracks a bunch of, I guess like maybe shitcoins or like a bunch of other like kind of alts, I guess you could call them, but doesn't track everything whereas this is aiming to track, you know, absolutely everything that Coingecko, coinmarketcap, you know, coin law. There's a bunch of other ones kind of track here. So. And then they made these dope as video as well for, for this launch. It's about two minutes long, definitely. Go, go watch the video. It'll be linked in the YouTube description.
00:09:06.582 - 00:09:57.012, Speaker A: But I thought it was a really cool video because it gives, it gives a bit of background on Ethereum itself. It doesn't just talk about the total crypto market cap token here. So yeah, that was, that was kind of really fun. And there's also a liquidity mining program here where you can earn CTX rewards which is the governance token of this platform by providing, by fermenting TCAP and providing liquidity to TCAP pairs on Sushiswap here. So really cool to see this release from CryptX Finance. So Starkware is looking for a community manager here. And I wanted to give a shout out here, not just for Starkware, but I mean this, this got me thinking kind of all these other teams that I know that have just been approaching me lately and I won't be able to name them all right now, but if you're a community person or a marketing person or someone who just wants to be in that area, there are so many jobs right now for you.
00:09:57.012 - 00:10:51.990, Speaker A: It's not even funny. Like I've had probably 1015, maybe even 20, kind of like founders or CEO's of different teams. Contact me about the, about positions like this and say, hey, do you know anyone? And really, I mean there's, there's a handful of people that I know, but they already have jobs in the ecosystem because this position, like a community manager or a marketing position within crypto if is you, very different to a web two position. There are a lot of kind of, I guess you could call them like crypto native kind of things and nuances that you have to understand to be a good community manager or a good marketing person within the crypto ecosystem. And I think that's why it's so hard to find someone because you can get someone from like the non crypto ecosystem to do marketing or to do community management. But the best of the best are the ones that, you know, essentially spend all of their time in this ecosystem, know the ins and outs, you know, know the memes, so to speak. Especially if you're a community manager, you need to know the memes, right? Know how things work, you know, know the lay of the land sort of stuff.
00:10:51.990 - 00:11:20.048, Speaker A: And I think that's why it's very hard for people, teams to find these sorts of people because they're community facing, right. They're outwards facing, you know, whereas on the other side, if you're looking for like a developer, for example, even if it's, if it's a smart contract developer, those, those kind of people don't, aren't normally kind of like public facing, right. They work, you know, in, I wouldn't call it stealth, but they work like quietly in the background. They're not like super public. They're not putting out tweets. They're not in the discord all the time talking to people. There are some of them that do this, right.
00:11:20.048 - 00:11:40.878, Speaker A: But it's not like their full time job, so to speak. Right. It's not their mandate. Whereas as a community manager, you need to basically be everywhere, right. You need to be on Twitter, discord, telegram, wherever your community is, you need to be on there and you need to be branching out. You need to understand these things. And I mean, you know, I worked at full time marketing at set for 18 months, and part of that role was community management as well.
00:11:40.878 - 00:12:16.182, Speaker A: And I'll tell you, yeah, you have to basically know the ins and outs. You have to kind of know the memes. You have to know the jokes. You kind of like, have to be a defi or crypto native, so to speak, to really excel at the role. So if that's something that, I mean, you think that you're, you're, you're good at and you have, maybe you haven't been a community manager in the past, but you're, you think that you could be good at this and you think that, you know, you kind of like, understand how the, how it all works within crypto. Definitely reach out to, to stark where here. I mean, that they're probably one of the best teams to work for right now, considering that they're building L2 solutions and they're not just building it for Defi, they're building it for kind of nfts and some web3 stuff as well.
00:12:16.182 - 00:13:10.976, Speaker A: And Starkware is just a rocket ship right now. So if you're looking for a company to, I guess, join, that is still, I guess, considered early stage, but like, the growth is just amazing so far. I highly recommend getting in touch with Starkware here. And in general, if you're a community manager or a marketing person, there is cryptocurrency jobs co website where you can go on, and there's tons of roles on there. I would encourage you to, to check out which roles are available and go apply for them because there's so much opportunity right now to join kind of like early stage companies, potential rocket ships, where you can literally change your life by joining some of these companies. So, yeah, highly recommend going and doing that. So, Antipro synthesis put out this kind of interesting poll today where he asks of these ethereum L2 solutions, which would you promote as the canonical solution and why? Now he lists four options here, zksync, optimism, starkware and arbitrum.
00:13:10.976 - 00:13:50.534, Speaker A: Now, the funny thing about this poll is that I actually think it's a popularity contest. I don't think it's actually representative of what people actually think is going to be the canonical solution. And what this means is basically, which one of these is going to win, right? Which one of these is going to be the most adopted, have the most network effects, have the most apps, have the most users, all that sort of stuff. Now, people are voting for Zksync as the winner. Right? Now, this poll is only a few hours old, but, you know, Zksync's leading optimism in second place, arbitrum is third, Starkware is fourth. As I said, this is a popularity thing. I think ZK sync and optimism are the two most well known simply because Zksync is integrated with a gitcoin, right.
00:13:50.534 - 00:14:36.636, Speaker A: And a lot of people within the ecosystem, especially people who follow antipro here, have used it. So one optimism, obviously is one of the most well known, if not the most well known. I'm actually a little bit surprised that optimism is in second place here, but not by much, by about, I guess, like 2% here. Arbitrum and Starkware, about 5% difference between them. I'm actually very, I guess, like, you know, I'm really bullish on arbitrum, but I wouldn't say arbitrary is more well known than Starkware, which is confusing. Like, I would have expected starkware to at least be third here, but I guess, you know, more people know about arbitrary than they do about starkware, which, which did surprise me for sure. So, as I said, popularity contest, not actually, I guess a representation of what is going to win and what is going to kind of like be the ultimate winner sort of thing.
00:14:36.636 - 00:15:01.948, Speaker A: And I wrote about this in the Daily Grey newsletter today. I don't think there's just going to be one winner. I mean, I highly doubt we're just going to have like, you know, optimism, for example, be kind of like the winner take all sort of things and these other solutions die out. That's already not the reality. If you look at kind of the way, I guess these things are being adopted. As I said, Zksync is integrated with Gitcoin right now. It's getting tons of usage every time there's a Gitcoin matching round, and people are loving it.
00:15:01.948 - 00:15:50.590, Speaker A: Optimism has integrated synthetix in its early stages, already has Uniswap committed to deploy on there. They said that they've got like a dozen projects building on them already that they haven't revealed yet. Starkware has diversify immutable X and DyDX on their platform. They've got a ton of other projects in the pipeline. I'm sure Arbitrum isn't on mainnet just yet, but they have, you know, they have their main net release candidate on Testnet right now, and they have a bunch of other projects that they've been working with that if you go on their website, you can see like Bancorp, McDex, I think, balancer and stuff like that as well. And, you know, there might be other apps building on it that just haven't been publicly released yet. So, yeah, we're already seeing this kind of thing where people are not, or at least teams and app application developers are not choosing just to be on, you know, one particular layer.
00:15:50.590 - 00:16:28.900, Speaker A: One, each of them come with their own trade offs, with their own trust assumptions. You know, I mean, you've probably heard people speak, speak about optimistic roll ups being at a disadvantage to CK roll ups because they require like a one week withdrawal delay. And I've explained how, you know, kind of, it's different because with, with, you know, that can be, that can kind of be fixed, like with, with the bridges that we've been seeing coming out. And also optimistic roll ups allow for general kind of EVM compatibility right now, whereas ZK roll ups are a bit further away from that. So from that perspective, I guess, like, that's, that's kind of why we're seeing fragmentation there too. And then, you know, there's other solutions that Antipro didn't mention here. I won't list them.
00:16:28.900 - 00:17:04.686, Speaker A: All right. Other popular solutions include like Polygon, you know, for example there. And they've kind of got like a bunch of apps on there including, you know, rv being the most popular one, I think, on there. And there's a bunch of others like Sushispop and things like that, you know, Slingshot finance as well. Well, and, yeah, and kind of like outside of that and I guess like as an extension of that, the reason why I don't think this fragmentation is a big deal is because we're going to have bridges between them anyway. And I do think that the real winners of this kind of, I guess, like ecosystem in the long run, or at least like the L2 ecosystem is going to be the bridges. Connext and hot protocol are working on it.
00:17:04.686 - 00:17:41.018, Speaker A: There's some other kind of apps, I know that, that are working on it too, which, I mean, you know, I know there's like four chain and things like that, but I guess they're not really doing L2 to L2. They're focusing more on kind of cross chain stuff which is still in, which is still kind of important. Right. So, so that gets like a, I guess a mention for that too. But really, you know, if, if everyone needs to kind of go to different L2s to, I guess, interact with different apps or interactive apps they want to, then the most seamless way to do that is to go through a bridge of which kinect already has their technology. Live hop protocol is coming out soon. I think they have mainnet coming out in the next few weeks, something like that.
00:17:41.018 - 00:18:22.016, Speaker A: So yeah, I think those are going to be the biggest winners here. But that doesn't mean that these other solutions, like l two solutions aren't going to be huge themselves. I mean the demand for scalability is insatiable, right? There is so much demand out there. You know, I believe the ethereum kind of ecosystem of scalability solutions will collectively be doing trillions of transactions, you know, a day, you know, one day in the future, right? And that, and that's all going to be secured by a theorem in some, in some, in some kind of way here, all paying for security from Ethereum, which is really, really bullish. So from that perspective, I think it makes a lot of sense. It, you know, that we're going to have kind of, I guess, multiple solutions here. And this poll really is just like a popularity kind of contest at this stage.
00:18:22.016 - 00:19:12.796, Speaker A: Maybe we should rerun this poll in a few months when these solutions are more well known and more people are using them and see what the results are. I'd be interested to see how that plays out. So Coinbase announced today that they've joined the DeFi alliance, which is basically a DeFi accelerator, working to grow DeFi in general. So I think this is really cool. I mean, Coinbase has been defi friendly for quite a while, and specifically Ethereum defi friendly for quite a while here. And, you know, Antipro commented here that direct on ramps to Zksync and optimism would be pretty killer, including, I guess, like, other L2 solutions as well. And I've kind of mentioned this a lot before, that I think the best thing Coinbase can do right now for the ethereum ecosystem is create bridges into different L2 solutions, right? Like, obviously we already have loopring live that Coinbase can bridge into.
00:19:12.796 - 00:19:50.514, Speaker A: DydX is live they can bridge into. Like, I'm pretty sure Coinbase is an investor in DydX, so it's a no brainer, right? They already support optimism on their mobile wallet, but they need to support it on their exchange because the mobile wallet doesn't have a fiat on ramped. So I think that having that fiat on ramp is key here. And having that kind of, like, on ramp that people can skip layer one just to go directly to L2 is also key. So I reckon Coinbase will end up supporting all of them and eventually they'll just support the bridges, too, like Connext. Right? Imagine being able to just go from Coinbase to Connext and then connects, just route you to whatever app you want to go to, sort of thing. So that makes a lot of sense, too, I think so, yeah.
00:19:50.514 - 00:20:47.126, Speaker A: Really excited to see kind of coinbase joining the DeFi alliance here. I, you know, I think obviously with Ethereum and with DeFi, we're trying, I guess, to disrupt, you know, as much of the centralization as possible. But that doesn't mean companies like Coinbase don't have a role to play in the future. They're always going to be the fiat on and off ramps, right? Because you just can't have, like, a decentralized fiat on and off ramp that's been tried before with different local exchange sites. And sooner or later the regulators come after you and basically shut you down or require you to do KYC and stuff like that. And also they can just act as interfaces into defi apps as well, as I've spoken about before, where Coinbase can sit on top of different deFi apps, and they already do this through their mobile wallet app where they basically allow users to just deposit kind of stable coins, the dy DX and compound. So there is definitely a world where centralized exchanges exist and thrive, but it is going to be a world where they thrive based on different business models, not so much.
00:20:47.126 - 00:21:17.194, Speaker A: Maybe the exchange space, I think eventually, maybe, maybe kind of like, I guess a few years into the future, it might even take ten years. I don't know. It's going to be to the point where I think Defi will win out in the exchange space. I mean, it already kind of is these days in terms of volumes. But, you know, the space is so big, the demand for this stuff is so big, that Coinbase has still been growing, as I discussed in their q one kind of earnings report yesterday, they're still growing. And, you know, I don't expect that to stop anytime soon. So, yeah, rather have them as an ally than as an enemy.
00:21:17.194 - 00:21:56.748, Speaker A: There are certain exchanges out there that are an enemy of Ethereum right now, and I would consider them very parasitic. So having an exchange like Coinbase to fight back against that is very positive for the Ethereum ecosystem. So immutable X went live yesterday. I spoke about it on yesterday's refuel, the L2 NFT exchange here. They tweeted out today that in the first 24 hours of trading, the immutable X platform has already saved the gods unchained community over $400,000 in gas fees. That is huge, right? This is immediate, tangible benefits for real users at L2. And, I mean, I spoke about this yesterday, so I won't go too deep into it, but I did say that L2 is here.
00:21:56.748 - 00:22:13.896, Speaker A: It's just not evenly distributed. And the way we evenly distribute it is that we get all these apps to L2. We get the most popular apps to L2. You know, I reckon once Uniswap goes to L2, it's basically just like, that's it. That's going to lead to the craziest growth ever. Ever. Lots of users are gonna move to uniswap on L2.
00:22:13.896 - 00:22:39.442, Speaker A: They're gonna do all their stuff on there. I reckon coinbase will have a direct bridge in and out of, like, optimism because of that, because they're there. Obviously got a vested interest in Uniswap as well. And they had already leased the uni token and things like that. So I fully expect to see that happen. And, you know, the fact that it's already saved over $400,000 of gas fees is incredible. And, you know, it's not like the gas fee revenue on layer one has gone down either.
00:22:39.442 - 00:23:31.368, Speaker A: What ends up happening is that the immutable x kind of L2 chain is paying Ethereum for security to kind of secure itself. So what essentially happens is that instead of individual users all having to pay these high individual fees, it becomes the L2 itself pays the fees in aggregate. So it basically pays the fees for the users. And, you know, on immutable x right now, there's zero fee trading, but eventually they'll kind of institute a kind of, you know, I guess, like a small fee, like a very small fee, but there'll be enough transactional activity that that fee, in aggregate, will be very large, and that will end up going towards paying for ethereum layer one security, which is what loop ring does today already. So, yeah, really, really cool to see this very tangible kind of immediate benefit here from immutable X. And, I mean, I'm so pumped right now for the L2 ecosystem. It's finally coming together, right, all together.
00:23:31.368 - 00:24:14.554, Speaker A: And we're finally getting to a point where people are getting to experience the magic of kind of the scalability that people have been working on for years now. So, yeah, super excited about this, for sure. So Stephen from the block tweeted out this kind of chart here that saying that cumulative DeFi revenue is approaching $1 billion and added nearly $200 million in March alone. That means that DeFi apps, I guess, like, altogether, basically, all DeFi apps that the block tracks here have generated $1 billion of revenue, which is absolutely crazy, right? But still. Still small. Because if you look at this cumulative, this is measuring it from July 2020 to today. So, what, nine months or something like that.
00:24:14.554 - 00:24:33.306, Speaker A: So we've done a billion in nine months. Well, Coinbase did $1.8 billion in three months, right. In Q one. So that, you know, I mean, if you take. If you kind of, like, I guess, like, do nine months and take it from three months and kind of, like, I guess, adjust it for time there, DeFi did much lower than that in three months. Right.
00:24:33.306 - 00:24:52.370, Speaker A: I think, like, if you look at Q one here, and I'm just eyeing it here, $250 million to 750 million. So I guess DeFi did $500 million in the same span. That coinbase is 1.8 billion, not too far behind. But again, this is cumulative DeFi revenue. This includes every DeFi app. This doesn't just include exchange volume.
00:24:52.370 - 00:25:21.998, Speaker A: You can't really compare, you know, it one to one because Coinbase obviously doesn't have money markets, right. It just has, you know, most of its revenue comes from its exchange model. So you would be better off kind of comparing just Dex volumes and probably just better off comparing one to one, like Uniswap to Coinbase because you'd have to compare Dex volumes to, like, all centralized exchange volumes to kind of get the picture there. So, yeah, I thought this was really cool to see. And this is just going to keep growing. I mean, DeFi is not slowing down, right? DeFi is not going anywhere. Defy is.
00:25:21.998 - 00:25:47.570, Speaker A: I mean, with L2, Defi is just going to explode in usage. And. And the kind of like, user base right now, as I mentioned before, is still only a few hundred thousand people. There's barely anyone using this stuff. And that's in part due to just how early we are, in part due to the gas fees being high still, right. A lot of new users are priced out. I would actually wager that the Ethereum kind of ecosystem is not getting that many new users at this point.
00:25:47.570 - 00:26:34.130, Speaker A: I actually think that a lot of new users are going to the cheaper alternatives, like BSC, right. Because at the end of the day, during a bull market, most people just want to make money, and that's fine. So, you know, they're just going to go to BSc because they can make money there and not have to spend kind of like lots of money on gas fees. And, you know, that's, if I'm being honest, that's a little bit of a failure on Ethereum's part for not getting our L2 scaling out quicker. We gave like a window of opportunity to, to BSC to take some market share. But I think we're going to go into a kind of, I guess you could call it Empire strikes back phase, where Ethereum is going to basically scale via L2 and offer a better, more kind of, I guess, like profitable and more innovative experience at L2 than something like BSC can offer, for sure. I think, you know, there's only a short window there.
00:26:34.130 - 00:27:26.112, Speaker A: I think short term, it's just going to be kind of like a stopgap, and then eventually we're going to see kind of stuff move back to L2, though, in saying that binance controls the user flow, right. I would be very, very surprised to see Binance do a bridge into any of the Ethereum L2s, because it is not in the interest to do so. It is in their interest to funnel users to BSc, of course, which is fine. I mean, that is what happens in business, right? You're not just going to get, you know, Binance is a competitor to Ethereum, right? So your competitor is not going to do something that it benefits you. Right. So from that perspective, I don't expect binance to benefit Ethereum at all and to actually actively work against it. So that's why I said before, having a partner like Coinbase, supporting Ethereum, supporting Defi, is a really great way for us to hit back because Coinbase has, I think, just as many users as binance has, if not more.
00:27:26.112 - 00:27:53.506, Speaker A: I think binance may have more just because they have more of a selection of tokens than Coinbase has. So there's like cross pollination going on, as I talked about yesterday. But, yeah, I think, I mean, I'm very confident that L2 is going to bring a lot of people back, but we need those on ramps, we need those bridges in. We can't expect users to go from layer one to L2 because that is still an expensive transaction and it just. It's friction. Right. You know, we need just a direct bridge from a centralized exchange into these L2s.
00:27:53.506 - 00:28:14.726, Speaker A: Just like they have a direct kind of bridge into the layer ones. Right. It's the same thing, just adding these L2s, and I think they're going to get added. There's no way that Coinbase doesn't do it. And other exchanges like maybe Kraken and Gemini do it as well. But I do not expect binance to do it. If they do, I mean, kudos, and I'll give them credit where it's due, but I mean, if I was cZ, I wouldn't do that because why would I do that? It would hurt my own business.
00:28:14.726 - 00:28:33.710, Speaker A: But, you know, he sometimes says that he cares about growing the whole pie, which I don't really. I don't really trust. Right. I mean, if you cared about that, he wouldn't be doing what he's doing. Excuse me. Sorry. So from that perspective, I believe that we're just going to have to kind of like rely on, you know, getting the exchanges that are kind of like non hostile on board.
00:28:33.710 - 00:28:58.304, Speaker A: Yeah. Which is fine. Anyway, I'm not going to rant too much about that. I think, you know, the fact that BSc exists is incredible competition, actually, for Ethereum right now, you know, and kind of like motivates people to. To get this, this kind of like, scaling done, because we want people to enjoy a decentralized and secure kind of ecosystem, you know, with Ethereum security and kind of like with. Within the Ethereum ecosystem, and kind of keep the value within. Within Ethereum as well.
00:28:58.304 - 00:29:15.594, Speaker A: So yeah, we'll keep an eye on that. I will definitely keep talking about it on pretty much every refuel because L2 is the most exciting space right now, I think. And it's just going to get hotter from here. All right, that's it for today, everyone. Thank you again for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up.
00:29:15.594 - 00:29:38.104, Speaker A: Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel and keep an eye out. For this weekend, I'll be releasing the daily grade data pump number four, where I'll be going over all the Ethereum and defi, kind of on chain analytics from the month of March. So, yeah, keep your eyes peeled for that and subscribe so you don't miss it. And on that note, have a great weekend, everyone, and I'll catch you next week. Thanks, everyone. Bye.
