00:00:00.120 - 00:00:45.554, Speaker A: A couple of things I thought of while you were talking is one. The interesting thing about crypto though, is that Frontec has made $23 million in protocol feeds with like a fraction of the users of the apps you were describing. So I think it's worth remembering that crypto is, for better or worse, inherently financial. And that actually means that like I think all the other companies you described, they would need so many more users to make $23 million. $23 million is pretty healthy revenue run rate. Honestly, I'm not sure whether Frentech can keep it up, but I thought just worth pointing out that fintech is low on users, but proportionally to that has made a lot of money, which I think points to maybe some interesting monetization models. Web three offers a brand new petri dish.
00:00:45.554 - 00:00:49.362, Speaker A: Our job is to buy great tech at great prices. AI is also libertarian.
00:00:49.458 - 00:00:51.786, Speaker B: Enable use case that people haven't been able to do today.
00:00:51.850 - 00:00:55.490, Speaker A: The next hundreds of millions of players, they will come to the market through mobile.
00:00:55.562 - 00:01:36.508, Speaker B: My personal reason why I could be bullish in the next twelve months is all right. Hey everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the Blockcrunch podcast. Now, the response to last week's episode, or rather the episode two weeks ago that we did, was extremely fervent. So thank you very much for all of you who reached out, who dmed me saying how much you enjoyed this new format of the roundtable. So last time we talked about five most ridiculous projects, which, or most wild ideas, not necessarily in a negative way, but just ambitious ideas that raised money from crypto VC's. And a lot of you have a lot of different opinions about those projects.
00:01:36.508 - 00:02:25.600, Speaker B: So this time we thought we'd do also something in the similar vein that's slightly more timeless, more of a look back at ideas before, but also look into the future ideas that we think could work in crypto. So in this episode today, I'm really excited to be joined by my good friend Sadat again. And we're going to talk about two things. So number one is a few obvious things that we thought would totally work in crypto throughout the past few years that just didn't work. We're going to dive into exactly what they are, why they didn't work, and maybe whether there could be any turn in the road for these things. Topic number two today is actually controversial things that could work, and this is looking forward for some applications that might not be live yet, but could be quite interesting down the road. And as a user disclaimer, we're not providing financial advice here, all views are our own.
00:02:25.600 - 00:02:56.492, Speaker B: We're not licensed financial advisors. We may discuss assets that we or our respective companies have exposure to, but they're not meant as endorsements. Now, we'll do our best to relate the topic to projects that are live or have tokens, but purely because I think those are projects that our audience are more likely to be aware of or tracking. So with that being said, let's kick us off here. So, well, first of all, we just passed Halloween for 2023, and that was apparently 15 years for the bitcoin whitepaper. Did you do anything for Halloween, Sarah?
00:02:56.548 - 00:03:01.180, Speaker A: No, I traveled to India for a cricket game, which has nothing to do with Halloween, but it was a good weekend.
00:03:01.252 - 00:03:03.436, Speaker B: Oh, this is during Halloween?
00:03:03.580 - 00:03:10.068, Speaker A: Yep. There's a Cricket World cup happening in India right now. So I've made three weekend trips this past month to watch games.
00:03:10.236 - 00:03:14.856, Speaker B: I feel like you're always flying around and then every time it texts you, you're like, in a different time zone, a different country.
00:03:14.980 - 00:03:17.640, Speaker A: Well, hopefully Singapore for the foreseeable future now.
00:03:17.712 - 00:04:08.436, Speaker B: Yes, indeed. I think with the way the markets are going, we're probably stuck in the same place in front of our screens for a little while. But let's kick us off today. So the context for today, I'm sure you've heard a lot of similar stories from different founders as well, but in the past six months, in my catch ups with my own portfolio companies or with friends who are founders in this space, you know, a lot of founders are kind of torn because on one hand, we've been having pretty much a bitcoin bull market, right? Like bitcoin price pretty much doubled over the year. But in every sense of the word, in every relevant metric we've been having a bear market user counts down, volumes down, TVL is down. So a lot of founders are trying to rethink what are the actual use cases that are not related to speculation, that are not just going to work during a bull market, that are here to stay. So we thought that it would be a good idea for this episode for us to dive into things that just look so obvious in the last bull market that didn't turn out to be so.
00:04:08.436 - 00:04:23.572, Speaker B: And then also things that might not be so obvious, but we think could be actual use cases in the future. And I think the setup for this was actually one blog post that I saw recently by Polynea, which is a researcher in Crypto. Have you seen that blog post? You know what I'm talking about.
00:04:23.668 - 00:04:31.244, Speaker A: Yeah, I'm a huge Polynya. I don't know how to pronounce it. I'm a huge Polynya stan. I read everything they publish as soon as it goes online. Pretty much.
00:04:31.324 - 00:04:43.058, Speaker B: Is this like a. Do you know if it's like a team of people or a fund? Because my understanding was this is like a loan researcher, mostly associated with infrastructure, looking at l one s and so on.
00:04:43.156 - 00:04:53.694, Speaker A: Yeah, my sense is similar. I think it's a lone researcher. And they kind of predicted how roll ups would have like the roll up centric future for Ethereum before anyone else did. So I've always been super impressed.
00:04:53.774 - 00:05:20.304, Speaker B: Yeah, I think that's kind of really their claim to fame. I think that's when a lot of people started to pay attention to them. And the blog post I'm referencing is a recent post that I'm sharing on my screen here. For those of you who are watching this on YouTube, it's called state of the application layer. Basically it's a little bit cynical. Cynical of a post where he goes through, or she goes through, um, the, uh, kind of swaths of applications that are in crypto right now. And the conclusion is, you know, most of these things probably don't make sense.
00:05:20.304 - 00:06:02.172, Speaker B: The only things that make sense in a crypto context are three things. So peer to things that require peer to peer operation, things that require strict global consensus, and things that require objectivity. In other words, the type of kind of objectivity that a blockchain can provide. So if you think about the applications that we're using daily outside of crypto, you know, most applications actually don't fit this category. So it is through this lens that I think quite a few readers of this post started to think about, okay, what are actually things that could work and what are things that couldn't work. So I think their conclusion is quite narrow. But they did provide a pretty interesting example of forecaster, which falls down, falls under the social category, which we're going to talk about.
00:06:02.172 - 00:06:18.252, Speaker B: But I'm actually a little bit less cynical than this post. I thought there's probably more use cases than just objective money and objective identity, which are the two main use cases that he puts out. I'm curious whether you had any reaction to this post when you first saw it.
00:06:18.308 - 00:06:45.470, Speaker A: Yeah, I felt similarly. They do a good job of describing hybrid applications, which I think is one space where I'm excited about where you can build interesting applications that still only rely on crypto for things where crypto is particularly useful. But I agree with you, I think there are more things to be done. I also think the state space of applications that just require these two, three things is larger than it appears at the surface, and maybe we'll get into that later in the episode as well.
00:06:45.542 - 00:07:30.528, Speaker B: Yeah, I hope so, man. I mean, that would definitely make our job more interesting if it's more than just five apps that could take off. But I think we like to take a cynical optimist view to things. So let's start with the more cynical side first. So obvious things that were so obvious to us, especially when you and I were working together at Spartan, we invested in a lot of projects, we looked at a lot of verticals, and a lot of ideas at that time seemed incredible and seemed just inevitable to us, but they just didn't work out. So I'd like to start with one that I was thinking of for a while, which is wallets. So for context, wallets are obviously the application that has the most users in crypto, because for anyone to interact with any crypto app today, you have to use a wallet.
00:07:30.528 - 00:08:23.976, Speaker B: But what I thought was really interesting is, I'm going to share this chart here, is that metamask, despite widely being panned as a horrible user experience, it is still by far the dominant player in the wallet space. So Metamask has 22 million active users right now. The next competitor, Coinbase, already has half of that, which is 11 million users for Coinbase wallet, and then trust wallet has fewer than that, has about 10 million, and so on and so on. So for some reason there were a lot of smart contract wallets that were using account abstraction with very fancy features like social recovery, so that you don't have to memorize 24 keywords and write them on a piece of paper. For some reason, those never took off. Those were such obvious use cases that make wallets so much better. But then things like Argent, which had these advanced features so early on, never quite take off.
00:08:23.976 - 00:08:33.636, Speaker B: Never quite took off. So I'm curious what your take is here. Is metamask Lindy effect just so strong that it's impossible for other wallets to, to be viable alternatives?
00:08:33.740 - 00:09:19.336, Speaker A: I mean, I'll just echo what you said where I reached the stage where I'm incredibly skeptical of wallet startups because metamask just keeps winning. And like you described, they have extremely minimal product innovation. Like, it took them years to add swaps and then immediately it turned into a money printing factory for them as well. So broadly, I think they do have a ton of distribution, and it feels like any startup trying to build a wallet now has to have a super credible story around distribution. And it's interesting that the second name on this list is Coinbase wallet, which is again, a huge distribution story. Like Coinbase gets to leverage the fact that they already have tons of users to get people to use their wallet. So yeah, I am perpetually worried, because I was hoping there would be more adoption of these interesting features.
00:09:19.336 - 00:10:18.188, Speaker A: But largely, it seems like Metamask distribution has just continued to crush all of its competitors. I guess the one kind of silver lining is that for better or worse, it feels like we're seeing some newer ways for people to access blockchains. And so if you look at something like friendtech on one side, where you kind of use this privy, possibly even a mobile login, you don't really know what's happening in the wallet on the backend. And so again, maybe applications will just kind of choose to leverage distribution like that. And I feel like in this context, it's also worth point talking about Unibot and the various telegram bots, which they aren't wallets in the most traditional sense of the word, but they are a layer that people use to interact with blockchains, even if they're kind of badly designed and not necessarily non custodial. And I think both point towards the fact that, like, having some kind of distribution edge or some kind of huge convenience is a lot more valuable than a certain class of features that are almost academic in how valuable they are. Like, we talk a lot about things like account abstraction and social recovery.
00:10:18.188 - 00:10:22.400, Speaker A: I feel like uniborget shows no one cares. They want to swipe coins fast on Telegram.
00:10:22.572 - 00:11:11.048, Speaker B: Yeah, no, I agree with that. It's one of my wallet thesis that I formulated this year is that chances are you probably can't beat Metamask if you just go after them as a wallet, unless there's a very, very unique feature differentiation. So the only wallet that got me somewhat excited in the past few years was Fantom, just because they were the first to market with Solana and they were offering something that metamask wasn't even focused on, which is support for Solana, which is a rust based chain, whereas Metamask mostly focused on EVM chains right now. But even that is not quite enough, and it's quite limiting considering most of the tam right now is still for EVM chains. So, like, Phantom has about 2.5 million users, which is one 10th that of metamask. So that kind of led me to think, oh, maybe it should be a use case focused wallet first.
00:11:11.048 - 00:11:43.852, Speaker B: So you really lock in the users with the use case first. So one company that we invested in through my angel fund, Tangent, is pocket universe. So their entire model is that we're not going to try to build a wallet right away to beat metamask. Instead, we're going to go after the security use case. So they created the security plugin that every time you sign any type of transaction, they will parse the contracts for kind of weird clauses, and they will have a pop up to warn the users that, hey, this is a little bit sketchy. Are you sure you want to go ahead? And they're going to upsell their users with insurance products. So it's actually been doing very, very well.
00:11:43.852 - 00:12:37.650, Speaker B: I think the retention was like 80%, something ridiculous like that. And then they grew to like 60,000 downloads within the first few months. So now then, for them, the challenge is whether they can actually convert the users to their wallet product if they do decide to upsell them. I think the challenge for this approach, however, is this new thing called metamask naps, which is actually not that new, but, you know, it's been only around for, I think, maybe less than a year. So this is effectively metamask opening up their platform for third party developers to come in and build external features. So we've always wondered, why is metamask not doing security warnings? Why are they not incorporating different fancy features or maybe unibot type of use cases within their wallets? Because this obviously makes the product better. My guess is that they don't want to have the liability in case something goes wrong, because for them, metamask, the most important thing is security.
00:12:37.650 - 00:13:07.000, Speaker B: And if the core product is secure, they don't really want to take too much risk beyond that. Instead, they want to kind of delegate that risk to third parties and open up their platform via this program called Metamask Naps. So now there's a lot of metamask snaps, there's tons of security snaps that allow you to incorporate some security features into your metamask. So that could make the approach of a feature differentiated competition a little bit more difficult. But I don't know if you have other thoughts here on kind of wallets, or whether you ever invest, you know, in a wallet company again, that's just building a wallet.
00:13:07.152 - 00:13:30.792, Speaker A: I don't think I would, honestly, unless, like you said, they had an extremely credible plan for distribution or some feature that essentially allows them to front run. Metamask Telegram is interesting. As an example, telegram as a place to be building applications. And some of the plans they have around you, around taunt coin are interesting, but I would not just invest in a wallet that claims to be a metamask anymore.
00:13:30.928 - 00:13:42.564, Speaker B: Yeah, I think that faces pretty much pass for me as well. So let's move on to the next one. You put down predictions markets. Was there ever a time where you thought, okay, prediction markets are going to be huge, this is such an obvious idea.
00:13:42.644 - 00:14:08.204, Speaker A: Yeah, all the time. I mean, honestly, it's in the Ethereum white paper. Like, it's literally like it's Vitalik's 7th listed use case. And I feel like people have been talking about it since forever. And I've been like obsessed with the idea of prediction markets as well. So maybe there's a little bit of personal bias here. But all the way back to when Auger launched in like 2018, I remember they had this referral program and I tried to launch some cricket betting markets on Auger and even ran Facebook ads for them.
00:14:08.204 - 00:15:00.696, Speaker A: And I was super disappointed to see that Auger basically, I was basically very disappointed to see that Auger never really took off for better or worse. And I have some ideas about why. And I feel like with polymarket we've seen small amounts of success, but broadly, I feel like this is a super obvious use case for crypto and it feels like we should be, it's like permissionless creation of markets and it feels like prediction markets are an obvious one. And I feel like people like trading on information generally. It's been a huge challenge. I think one thing I've discovered about prediction markets, while kind of having conversations with founders, is that bootstrapping liquidity for a prediction market is actually usually a lot more challenging. So, yeah, I mean, like you're looking at this polymarket homepage and some of the trending markets where it's like, okay, will the US military intervene in, in the Middle east, theres like 300k in liquidity or 300k in bets that have been placed.
00:15:00.696 - 00:15:37.292, Speaker A: And quite frankly, thats a pathetically small amount relative to trading in almost any crypto asset. And I think one of the things that people struggle with is that users expect an interface that looks like a betting platform for better or worse. You come in, you get some odds, you put money down. Auger in particular, I think was hugely hampered by the fact that they just created a primitive where users were expected to add liquidity. And there's very few professional market makers for these things. So trying to get the right pricing, if you're trying to trade on auger, you have to eat through someone else's limit orders. It turns into this complex trading game as opposed to a click and see what happens.
00:15:37.292 - 00:16:14.604, Speaker A: Betting game. And even right now, if you kind of polymarket, which runs as a limit order book, if you dig into their discord, which I do pretty often, they'll have these kind of weird trades that people will be doing and, like, really, for lack of a better word, very amateurish market making somewhere. I will be like, yeah, I put some sales here. I put some buys here. This worked out for me last time. I made like $50 just like, what's going on here? And so I do think people really want to trade this stuff. And as an example, I feel like in particular on crypto Twitter, do you remember when Doequan and GCR did their bet for like a million dollars on the price?
00:16:16.284 - 00:16:17.584, Speaker B: What was the bet again?
00:16:18.564 - 00:16:43.552, Speaker A: I think the bet was that in a year from now, the price of Luna, will it be higher or lower than it currently was? And that was like six months before Luna collapsed to zero. And so GCR obviously won his bet. And they had, I believe, Kobe escrow it. Like, they both sent him a million dollars. So I feel like there has to be a way of tapping into that energy. Right? Like, I feel like with that bet, there were, like, crypto anons on both sides saying, oh, GCR is right. No, the Luna stands were like those.
00:16:43.552 - 00:17:13.821, Speaker A: Definitely right. I felt really sad that I couldn't take action. Like, you couldn't match those fans as counterparties and allow them to take sides of the bet as well. So generally, I feel like we should have prediction markets, but someone needs to figure out a way to make it super easy for users and kind of abstract away the liquidity, which also means, like, professionalizing the market making. But I I don't know. It's actually broken my heart that we haven't seen cooler prediction markets. Like, I actually love that there are markets, one poly market for all of this stuff that's happening in Israel and Gaza.
00:17:13.821 - 00:17:22.113, Speaker A: Unfortunately, for better or worse, there's just no liquidity and no ability to really make money. I don't know. Have you ever traded on one of these? What do you think?
00:17:22.453 - 00:17:52.814, Speaker B: So I remember spinning up augur way back in the day. This is even in the beginning of spartan day. So this is like 2018. And I remember you had to open, like, a desktop client, and then you have to wait until a block is finalized in order to boot up the application. So you can't just open the application whenever you want. It's kind of dependent on what's happening on the chain, which is ridiculous to me. I remember looking at polymarket when they were first raising as well, and at that time I indexed way too much on the auger example.
00:17:52.814 - 00:18:33.838, Speaker B: I thought, okay, nobody in crypto cares about this, because if someone wants to speculate, they're going to go for higher variance stuff, they're going to go for higher liquidity and higher volatility stuff than some sort of a tiny $2,000 market on the presidential elections. I'm not sure if I'm wrong, but for now, based on what you're saying, it sounds like this was an obvious idea. So obvious that Vitalik had it in the white paper, but it's not clear that it can't work. It just sounds like there's some big problems with regards to liquidity and with regards to, I guess, the simplicity of placing bets for users. Or is your view that there's just no way to crack this on crypto? We shouldn't probably even attempt this? No.
00:18:33.886 - 00:19:04.196, Speaker A: I will forever remain a prediction market, Stan. I think it'll happen. I think this is a super cool idea. The world deserves prediction markets, and I think it's also interesting because it allows people to monetize that expertise in cool ways. But for better or worse, as you said, it's going to be ten years, I think, next year for the ethereum white paper. And the fact that it hasn't worked yet makes me worried. And I wish I had a better answer for you, but I'm not sure why they don't work.
00:19:04.196 - 00:19:08.910, Speaker A: And that is kind of, I think ten years was enough time for them to kind of work.
00:19:08.982 - 00:19:34.450, Speaker B: So, yeah. So just to clarify, is the biggest difference between a gambling platform where I can place bets on a lot of the similar things, like as you can see here on the screen, if you're watching this on YouTube, the elections, or it's mostly the elections, to be honest, is the main difference between this and a gambling platform that offers this. The fact that you could create any market you want on these prediction markets, that's the big unlock, right? It's not so much that you can bet on things, but the fact that you could create any market for anything.
00:19:34.562 - 00:20:08.034, Speaker A: Yeah, exactly. I think this stuff should be done permissionlessly, which is why crypto shines. It's kind of like, the way I think about it is uniswap in particular, uniswap v two made it possible for anybody to launch a token and then start doing this liquidity mining thing. And then we just have thousands of people launching tokens, some very valuable, some meme coins, some derivatives of other meme coins, lots of useless ones, but it feels like it's now become permissionless to launch a token and bootstrap some liquidity for it. We have a formula for that process and that never quite happened, for better or worse, in prediction markets.
00:20:08.114 - 00:20:43.654, Speaker B: Yeah, I'm also a little bit baffled about why that hasn't happened. I guess if my logic is that people in crypto like to speculate. Initially, I was thinking they might want to speculate on some shit coin that's going to rally 100 x in a day or go to zero. More high variant stuff. But this poly market Auger thing falls firmly under the speculation category as well. So I'd expect at least some sort of uptake. But it's not like there's no uptick, right? If you look at these markets, there are markets that are like $5 million, $3 million, but it's just not as big as, I guess, what we were thinking when we were first looking into this.
00:20:43.654 - 00:21:21.878, Speaker B: So I guess with that being said, we should save some time for the next one as well. So this one is like, this one is pretty challenging for me. This is Dao tooling. This is quite personal as well, because I spent a lot of time digging into Daos, and I saw a huge wave of founders in, I think, early 2021 that were just so keen on building Dao tooling. And every single vc fund out there has funded at least one Dao tooling company to provide infrastructure for Daos. Because if you look at everywhere you look at the uptake for Daos, you look at the size of the treasury for Daos, you look at the revenue some of these Daos are making, it's pretty insane. It looks like an actual market.
00:21:21.878 - 00:22:02.640, Speaker B: And even today, right in what we consider a bear market, at least outside of bitcoin, there's some massive treasuries here. So, like, Bitdao has 600 million in liquid treasury. So obviously, if they try to liquidate all of that, it's probably going to be like 200 or 300 million, but it's still a lot of money. And then all the Daos added together are billions and billions of dollars. But there's virtually no tools, no tools at all to manage this treasury besides multisix. So it made a lot of sense for people to build tooling for these daos, to issue payroll on chain for decentralized workforces. But I think just to share kind of a story from our port goes, one of the companies that I did an angel investment in very early on was called utopia Labs.
00:22:02.640 - 00:22:24.434, Speaker B: So they were creating payment tools for Daos and they were actually doing quite well. The user account was growing, but I think they reached the point where they realized actually the total addressable market right now is shrinking. It's quite small as well. So they actually had to pivot. And this was not just like a small company. They eventually got to a point where they got a pretty sizable check from paradigm as well. So they hired good a whole team.
00:22:24.434 - 00:23:06.156, Speaker B: They hired a few people who used to be in quite big projects in crypto as well. So I was actually quite sad by the fact that they've decided to kind of pivot a little bit, but it's part and parcel of the startup game. But at the same time, it kind of made me rethink, is there actually a huge market for dao tooling? So we've actually shied away from dao tooling companies for a while until we see a sustainably scalable use case for daos, beyond just product driven daos, like a maker dao. Like can we have generalized daos? I'm curious what you think here that was a lot, because this encapsulates pretty much most of crypto, since most people seem to be trying to be daos. But have you looked at Dao tooling stuff and would you invest in things like this?
00:23:06.260 - 00:23:43.528, Speaker A: Yeah, so kind of a very similar story to you. I felt like this stuff was obvious, basically, for lack of a better word. Ive also been surprised. I think theres a couple of things going on. One I thought the last point you made was pretty pertinent, which is that there was this almost mania moment, particularly when stuff like Constitution Dao was happening. I remember someone had published this piece called Squad wealth, just this general idea that online communities would just turn themselves into daos and start doing financial activities. And for better or worse, that thesis has not played out at all.
00:23:43.528 - 00:24:35.366, Speaker A: And when people talk about daos right now, theyre talking about, like you said, crypto products that have chosen to meaningfully embrace on chain governance. I think the TAM question is very real. Even if you look at these strategies, its like its not that much money. Yes, Bitdao has 600 million, and as another example, optimism has 20% of its token supply reserved for retroactive public goods funding, which means there's like probably a billion dollars of optimism that at some point over the next few years will flow through governance processes. So yeah, I've struggled here as well. I do think one thing that's a little underrated, the utopia founders probably have a better answer for what's going on here is that we have seen some pretty meaningful embrace of on chain governance. So both arbitrum and optimism have built out, like, do all of their governance on chain, essentially.
00:24:35.366 - 00:25:20.350, Speaker A: And so they run these massive grants programs. I don't know if you saw a few weeks ago, there's this massive kind of vote that arbitram held about where they should allocate incentives. And then, like Lido was trying to get people to vote on their behalf, some other vote goes were also trying to get individuals to vote on their behalf. Optimism, like I said, does these massive retro PGF things. So I'm not sure, but I think the volume of money flowing through these platforms, at least on the governance side, is actually growing. And crypto companies are, I think as more and more crypto companies mature, they will be unable to use sort of like, hey, we just have a multi say, we have a snapshot. We kind of ask our users what they want and then just kind of do what we want on our end kind of thing.
00:25:20.350 - 00:26:02.924, Speaker A: So while I think Dao tooling has struggled, I know that, for example, tally, which provides governance interfaces, is actually doing reasonably well, given that it's a bear market. I think in particular, given that, like, optimism, arbitrum and Uniswap are all having a lot more money flow through governance. So it's hard. I think, in particular, for example, I know Tally recently built out something that allowed arbitram to run a security council, which is super important for roll up. So I think there is something interesting still to be built here. I guess one question I have is that, and this is maybe a more general investing question. One of the things I struggle with when investing in categories like this is that I find it very hard.
00:26:02.924 - 00:26:31.320, Speaker A: In particular, if we believe that something like tally and Utopia and their competitors largely cater to crypto companies like makers and Aaves and Uniswaps, is there any room for them to seriously outpace crypto beta? And that's one of the things I struggle with, which is just like, okay, if we think that optimism and arbitram will grow and I have more money flowing through governance, a tool that services them, where's the outperformance coming from?
00:26:31.432 - 00:27:27.326, Speaker B: Yeah, I think one sort of outperformance could come from what I think is the main use case for daos. So what you were describing just now are mostly like product driven daos. So, for instance, there's like an arbitrum L2, and then there's a Dao infrastructure governance system that kind of governs the operation of arbitrum, as you know, as l two, and then similar for Uniswap, there's a Dao that governs the development of the Uniswap product itself. So that's obviously contributing to most of the liquidity and treasuries and probably most of the revenues for these Dow tooling companies. And that's why dow tooling companies are probably a beta bet on the growth of these types of daos. I do think that a misunderstanding of, or maybe not misunderstanding, but a mischaracterization of daos is that they can only be used for these type of products. I actually think that daos are more similar to spvs.
00:27:27.326 - 00:28:18.934, Speaker B: So initially I was thinking that daos are more similar to social clubs, where people gather together with similar interests. But just based on my interaction with different daos, it seems like the ability for daos to retain users and active participants over time is actually very, very low. People have very limited attention spans, and there's just way too many daos. However, if you have a very specific goal, particularly short term oriented, and require some sort of financial coordination, you can get some pretty fantastic outcomes. So I think Constitution Dao is actually a good example. So obviously, they did shut down in 2021, but they did gather quite a lot of people to pull money together to potentially buy a copy of the constitution. And then similarly with Pleaserdao, which is another famous dao, they managed to coordinate quite a lot of people who were counter bidding each other in the NFT markets.
00:28:18.934 - 00:29:17.794, Speaker B: They managed to group them together in order to bid and co own certain pieces of NFTs together. So it's like very, very specific and specific use cases that are specific to how you spend the money, and also specific to only a short period of time that seems to be most well served by the DAO structure. Which reminds me, a lot of spvs, right? It's basically when there's, like a venture round going on and a super angel wants to invest in something, they create an spv structure to invite other investors in. They invest, and then that's done. You know, you don't govern the SPV, that there's no, like, it's much less of a social club than like a financial instrument. I think that's actually the big use case for daos that could potentially expand beyond crypto. So going back to your point about, you know, how do daos or companies that surface daos outpace the beta of crypto? I think that could be it, right? I could see the Silicon Valley folks using DAO infrastructure to create spvs or just for very specific financial arrangements that are beyond crypto.
00:29:17.794 - 00:29:48.776, Speaker B: So that's a little bit far away. But I do think that that could be one thing that could fuel the growth of daos. But based on the current uptake, or rather existence of these type of special spvs, I haven't seen a lot of them. Or if I do see some of them, they are much, much smaller than these product oriented daos that have billions of dollars in their treasury. So you might be right. It might be perpetually cucked as a type of sub beta play for crypto.
00:29:48.840 - 00:30:13.610, Speaker A: Yeah, I'm very willing to have my mind changed, but honestly, given, like, I thought constitution, Dao is cool. I thought, please, a Dao is cool. But they're like two isolated examples and there was like hundreds of millions poured into Dao tooling to serve Daos like this, and they just kind of don't really exist anymore. And so for some reason, I feel like it didn't hit product market fit the concept of a DAo for anything other than just like cryptogs.
00:30:13.712 - 00:30:51.542, Speaker B: Yeah, I hear you on that. And I know we also noted down that we're going to discuss interest rate swaps and complex financial products, but I feel like a lot of people have discussed this already and I'd like to move on to a more positive note for the remaining 30 minutes of the podcast. So let's, let's move on to topic too, man. Let's talk about controversial or contrarian things that we think could work this time around. So let's start with restaking. So this is something that maybe listeners who are not in the crypto VC or investment or angel circle might not be very well aware of. But basically this is one thing that a lot of VC's have been salivating over, this idea of restaking.
00:30:51.542 - 00:31:57.582, Speaker B: And this is projects like Eigen Layer, which I'm a small angel investor in, that allows people to use their staked ETH to not just verify transactions on the Ethereum chain, but to use that same amount of ETH that they have staked to validate transactions on different applications to provide security for other applications. In finance they call this rehypothecation. So obviously it's an idea that scares a lot of people because there's an idea called slashing and staking, right? So if your validators that you're staking your assets with fail certain availability assumptions, or they have certain downtime, or they double sign transactions by accident, you could get slashed, right? You could lose your stake. So if you're using the same collateral to stake for multiple applications. Let's say $10 of ETH is providing $1,000 worth of security for 100 different applications. You could get slashed on any one of these that could then introduce this systemic risk to Ethereum or to any platform that uses this restaking mechanism. At least this is the big skepticism that I've seen a lot of people put out.
00:31:57.582 - 00:32:04.274, Speaker B: I'm very curious what your take is on this, whether you've been following this restaking arena and whether you think it could work.
00:32:04.394 - 00:32:34.934, Speaker A: I actually think the restaking chain has kind of left the station. So there's lots of conversation happening around risks. There's a super controversial bank less episode that I kind of recommend people listen to if they want to get a good sense of how the Ethereum foundation is thinking about it, how Eigen layer is thinking about this. But for people who are paying attention, Eigen layer recently had a blog post showing ten companies that are already going to be leveraging Eigen layer for security. I think it just makes a lot of intuitive sense. It puts a lot of risk on Ethereum. But at the end of the day, Ethereum is becoming, I think, the world's best crypto collateral.
00:32:34.934 - 00:32:49.150, Speaker A: And the kind of thing that and being able to leverage Ethereum's huge market cap to bootstrap security for your network is just an idea that even if it's risky for Ethereum, I think will achieve product market fit. So I think restaking is going to be big.
00:32:49.222 - 00:33:19.248, Speaker B: So it's interesting, right? Because this idea of restaking is not invented by ethereum, even though I think a lot of people seem to act like it is. It's been explored in similar veins across other ecosystems like Cosmos. Cosmos been discussing Atom 2.0 for a while, how they can use one cosmos hub to provide security, or what they call shared security for all the different hops. And then Polkadot had something similar. So I think that developers are somewhat aware or at least familiar with the idea. I'm just curious from a commercial standpoint to be DeVos advocate for myself.
00:33:19.248 - 00:33:52.746, Speaker B: If you are a developer that launched an application, you have a token. You want there to be as many use cases and value for your token as possible. So you want the most people to be using your token to stake, to provide security for your application, or to use your token as fees, rather than outsource that to another token and potentially dilute your own value. So do you see any kind of commercial incentive for a developer, especially a developer for a somewhat mature product already that doesn't really need to use Ethereum to bootstrap their security to seriously rely on restaking.
00:33:52.930 - 00:34:58.744, Speaker A: No is the quick answer. I think if you underwrite an investment in this, you have to believe that developers will start thinking in a very different lens from the one you described. The lens through which Eigen layer makes sense is a very optimization lens of, okay, I want to pay the minimum dollars for the highest economic security, which is a very different lens from I want my token to pump for better words. And so I think you kind of have to believe that there are teams. One interesting thing here that is happening, for better or worse, is that there are teams who are using eigen layer to kind of claim that that makes them more ethereum aligned, which in and of itself is just like a bizarre term that is defined differently by everyone in the world. But I think it's interesting how we recently saw a couple of the bigger l one s, like Celo as an example, transitioning to a roll up. And I think that's kind of a realization for them that even if their token plays a less central role in the roll up, or they won't have their own validators, it's probably just economically beneficial and a smarter thing to be doing and gives them access to greater users.
00:34:58.744 - 00:35:08.384, Speaker A: And so I think you do have to kind of believe that people will start thinking more economically, rationally, and not prioritizing their own token. But that hasn't happened yet in crypto. So I see where you're coming from.
00:35:08.464 - 00:36:01.644, Speaker B: Yeah. So I think that's the kind of commercial reason why this is so contrary and controversial, because in the long term, it's still not clear that there is a business case for restaking. The reason why I think this will work is because I know, at least for crypto natives or people are very yield hungry, they will always find the highest yield opportunities, even if it's very clear that the yield is not sustainable. But in this case, assuming the security is well managed, it is sustainable. It is not like an anchor type of yield. If you provide a higher yield for staking your ETH versus just taking an ETH, I do believe a lot of people are willing to take that security trade off to earn, say, like a 1020 percent yield under ETH versus like a five, 8% yield if they just stake for ETH instead of restake it. So that's, I think, actually the main driver that will help with the growth for eigen layer or for, you know, restaking in general.
00:36:01.644 - 00:36:57.718, Speaker B: But we should move on to the next idea because this one is pretty big. I know you have a lot of thoughts on this whole d pin thing, so just to give some context to our listeners, I'm sharing my screen on one of the first blog posts on deep in, written by Multicoin, which seems to have been focusing a lot on this lately. So DPin is effectively creating decentralized networks around physical infrastructure. So that's what the PI stands for. N stands for network. So for instance, this is things like Filecoin, where you have people providing excess capacity for storage in a decentralized network for people who want to access the storage. This is things like helium, where people purchase wifi hotspots and create a mesh network for a wifi network, or things like Akash, where people are providing excess capacity from their H 100 or a 100 GPU's for people to render AI models and so on.
00:36:57.718 - 00:37:39.906, Speaker B: This core concept of using blockchain networks to coordinate decentralized physical resources. So I'll talk about why people think this won't work, and then I'm curious what you think. The reason why some people think these don't work is because of the cost involved with running these networks. The reason why Amazon Web Services has all their data centers in one place is because of economies of scale. It gets cheaper for each marginal unit. It's a basic tenet of business, but with decentralized networks you don't really have economies of scale. You're effectively increasing coordination costs by not having one big centralized entity that's able to absorb that cost.
00:37:39.906 - 00:38:05.536, Speaker B: Run these kind of co located servers. For instance. It's not clear that there's a structural cost advantage to run a storage network or AI rendering network or a Wi Fi network in a decentralized setting versus a centralized setting. So what would make people actually use these things if they can't structurally be cheaper over the long term? That's something that I don't think has quite figured out yet. But I'm curious to hear your thoughts on this.
00:38:05.560 - 00:38:49.848, Speaker A: Actually, no, I actually agree exactly with what you said, and that's why I've been skeptical of a lot of deep end. Like for example, I think as the AI wave started heating up earlier this year, there were a whole bunch of crypto companies trying to build out something that looks essentially like Airbnb for GPU's. And I was pretty skeptical of all of those, because from my fairly limited research, it was apparent that most gpu's that can do like the most interesting machine learning workloads already sit in data centers. And so there's just like, as you said, what's the structural advantage in trying to tap into a decentralized network? And it feels like there is none. To your point, there are a couple of places where I feel like these could work. One example that I like quite a lot that I've been digging into is hivemapper. And I don't know if you've seen the Hivemapper network.
00:38:49.848 - 00:39:21.240, Speaker A: They've already. It's essentially. So Hivemapper built out their own dash cam. It's like a piece of hardware, and they get individuals or cabs or they have a set of garbage truck operators as well, who do a lot of driving to essentially drive around. The dash cam captures live mapping data from each of, like, from everywhere that they drive to. And they use all of this to produce essentially a back end product that looks a lot like Google Maps. And they're obviously still in the phase of bootstrapping a serious mapping network.
00:39:21.240 - 00:40:12.716, Speaker A: But two of the reasons I like this one is that exactly what you said, like, where's the structural cost advantage? So through my research, I learned that, like, I think Google Maps pay something obscene, like a million dollars a year or something, to run one of those street View cars. One of those cars for a whole year. There's some such crazy costs like that. I think there's also, like, the other thing is that, like, that data is still not very live. It's like, okay, Google can send a car like once every six months to every street, but they can't really do it every day. And increasingly, live mapping data is really useful both for AI self driving stuff, but more generally having a sense of like, okay, what road is closed? What changed today? Is there like, a new turn today? Are there new routes that become available? And so it feels like one of those very nice quasi Airbnb things where there is actually a ton of latent capacity. We have a huge number of people just driving around all the time.
00:40:12.716 - 00:41:04.146, Speaker A: So if we can tap into kind of, if we can just get them to put a camera on and use that to create, like, the world's best mapping data set, it feels like there actually is a structural advantage while trying to compete with someone centralized, like Google Maps, who just kind of has to run cars in every street of the world all the time, which is obviously at some level impossible to do. The other thing, the other one thing I'll point out here is that I feel like deep in founders have struggled with selling this stuff, which is maybe something you were pointing to where it's like, okay, you incentivize supply. But even in the file coin case, it's just like, I feel like they were unable to compete with AWS when it just came to just pure selling storage, like, without worrying so much about the decentralized component. The Heightmapper founding team has a really strong maps background. They've been in the mapping world for a long time. So I'm somewhat excited that they may have a stronger sense of how to sell this stuff. But yeah, I'm curious what your immediate take is on this.
00:41:04.250 - 00:41:41.118, Speaker B: I think your point about the bootstrapping phase is correct in terms of, I mean, it's pretty obvious. If, you know, if I want to bootstrap a map and I have to buy like 10,000 cars and run them for a million dollars a year, that's like impossible for any startup. But for this, you know, it's tiny. Startup can do this if they, you know, if they have the correct distribution and go to market. So the bootstrapping cost being lowered is definitely one of the reasons I think this could take off. But as you said, most of the development for DPN networks have been on the supply side. So it's using inflationary token rewards to incentivize the provision of computational resources.
00:41:41.118 - 00:42:52.746, Speaker B: So Filecoin miners, after their Fil program, which basically gives you a lot of file coin tokens to provide spare capacity, I think the capacity went from more than ten X within one year, but then the demand obviously doesn't grow commensurately immediately. So the challenge for these guys is how do you sell this product to end users, and what angle do you sell with? Because a lot of these products are obviously less reliable at this point at least, than a company like Google, because they have an infinitely massive customer support team that's trying to make sure that everything goes right for your company if you're willing to run your entire company on AWS or on Google servers. So this is something that small startups are facing, but this is the age old challenge of building small startups to compete against massive incumbents. I think if you're kind of, if you're bullish on the ingenuity of founders and the ability of them to kind of top hole incumbents, I think it's hard not to be excited about Deepin, despite some of the questions around structural costs, which I think can be solved. I think one evidence that makes me somewhat excited is the fact that Akash network is still very, very small. But they are. There was a recent article that I'll try to find.
00:42:52.746 - 00:43:29.776, Speaker B: I wanted to pull it up, but I couldn't find the link. There was a founder basically saying that they needed computational resource to run their AI model, but there's no a 100s from Nvidia anymore because they're running on the short supply and it's extremely expensive to rent them from centralized marketplaces. But Akash was providing for them at like one fifth the cost. So a lot of this is subsidized by their tokens, obviously, but that's an actual commercial use case to get people excited about the demand side first. So I'm quite excited about this. I haven't spent a lot of time into Hivemapper, but it sounds like I should. We'll include the link below as well here.
00:43:29.776 - 00:44:00.506, Speaker B: But for the last category, I love to talk about social. Social is something that I've been following for a while. Let me see if I can pull up the. Okay, I'll pull up the fintech chart first. So what I mean by social is effectively social networks that have crypto elements. So how they started was, I believe, with this thing called peep ETH, which I've talked about a lot before. I don't know if you remember this, but this is like back in 2018, someone built like a Twitter clone called peepeeth.
00:44:00.506 - 00:44:32.822, Speaker B: It's completely on chain. So every time you like or retweet or comment, you got to pay gas. Every time you tweet, you got to pay gas. So obviously, no one's going to use this. But I thought, okay, this is quite interesting. And then we evolved into something called bitcloud, I think a few years later, where people are able to buy tokens that are tied to a certain social profile, effectively speculate on the growth of these profiles. There was no kind of clear tie between the token and the value of the token and the popularity of the underlying influencer.
00:44:32.822 - 00:45:12.870, Speaker B: But it was like a little mini game that got people excited. They had some of their own issues when they were launching, so that kind of faded away. Now, the big thing in social is friend tech. So the reason why I think this is contrary and controversial is because a lot of people have dismissed Frontech, right. Despite all the excitement you see on crypto Twitter, it's still a very, very small application. So right now, if you look here, for those watching this on video, the daily buys and sells for friendtech shares is, I think, less than 6000. And for those of you who are not familiar, Friendtech is a mobile application that is effectively private chat groups for anybody.
00:45:12.870 - 00:46:02.660, Speaker B: And in order to access these chat groups, you need to buy the shares that belongs to that person. So it's a little bit like onlyfans, but more chat based and maybe less nudes. So right now, if you take these numbers at face value, if you assume that 10% of the users who are using this to chat with people every day are buying and selling shares, then there's maybe 50,000 to 60,000 active users, which is a respectable number for crypto. But for social, it's really nothing. I remember at this event that I don't think we can disclose what it was, Sana, but you and I were both there. We had the CEO of TikTok there commenting on social applications in crypto. And I remember he was kind of scoffing almost at the numbers for Frentech, right? He was saying, well, there's like 50,000 people, but if you look at web two social networks, within the first six months of be real, there was like 60 million people.
00:46:02.660 - 00:46:36.770, Speaker B: So it's almost like not worth paying attention for web two entrepreneurs yet. That's why I think it's so contrarian, because nobody in the real world is giving any weight to crypto social. Nobody thinks of it seriously. But there's already a lot of exciting development with things like forecaster with lens, frentech to a certain extent as well. And then you mentioned this earlier, but also telegram, one of the biggest applications in the world is also taking a crypto angle as well. So curious if you spend any time here in social, whether you agree with me, whether you think it's controversial at all.
00:46:36.842 - 00:47:09.384, Speaker A: I definitely spend less time. I think you've dug into this a lot deeper. A couple of things I thought of while you were talking is one. The interesting thing about crypto, though, is that Frontec has made $23 million in protocol feeds with a fraction of the users of the apps you were describing. I think it's worth remembering that Tripro is, for better or worse, inherently financial. And that actually means that, like, I think all the other companies you described, they would need so many more users to make $23 million. $23 million is, like, pretty healthy revenue run rate.
00:47:09.384 - 00:47:31.830, Speaker A: Honestly, I'm not sure whether fintech can keep it up, but I thought just worth pointing out that fintech is low on users, but proportionally to that has made a lot of money, which I think points to maybe some interesting monetization models. Second, I think one thing I'll say, and this is maybe my I was into racer before he was cool moment, is that I was actually a huge fan of Steelcam which was steel cam.
00:47:31.862 - 00:47:32.926, Speaker B: What is Steelcam?
00:47:33.110 - 00:48:28.208, Speaker A: So Steelcam was, I think, launched late last year, and it was this app, kind of a PWA, similar to the way frontech works, where essentially he lived on arbitrum. You took a picture, you took a picture and that picture got published as an NST. Anyone else could then steal that picture from you, and the picture is only visible to the person who owns the NFT. There's also a little bit of a speculative component here where you obviously fail. Like when you steal a picture from someone, you pay a little more than they paid, but if someone steals a picture from you, you get your money back, and if someone steals it from that person, then you get a little bit of a profit. So there's a little bit of a fun ponzi element here. And broadly, the reason I thought this was so cool, I had even stolen some of Shlom's artwork on, on here, is that I think trying to like, the history of consumer social is like driven by apps that have some kind of unique feature or user behavior that gets people excited.
00:48:28.208 - 00:48:57.404, Speaker A: And I think for a crypto social app, that feature needs to be inherently social. And that's what I think both fintech and Steelcamp to some degree do so well where like, you cannot imagine this app existing without crypto. Or, I mean, you can, but it, like the infrastructure, just naturally lends itself to crypto in a way that it doesn't for, at least to me, things like Forecaster and lens, which is why I remain generally less excited about forecaster and lens than most people, I think.
00:48:57.484 - 00:49:42.422, Speaker B: Yeah, I can see that as well, because I've been a huge critic of skeuomorphism, this idea of just taking something that already exists and then copying it or trying to replicate it directly in another context. So a lot of people do this in crypto. PP was almost like comical example of this. It's a great experiment, but it's very obvious that it was basically some people thinking, hey, there's Twitter, let's do Twitter on chain. And that was my main critique for forecaster as well, that I actually dm the founder about this when he was soliciting product feedback. I think they're getting pretty healthy growth, actually, if you look at the chart here of like 1500 users right now, and it's been growing every month since July. But my feedback was like, the utility or the value that I get from using forecaster isn't too different from Twitter.
00:49:42.422 - 00:50:21.250, Speaker B: It seems like a somewhat handicapped version of Twitter, but I do get some crypto specific benefits, like owning my own social graph and owning my own handle and so on. But I don't know how viral those can be beyond the core group of crypto native users. That's probably less than a million users. So I agree with what you say in terms of the main feature, a unique feature being the main driver for growth. And that is why I'm excited about this, is because it's very hard to predict what is the social unlock. That's why so many people dismiss these things. Nobody thought of Snapchat, nobody thought of bereal, nobody was excited about TikTok when they first came out.
00:50:21.250 - 00:51:01.888, Speaker B: But it's these kind of very unique social things that suddenly just click with the zeitgeist globally, and then suddenly they just take off. And the Lindy for social applications is insane compared to a lot of other types of applications. The retention for something that goes viral or social networks that are built around virality is extremely high. So once you have the flywheel kicked off, I think some of these things can be quite big. My guess is that what that looks like for crypto is it probably has to involve some sort of speculation. That is the unique selling point for a lot of crypto products. So some mixture between social and speculation I think will probably take off quite well.
00:51:01.888 - 00:51:31.610, Speaker B: But for me as an investor, the most important thing for me is retention. So there was this very good blog post that I shared before. I share on my screen here as well, effectively about what healthy retention looks like for social applications. So if you look at Snap, the day 30 retention. So this is the number of users that are still around on the 30th day after they used it for the first day was 30%. Instagram is about 56, TikTok about 34. Twitter also around 30%.
00:51:31.610 - 00:51:54.874, Speaker B: Facebook around 40%. So I really want to see an application that's able to achieve this type of retention on a social application before I get super excited about them. So I think in the early days of friendtech, we kind of have around 20 to 30, but we had like one month worth of data points, so that's not really relevant. But that's really the main thing I'm looking for. I'm very excited about this vertical. I think a lot of my.
00:51:54.914 - 00:51:56.294, Speaker A: Are you still using your friend?
00:51:56.604 - 00:52:29.272, Speaker B: Yeah, I still message it whenever people ask me questions. I try to offer my views on the market without giving out financial advice. But yeah, I'm still quite excited. Maybe not specifically just about friendtech, but what friendtech implies about the entire vertical. And I remember you told me about Racer as well. So for context for listeners, Racer is the founder of Friendtech, and he's this anonymous guy on Twitter that you told me about, you know, way before fintech took off. And you said, hey, Jason, this is like, one of the most interesting accounts on Twitter.
00:52:29.272 - 00:52:48.284, Speaker B: You got to follow it. And I remember I followed it immediately turned on notifications, and I just had, like, 30 notifications about this guy talking about some completely random things that's, like, not related to crypto at all. And I was just like, what is this? And then, you know, a few months later, he just launched Fronttech. And, yeah, so you are definitely very early on to the frontech chain.
00:52:48.904 - 00:52:59.484, Speaker A: I honestly think there's, like, some crazy amount of founder market fit going on here. Like, I think he's like a once in a generation shit poster. And it's so funny that he started, like, friend tech.
00:53:00.024 - 00:53:12.624, Speaker B: Yeah. Let's see if we can. Let's see if I can find his Twitter. Here he is. Yeah, so his account is private now. Let's see. So I think he's actually gotten a lot more serious on his posts.
00:53:12.624 - 00:53:32.320, Speaker B: But it used to be extremely strange. But for those of you who are following racer. Oh, yep. So things like this, dot ETH versus Soylana manlets, I don't. Don't fully understand this, but, yeah, this is quite, quite an interesting founder profile. But, yeah, you were definitely early on to that train. Okay, so I think that pretty much wraps up.
00:53:32.320 - 00:54:04.314, Speaker B: So, just to synthesize here, obvious things that we thought could work that we are probably wrong about are direct wallet competitors to metamask. Things like dao tooling, to a certain extent, prediction markets and things that we think can work. But a lot of people disagree with us on things like restaking social applications and deep in. If you have to pick one from each of these. Right. So, for. For the first one, if you have to pick one obvious thing that didn't work that you just can never invest in again, and you have to pick one contrarian thing that.
00:54:04.314 - 00:54:09.130, Speaker B: That you would, you know, spend most of your time in in the next six months, what would those two be?
00:54:09.242 - 00:54:44.840, Speaker A: I think, um, I'd go with wallets for the first category. Um, in the way we described, just funding a metamask competitor straight up seems really hard. And then third to, contrary to things that might work, I'm still looking out for deep ins that have a structural advantage. Hivemapper is one that I've come across, but definitely open minded there. I still feel like crypto is a great coordination layer for markets and so if there is a meaningful reason for supply to be decentralized, then I can get excited about deepens again. Ethereum is in some sense a computation deepening, I guess.
00:54:44.872 - 00:55:21.954, Speaker B: Yeah, that's actually a good way to put it. I've never heard anyone put it that way, and I love that answer as well because mine is completely different. So I'll probably avoid dao tooling because I feel like the expected value for investing in wallets if you do get the Nix metamask, is still so massive, whereas for now tooling, the total addressable market is still somewhat capped at this point. So like you said, it's more of a beta play in terms of contrarian things that I would focus on. I actually would spend a lot of my time in social just because of that hockey media stick type of growth that you tend to see with social. And I think a lot of people are kind of dismissing this category as well. So yeah, I think we had a pretty productive conversation.
00:55:21.954 - 00:55:45.028, Speaker B: And for those of you who've tuned in again to our second ever roundtable, thank you so much for your support. Let us know on Twitter what you want to hear me and Sanit discuss. I think we have some ideas for the next episode already that's more related to liquid tokens and things that are live out there, so hopefully you guys will enjoy that. But we're always open to feedback, so let's plug our twitters. What's the best way for people to follow you? Man?
00:55:45.196 - 00:55:47.908, Speaker A: Twitter, which is just my last name and my first name.
00:55:47.996 - 00:56:07.488, Speaker B: All right, we'll put that in the show notes below and then I'll plug mine in there as well. All right, thank you everybody. Let's tune. We'll see you in the next episode. Hey, thanks for supporting another episode of the Blockcrunch podcast. If you've enjoyed this episode, please give us a five star rating on Spotify and as Apple Podcast or whatever platform you're listening to this on. It really helps us a lot.
00:56:07.488 - 00:56:34.044, Speaker B: Or if you prefer YouTube, you can subscribe to our channel on YouTube as well. To not miss an episode. I'd love to hear from you guys as well, and I personally make sure to read every single comment on YouTube or tweets that are directed at me, so feel free to leave a comment there. Let us know what project you want us to bring on or what trends you want us to talk about or tweet at Merjason Choi or Heblockcrunch on the platform previously known as Twitter, currently known as X. And thank you so much for supporting, and I'll see you in the next episode.
