00:00:00.240 - 00:00:23.270, Speaker A: Hello, everyone. Welcome to another episode of Daily Way refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, and this is. I know. And today's the 14 June 2024. All right, everyone, let's get into it. So I feel like today, or at least the start of this episode, is going to be a bit of a funny bullish rant because I feel like I'm a teacher getting into a classroom where the classroom's just running amok, being disruptive and not doing what they're supposed to be doing.
00:00:23.270 - 00:01:02.732, Speaker A: And the analogy holds with what I'm going to talk about, because I feel like the classroom is kind of crypto Twitter, I guess, or like crypto, the crypto ecosystem. And they're being very bearish right now. And as a teacher, literally, as an educator, I'm quite upset seeing this because there is no reason to be bearish right now. And anyone who is bearish is, as I said in my tweet, quite literally missing the forest for the tree. So I want to go on a little bit of a bullish rant here. And it's related to some of the news that came out, I guess, like something that I saw on Twitter that came out that I'll cover in a sec as well. But, you know, I'm probably not going to say anything new here, but I'm going to reiterate some of the points here because, as I said, there is no need to be bearish.
00:01:02.732 - 00:01:32.220, Speaker A: And I put in my tweet, I said, open up your time horizon a bit. Over the coming months and years, trillions of dollars of net new money is going to flood into crypto. Get off the daily charts and zoom out. Obviously in crypto, a lot of you are in day to day. I do a daily show, right? You listen to my show every day. You're probably checking the prices every day. We all do it, right? And that basically means that we have a miss misalignment in our brains around what we expect the price to do and what the price is actually doing, what we expect the markets to do and what the markets are actually doing.
00:01:32.220 - 00:01:58.730, Speaker A: If you're checking the price of Eth day to day, then of course you're going to be like, why isn't the price moving? Oh, my God. Doesn't feel like eats pumping. And then two weeks will go by and you'll be like, oh, why did ETH go sideways for so long? It's like, guys, it's been two weeks. Relax. Yeah, but then you zoom out even further onto the monthly timeframe or the yearly timeframe. And ETH has been up only. I mean, ETH has been up only for two years now, since June 2022 on the monthly timeframe, as I discussed, or, sorry, on the yearly timeframe, as I discussed the other day there.
00:01:58.730 - 00:02:28.920, Speaker A: So there is that mismatch there. Now, during those periods of time where you think nothing is happening to the price, plenty of things are happening on the financial side of things and on the market side of things and on the, you know, the new money coming inside of things. And those things take time to play out. It's not going to play out day to day. You may see some good news and be like, oh, why isn't this doing anything for the price? It's because the market isn't that efficient. Markets will price in certain things, especially if they're widely telegraphed, like the ETF stuff, right? That's something that gets priced in relatively quickly. Look at what happened with the ETH.
00:02:28.920 - 00:02:50.006, Speaker A: ETF's, you know, as soon as they got approved, you had a day of ETh going from three K to 4k with the BTC ETF's. It was widely telegraphed for a long time that they were going to get approved, and then you had that being priced in. So. But there's a lot of other things that aren't widely telegraphed. There's a lot of other things that aren't well understood that many people don't see. And they're not buying the assets because they just aren't aware of it. Right.
00:02:50.006 - 00:03:31.252, Speaker A: Or they, maybe they're aware of it and they don't understand the implications of it. So that's why it tends to take longer to play out. And one of those things, which is the thing that I mentioned before, was that one of the executives, the BlackRock's CIO of ETF and index investments, said at a Coinbase event that was, I believe, held today or yesterday that permissioned blockchains have lost and that traditional market participants are coalescing around open source Ethereum for tokenization so as not to fragment liquidity. And I quote, tweeted this, and I said, seriously, read and digest this. An executive at BlackRock, the largest asset manager in the world, is telling you that the future is public blockchains. Specifically, that the future is Ethereum. If this doesn't make you bullish, nothing will.
00:03:31.252 - 00:04:05.794, Speaker A: Now, this also speaks to what I was just saying about the fact that this is not something that is typically going to be widely telegraphed. Right? It's not like your everyday investor is going to hear about this. This is definitely insider crypto stuff and it's definitely not going to move the needle on the day. Right. But it is going to move the needle on the monthly timeframe, on the yearly timeframe. Because in the background you have all these players doing different things to get this money into crypto, to get this money into the ETF's. Once the ETF's go live, the Blackrock and others are going to be going out to their clients and saying, hey, we plan to build tokenization on Ethereum.
00:04:05.794 - 00:04:27.404, Speaker A: And this is why. And you know, here's all the other stuff that Ethereum is good at and what, what it's good for, as I've discussed before. So as I said, just you need to zoom out here because these things are incredibly bullish, but they're not going to be bullish on the day. It's not like this news is going to send ETH from 3500 to five k in a day. Right. There are very, very rare times where that will happen. And obviously it happened with the ETF news.
00:04:27.404 - 00:05:09.342, Speaker A: But as I said, because that is a widely telegraphed thing, within a day of that, or I guess like pretty much immediately of that news breaking, I think, on May 20, where essentially came out that the Bloomberg guys said that they're upping their odds that the ETH ETF's are being approved to 75%. And the, and the 19 B four forms were, were basically going to get approved. And the market understood that within hours of that happening, you know, the ETH price basically shot up because that was widely telegraphed to a lot of major players out there. But these sorts of things aren't. They just take longer to play out. And also the money that's coming in, as I mentioned, the trillions of dollars that's coming in literally does not have access to ETH right now. None of the money that goes into the BTC ETF's through the retirement accounts.
00:05:09.342 - 00:05:59.908, Speaker A: But tradfi money that we're talking about can go into ETH right now, and a lot of it can't even go into BTC because there's not infrastructure in place for that. I actually read a thread, I don't have it up here right now, that was covering the same Coinbase event. This event was basically a bunch of trad five people there explaining different things about what, what their views on crypto are. It was incredibly bullish, by the way, the event itself from what I've seen, but essentially they were explaining that most of the money in the tradfi world is not even able to access the BTC ETF, let alone the ETH ETF yet because the infrastructure is not there. The, the, the kind of pipeline hasn't been set up and these institutions aren't marketing it to these, these clients yet because they just can't access it. So you have years and years and years, decades worth of trillions of dollars coming into this asset class. You know, Ethan, BTC to start, but I'm sure other assets down the line here.
00:05:59.908 - 00:06:40.954, Speaker A: And not only that money coming in, but also these companies working with public blockchains now because I don't know how long all of you have been in crypto for, but the notion that these, I guess like corporates or these big institutions would build their own private chains and then just use that instead of using the public chains was very popular for quite a while, actually, for I guess like the last probably ten years at least that was a very popular notion. But now they've basically capitulated on that. I think BlackRock has definitely led the kind of cause here, but they've capitulated on that and basically said, okay, we're going to work with public blockchains. It's just easier. There's already standards in place. You know, there's so many devs that can work on that. Like the stuff that I mentioned the other day, right? And there's so much liquidity already there.
00:06:40.954 - 00:07:25.898, Speaker A: It's, it's global, it's actually decentralized, which basically allows us to build whatever we want on it, and it's permissionless. So you look at it from that perspective and you realize that it's incredibly bullish that they realize this now that they're doing this. But it also means that it's going to take time for this to build out. It's not going to be a daily thing, which means that it's going to take time for the market to price this in, to digest it, to essentially, you know, kind of come to terms with that and realize how bullish it is. So as I said at the top, there is no need to be bearish right now. You need to zoom out because if you're looking at the day to day chart and say Eth price goes from 3500 to 3400 over a day, and you start thinking, oh, things are bearish. It's like guys, like, that's random noise, random walk movements.
00:07:25.898 - 00:07:37.602, Speaker A: Look at the trend. The trend is still up. As I showed the other day. That's all that matters. A long term trend. Here. And obviously, if you're a trader, you're going to be caring about the day to day or even less time frame trends and week to week trends.
00:07:37.602 - 00:08:09.068, Speaker A: That's completely separate to what I'm talking about here. I'm talking about purely from an investor perspective. And if you want to try and play the dips, so to speak, and you want to try and buy Eth at a cheaper price than where you got it from, well, sorry. Than where it is today, then obviously you're taking on risk there. And that's more of a trader mindset than a long term investor mindset. A long term investor basically buys eth or buys crypto assets in a DCA fashion, where essentially they don't wait for these sorts of stuff because they know that they can't time it. So they just DCA or dollar cost average in over time, and they DCA out over time as well when they feel the time is right.
00:08:09.068 - 00:08:50.672, Speaker A: But I've said this plenty of times as well, especially in the deliberate discord channel when I get into these discussions with people that investing is incredibly hard. Crypto tends to trick you into thinking that it's easy because you can see the gains come very, very quickly. But the thing is, is that like, it definitely a lot of the time is easy come, easy go, where essentially you get the gains so easily that you don't value them like you otherwise would have, and then you end up trading them away over time as well. You get greedy, you know, all those human emotions take over there. So investing and being able to make a profit and a net profit over the, over the longer term and being able to achieve your actual goals, like your portfolio goals, is extremely difficult. It is not something that I think most people will succeed in doing. That's just the aim of the game.
00:08:50.672 - 00:09:19.098, Speaker A: I think that the market can't reward everyone, right? It's not a zero sum game and it's not like a negative sum game. It is generally positive sum. But the market can't reward everyone equally. Not everyone can make millions of dollars off of putting $1,000 into an asset. Like not everyone's going to make 1000 x on things. There's going to be some people that do that, small handful of people that do that. And then the most that other people will do is maybe they make like a two x or maybe they make a, make a ten x and then trade away most of it and it only becomes a two x when they net it out.
00:09:19.098 - 00:09:37.498, Speaker A: So from there, and when you think about it like that and have that mindset, you kind of understand how things are going there and what the reality, reality looks like there. But hopefully that's a bit of a pep talk for you guys. As I said, I came into the classroom, it looks like everyone was too bearish. Uber bearish. No need to be bearish. Not at all. I, like I, and I'm talking about longer term trends here.
00:09:37.498 - 00:10:12.748, Speaker A: I'm not talking about day to day, just longer term trends. I just don't see any reason to be bearish right now. All right, so an interesting ETH research post that I came across today with regards to inclusion lists. So this one comes from Vitalik himself, where essentially he seems to have fixed a lot of the issues that people were having with inclusion lists. Now, I don't know enough about this to comment on it in detail because it is quite technical. And you can see here that the term is being used and the, even the images that Vitalik has used here, I'm looking at this and I'm being like, hmm, I understood those words. Yes, I understand the word public.
00:10:12.748 - 00:10:43.362, Speaker A: Right. So it's kind of a bit like that. And I haven't had time to fully kind of do, do more research into this. I believe it was announced just today at some event, and then Vitalik posted it 21 hours ago. There's a few comments in the post here, but essentially it seems like this has fixed the issues that were present with inclusion lists, or at least the major issues that were present. And we may get inclusion lists included in Petra after all, if the core devs and researchers agree that this is actually a good way of doing it. So you can go give this a read for yourself.
00:10:43.362 - 00:11:35.248, Speaker A: The explain like on five summary that the ETH research bot gave was this research explores a new way to decide which transactions get included in the next block of a blockchain. Instead of giving this power to one person or a small group, it spreads the responsibility across many people. This makes it harder for any single person to control which transactions get included. The method uses a clever way of breaking down and sharing transaction data so that no one can easily tell which transactions others are including. So basically the entire goal of inclusion lists was to essentially eliminate as much censorship as possible at the transaction inclusion level. So not at the attestation level, which is a whole different thing that we've already got mechanisms in place for, but at the transaction inclusion level. And from what I've seen in the comments that I've seen, people are very excited about this proposal from Vitalik because it essentially does exactly that without the drawbacks of what we've seen in previous proposals here.
00:11:35.248 - 00:12:13.196, Speaker A: So yeah, maybe we do see inclusion list included in Petra after all. But you can go give this a read for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. Alright, so as you guys know, the main, I guess, like theme lately that has been preconfirmations and based roll ups, or at least those are the main themes that I've been seeing are kind of going around. So you can see here that Justin Drake tweeted out that they, there was a based pre conformation infrastructure live on Devnet. So this was, I think, at Zuberlin. I think there's an event going on right now and you can see here all of the different teams that work together to make this happen.
00:12:13.196 - 00:12:27.388, Speaker A: So I don't know if this is the first one that's live on Devnet here, but it's definitely one of the first. And you can see like they're all very happy. I don't know why they're all wearing sunglasses. Maybe. Maybe that's like a meme. Most of them are wearing sunglasses inside. Inside they're not outside.
00:12:27.388 - 00:13:03.488, Speaker A: Maybe that's a meme there. Maybe it means they're based. I don't know. But yeah, I mean, if you wanted to follow along with people building in the pre conf based shared sequencing space, these accounts are who to follow. So I definitely recommend going and checking out each of these accounts here. But also Nicholas here from Chainbound twitted out a demo from the bolt v one Devnet, illustrating a near future reality where users receive an inclusion pre confirmation in less than 100 milliseconds via trustless PBS compatible pipeline. So in english terms, this basically means that you'll get those pre confirmations that I've been talking about over the past, I guess like few months now.
00:13:03.488 - 00:13:27.172, Speaker A: We're essentially on ll two s. You get to tap into l one and use the l one validator set. But you don't have to wait up to 12 seconds for the transaction to be confirmed in a block. You can do it at the pre conformation level and do it in less than 100 milliseconds, which is the fastest out of any chain right now, I think. I believe Solana currently does it every 400 milliseconds. That's their block times. Obviously, ethereum l one is up to 12 seconds.
00:13:27.172 - 00:14:01.632, Speaker A: L two s can do it in one to 2 seconds. But I don't. I wouldn't say it's like strictly equal to, to these other things, but I guess from a user facing perspective, this would be the fastest confirmations, or I guess like we call, you know, the technically pre conformation or the fastest inclusion that they will get, which is huge, especially because it's. It can utilize l one validators in order to do this, which means interoperability at l one. So you can go check out the demo from. From Nicholas here, but also go check out all those accounts here that I'm sorry that Justin Drake linked. That's definitely something to keep researching.
00:14:01.632 - 00:14:30.260, Speaker A: I think this is going to be the main theme for. For a while to come. All right, so speaking of l two s, blob usage has been trending up for five weeks now as roll ups continue to see more and more activity. So this comes from the awesome dashboard from Hill Dobby that I've shown on the refuel before. And as you can see in the picture, the blob usage is almost at the target. So the target is three blobs per block, with a max of six blobs per block. Once it reaches the target, that means that blob gas fees start going up.
00:14:30.260 - 00:15:13.470, Speaker A: It means that blobs are no longer free to use. And that's exactly what we expected to happen. I've said this before on the refuel, where essentially we expected the blob usage to go up over time as more l two s come online and as they get bigger and start using more and more blobs, and then of course, we can increase the size and or count of blobs. And we also have peer das coming in, hopefully q one of next year when Petra goes live there. But if the blob price starts going up again, the base fee starts going up and the fees start going up on blobs themselves, then you will see the fees go up on l two s. And I'm curious to see where that goes because actually we are pretty much not at Target right now, but we have been at Target. We were at Target yesterday, I believe, and I can't think I could see the fee spike here.
00:15:13.470 - 00:15:56.374, Speaker A: But if it's constantly at or over target, those fees are going to go up. And if it goes even higher than that, and essentially what happens is that the fees are just going to keep skyrocketing. Not skyrocketing, but keep going up and up and up, just like what happens on l one, then we need to either increase the size and or count of blobs to counteract this and implement peer Das as well. But we'll see. We'll see what happens here because there are ways for l two s, or I guess like for roll ups to use blob space more efficiently. They may not post blobs as often as they are now. If it gets too expensive, as I've said before, there is kind of a really nice coordination game or shelling point game that these roll ups can play where essentially they all don't want to be spending tons of money on blobs.
00:15:56.374 - 00:16:20.506, Speaker A: They'd rather not spend. They'd rather spend the least amount they can on blobs. So maybe they slow down their posting here until blobs get cheaper, but we'll have to see how that kind of plays out there. But I think what overall this shows is that l two usage has not slowed down. Roll up usage has not slowed down. And you can see that not only on the blob usage, but you can see that on grow the PI and l two beats. I'll bring those two up here for you guys, so grow the pie.
00:16:20.506 - 00:16:45.632, Speaker A: You can see here if I go down. Yeah, we're at all time high for the L2 user base, basically. Even if accounting for this outlier, it seems here that happened last month in May, we're at all time high. Even if you remove that outlier as of the last week, I think that's just keeps trending up now. And on l two b.com comma, you can go to the activity tab and you can see that we're pretty much at all time high as well here as well even. I mean, it just spiked too.
00:16:45.632 - 00:17:59.766, Speaker A: So the scaling factor is up there as well. And the point of this as well is to illustrate that even though the market may seem relatively quiet right now across the board, or has been quiet for a little while, the L two s aren't quiet. Blobs aren't quiet, and we're really still at the beginning of the L two's roadmap for Ethereum at the roll up usage for ethereum, if you expect, or if you believe that the Ethereum roll up centric roadmap is going to be the way that this industry scales and Ethereum altos and rollops are going to get the lion's share of usage of any of the chains out there, then it stands to reason that we're going to have a lot more demand for blobs and a lot more demand for for blob block space and blob space generally, which means that we need to keep scaling this up. And because blobs are such a nice primitive, we can keep scaling it up and we can keep adding more and more capacity, which means that the roll ups can keep scaling themselves, keep scaling themselves up. And we could get to that, I guess, like place that we want to get to, which is essentially scaling to, I've mentioned it before, you know, trillions of transactions per day, if not more than that. And I think that's what we're going to get to eventually. Obviously, most of those transactions will be done by bots, but that is just what happens on, you know, in, on chain dominated world and on chain financial world.
00:17:59.766 - 00:18:54.364, Speaker A: I mean, even off chain, like in the tradfi world, most of the transactions, if you call them transactions, I guess I'm talking about like high frequency trading and stuff like that on the stock market, it's done by bots or it's not done by humans. So humans will interface with these things, but most of the transactions will be bots. But you need that scale for the bots, because on a permissionless system, you can't really filter that out, right? You can, you can try and filter it out, but then it becomes a centralization vector and then it defeats the whole purpose of what, what you're building in the first place. What defeats the whole purpose of a blockchain in the first place. So I'm excited to see how that all plays out there, but I'll keep you guys updated on that. I think that as the market heats up from here and as more l two s and roll ups join and start using blobs, we're going to be probably be at target for long periods of time. Because even though it's quite simple to increase the size and count of bloods from, from a code perspective, where it's like literally a single code change, from my understanding, it does require a hard fork.
00:18:54.364 - 00:19:15.858, Speaker A: I think there was some way to do it in the clients, but I don't know what way the research went on that. But it does require a hard fork. But also it means that the more load is being added to the network. And I think the core devs right now do not want to add more load to the network. They want to put Max Eb in. They want to get those valid, that get that validate account collapse down to take that load off the network. And then probably they feel comfortable doing this.
00:19:15.858 - 00:19:53.944, Speaker A: But we could get a blob count and size increase with Petra. So we could get that with Petra if blobs are at capacity long enough to justify it, and if the core devs feel like, okay, well, you know, these are our capacity and people really want this. Now, it's critical, let's increase it. But it depends because peer Das might be that solution that we can use for the short to medium term in order to alleviate that until we see the validator count collapse due to Max Eb. And then we could do a size and count increase in the next fork after Petra, which is, I believe, Osaka. At least that's one of the names of one of the forks on the Cl? El side there. But that's kind of my perspective on where things are going right now.
00:19:53.944 - 00:20:33.714, Speaker A: All right, so base announced today that they are working with Adidas. Well, it's not really an announcement, it's more of a teaser. But they said here, coming soon, Adidas is based. Now, we all remember some of these brands getting involved with crypto back in 2021, in particular with nfts, and it didn't really go well for them. But I think that they've been working on it in the background for a while and they didn't abandon crypto and they've been trying to find a way to do it that's sustainable, that actually makes sense, and that they can do that in a way where people don't have to pay, you know, high gas fees like they did on l one, Ethereum. And now we're at the point where they don't have to do that anymore because we have l two s. And.
00:20:33.714 - 00:21:03.712, Speaker A: And I think base is very well positioned here as the, I guess, like, cultural hub of the l two s because they already have a lot of the crypto native culture on there and they do have those incredibly cheap fees and it does have the security of Ethereum or will soon when they implement fraud proofs there. And it's tapped into the Ethereum ecosystem and all the other benefits that come with that. And it has the brand too. I mean, Adidas can be, I guess, like, or can have confidence that they're safely working with a killer brand because it's Coinbase. You know, base is Coinbase. Right. So there's no.
00:21:03.712 - 00:21:30.168, Speaker A: I mean, there's a. There's probably a little bit of risk for them to do this, but there's no huge risk. They're working with a well and a well run and trusted brand, which is really great for all of crypto. So I'll be keeping an eye on what this is and what this looks like. But, yeah, I just thought it was worth sharing because to me this is what actual adoption looks like. Not getting random B, D, C, great celebrities doing meme coins. And, you know, now I see, like, there's a lot of, a lot of, I guess, like, porn stars doing meme coins, too.
00:21:30.168 - 00:21:47.844, Speaker A: Like, for sure do whatever you want on chain. It's permissionless system. But, like, I'm not here for that. I'm not here for people making coins of themselves and dumping on their followers. Like, that just is disgusting to me, to be honest. And I really don't think that we should be championing that and promoting that. And I'm very glad that the Ethereum ecosystem isn't doing that.
00:21:47.844 - 00:22:14.594, Speaker A: And I think that if we want to scale to, to the masses, that's not going to be the way to do that. That's not an, that's not the way to onboard people. The way to onboard people is to do things like this, through cultural things, through things that people actually care about and aren't just pump and dumps. Like, I doubt Adidas is doing any of this to pump and dump, right. They're going to do it because it's, you know, they're tying their brand to it. They want to get more involvement with their brand, with their products and services. So I can't wait to see what, what's happening here.
00:22:14.594 - 00:23:03.704, Speaker A: All right, so supersede has launched their testnet. Now, this is the first time I think I've talked about super speed, super supersede on the refuel before. So this is a new L2 that is doing a lot of different things. So I actually should disclose here that I'm not in an investor in supersede yet, but I did talk to one of the founders about Supersede, and he basically gave me the pill about this and, like, what they're building here. And there is a lot guys, like, I'm still digesting it of what they're trying to do here. But I guess the simplest way I can explain it is they're trying to bring together a bunch of different primitives with, with the L2 in order to create a very nice flywheel where essentially the L2 actually can be profitable and actually make money. And the users that essentially a part of that ecosystem can share in the profits as well.
00:23:03.704 - 00:23:30.002, Speaker A: And it's not just through some kind of, like, dumb staking mechanism where you would stake the token and earn some kind of revenue from that. There are multiple different ways that they're doing it. But as I said, I'm still learning more about this, still digesting a lot of what's, what's going on here. But you can go check out their testnet for yourself and obviously check out what, what supersede is trying to do and all the moving parts here. But, I mean, as I said, I'm not an investor yet. I don't know if I'm going to invest or not yet, but I figured I was. It was worth disclosing that.
00:23:30.002 - 00:24:17.800, Speaker A: It's one thing that I'm looking into, but I was really excited when I was talking to one of the founders about this because a lot of the stuff that he was talking about was stuff that I've been wanting to see done, but just hasn't been done since, like, defy summer, basically bringing all those primitives that we discovered and that we used during DeFi summer or just during the early days of DeFi, generally bringing them together and essentially creating a super composable ecosystem where you have a flywheel effect going. And as I said, like, I haven't dived deep enough into it yet to explain it. Like, I'm five or anything like that. But you should definitely check out this project if you haven't yet. They've got, like, they've got a website, obviously, and they've got docs that you can check out about what's going on, you know, how they're. How they're doing things and what all the moving parts look like. Yeah, definitely.
00:24:17.800 - 00:24:52.174, Speaker A: Go check them out. One project that I haven't spoken about before but should be on your radar. I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, last up here, Zappa, an old OG project within the Ethereum ecosystem, has announced the Zappa protocol. Now, you guys probably know that I am an investor in Zappa, but fun fact, Zappa was my first angel investment, or at least my first, I guess, like, proper angel investment. My very first one was m stable, but I consider that to be a very different, I guess, time that was in, like, January 2019. And I wasn't like.
00:24:52.174 - 00:25:08.492, Speaker A: I didn't really consider myself an angel investor back then. So Zappa was like, I think my first proper angel investment back in. I think it was 2020 when I made this. So, yeah, I've been following Zappa for a very long time now. I've been following. I've been using it for a long time. I still use Zappa as my portfolio tracker.
00:25:08.492 - 00:25:40.426, Speaker A: Tracker. But there are a lot more than that now. Zappa protocol is going to be powered by Zap. So they announced their token today as well. But essentially, the vision for Zappa is to essentially illuminate on chain activity. So they want to increase on chain literacy so that you could basically, go on Zappa and see what's happening on chain across various different kind of interfaces and wallets and so on and so forth. So the Zappa protocol aims to solve this problem of deciphering what's happening through indexing, through interpreting different positions, through event interpreters.
00:25:40.426 - 00:26:20.254, Speaker A: So you can see here that essentially they already do this within Zappa, where it's like you got this transaction that says did something with so and so you can actually click onto that and you can interpret what this is. And that adds it to the collective knowledge base of the Zappa protocol so that other people can come along and see what exactly what this is here. So this is actually really good for security as well, seeing exactly what's happening and not getting fooled by things. But yeah, you can go check out Zappa's full announcement for yourself. I'll link the thread in the YouTube description for you to do so. But it seems like Zap is going to be the token is going to be launched in Q four of this year. I assume that's when the protocol is going to go live, or at least some version of it here.
00:26:20.254 - 00:26:48.716, Speaker A: But yeah, it's not too far away now, you know, Q four, we're already almost in Q three here. But yeah, as I said, like, this is a project close to my heart because it was my first real angel investment and it's been a while that I've been tracking them, tracking what they're doing. So super excited about this, but you can go read about this for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. But I think on that note, that's going to be it for today, guys. Thank you everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up.
00:26:48.716 - 00:26:52.364, Speaker A: Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all next week. Thanks everyone.
