00:00:08.520 - 00:00:19.966, Speaker A: Awesome. Are you guys excited? Yeah. Are you guys excited? Okay cool, cool, cool. Some people excited. Thanks for not leaving the room. Yeah, let's get started. Okay, cool.
00:00:19.966 - 00:00:39.544, Speaker A: How many of you guys heard about mitama snaps? I want to find you on the speech here. Okay cool. How many of you guys are dev rels in some products company? Okay. Okay. Because we will speak a little bit about developer onboarding. So. And how many of you guys are developers full time? Yeah, okay, sounds good.
00:00:39.544 - 00:00:57.804, Speaker A: Awesome. Awesome. So yeah, my name is Francesco. For anybody that doesn't know me, I'm part of the Devrel team at Consensys working on a bunch of things. Lately I've been dedicated on snaps. We launch officially like snaps on permissionless last year. This is a random picture from me from ETH Denver.
00:00:57.804 - 00:01:35.004, Speaker A: That was super cool. And yeah I've been quite around for different developer activation around the ecosystem and I'm just very excited to help mentoring developers around the world on different tech stack. Obviously consensus is the mother, the mother company. I don't know how many of you guys like deployed on linea. Linia is also one zkvm that we are having under the umbrella. We killed the switch. Can you guys hear me? Now I can shout.
00:01:35.004 - 00:02:33.664, Speaker A: Oh yeah, easy. Oh the screen here. Okay, awesome. You guys hear me? There is a bunch of narrative because why we need a better web3. But basically I identify three main principles around permissionless innovation, around why we want to build a better web3. And there are three main things, right? User owned accounts obviously like we're speaking that a lot. We want to give transparency to users, to developers and have officially like instruments to revoke permission.
00:02:33.664 - 00:03:14.440, Speaker A: I don't know if many of you guys feel that you are really the product in web two. And yeah, that's one of the big parts. Second, accessible interface. You want to make sure that not just users but also developer understand how you're interacting with the products. So specifically to snaps, you will see you have a very transparent interface. You can revoke access. I don't know how many of you guys revoke access to your extension on Chrome or even if you know how to do it because right now you have literally open channels and it's very difficult to understand what data is actually transferred, what the data is actually monetized and specific things.
00:03:14.440 - 00:04:58.872, Speaker A: So third big principle of consensual web, it's all about kind of like having those requests make people understanding what data you are sharing and what data you are actually revoking to. Fourth main principle is basically about permissions same concept. Basically as a user we want to be enabled to understand when we interact with something and understanding also when we are able to kind of like cut this connection, right? And the third most important one also you want to build a system that is fully modular, that is not just extendable from the community or for the users, but it's also like it's make people user as kind of like an experimental session, right? They want to build on top, they want to add new features all the time and it's all about also trust, having a user trust in your stack, but also having users trusting the ecosystem that you're in. So basically four main things, right? We want to build for community, for accessibility and for interoperability around different ecosystems. We want to speak about trust and attestation. This is something that we're also working on for specific web3 attestation system for like, you know, not just manually snaps part and then obviously extensibility, right. We want to have a fully modular system that people can enhance and can build on top of it, right? So I want to make people understand, you know, I'm not, I mean I don't know how future of wallets will look like I can actually tell you what does it look like, right? PvP, one size fits all, right? Important to understand is that there is no company that really know the best.
00:04:58.872 - 00:05:37.260, Speaker A: There is no journey that will satisfy everyone. What we are seeing right now is that different journey for different type of Persona, right? You will have always your NFT heavy user, you have always people more defi focused. You have people that want to have specific setting in their wallet for developer frameworks. So every journey need to be appearing differently and every journey need to be kind of satisfied. And also the last part, I really like this one because there is no really entity, no product owner, no product builder. There are actually. Oh nice.
00:05:37.260 - 00:06:09.646, Speaker A: We are back that actually know how to build one things, right. There was one time back, I think four, three, four years ago that we had something like 7000 open pr on the metamask source code. That was actually quite crazy. And basically what is happening is that we could not satisfy the speed of innovation and the growth of both integration and feature requests. So we need to start with high principle. I kind of mentioned that already. So user centric narrative.
00:06:09.646 - 00:06:45.332, Speaker A: You want to also speak about trust for the users and for the developers. You want to make sure that you're starting with decentralizing your products first. I don't know how many of you guys, obviously, if you're a developer used infura deploying on different networks. But right now also we are working on something called DIn decentralized node infrastructure. And basically it's kind of like a fully distributed version of infuria. And it's quite super interesting to see how those products are getting more and more decentralized. So I remind everybody, this is a journey, right? So it's not about the result.
00:06:45.332 - 00:07:38.328, Speaker A: So why we're building this is obviously to empower communities, but not just empowering, just getting feedback, but also empowering with specific instruments so that people can actually start to build and extend functionality of cool things. So that's what we call permissionless innovation. I'm advocating this since quite the early days, but without actually providing a full permissioned innovation environment for developers and builders around the ecosystem, will be very difficult to actually build sustainable products. Right? That's where we're coming finally to snaps, right? So snaps is nothing else as wallet functionality built on top of the extension that you see today. Think about our ads on, right? So you will see different ads on today. You will see stuff that is happening around non EVM compatible snap. You will see privacy snap.
00:07:38.328 - 00:08:15.442, Speaker A: There are different snap. I put here some of those categories here, but basically I'm super excited about obviously the non EVM compatible snap. I don't know if many of you guys use the solution or the BTC snap for specific things. I'm also quite excited about security snaps I'm interacting with. There is a snap called block fence and those guys for example are building snap that is interacting with understanding even before you're signing or accepting transaction. If you're interacting with a malicious contract or not, that's also quite interesting. And then there are snaps around decentralized identity.
00:08:15.442 - 00:09:11.068, Speaker A: There are snaps around transaction insight, also one of the early category that we'll be starting building with MPC and two FA for account recovery. That's also quite interesting. So the most important things that you want to also like work out today is that today if you go on Snaps Metamask IO, you have like 50 plus snaps that are allow listed. And there are different types of snaps. So different, depending on what you're doing, you can install and deinstall revoke access to any snaps today, right? It's quite cool because from one day to another you get functionality fully extended depending on what you are doing. We're also working on basically on specific UI components on both extension and mobile, and you will see quite cool things happening in the future. I have three slides just to understand a little bit because these are the questions that are always popping up security wise.
00:09:11.068 - 00:09:43.160, Speaker A: Snap is basically a fully siloed package that basically is interacting fully independently with extension. So every time that a snap is actually asking information or permissions you will see that. And I have a screenshot on the slide. Yeah. So the cool thing is that it's not just about it's interacting with the extension. But also snaps are fully compatible with also external APIs. So basically what you can do is leverage your own technology.
00:09:43.160 - 00:10:22.238, Speaker A: Think about, I don't know, you are building a push notification system. You have your own tech stack. So what basically is happening? You can have the snap interacting with your tech stack and the snap afterwards is interacting directly with the extension. This is the wallet guard snap. I just want to show you guys how revoke and permission looks like. Basically what you can see here is, is even like access to the Internet is being pushed. And it's quite interesting that you as a users, you really have a full understanding of what the snap is asking and what the snap is getting permissions to.
00:10:22.238 - 00:11:08.004, Speaker A: Right. And the cool thing is that those will appear in your settings but also you can revoke access specifically to specific snap. And it's quite extensible and apart that if you want to dd a little more, those are nothing else as NPM packages. So you will see how tours, you will see the full code behind the snap. And also you will see right now we are working on this kind of allow list DDE workflow that is giving basically what has been due diligence and what else. We are also working on this attestation with karma tree labs. I don't know if you heard about these guys but basically you can fully start even if you are in the community you can start to assessing and due diligence communities now being built on top and added to the wish list.
00:11:08.004 - 00:11:45.000, Speaker A: Cool. So just three things, right? So first, naps are self custodial. You can you really understand like who they are accessing and what you can interact with. Also like your own tech stack API or also external and also like obviously like whatever snaps you're installing yourself you can disinstall and you have full ownership on whatever you want to do. So this for everybody that want to install. This is a quick QR code with some guides and you will see in the allow list today there are four main categories. Interop security, communication and account management.
00:11:45.000 - 00:12:14.980, Speaker A: I forgot to mention that the one on communication is actually quite interesting. You have a snap that basically can interact with other wallets. You can basically like we are two friends, we are installing both the same snap. And basically I can do encrypted chat to chat directly through wallets instead. Sending transaction is actually quite interesting for the developers out there. They want to get started with snap apart. Like I don't know if you guys are hacking in Prague or in xhackathons.
00:12:14.980 - 00:12:54.744, Speaker A: We have different kind of GitHub discussion repo some examples. Now you can fork and build on that and also some guides. There is also a cool wish list snap that we would like to see being built in the future. And it's also quite interesting to see. Okay, now we spoke about snaps, right? We spoke about why this is important, why extending the functionality of your wallet today is extremely necessary. Because community is not just asking for different features, but I also want to contribute more actively on those being featured. But I also want to state something, you know, building to cool technology is not enough.
00:12:54.744 - 00:13:51.504, Speaker A: You want to also build frameworks, you want to activate your developer community, but most important is you want to align with other products around the ecosystem to build cool things. And for doing that you need some frameworks, you need to speak the same language. And today, like we are speaking on different languages around, you know, developer onboarding, even like for the dev relation, every time that we're debating different activation, we have different metrics and different ROI for different target Persona. So in this last couple of minutes, I just want to show you guys what I've been working on for the past like year. And those are basically called like Devrel frameworks. Just to speak about those developer activation a little bit more on a higher level, right? So that everybody can start, everybody can start kind of like saying okay, this top activation are very similar to this. So kind of like speaking the same language.
00:13:51.504 - 00:15:14.264, Speaker A: I don't know if you remember this, I don't know. I studied that like maybe ten years ago on back on my studies. But this is the Maslow hierarchy of needs. And basically what I did is I recreated this one called Francesco builder hierarchy of builder needs. And basically like this is nothing else as a pyramid of low hanging fruit builder needs, right? So you will have here, I don't think I can point, but basically you will have here on the lowest part, like what is really necessary for making and activating successfully your developer communities or you have specific things, right? You know, you need to get your docs on plays, you want to have your presence and specific flagship events and different things, right? You want to have also tutorials, guides on your dock, they're specific, fine tuned for your Persona. And then the part that I really like is basically the second part after you kind of nail down your specific needs for kind of like the low angle fruits, right? You want to also like build this kind of level of safe space, right? No one is really deploying on your L2 if you're actually not showing people that you're a thought leader in the space, right. This is what I'm calling kind of like agnostic, like layer that is all about winning developers around agnostic and verticalized activation.
00:15:14.264 - 00:16:07.646, Speaker A: So this is like, I don't have much time, but this is basically like one of the main framework. I put also like a full, like I wrote a quick, quick paper on that and that's also like quite interesting that I can show you guys also like later. And basically that's, that's compromised like on different levels and what else? So obviously like engaging developers successfully, you want to focus on education, you want to also like start to think about this kind of second level. So you don't want to shield directly on the developer phase, but also like trying to understand that vertical based use case both in docs, both in tutorial are very effective. And also like most important, like be honest of what you're building. Snaps has been a huge journey. It started back I think like six years ago with Dan trying to add Cosmos interoperability.
00:16:07.646 - 00:16:39.746, Speaker A: And that's where kind of like the thing started to think about, okay, what else can we add, what features can we add and how we can build this kind of framework for also like developers out in the community to extend the functionality of the wallet. And every time we're going to hackathon with different specific snaps tooling, for example, we went to, I don't know, like Heath Lisbon with transaction inside. And then we came back after the hackathon with feedback. We revamp our docs. We rebuild literally like our docs from scratch. And we did that for like six, seven times. And this was like a big lesson learned.
00:16:39.746 - 00:17:33.886, Speaker A: So for everybody that are building not just docs, but also like extending functionality of your product. And the other big part is that, you know, any activation that you see out there, what you want to do is understanding what target per Persona you have, what type of developer you're engaging with, at what stage. That's basically the second main framework that I want to show you today. And that's basically it, right? So this is, and I can kind of like, I saw quite a lot of things around the ecosystem all the time. Not just around hackathons, but also around the different, you know, developer ecosystem. And today without any doubt, like the majority of activation are being done in this kind of product specific conversion. And basically I ask myself a lot what really matters for gaining this kind of top of the funnel developers.
00:17:33.886 - 00:18:18.682, Speaker A: And kind of the response was quite obvious. But I think we're not really debating this stuff a lot that we need much more value driven onboarding strategies. We want to build a use case, we want to drive specific vertical forwards and not just shouting, hey, use this product because of this. If you think about having Dapps developers to deploy on your network, a cool thing could be let's start building vertical specific tutorials and drive the conversation from there. If you also start speaking about smart wallets, could be cool. Having some kind of a meetup driving this kind of narrative. And this was one of my biggest lesson learned.
00:18:18.682 - 00:19:24.514, Speaker A: And that's why kind of like I try to combine things together in here and here. I don't know if you can read, but basically like you have small activation for each part of the funnel. And also like one thing to state is that you can have, for example, product very specific product community calls, you can have very specific webinars or like you workshops that are product specific. But in the upper part on this value driven onboarding, you want to focus on getting developers excited about not just your own ecosystem but the entire stack where you're working on. And also that's why a lot of activations like ecosystem community calls could be even like virtual or irl hackathons that are expanding on different features are very useful. And yeah, and as you can see here, I also try to be quite agnostic as possible with kind of like not focusing on what specific products and yeah, and was, I mean, it's quite perceived, interestingly. And there is also like a bunch of like papers on that that everybody can read.
00:19:24.514 - 00:20:04.994, Speaker A: And one example that was a big lesson to learn was something called like builder nights. We started with my colleague back in there, something called builder nights two years ago on account destruction meetups. And it kind of like evolved this as a movement that people wanted to hear the most kind of like agnostic and agnostic debate around these topics. And now we run, I don't know, something like 25 builder nights in literally like every city that you saw flagship and ETH events happening. And it was actually quite interesting. And tonight we're also doing one here at ETH Prague if you guys want to join. Yeah, so sounds good.
00:20:04.994 - 00:20:43.684, Speaker A: I think I spent enough time here. Let's quickly recap, right? So permissionless innovation, everybody need to kind of build sustainable product, regenerative product. How to do that is empowering much more and activate really your community. Don't just wait for feedbacks but build kind of this sustainable layer so that everybody can build on top of and enable this kind of permissionless innovation. Build a vibrant community around your product. Not just only focus on your product itself, but think about that. You want to be a thought leader first of what you're building before even putting in front of developer your technology.
00:20:43.684 - 00:21:44.318, Speaker A: And also one thing, this is not just about Devrel, but also trying to build those relationships from scratch on. You need to be able to support developers wherever they want and wherever they are in this funnel. And yeah, and that's a little bit it, right. So everything, it's like we need to remind ourselves why we are also here, right? We want to build a better, not just technology stack, but we want to build this kind of permissionless innovation. We want to empower much more users, especially like having this consent is king, trying to get users understanding what they're doing and how they can empower themselves, but also in the same time understanding what accesses they're giving to what. So that's kind of like my presentation and yeah, I put here some links and yeah, check out a bunch of snaps that will happen and I'm open for questions and looking forward to see you guys at yith Prague and builder night. Awesome.
00:21:44.318 - 00:21:53.178, Speaker A: Thank you guys. I think we have one question there in the, just a second.
00:21:53.306 - 00:21:54.454, Speaker B: Activate the mic.
00:21:59.994 - 00:22:25.042, Speaker C: Thank you for the presentation. Yeah, great idea. Really like it. Kind of looking at your pyramid of needs. Kind of surprised that kind of looking at the physiological needs which is the bottom of the pyramid, which food, shelter, water, you need money for that. I didn't see any way for third party developers to monetize. So what's the plan for that?
00:22:25.218 - 00:22:28.802, Speaker A: You mean monetize? You want snaps to be monetizable or.
00:22:28.938 - 00:22:35.402, Speaker C: Yeah, of course. I mean it's hard work. So why would metamask capture all that value?
00:22:35.578 - 00:23:17.194, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean let's also like we are not owning any snaps out there, right? Like so third party developers organization that can build snaps today they're owning their own snap. Like our own idea is just to pushing having a platform for Snap's developer to build on top. There are different ways to monetize in the future. We are building this extensible UI. People can also leverage their own technology stack to empower the snap. There are different transaction insights, for example, can work also with your own API and depending on what you're building, you can also leverage your own pricing model. I'm looking forward much more on this.
00:23:17.194 - 00:24:00.756, Speaker A: Right now the allow list is fully built by us to get in this allow list. And with this attestation service, basically you can actually activate much more the community on the DD side. So my assumption is that will be a lot of snaps developers that will start also DD order snaps that want to go on the allow list. And basically that's also like one way. There are different ways, but we are trying to step, step by step and there is no, I mean there will be a way to monetize in the future for both snaps developers but also users. But right now the most important part is satisfying feature requests and integration. And right now we're getting bombard.
00:24:00.756 - 00:24:23.024, Speaker A: Hey, we want to have our tech stack being integrated on the extension on portfolio. And at the same time is that we want to have like, especially like non evm ecosystems, right? We want to add support and now there is a way to start telling people, hey, there is actually like a way you can build your own support and you can actually extend the functionality on that.
00:24:24.324 - 00:24:33.544, Speaker B: Amazing. Is there another question? Actually, I also do have one question myself, or if you want to go first, a follow up.
00:24:35.104 - 00:25:03.276, Speaker C: Yeah, just, sorry, just about the due diligence since now you have people's private keys and everything through metamask and you're adding this third party, I guess, developer to add a module into it through a snap, what's the due diligence like? How are you going to guarantee the security of the third party modules? Are you going to standardize, use something like ERC 6900 to actually follow a standard or what's the process like?
00:25:03.420 - 00:25:40.304, Speaker A: Yeah, right now I can tell you a little bit about like, you know, what, what is a snap look like? Right before I mentioned those snaps are fully in siloed. So basically everything even interacting and getting access to the private key like you basically as a user. So you need to actually approve it. And I can go back to the slides, but long story short, is that everything that the snap is allow, listen to the extension to do you need to approve it, right? Yeah, yeah. Depending. There are basically like, there are specific like frameworks that you can do it. Yeah, I can show you.
00:25:40.684 - 00:25:58.994, Speaker B: Awesome. I also have a question myself, if that's okay. I would like to take the focus away from Devrel a little bit and ask you how do you think that snaps are going to help onboard new users to metamasks? And also if you're doing or planning to do something to help developers design specifically for users.
00:25:59.154 - 00:26:33.910, Speaker A: Yeah, that's a good question. So before I mention about this, kind of like that each journey will be different. So like my expectation in the future, like you will have pre built kind of like wallets. Basically whenever you are installing your own extension, you will say, okay, I'm a defi heavy users and you have very specific defi snap already pre installed. So I think this will help a lot. On specific onboarding. For example, we see now NFT heavy users, they just care about, I don't know, like NFT trading or they just want to have specific features.
00:26:33.910 - 00:27:08.104, Speaker A: And right now like the experience will be okay. I'm adding like some specific NFT snaps. And basically like the future will be specific to like having much more customized wallet with pre configured snap. I think that's kind of like the way that I think like customize journey will go. And the second part that you were mentioning also how we are supporting developers to get that. So first we have this wish list of Snap that we see that users are also asking. But also like in terms of support, more monetary support is we have a full, we have the metamask grants.
00:27:08.104 - 00:27:33.034, Speaker A: Dao. There's actually everybody here can send a full proposal for getting grounded for building a snap. Not just a snap, also could be leveraging also metamask SDK and specific things. And then we have different programs more lower in the funnel like scale. I don't know if you heard about it, but also it's quite interesting. And we have a lot of snaps building right now. Super excited about different use cases, especially on account construction tool.
00:27:33.034 - 00:27:34.418, Speaker A: Yeah, awesome.
00:27:34.506 - 00:27:38.094, Speaker B: Well, thank you so much for joining us. Big round of applause.
00:27:38.994 - 00:27:39.538, Speaker A: Thank you.
00:27:39.586 - 00:27:41.394, Speaker B: Definitely be joining you for builder night later.
