00:00:00.160 - 00:00:12.406, Speaker A: Hello, everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Day. Grey refuel, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Sano. Today's the 28 August, 2023. Right, everyone, let's get into it. So some big news from the SEC today.
00:00:12.406 - 00:01:08.826, Speaker A: You know our favorite us regulatory agency, but they charged an LA based media and entertainment company, impact theory, for an unregistered offering of nfts. Now that's a weird thing to read, right? Because not, not because it's like the SEC going after someone for selling something, right? We're all, we're all about that. We know all about that. But her mind, Wong here actually points out that the headline should have read for unregistered offering of securities, right? Because what the SEC is doing here is that they're basically saying that NFTs are all securities in this headline, or they're making the assertion that all NFTs securities because there's no such thing as an unregistered offering of NFTs, right. That just doesn't exist. It doesn't exist in law either. Now, of course, they went after like one of the dodgiest NFT issuers, impact theory, which Zack XBT has actually done a thread on.
00:01:08.826 - 00:01:38.450, Speaker A: In 2021, they raised $30 million or something by selling nfts. And then they made all these promises about how they were going to drive value to these nfts and stuff like that. Obviously, it very much looks like a securities offering, right, or very much looks like an investment contract. But when it comes to the wording of these things, it's worth paying attention to that. And Hermione, her mind in this, in this Twitter thread has actually done that and broken it down for us. Now, I think from what I've read, they paid a $6.1 million fine or something like that.
00:01:38.450 - 00:02:06.712, Speaker A: And basically, I guess, like they had to return some kind of like money or burn the nfts that they had. There was some stipulations in there. But I mean, this doesn't really seem like anyone's being protected. All it seems like is that, you know, you raise 30 million, you pay a $6.1 million fine to the SEC. It's kind of like the SEC is like a mafia going after their protection money and then away you go, right? No one goes to jail or anything like that. So I know the SEC can't bring criminal proceedings against anyone.
00:02:06.712 - 00:02:36.510, Speaker A: Obviously, that's the Department of Justice's kind of purview there. But still, you know, it's all, it's all a bit of a racket to me, to be honest. And yeah, I think outside of that, the, you know, in her mind's tweet thread here, just, just basically saying that, like this headline saying unregistered offering of nfts, there's no such thing as a registered offering of nfts. Right. Because you can't go to the SEC and say, hey, I have these nfts I want to sell. Can I register to sell them? That's just not a thing, at least from what I know. I very much doubt that that is a thing.
00:02:36.510 - 00:03:19.216, Speaker A: I'm almost certain it's not. So, yeah, the headline should have read an unregistered offering of securities. And then the SAC says, well, the securities took the form of an NFT, and then those nfts that were sold took the form of an investment contract, which is the actual security. As we've seen, this is, this was argued in the ripple case and this is exactly what Coinbase is arguing as well in their lawsuit. So her mind says, yeah, this is just another blatant naked grab for power over crypto by the SEC. And really, I mean, what's to stop them from doing this, right. Like, there's been no kind of, I guess, like pushback on the SEC in Congress for this because obviously the presidency is a democratic right now, or Democrat, I should say presidency right now.
00:03:19.216 - 00:03:43.476, Speaker A: And Gary Gensler is a Democrat. He was appointed by a Democrat president. So when you look at it like that, they're not going to get any pushback, even though they should. And that's why these things usually settle as well, especially for things that are generally quite dodgy. And then the ACC can just use whatever language they want, because if it goes to court, that's where they get challenged. Right. And that's where they probably most likely will lose, because as I said, they're just doing power grabs here.
00:03:43.476 - 00:04:23.428, Speaker A: It's not really based on the law or anything like that. But unfortunately, they can do this because really, the only way that you can hit back at them is by taking them caught. But if they sell, if they're saying to you, hey, you can pay this fine and, you know, that's it. We'll just, the case is over, the settlement's done, whatever. You just, you know, you pay back all of this, the SEC gets what they want, right. They get to further kind of increase their agenda, which is having a power over crypto and they're not challenged in court about it. So I think that, and even when they go to court, it's kind of funny because, like, when you look at the incentives as well, like, SEC has such an enormous budget, they don't care if they go to court, right? They don't even care if they lose.
00:04:23.428 - 00:04:47.246, Speaker A: To be honest. I got. I doubt Gary Gensler cares if he loses, because to them, it's like, well, we go to court, but we do all these other settlements outside of court with these groups, and then we can just make the money back that way. So it's. It's all a rort, guys. Like, it's all such a disgusting game to me. Especially, like, I used to, actually, when I was, I guess not in crypto a long time ago, I used to look at these agencies and, like, cheer them on when they went after these kind of, like, bad actors, so to speak.
00:04:47.246 - 00:05:16.492, Speaker A: But then when you look more closely at what they're actually doing, they don't care about the bad actors. They don't care about any of these sorts of stuff. All they care is about their own power, their own political goals, their own career goals. And that takes the form of what we see happening with the SEC and crypto. Because if the SEC, in my mind, actually cared about protecting crypto investors, they would put in place proper frameworks, or they would at least encourage congressional. They're put in place proper frameworks, proper legislation so that the SEC could do their job to the best of their ability. But they're not doing that.
00:05:16.492 - 00:05:40.412, Speaker A: They're doing the exact opposite of that, where Gary Ganzler is going in front of these committees and basically saying, no, the law is fine. We know it doesn't need to be changed. It's clear when it's anything but that. So, yeah, it is quite frustrating when you dive deeper into these things and you realize that it really just seems like a rot. I mean, people say that crypto is full of scams. Have you seen the government? Right? So, anyway, I'm gonna. I'm gonna stop ranting there, but you can go give this tweet thread a read from her mind.
00:05:40.412 - 00:06:08.296, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so some good news out of a DCG and genesis. So you remember that GCG owes Genesis, like, a billion dollars or something. And DCG is the. Is stands for digital currency group, which is a large conglomerate within crypto, headed up by Barry Silbert, that owns properties such as Coindesk and a bunch of others. And they're. They're basically had their lending arm, essentially, where they got blown up.
00:06:08.296 - 00:06:34.430, Speaker A: I think three ac blew them up. And then they ended up owing Genesis creditors, of which one of them was Gemini, obviously a big creditor. You've seen the spat between those groups there because of all that blow up there. Well, today it was announced that they have reached an agreement. DCG has reached an agreement with Genesis creditors to deliver recoveries of up to 90%. Now, full details about this is in the the article, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. But this is going to take a while to pay out.
00:06:34.430 - 00:07:13.662, Speaker A: Apparently they're going to be paying out in a kind of schedule here. And the plan could result in estimated recoveries about 70% to 90% for unsecured creditors in us dollar equivalent, and a 65% to 90% recovery for an in kind basis, depending on the dominomination of the digital assets. And I believe I read somewhere that this could potentially take up to seven years to be fully paid back, which was the kind of unsecured promissory note here. So. Yeah, but anyway, as though it gets generally positive news, it means people get paid back, right? People are made whole. You know, a lot of people didn't do the wrong thing here. I think the biggest players did the wrong thing.
00:07:13.662 - 00:07:36.120, Speaker A: I mean, most of them are under arrest or in jail right now and facing criminal charges. But the others, you know, three AC, they're still, they're still out there. They're not even helping. All three AC founders, I should say Suzu and Kyle Davies, they're not even helping with the recovery process or anything. They blew themselves up. They start, and then they, they've kind of like fled to these jurisdictions where they're not going to get extradited. And they started their new kind of like exchange company.
00:07:36.120 - 00:07:58.884, Speaker A: They issued this token or whatever. And I think what they're hoping is that they can make it all back in one trade. And then I don't know if they'll pay back creditor three AC creditors in that world. But yeah, I think they're hoping that they can do it again, you know, building the bear, so to speak, and then profit in the bull. But it's all, it was all a very big mess, as you guys know. So anyway, you can go read this full article. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so.
00:07:58.884 - 00:08:36.622, Speaker A: All right. An update out of the Eigen layer ecosystem today. So they've shared the first bunch of projects that they're working with or that are building with Eigen layer. So there are twelve projects here already that are building with Eigen layer. And you can see some of the names here that you may be familiar with, such as Salo, which is that l one that's becoming an l two espresso, which are building kind of sequences and shared sequences. Mantle which is an l two on Ethereum alt layer which offers roll up as a service Eigen Da, which is the Eigen data, that availability layer, and many more here. So if you're interested in learning more about each of those projects and what they're doing with Eigen layer, you can check this out.
00:08:36.622 - 00:09:07.100, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But this, you know, this makes me even more kind of like, I guess like bullish on, on Eigen layer. And I should obviously disclose here that I'm an investor in Eigen layer. But I've been talking about Eigen layer for so long now, long before I invested in it. And I know there are concerns around Eigen layer generally and around, I mean, not so much around Eigen layer, but around the concept of restaking. And I've gone through those before, so I'm not going to rehash myself here. But the reason why I typically get bullish on like move on the moves on projects.
00:09:07.100 - 00:10:12.108, Speaker A: Making moves like this is because I think business development and partnering with projects and especially, you know, other successful projects and integrating with them is the lifeblood of really any ecosystem. If you look at the most successful ecosystems in crypto, it's always been either a concerted bd approach that they've taken to partner with long and long term, kind of like applications that actually push the space forward and actually innovate and actually go somewhere and aren't just flashing the pan things, obviously polygons. BD department is well known as well, but you've seen optimism recently do a lot of really great bd, especially by landing base to build on the op stack and, sorry, I should say, landing coinbase to build based on the op stack. So I always get pretty excited when I see this kind of business development going on because to me it's just a very strong signal that the project understands what it takes to, to kind of like make it, so to speak. Right now, of course, there's no guarantee here that most of these projects are going to go anywhere. As I've said before, just because sello is becoming an l two on ethereum doesn't mean they're going to find product market fit. You know, they still have to build out their product, they still have to get, get users, of course, and everything in between.
00:10:12.108 - 00:10:47.666, Speaker A: And same goes for all of these. I'm not just picking on sello here, but same goes for all of these things. And some of them have a higher chance than others. For example, eigens data availability layer that they're building, I think that has a pretty high chance of success, to be honest. Because think about it like this. If you're going to use off chain data, like if you're going to be a validum or something, and you want to store your data somewhere that is obviously cheap but also secure, well, what is going to be the most secure data availability layer? What's obviously going to be something that is harnessing staked ETH, right? Because ETH is already very valuable, and there's already a lot of ETH in eigen layers, contracts. We all know that the demand that's there.
00:10:47.666 - 00:11:33.814, Speaker A: So as a project, you're going to go with Eigen Da because it is going to be the most secure. And in terms of cost, we don't know what it's going to look like. But I think just from a security perspective, that makes the most sense. And then if you're an l two and you want, you know, you want to do shared sequencing or sequences generally and stuff like that, you would, espresso seems to be at the forefront of that kind of world right now, so you would go with them. So that's why, I mean, when looking at these projects and what they're doing, you can kind of gauge generally their chances of success. Obviously, every kind of startup has really low chances of success, and you got to kind of gauge it against other, I think, startups. But you also gauge it against established players and think to yourself, okay, what are the chances that this startup can actually put a dent in the established players market share and grow over time? And we see this play out across the entire ecosystem.
00:11:33.814 - 00:12:12.596, Speaker A: Obviously, it's not just a crypto thing, but within the crypto context, we see these play out all the time. Like just to take an example of the staking ecosystem within Ethereum, because we're talking about Eigen layer here. Let's, let's put like Lido against Rockerpool, for example, since that's a fan, fan favorite. So your bet on, on Rocketpool is not only a bit like if you buy the RPL token right over the LDO token, what you're betting on is that Rockerpool is going to eat into Lido's market share and grow their own market share. Of course, you're betting that Rocketpool is going to be able to build tools and partnerships and do marketing in order to make that a reality. And you're also betting on the RPL token accruing that value. Right.
00:12:12.596 - 00:12:45.198, Speaker A: I mean, there's, there's other things inside of that, but that's the cost kind of general thing I think about. So then you have to think yourself, okay, well, what's the percentage chance of each of those things happening? And then obviously, by doing research into these things and seeing, um, a variety, a variety of different factors, I'm not going to go through them all. I have my own thing that I look at when I make investments, um, especially public market investments as well. It's, it's a very big thing for me. I don't make much public market investments, really. It's just been ETH lately. Um, but when it comes to angel investments, I base my size typically on, I guess, like how bullish I am on, on the project, really.
00:12:45.198 - 00:13:24.236, Speaker A: And I mean, I'll be, I'll be honest with you guys. I put, I put a pretty sizable chunk relative to my other angel investments into Eigen layer. And I've actually done that with all the l two s as well because you guys know I'm all about the l two s, right? So that's the kind of thing that I look at when investing in things. And, yeah, as I said, like business development, marketing generally is the lifeblood of a project, especially early stage ones. So, yeah, not trying to show you guys on Eigen layer or anything like that, but I figured I'd explain kind of my way of thinking about projects generally and when they partner with things, because we all know that there are a lot of projects out there that have partnered together or done these kind of like bd things that went nowhere. Right. They went absolutely nowhere.
00:13:24.236 - 00:13:51.302, Speaker A: Sometimes they're fake partnerships. Like, there's a kind of running meme that these l one s, they always say they partnered with Microsoft or they partnered with Google, but what they've really done, what they've really done is basically just used Google Cloud or Microsoft cloud or something like that. Right. And this is kind of like this running joke about that. And I remember I put in the Discord channel once that these partnerships are akin to me saying that I partnered with a steak for dinner tonight because I ate steak for dinner. Right. There is a lot of that going on, don't get me wrong.
00:13:51.302 - 00:14:40.580, Speaker A: And that's, again, why you have to actually do your own research, see what the partnerships are, see if there's actually substance there, and then make kind of informed decisions about whether you want to follow along with this project, whether you want to invest in it and so on and so forth. But anyway, if you want to check out Eigen layers early projects, sorry, the early projects that are building on eigen layer, you can check this blog post out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so I talk about data availability a lot on the refuel, especially in the context of l two s. And I think the term itself is very confusing. And Bartek actually from the l two beat team today, put out a tweet thread where he said data availability is by far the most confusing term we have ever come up with. Data publishing plus data storage are better terms that are more intuitive, DA, or data publishing, not data storage.
00:14:40.580 - 00:15:08.544, Speaker A: Here are a few facts that you might be, well, unaware of, and the thread continues, and you can give that a read there. But yeah, I mean, in my experience, the term data availability is extremely confusing for people. Not just because of what Bartek has said here, but also because of things like, for example, when I say data availability, I don't mean the availability of NFT pictures, guys. I mean data as in like the state of the chain or the state of a roll up. That's what I mean. And that's what the term actually means. It doesn't mean that.
00:15:08.544 - 00:16:01.584, Speaker A: Oh, is the picture of your PFP available on Ethereum? Or is it available somewhere else or is available in some SQL server? It's got nothing to do with that in this kind of like terminology that we use it for. But Bartek says, and I agree, it's confusing. And that's why he's kind of broken this down in this tweet thread here, which I highly recommend reading. I'll link it in the YouTube description. But I guess like generally outside of that as well, when it comes to terminology within crypto and Ethereum, like, it's always going to be a game of confusion because there's these new terms that get created and then they're created because we just need a term to name this thing. So let's take dank sharding, for example. If you're not in Ethereum, and if you don't, like, even if you're in Ethereum, you probably don't understand why it's called dank sharding, right? And I've explained it to you before, it's because Dankrad fiest, one of the Ethereum researchers, came up with dank sharding.
00:16:01.584 - 00:16:40.312, Speaker A: Right, right. Like, and it's, that's why it's called that. And then people will ask, well, why is it called proto Dank sharding. It's like, well, it's kind of a play on words where it's like proto is proto lambda, which is another, well, former Ethereum researcher now works at optimism, came up with this kind of like prototype version of dank sharding that we call proto dank sharding or AIP 4844. So these terms are descriptive in context, right? But to the layman, or even to people that just don't have the context, it just sounds ridiculous. And I totally understand that. But I think that regardless of that, you always need a name for something and the researchers are going to name it one thing because they have all the context, right.
00:16:40.312 - 00:17:06.428, Speaker A: They have all the context around what, why they're naming it that. But then that's going to confuse people. But I think that that's just the way of the world really. I mean, it's not hard to learn what these terms mean, to be honest. There's so many resources these days for you to learn what these things mean. And I think that, you know, the Bartec thread here is just another great resource for that. But also bartext thread, more hits on the fact that the terminology that we use in general isn't actually as descriptive as we, as we think it is.
00:17:06.428 - 00:17:40.238, Speaker A: And we shouldn't actually use that. We should actually change the terminology if we discover that it isn't actually the right terminology to use. So anyway, you can give Bartech's tweet thread a read for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, speaking of l two beat, they've announced today that they are soon going to start enforcing their final stages requirement on the website, which is the existence of an open source node that can recreate the state from l one data. They said here we'll be contacting projects and updating the stage designation for systems that do not meet the requirement. And there's a thread for context here.
00:17:40.238 - 00:18:36.264, Speaker A: So yeah, I mean, just to give you the TLDR context, there are obviously those stages that Vitalik came up with that l two beat adopted on their website. And if you go to the website here, you can actually see it, you know, stage one, stage, sorry, stage zero, stage one and stage two. And each of these stages has a criteria to hit. And what l two b is saying that they're going to be soon updating these stages to basically say that in order to be considered a stage two, I guess like roll up, you need to have an open source node that can recreate the state from l one data, which just makes sense. It basically means that anyone should be able to run a full node of your roll up in order to make sure that everything is going correctly to sync to the head of the chain, to the head of roll up, so to speak. And it needs to be open source as well so people can actually see what's going on under the hood as it exists today. I don't think anything that is stage 2 may not have this.
00:18:36.264 - 00:19:18.920, Speaker A: So, for example, the only two things that are stage two on l two beat are d gate and fuel v one. I don't know if those projects actually have a open source full node that you can run for them. If they don't, then they're actually going to be demoted, I believe, back to stage one because I think stage two is going to include that requirement, and that's going to be a tall order for some projects. I think you can see most of the projects are actually still at stage zero. There's a couple at stage one, like Arbitrum one and Dy DX. But if they don't have that, I guess like that open source node, then they're probably not going to be upgraded to stage two, which is only fair. And stage two also includes a bunch of other criteria, such as fraud proofs being able to be submitted by anyone.
00:19:18.920 - 00:19:50.270, Speaker A: Upgrades, you know, unrelated to on chain provable bugs provide less than 30 days to exit, so it needs more than 30 days to exit. And the Security Council's actions are not confined to on chain provable bugs. So there are those things to hit as well. But I guess, like if they do hit all of those things right now and they don't hit the full node requirement, I think that they're not going to be upgraded to stage two, which, which, as I said, makes sense. But you can read l two beats thread for full breakdown on this. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right.
00:19:50.270 - 00:20:26.798, Speaker A: Brantley has shared a cool little look at something that he seems to be building right now called the Ethereum follow protocol. Protocol, which is basically he's calling, it's a native protocol for Ethereum accounts to follow each other. And you can see here the latest designs of this or what he's basically kind of working on and what it looks like. So you can see on the left hand side there's a summary of, of what it is. So Brantley, his followers, people, he's following what he is on the leaderboard, such and such. And then you've got like a discover section on the right hand side leaderboard, all that good stuff there. I guess this definitely falls into the bucket of decentralized social media, I guess.
00:20:26.798 - 00:21:11.324, Speaker A: And you can see there's more screenshots here of what this looks like, like profile, discover leaderboards, all that stuff there. And all obviously natively in protocol in this Ethereum, in this Ethereum follower protocol here, so that the state is on chain. So basically what ends up happening is that all of everything you do here, if you're using the official Ethereum follow protocol interface, it shows you the same state as another interface that is not associated with the Ethereum follow protocol project itself. But it's a third party interface building on top. They will of tap into the same state that everyone else taps into, which means you'll have the same profile, the same following all that good stuff. And it's all of course integrated with ENS as well, because ENS works this way today. So if you want to see those screenshots, I'll link them in the YouTube description below.
00:21:11.324 - 00:22:38.810, Speaker A: But a cool project to follow along with is definitely the Ethereum follow protocol here. Athena Labs has announced their first end to end integration of their kind of, I guess, like software here, I guess not software, their products here with Bybit, Lido and copper. So they said here, for the first time in history, lighter's Ste collateral is combined with institutional grade custody solutions and a leading derivative exchange in order to create their products. Now, you guys know that I'm an investor in Athena and I've described their products for you before. And the main product that they're trying to build is a stable coin that basically exists as being backed by things like staked ethics and also following along with derivatives markets or I guess like the markets of futures and things like that, in order to give a yield or generate a yield, a native yield for the stable coin instead of the yield going to, I guess, the issuer of the stablecoin because as it exists today, and as I've explained before, all of the yield that goes towards the US dollars backing tether or any of the kind of like collateral back in tether or USDC, well then maybe not USDC because out of that program, but like tether for example, that goes to tether labs, right? That doesn't go to the holders of USD T. Now what Athena was trying to do is create a stable coin where the yield, it actually does go to the holders of the stable coin. And also it is backed by things like like staked ETH StE for our 8th and then that extra yield gets fed into that as well.
00:22:38.810 - 00:23:07.116, Speaker A: So that staked ETH yield gets fed into that as well. But yeah, cool to see them integrating with a major extent exchange here, as well as obviously the biggest LST that exists today. All right, to round out today's episode, I have a little bullish rant for you guys. I know these things are always exciting and you always love hearing me talk about it. And I'm sure you, you probably a lot of you saw my tweet that I'm going to talk to today, but I basically put together a pretty long tweet here. It's not a tweet thread. It's one of those long tweets which I'll link in the YouTube description below.
00:23:07.116 - 00:23:56.214, Speaker A: Going over how I see the next twelve to 18 months playing out in, in crypto now, I kind of described how I bucket the, I guess, like, narratives that are going to play out over the next 18 months into two main categories, which is the outsider bullish narratives and the insider bullish narratives. Outsider, obviously, are things that non crypto people get excited about or can kind of like, buy into. And then the insider stuff is the people that the crypto natives get is the stuff that the crypto natives get excited about. And of course, the crypto natives can also get excited about the outside of bullish narratives. So that's like a double up for us there. But outside of the narrative stuff, I also mentioned timing, and I've said before on the refuel plenty of times that I think that 2023 looks a lot like 2019 in terms of timing wise. I do think that the four year cycle looks like it still wants to play out again.
00:23:56.214 - 00:24:33.246, Speaker A: And that's where the narratives also also kind of play into this. So what are these narratives? Well, the main outsider bullish narratives include the bitcoin harvesting in April 2024. Now, if you look at the chart, and this is not correlation. This is not, I guess, like correlation, causation or anything like that. But if you look at the chart of bitcoin over its entire life cycle, it has always gone up after the halving. There has always been a bull market after the halving, 2012 into 2013, 2016 into 2017, 2020 into 2021, now 2024, potentially into 2025. Is that kind of bull market that I'm talking about here.
00:24:33.246 - 00:24:59.254, Speaker A: Now people say, well, it's because there's less BTC on the market and, and people can. And because of that, the, the price just naturally goes up. I don't think that's necessarily the case. I think the case is that it's just a narrative that people latch onto, that they latch onto the narrative that there's less BTC in the market. They latch onto the narrative that BTC has always pumped after the harvening. And this is a narrative that exists outside of crypto. Not just inside crypto, but outside of crypto pretty, pretty prominently, I believe.
00:24:59.254 - 00:25:28.646, Speaker A: And that is used in order to get new money into the ecosystem. And as I said here, it's always a fan favorite as well. So what are the second things? Well, obviously we had a lot of discussion around this ETF stuff, so I said, you know, a potential ETF bonanza. If they are, and if they are approved, it'll probably be in q one, Q two of next year. But the grayscale ETF conversion announcement could come sooner. Now, you guys all know about this announcement. Everyone's been talking about this, where basically every Tuesday and Friday at 11:00 a.m.
00:25:28.646 - 00:25:59.316, Speaker A: Eastern time, everyone's looking at the SEC's website to see if they've made a decision on allowing grayscale to convert their existing trust to an ETF. And if they would, if that. If they actually did that, it would be a spot ETF, which means that everyone would assume that all these other ETF's are going to get approved. And that is obviously a very powerful narrative. And that is obviously going to bring in new money for the reasons I've outlined before. So that's, that there's that one as well. And that is obviously a huge outside of crypto narrative that people in Tradfi talk about as well.
00:25:59.316 - 00:26:37.940, Speaker A: Then other thing would be, you know, eat staking becomes very attractive to tradfi because of the passive income and yield. I think that we may not be there yet, but we will get there with, with that kind of narrative there. And I think that there are companies that are going to be working with these tradfi institutions to bring them in to get them to stake their ETH. And then the next point was some positive us regulatory staff, such as the stablecoin bill, but also more positive regulations outside of the US. This stuff is going to take time to actually be fleshed out. But again, this is all about narrative. So if people believe that there is positive regulatory stuff happening, that's enough to, I guess, like become a bullish narrative.
00:26:37.940 - 00:27:17.100, Speaker A: And the last thing is that we just see more tradfi companies playing with or adopting crypto, such as visa and PayPal already have. And that's self explanatory. Right. Okay, so that's the outsider bullish narratives, what's the insider ones? Well, this is where things get really, really fun. So I mentioned the four year cycle before in the context of the harvening, but the, the insider bull, one of the big insider bullish narratives is that, that four year cycle timing is, is kind of like still playing out nicely right now, as we all know, and that it gets respected. This obviously becomes bearish if next year it's just another sluggish year and the four year cycle begins to look like it's actually not going to play out again. That would be, that would be bearish.
00:27:17.100 - 00:27:53.714, Speaker A: So just to, just to kind of like check the bullishness there. But it's bullish if it plays out. And so far it looks like it wants to play out. And then another one, BTC actually pumps again after the harvening that keeps the trend alive again. It's kind of like both an insider outsider narrative, but it's an insider thing where we kind of like expect it to happen, right? And then L2s continue taking off and we get a proper L2 summer, which brings in new money. I've talked about that before, so I'm not going to rehash that there decentralized social platforms actually start, actually start taking off and bring more people on chain. I think that's going to happen between Farcaster lens protocol, things like friendtech definitely feels like it's going to happen.
00:27:53.714 - 00:29:02.350, Speaker A: Eats drastically improved supply dynamics with the merge issuance reduction and the burn play out in a huge way once the man comes back, leading to FOMO. I've discussed this before as well about how I think that once demand comes back, ETH is going to be one of the big winners in the market for sure, especially for its size. Decentralized exchange volumes become just as dominant or flip centralized exchange volumes, which brings more people on chain, more liquidity on chain, and then finally the ETH burn goes nuts and we go giga deflationary and new money would love this narrative because who doesn't love a deflationary kind of asset? So those are the kind of main outsider and insider bullish narratives. And as I said, I'll link this tweet in the YouTube description below for you to go check that out. But I kind of front ran another thing that I knew people were going to bring up, which was the macro, right? I'm doing the quotation marks here, like the hand quotation marks. So essentially the macro is something that I generally don't think has too much of an effect on crypto and I think this because crypto, I mean, for the most part, there's two major reasons why I think this. One is that it's, it's, it's mostly retail driven and it is still very small as an industry because of that trad fire.
00:29:02.350 - 00:29:30.428, Speaker A: Money is not in, in any big way. It seems to trade uncorrelated to, to market to the kind of like, um, I guess traditional finance markets. And generally it's not kind of part of the tradfi world. Right. And then the second major reason is that this bear market for crypto has played out exactly the same as previous bear markets. Ethan, BTC went down like 80, 90% right to their bottoms from their tops, and everything else went down 90 plus percent. A bunch of people blew up, all the tourists left.
00:29:30.428 - 00:30:15.862, Speaker A: And now we're just left with kind of like the diehards, the builders, the innovators, the long term investors. Right? So it does, that leads me to believe that crypto probably would have tanked anyway regardless of what the macro did. So I don't look at the macro in this context, but in saying that if you want to look at the macro and look for a bullish kind of narrative, there, there is one to be had, and that is that the inflation keeps trickling down. In the US especially, obviously, the US dollar inflation is the most important. It keeps going down to the Fed's 2% target and remains there for the foreseeable future, or even goes below that. This would kick off the narrative that the Fed will start cutting rates again at some point, maybe in late 2024, slash 2025. Though by the time this happens, I would bet crypto is already in a bull market and has front run this completely.
00:30:15.862 - 00:30:37.076, Speaker A: And then the key word here is narrative. It doesn't matter if the Fed doesn't start cutting rates until 2026. All that matters is that enough people believe that they're going to cut, and that narrative kicks off the price. And the price action will follow that narrative. I believe so, yeah. And as I said at the end of this tweet here, I could be wrong about all of this, guys. It is not investment or financial advice.
00:30:37.076 - 00:30:56.776, Speaker A: It's just how I see things. And. But this is, and this is what investing is. You formulate a thesis, you take positions on that thesis, you wait for it to play out and hopefully profit from those positions that you took. But not every thesis is correct. But, yeah, cheers to the next twelve to 18 months and let's make them as bullish as we can. I know I've already taken my positions in what I want to.
00:30:56.776 - 00:31:26.520, Speaker A: I'm pretty low on liquidity right now. I'm definitely very illiquid, I guess, in terms of like my cash position. I have deployed so much cash into the market over the last twelve months just buying ETH, you know, doing a bunch of angel investments, because I feel like it's the best opportunity and the best time to do that. I've said for a long time that I believed that buying ETH between one to two k is accumulation. Obviously the lower you can buy it the better, but you can't always pick that sorts of stuff and it's all for the long term. I there's no, no short term stuff here, guys. I'm not buying ETH today to sell it in a month.
00:31:26.520 - 00:31:50.822, Speaker A: You know? You guys know I'm not gonna sell my ETH anyway. But generally it's not about kind of timing the market on the shorter timeframe, it's about timing the market on the longer timeframe. And I think at this point I have a pretty decent read of it, but I could still be wrong and that's my risk to take, just like it's your risk to take. So with that out of the way, I think that's going to be it for today's episode. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up.
00:31:50.822 - 00:31:54.814, Speaker A: Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
