00:00:01.210 - 00:00:49.160, Speaker A: For taking part of your Saturday with Know you're in the middle of a hackathon. So I just want to quickly introduce Chebben from Boson Protocol, who's going to give a talk and workshop on A Hitchhiker's Guide to Token Engineering how to make a book float from Metaverse to Universe. We'll be taking questions in the chat. You're welcome to turn on your video if you want and participate. It's kind of free flowing and we'll also can take some questions at the end. So with that, I will hand it off to Sheban and we'll be good to go.
00:00:50.610 - 00:02:05.602, Speaker B: Thank you. So I'll go about it like this. I love talking about this book, A Hitchhiker's Guide to Token Engineering, which started with the idea of creating all of the knowledge that floats around in token engineering in different very beautiful and polymath minds and bring it down to a living book that helps us basically to bring the knowledge together. And the boldest idea with which we started was it's going to be a community sourced book, it's going to be crowdfunded through Gitcoins, it's going to be a living book published on GitHub. And we're going to have a Token model, of course, because this is what you want to try, this meta mega pattern of crowdsourced, crowdfunded resources and networks around those. And the book was just perfect to try that out for good. And basically with the Token model initially.
00:02:05.602 - 00:03:23.086, Speaker B: And we just want to publish the book and sell it on Amazon like everyone else does as well, and basically create a revenue reverse sharing token model for the book as well. So have it all and test it all. And after we started on this journey, a lot of things became clear and this very dynamic, nonlinear path opened itself up. We just started with this blueprint of the book, like what content need to be there. And over this year we worked on projects, helped them, had our own, had Token Engineering Academy courses in which we applied some of this knowledge with the project, et cetera. So the content checks out, definitely. And we're still, at that pace, our ability to basically source that knowledge from the community, that also checked out.
00:03:23.086 - 00:05:27.330, Speaker B: So we have regular co authors and leads of chapters, the open sourcing of the content and really having a living repository of this knowledge, thanks to Gitcon grants, will also check out. We need to find a good process to get the content from wherever the writers are happy writing into GitHub, and then from there, basically crowdsourcing it. What really blew my mind is that we actually in December saw that we could actually, with all of the nifties and royalty sharing aspect of the Attribution that one can keep track on in a programmable manner, we thought that Web Three publishing is possible. And around the corner came one of our very strong Token engineers, tanner and their team at Pictosis, basically saying, yes, this is absolutely possible. And where I thought, okay, this is basically Top and we can't even think beyond that, is when I joined actually Boson Protocol for many different reasons. But then after one month working with Boson protocol, I realized, oh, my God, these guys are hacking away with the really cool game. Theoretic approach for actually solving ecommerce and this digital to physical distribution how you get things commerce going on online in this digital space actually connected to the physical delivery of goods and services across the globe in a decentralized manner.
00:05:27.330 - 00:06:56.606, Speaker B: And I'm like, could that be, could we actually ditch Amazon for real without any repercussions and actually have local publishers blossom or spring like mushrooms? It seems possible. So at the end of it I want to go there and we won't have time for the Token model, but I'm guessing you can imagine how it will play out. Yes, but as I mentioned, I really love to also talk about the content inside the book and the people who are writing it. So the first half is going to be a bit about that, a bit about the publishing process, basically what needs to be done, what is the attributions, et cetera. And then at the end we can basically look at our first draft of how this book created online in many, many different media. Actually also has a physical distribution channel through Bosom Protocol in the near future. And yeah, would love to hear back some ideas, maybe even hacks from you over the weekend.
00:06:56.606 - 00:08:15.450, Speaker B: So definitely come back and I'm super interested with whatever this talk triggers. Okay. The Token Engineering Book a Hitchhiker's Guide token Engineering so these chapters were pretty stable since the beginning because it started out of one's own. Itch literally that we need that content somewhere so we don't have to onboard every person into a project and just orally explain them how we run Token economies, how we deploy, how we create the Token models, et cetera. And during basically the last year also, it became for me super intriguing to really look at the transdisciplinarity of Token engineering. We have engineering heavy fields where we draw from like AI optimization, control theory, systems engineering and all where I come from and feel happy. But we also have on the other side really legal engineering, economics, game theory, ethical engineering, political science, all of that weaves in into what we call a crypto economic system.
00:08:15.450 - 00:09:27.220, Speaker B: And that means in teams, we are working in teams with people who come from so many different directions and how do we go about it right now? It's an art. So that's one chapter that is just starting. But we have the basics covered. Crypto economics patterns written by Vasili is coming along really well and he's been through all of the ICO craze and all of the DeFi craze and he's an engineer, systems engineer background. So he looked at its patterns, at its atoms and actually created a really nice template for figuring out those patterns. Token Models Generation is the chapter that I provided because that was my biggest pain to actually explain and not sound like a crazy person about all of these value flows that go around in a very complex adaptive dynamic system that Tokens economies are. Then we have a big chunk that's coming up next.
00:09:27.220 - 00:10:13.390, Speaker B: Preserving participator architectures SEC DevOps in Token networks and decentralizing organizations. I will not go deep into that, but keep it for next time when we have more content there. But there we are writing together with Anish on the first two and with Marina Lawrence and others on decentralizing organization and basically all of Token engineering. Commons is a living and breathing experiment that is currently being undertaken. So there will be a lot of insights there. Legal engineering by snr. She's having fun with all of the insights.
00:10:13.390 - 00:11:14.562, Speaker B: Legal design and basically weaving that aspect into the Token Model generation from the start is one topic of interest. And I hope that the epilogue will open up a portal to a new dimension for many of you, like it did for me. It's an interface to moral philosophy. For Token engineers, it's like when we become algorithmic policymakers, are we legitimate and how do we make the trade offs? It's not just budget and time we have to look into. We are creating participatory Token economies, so how do we go about that? And that part deals with a lot of soul searching, but it's still super practical as you see. I could talk about this book, I just love it. For the entire half hour.
00:11:14.562 - 00:12:01.838, Speaker B: I will not do just an overview like the breadth of each chapter. Okay. Tokomodo Generation is the biggest and it's been one where we have tools that we look into, like computer edit design. Cadcad and Token Spice, have links, have tutorials. Ecosystem design is something we created during the past year. It really moves people from these typical canvases. The business side is rather used to into design thinking, systems thinking and moves you to how do you actually define that for specification of computer simulations.
00:12:01.838 - 00:13:08.230, Speaker B: So it's pretty neat. Okay, I will stop right there because I want to go into how do you go about coordination of content, of the funding, of the sourcing of content, the curation and the publishing in a decentralized way? Well, it doesn't start with an anonymous crowd, obviously never. It's really people who went through the course, even meaning inside the book, those people were the ones who were around since the beginning of Token Engineering community. And those are the people who are actually contributing. And I am curating this initial first edition. But definitely when we want to scale, we have space for Token curation then the crowdfunding part of it. I said Gitcoin Grant just came around at the right time.
00:13:08.230 - 00:14:34.420, Speaker B: We're currently running our fourth round, so make sure to check it out hit hackers Guide to Token engineering on Gitcoin that definitely will help with all of the open sourcing and maintaining of those parts and also involving the bigger crowd, not just the community who sources the initial contents, et cetera. And definitely also see there that we can scale with a bonded token, which we of course are going to call Towel. That's the most important token an interstellar hit hiker can have. Yes. And the community sourcing part again, it started as an initial gift economy and I think this is how it is because we the contributors, the initial ones are really driven by the intrinsic motivation to learn and to share, to learn with the others. So that works out fine. And basically one can see then when the content comes together, how we can go actually do special editions, sponsored editions, opening up to translations, et cetera, which has been proven to work already by others.
00:14:34.420 - 00:15:29.074, Speaker B: But here again, as I mentioned, with all of the Nifty systems coming up and showing viability, we realized that Web Three publishing house is a reality and we should really just go for it. So we digged a bit deeper into the publishing process. Again, the principle is the creator coordinates attribution content, import quality checks is manual. Because we know at the beginning I wanted to standardize everything, but that's not how creative and writing works. So now everyone is doing their own thing. Most of them are writing in Google Docs. Yeah, and for example, I am all over the place, like mirror board and so on and so forth.
00:15:29.074 - 00:16:32.760, Speaker B: So one coordination piece is really getting that information and putting it into evergreen nodes in the open source repository. And then from that, basically from the content there and the design can also be there. We definitely see that the tracking of Attributions is not a problem at all. Google Docs has history, GitHub, git blame Git, celebrate has history. So every contribution gets their Attributions, definitely. But when we talked with Tanner actually, and their design, how they want to actually enable this creative economy with Pictosis, it's all about the attribution of creation and remix of content, et cetera. No matter which media.
00:16:32.760 - 00:17:29.270, Speaker B: They are basically absolutely bullish that this can be done in an elegant way without us having to actually pull right now manually data and metadata from error, but actually have this nicely reflected in their process. So the Attribution will go to lead authors, co authors, contributors in what form ever. And the editors and curators, basically everyone is leaving a trace in a book chapter. So that's nice part of it. The designers, that's definitely something. As you saw Hitchhikers get a definite style. At least this edition will keep that style.
00:17:29.270 - 00:18:53.542, Speaker B: And also the developers, be it just on pictosis, the ones that actually create those nifty policies that determine how we accomplish the royalty sharing, et cetera. They will be also part of the attribution of this creation of the digital book and basically anyone who is involved in the distribution of it, literally, from the first words to actually getting that into the hands of people in whatever format, and then in grayed out we said, okay, forget Amazon. This is so exciting. It doesn't matter if we don't get any revenues at all or if it just costs us, we don't care. We want to have this web3 publishing and basically we even thought we will have to fund Pictosis as well. But right now, as you can imagine, they don't really need help with such a great idea of supporting creative economy with a nifty system that is pretty smart. But yeah, we were like the token model.
00:18:53.542 - 00:19:51.878, Speaker B: If you look at it, it doesn't make sense at all that all of a sudden 60% of the revenues that you actually want to flow back to, all of the creators and contributors get stuck in Amazon just because they give you an iSPN number, which is absolutely, how do you call it, obsolete. And then the fact that Amazon has over 70% market share in ebooks and 64% in print sales and we're literally writing a book about creating economies that will distribute value much better than that. It was like I had to listen to Jeff and don't live a life full of regrets. Don't do that. So we said Amazon is over, we are not doing it. And web3 publishing it is. And as I mentioned, then, Bosom protocol came around the corner.
00:19:51.878 - 00:21:22.710, Speaker B: And it's actually amazing how they create through their system with commitment tokens, basically with an embedded game theoretic approach that this whole keeping promises of. Okay, I'm going to take the distribution grant of hundreds of these hitchhikers and I want to distribute them here in Munich in my network. So I'm going to give that promise. And the commitment token and the game theoretic approach actually takes care that someone who says, I'm going to take the local distribution of this book, actually delivers a good print of a physical book and actually sells them or gives them and brings them to the person who says, I want to have a copy of this book in Munich into their hands. And you can imagine this can be literally distribute this whole Amazon or demand on print process. So again, this is the newest part and it's still in the future, but still, let's look at it. And as you can also imagine, when we started this meta game was just starting in April, June, and it was just coincidence we had the same style.
00:21:22.710 - 00:22:46.034, Speaker B: And I just love Metafam. And although I don't show up often because I got sucked away into these projects, but I really look forward to the day when we have a Meta factory storefront for the digital version of the book. And as you can see, the digital site will grow. You can already see what can be done with the content we have, we have the open source repository with the evergreen nodes, the design and so on and so forth. But then other format creators can come in and create digital media like podcasts courses, webinars based on the content of the book and we did the courses with Te Academy for example and works like a charm and distributing that through people who can actually provide those contents, formats et cetera is super exciting. Any form of media designers look forward to drawing them into a hitchhiker's. Publishing as well and the digital Nifty Attribution and royalty streams seems like a problem that can be tackled right now.
00:22:46.034 - 00:24:12.880, Speaker B: And as you can see basically then the business as usual part of publishing all of a sudden seems so handleable like we need to get then these rights of distribution to distributors and basically have them keep their promise to print that book and put them on any shelves they find or give them into the hands of the readers in maybe local meetups, et cetera. Whenever that starts happening again. And in the meantime you can have fun in the meta wars basically. Yeah. So again, when I look at this, I see that there is a lot more things that can be done with content, with knowledge sharing on the digital side. And basically, all of a sudden, this selling a book, a physical book, which currently is the actual revenue generating part of selling a book or publishing a book, all of a sudden seems something that could become less and less over time. And when you see I will also share the slides there are some good links to some numbers as well.
00:24:12.880 - 00:25:42.790, Speaker B: You see that over the years actually it has started to the digital publishing and digital content and media started to actually especially indie publishing started to eat up a little bit of Amazon, just a little bit but I guess something like this, a crypto native distribution channel coupled with this digital nifty system of something like Pictosis. This could be of course fantastic. I am not being interrupted so I guess there are no questions. So I can maybe just give you an overview where we are at now. Yes. So basically first of all content first, community first, like I care about the people who write the chapters at first and then basically everyone who can help actually create this infrastructure that we need to scale and make this book float in the MetaWars and from the MetaWars to the universe. Yes we have a newsletter letter if you want to keep up with anything that's upcoming, do subscribe.
00:25:42.790 - 00:26:21.560, Speaker B: It is co owned by Chapter Leads. We're organizing an outreach series with techies and kind of good writers but bad at PR. So feel welcome. If you have a hang and like this knowledge sharing and the way we're doing it, make sure to ping me. I think there are a lot of crowd PR or even community PR. We are a small family still the token engineers and token practitioners. There is definitely a PR opportunity.
00:26:21.560 - 00:28:02.406, Speaker B: I would love to chat and I said thanks to Gitcoin, there is a nice amount with which I definitely see that we can keep the repository up started, get the evergreen nodes from the initial drafts into it and get into this crowdsourcing mode even. And have maintenance and have a source grad instance that we have people from Token Engineering Commons who are supporting with Matteo and and if you are more into that and are curious and want to know how to get involved in this right now, definitely click on these links. And as know, Towel is about the most massively useful thing an interstellar token engineering his hiker can have. We started about a year ago, not quite. And right now it feels like by the time we reach the year we will be able to have this attribution tracking this decentralized system that actually takes care of creation of knowledge and putting it into different formats and getting it out there into the hands of people who want that knowledge. All right, thank you.
00:28:02.588 - 00:28:25.982, Speaker A: Thank you. That was super interesting. Such an interesting moment in publishing right now. Thanks so much for that. Quick question, what's the best way to reach you? Because you mentioned ways people can get in contact. Can they reach you through the Bosen Protocol Sponsor channel? Or do you have a Twitter or what's your preferred way?
00:28:26.036 - 00:29:02.070, Speaker B: Yeah. So Twitter is okay. Token Engineering comments is the way especially you're coming with. I want to know more about Token Engineering and this book and basically Boson Protocol. And we have people from the team actually at the Hackathon and Active. You can also ping them and they will be able to bring us all together. If you are particularly interested in making this book float in the physical universe, that's great.
00:29:02.140 - 00:29:28.894, Speaker A: That's awesome. So if there aren't any questions at the moment, you can contact the whole books on Protocol team in the NFT Hack Discord Channel. They have their own channel. Thank you so much for the presentation, everybody. Enjoy your Saturday day, morning, evening, night, wherever you are, and we'll be in touch.
00:29:29.092 - 00:29:29.660, Speaker B: Have fun.
