00:00:00.250 - 00:00:55.390, Speaker A: Um hi everyone. Thanks for tuning in to this week's news. Recap. First headline square purchases $50 million in bitcoin jack Dorsey square has become the second publicly listed company to invest in bitcoin, purchasing 4709 bitcoin for a total of $50 million. The move follows micro strategy's announcement in August that the company had allocated 90% of its assets to the cryptocurrency. Square said in its statement that, quote cryptocurrency is an instrument of economic empowerment and provides a way to participate in a global monetary system which aligns with the company's purpose. Square's CFO Amrita ahuja said almost in a side eye moment at coinbase CEO Brian armstrong quote for a company that is building products based on a more inclusive future, this investment is a step on that journey.
00:00:55.390 - 00:02:08.850, Speaker A: Square also published a bitcoin investment white paper in which it open sourced the process behind its purchase to help others considering doing something similar. In it, the company describes using an over the counter bitcoin liquidity provider so as to maintain privacy and not have the price slip with its large trade. It also points to an open source documentation for its bitcoin cold storage and explains its crime insurance policy, among other things. These investments in bitcoin by two publicly traded companies come at a time when a traditional 60 40 portfolio is in jeopardy of not providing sufficient returns, writes Steve Ehrlich, the new director of research at forbes crypto. However, he says bitcoin may increasingly help diversify portfolios, especially as he says quote, bitcoin has never been healthier. He notes the 180 day volatility reached a 23 month low and quote says it has been a record 74 days since bitcoin closed below $10,000. He notes this is especially impressive considering these feats occurred despite the bad news of the third largest crypto exchange hack in history and the indictment of the executives of top derivatives exchange.
00:02:08.850 - 00:03:20.438, Speaker A: BitMEX next Headline leadership changes as BitMEX battles fallout from charges BitMEX CEO Arthur Hayes and three other defendants named in lawsuits by the commodities future trading commission and the US. Department of justice has stepped away from their executive roles at crypto derivatives exchange BitMEX Divian Ku, chief operating officer of 100 X group, the parent company of BitMEX, has been made interim CEO despite an exodus of nearly 30% of all bitcoin on the exchange and a high risk warning issued by Chainalysis. A spokesperson for BitMEX insists that, quote it is business as usual for the BitMEX platform. CoinDesk reports the exchange's own insurance fund remains the largest such fund of any cryptocurrency derivatives exchange. Nonetheless, future and historical transfers from BitMEX will now trigger alerts in the Chainalysis transaction monitoring tool kyt. Concerning the warning, Chainalysis, said quote we consider an entity to be high risk if criminal charges have been brought against the entity or its owners. Operators leadership.
00:03:20.438 - 00:04:39.778, Speaker A: The high risk label by Chainalysis has been called a death knell for the exchange since charges were brought against BitMEX. More than 41,000 Bitcoin has been withdrawn from BitMEX. Nearly half of that, BTC, has migrated to finance, with the rest moving mostly to Gemini and a smaller amount to Kraken, which disclosure is a previous sponsor of my show. Delphi digital partner Jose Maria Macedo made an interesting assertion about what the BitMEX charges could mean for crypto. In a Twitter thread, Macedo suggests that while historically anonymous teams in crypto are viewed as a risk, he says that now identity is an attack vector and that the future lies in embracing decentralization and pseudonymous onchain reputation without relying on the legal system and social capital. Next Headline 60 employees have taken Coinbase's severance package so far in a blog post published Thursday, Coinbase CEO Brian Armstrong revealed that 5% of Coinbase's 1200 employees had so far accepted the severance package offered to those who disagreed with its recently updated mission statement that Coinbase was an apolitical company. Although the deadline to take the severance was Wednesday, Armstrong said the number would be higher after the company completes several other conversations.
00:04:39.778 - 00:05:34.600, Speaker A: He wrote, quote It was reassuring to see that people from underrepresented groups at Coinbase have not taken the exit package in numbers disproportionate to the overall population. An employee told CoinDesk that those choosing to leave are mainly engineers as opposed to customer support staff. Armstrong attempted to clarify that the company's new stance does not mean employees have to, quote, Pretend politics doesn't exist. Still, it remains unclear to many inside the company what counts as political versus apolitical. Armstrong admitted that what could be considered as politics is a blurry line. Jill Carlson, an investor at Slow Ventures, wrote in a CoinDesk column that the real message Armstrong is sending is, quote if you want to push a progressive social agenda in the workplace, this company is not for you. Next headline not Ethereum 20, but Ethereum One Five.
00:05:34.600 - 00:06:53.630, Speaker A: In a post on the Fellowship of Ethereum Magicians forum, Ethereum creator Vitalik Buterin noted that Ethereum may scale in an unexpected way. According to the Ethereum 20, roadmap scaling for applications is still years away. However, scaling is already in testnet for a number of layer two scaling options such as Rollups Plasma and stay channels, making those a more viable near and midterm solution. This leads him to say that some popular apps whose data and applications live entirely on layer one, such as the Ethereum Name system, should be adapted to have their data, such as accounts balances and assets move to layer two. His conclusion is that if everyone moves to rollups, then that makes phase two of the transition to Ethereum 20 obsolete. And so Ethereum may instead be a quote single high single high security execution shard that everyone processes, plus a scalable data availability layer. He writes quote this implies a phase One five and done approach to ETH two as quote by that point, it will be easier to continue down that path than to try to bring everyone back to the base chain for no clear benefit and a 20 to 100 x reduction in scalability.
00:06:53.630 - 00:08:48.790, Speaker A: Whether or not Ethereum goes down this path remains to be seen. But one other interesting comment he made in his somewhat technical post is that focusing on rollups will leave more space for layer two protocols that can fund their own development with their own tokens. Next Headline DOJ Publishes Cryptocurrency Enforcement Framework On Thursday, the Department of justice published an 83 page cryptocurrency enforcement framework detailing how it looks at cryptocurrency crimes, DFI and its enforcement strategies. It categorizes illicit uses of crypto three ways as one, financial transactions that commission crimes two, money laundering and shielding transactions from tax reporting and other legal obligations and three, hacks or theft of cryptocurrency, particularly at exchanges. The agency indicated it also has its eye on DeFi, saying, quote The ICO boom from a few years ago has given way to the exponential growth of decentralized finance markets in recent months, with all the associated complexities and difficulties for enforcers seeking to stay ahead of the curve and keep investors safe. Next Headline What the future may hold for crypto market structure? Arjun bology of Paradigm wrote an overview of the past and future of crypto market structure, recounting the 10 phase from 2010 to 2017 in which PeerToPeer trading emerged on bitcoin talk, Mount Gox temporarily reigned and OTC desks launched to serve some early institutional investors. He then covers how phase 20 from 2018 to now has seen derivatives eclipse spot trading, OTC desks, go electronic lending firms, firms emerge to provide $2 billion of bitcoin and stablecoins on loan and stablecoins function as reserve assets.
00:08:48.790 - 00:10:06.238, Speaker A: He then says that we're already in the early stages of moving to phase 30, which he believes will be more capital efficient. Bridging centralized markets with the ever growing number of DFI markets, he says that DFI is disrupting centralized exchanges, but that throughput and high gas fees remain barriers to full blown DFI adoption. He believes that as layer two solutions come to fruition, we can expect to see the convergence of decentralized and centralized finance. This intersection of DFI and CFI will result in better DFI interfaces, institutional support and an attempt by major centralized exchanges to capitalize on CDFI or centralized decentralized finance. Next headline the growth in DFI in charts. The Block research has compiled 37 different charts that analyze various metrics across DFI projects. The total value locked in DFI has now surpassed $11 billion, with the three largest protocols by value locked being in order, uniswap, MakerDAO and Ave and on average, around 4000 new addresses interact with DFI protocols every day.
00:10:06.238 - 00:11:11.554, Speaker A: Although many users have multiple addresses, the trend towards DFI is growing, with total Dex volumes in September passing $23 billion, which is a 74% increase over the previous 30 day period. For the first time, the most popular decks uniswap surpassed coinbase in trading volume. One standout among the graphs was the surge in the trading volume of NFTs or nonfungible tokens such as collectibles, with Raribull showing the most consistent volume as new platforms are continuing to be launched. Fun Bits Live premiere of new documentary Crypto Startup School as of this writing, we've only had a chance to view the enticing trailer, but Thursday night, Andreessen Horowitz presented the new documentary Crypto Startup School. The film follows the seven week program of the same name announced earlier this year. During the program, experts in the crypto field offered talented technologists assistance in building crypto companies. By the time this video is live, well, the video that I'm recording is live.
00:11:11.554 - 00:11:44.010, Speaker A: The 30 minutes behind the scenes link of the program should be available to view on a 16 z's YouTube page. All right, well, thanks for tuning in. To learn more about Chris and Justin Sun, be sure to check out the links in the show notes of this episode. Don't forget, you can now watch video recordings of the show on the Unchained YouTube channel. Go to youtube.com c unchained podcast and subscribe. Today unconfirmed is produced by Me Laura Shin with help from Anthony Yoon, Daniel Ness, Boss Baker, Shashank Fincott and the team at CLK Transcription.
00:11:44.010 - 00:11:44.890, Speaker A: Thanks for listening.
