00:00:00.240 - 00:00:42.598, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Delhi Gray refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, and this is the 20 July 2023. Right, everyone, let's get into it. Just before we jump into the news today, actually, I do need to give you all a heads up that most likely next week on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, there will be no refuel. This is because I am attending a conference in Sydney, so I will not be obviously, at home to be, to be able to record a refuel. I will have my laptop with me, and if I have time, I will try to record one on at least one of those days. But yeah, just a heads up now that there probably won't be a refuel on Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, but I'll be back on the Friday next week in order to kind of recap those three days.
00:00:42.598 - 00:01:26.964, Speaker A: Now, the conference is actually not really a, I guess, traditional crypto conference. It's called the digital Asset conference being held in Sydney. It's more for, I guess, like, people to come together from different walks of life, not just the crypto ecosystem, but the tradfi ecosystem regulators, for them all to come together and basically learn from each other. So I am going because I really want to educate the regulators and trad five people in Australia about crypto. And I think that I can get, maybe not get through to them. Maybe that's the wrong way of saying it, but I think I can, like, educate them to the point where they can have a more favorable view of crypto. Because for anyone who's, you know, among us who's talked to people outside of the crypto ecosystem, generally, their view of it is not very favorable.
00:01:26.964 - 00:01:46.710, Speaker A: Or if they. Or a lot of the times that they don't even have a view. Right. Because a lot of the times they might have the view of, okay, yeah, you know, I heard about bitcoin on the news or heard about this on the news, I heard about FTX. Right. But they won't actually have a strong opinion. But those that do have an opinion on the crypto industry, it's usually not great because they don't really know much about it right now.
00:01:46.710 - 00:02:26.870, Speaker A: I obviously do a lot of education through the daily gray to try and rectify that and try and help people along with that. But it's going to be exciting for me to go next week and to basically talk to people who aren't, you know, exactly in the industry, but like regulators, for example, going to be responsible for regulating this industry within Australia. Tradfi you know, bankers, things like that that want to integrate with crypto. I think they're going to need to know where to start, basically. And hopefully I can put them on the right path and you know, start them on the Ethereum path, so to speak, rather than going some other direction. But, but yeah, just don't be surprised if there's no refuel on Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday of next week because I'll be there for three days. But yeah, if you are in Sydney, feel free to hit me up.
00:02:26.870 - 00:02:50.142, Speaker A: I should have some free time to basically go for a coffee or go for lunch or go for food, whatever it is, while I'm there. I'll be around the city. I think the conference is taking place at the crown in Sydney there. So yeah, if you're around, hit me up. I'd love to catch up and talk all things Ethereum. Anyway, moving on from that to the news of the day. So Nethermind today announced a partnership with Eigen Layer.
00:02:50.142 - 00:03:33.174, Speaker A: So this is a article on the block you can read. But basically the partnership entails working together, collaborating together to build different kind of tools, I guess, for Eigen layer on Ethereum and other chains out there. Now what this might look like is nevermind might build software for Eigen layer, such as software for like the Eigen data availability layer, kind of like a product there. And people could use the Nethermind software to run that instead of Eigen layer themselves, building it all together. So basically bringing a sort of client diversity, I guess, to Eigen layer, which is pretty cool. But yeah, I mean, I've seen Eigen layer partner with a lot of different companies within the ecosystem lately. And they're definitely doing a lot of business development, that's for sure.
00:03:33.174 - 00:03:58.686, Speaker A: Which is obviously great to see there. There's a lot of hype behind them. Man, I remember when I first talked about, talked about Eigen layer on the refill, I believe it was like one of the first times that I saw them publicly or that they had been speaking about themselves publicly. And they've come so far since then. And for them to be partnering with powerhouses like Nevermind really makes me bullish on the future of Eigen layer. And of course, nevermind. Now, I should disclose here that I am an investor in Eigen layer.
00:03:58.686 - 00:04:33.590, Speaker A: But yeah, I mean, you guys know all about it at this point, so you can read the block article for a bit more details on this. But yeah, I guess like, great to see this partnership coming into interview so early in Eigen layers life. All right, let me here has shared a doon analytics dashboard that covers all the topics that hit your timeline, including token vaults, account abstraction, proxies and more. So basically it's a dashboard to track all of the ERC standards. So you can see here the different ERC standards on the dashboard. If I. If I load up the dashboard here and scroll down a little bit, a little bit.
00:04:33.590 - 00:05:19.966, Speaker A: You got the ERC 20 standard, obviously the normal fungible token standard, 7211 of the NFT standards here, 1155 multi token. Some of these you've heard of before. And basically they're all just in this nice little table here which shows the ERC with a link to the EIP that the type that it is, is it a token or something else? How many contracts there are deployed? How many contracts were deployed in the last 30 days? An example contract and more. So this is pretty cool. This is actually a different kind of dashboard on doodle analytics than what I've seen in the past. This is definitely going beyond just tracking the normal stuff that you might see tracked, such as like TVL and fees paid on different l two s and stuff like that. Stuff that I've showed before is basically tracking at the ARC standards, which is very, very cool.
00:05:19.966 - 00:05:46.238, Speaker A: And there's not just a list of the standards that is being tracked here. There's also a chart that shows, you know, the contracts deployed over time. And as you can see here, the contracts deployed is, you know, is at. Is at like all time highs basically over the last few months. Then you can see, if you keep scrolling down, you can see contracts deployed by type on this chart. So ERC 20 tokens, 721 tokens, 777 and so on and so forth. There's a lot of info on this dashboard.
00:05:46.238 - 00:06:14.028, Speaker A: So yeah, I just wanted to highlight this for you guys. You can go check it out for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. And kudos to LME for putting this together. All right, Gitcoin has announced Gitcoin grants round 18, which is taking place from August 15 to August 2918. Man, I still remember the first Gitcoin grants round and how small it was and how basically unknown it was at the time. It was really just the hardcore Ethereum community that really knew what it was about and really participated in it.
00:06:14.028 - 00:07:25.118, Speaker A: But we're at grants round 18 now and the special thing about this round is that it is going to be, is going to be taking place on optimism or the new public goods networks you can see here. Reply from Ben west here, who says all rounds will be on either optimism or the new public goods network. And obviously, I think a big pain point for gitcoin grants in the past has been the fact that on Ethereum l one, and this hasn't really been a huge pain point for recent rounds, more so for rounds maybe like, I guess, before round ten, where essentially you would have to go on Ethereum l one gas and donate on Ethereum l one gas fees are really high. And the way it kind of worked was that each one of these, I guess, like rounds or each one of these donations that you would make was an on chain l one transaction, and the cost quickly eclipsed the donation amount. So say you were donating five dai, for example, to a project, it would cost you more than that to donate in gas fees. So obviously, Gitcoin started integrating with L2s to rectify that. And now they're going to be doing it, it seems, doing these Gitcoin grants rounds exclusively on optimism or the new public goods network.
00:07:25.118 - 00:07:54.914, Speaker A: And I talked about their public goods network last week, the new l two that's come out of the gitcoin ecosystem. So great to see, see that there? But yeah, you can go mark this down on your calendars August 15 29th for Gitcoin grants, round 18. All right, Polygon Labs has announced or shared details of the final pillar of the Polygon 2.0 roadmap here. So this is the governance framework. So Polycon 2.0 present proposes a new governance framework built in collaboration with the community.
00:07:54.914 - 00:08:51.562, Speaker A: The framework focuses on three main governance aspects, the three of pillars of future development and growth of the polygon ecosystem. So these three governance pillars are the result of months long collaboration with the community across the polygon ecosystem. And they are protocol governance system smart contracts governance and community treasury governance. And you can see here a picture basically showcasing this here. So, protocol governance facilitates the decentralized maintenance and development of the Polygon tech stack system. Smart contracts governance facilitates the upgrades of protocol components that are implemented as smart contracts, and community treasury governance facilitates ecosystem and public goods funding, supporting development and growth of the polygon ecosystem. I think this is really cool because governance is a whole thing, right? Governance affects pretty much, like every project out there, and there's been this meme for a long time, that these tokens that governance that projects have are like useless governance tokens that really, it doesn't really matter.
00:08:51.562 - 00:09:21.946, Speaker A: You know what? It doesn't really matter what these tokens do for governance. It kind of is useless because there's not really much governance going on. And for a lot of projects that is true. But I think what polygon is trying to do here is that they're trying to split this governance up into three core pillars, as I described, and make it so that governance isn't actually useless. You actually have a say over the protocol governance, over smart contracts governance and community treasury governance, which are each distinct things, especially when it comes to the treasury. Right. Because the treasury is for.
00:09:21.946 - 00:10:00.784, Speaker A: These projects are usually quite large and you want to have a governance process in place that basically ensures that the treasury doesn't just turn into something that gets raided by people with the most polygon tokens or matic tokens, for example. So, yeah, I mean, if you want to read more details about this, you can. There are blog posts linked in this Twitter thread here, which I'll of course, link in the YouTube description below for you to check out there. But yeah, that is the final, I guess, like roadmap item detailed from the Polygon 2.0 roadmap. Now, they have to execute on this, right? I mean, I've been talking about the Polygon 2.0 roadmap for the last month or so and there are a lot of exciting things with it, but it's up to Polygon to execute on everything now.
00:10:00.784 - 00:10:36.604, Speaker A: And honestly, I have a lot of faith in Polygon to execute here. They've been executing for years very well. They've grown one of the biggest ecosystems in crypto and I've been, I've been proud to be an advisor to them throughout that whole period there. So, yeah. Excited for the future of Polygon governance here. And you can check this out, we'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, speaking of governance, Optimism published a post called the future of optimism governance, which is a comprehensive overview of optimism governance, how it works now, and how its two house system can evolve to support the collective for years to come.
00:10:36.604 - 00:11:50.950, Speaker A: Now, there is a Twitter thread and blog post you can check out for yourself here. But optimism, I think in terms of, like, innovations at the forefront of governance, optimism is probably the one that's been doing it the longest. And in the, I guess, like most forward thinking way, they haven't just been doing governance as a meme or as a way to potentially drive value to the op token or anything like that. They've been looking at governance from a radically new approach. And, and the biggest thing is this kind of like two house governance system that they've had in place for, for quite a while now. And, uh, their, their primary goals of optimism's governance system, as they detail here, are capture resistance and resource allocation, which as I've talked about before, is probably the two most important things, right? Resisting governance capture is definitely the most important thing, because if your governance system is captured, then there's no point in having that governance system to begin with because it basically becomes useless because then it just becomes rule by the people that captured the governance, right? And then resource allocation is just as important as, as capture resistance. Because as I mentioned before, in a lot of these projects, the resources, aka, aka the treasury, gets raided and people just basically steal money from the project, for all intents and purposes.
00:11:50.950 - 00:12:41.676, Speaker A: So with capture resistance, what they're doing is they're using this two house model. They've got the token House governance is governance protocol upgrades and sequence ed selection. And then the citizens House can govern the ongoing selection of citizens, and each house can check and balance the other's decisions. Together they mitigate the danger of capture to either house. And it's kind of modeled off of real world governance systems like in the US, how you have the three branches of government, the government you have like the House, um, the, the Senate and uh, the, the judicial branch, uh, and then there are various checks and balances within those things. It's kind of trying to model off that because that is a model that has kind of worked for various democratic systems around the world. So can we translate that into crypto and make it work with token holder governance? It remains to be seen if it's going to work long term, but that is basically the gist of what optimism is trying to do here.
00:12:41.676 - 00:13:30.390, Speaker A: But if you want more details on all of that, you can read this blog post that optimism published called the Future of optimism governance. It covers all of this as it stands today and as well as the future. I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to check out. Speaking of optimism, there was an article that the block shared here, basically saying coinbase's base is going to be adhering to optimism's new open neutrality framework. So optimism have not published this open neutrality a framework yet. I believe they're publishing it next week. But Jesse Polak, the lead developer, or the lead of the base project at Coinbase, has said that base is going to be a adhering to this open neutrality framework as its decentralization guidelines, which is pretty cool to see that, that they've already stated here that they're going to be following along with it.
00:13:30.390 - 00:14:47.900, Speaker A: But there's not really much more details on this, as I say, because it hasn't been released yet. But essentially what I assume that this framework is going to try and do for the op stack is basically say that all projects building on the op stack should be, you know, credibly neutral, should be giving back as much as they take from the op stack, should be building things that have a plan to decentralize, that are credibly neutral, that are censorship resistant, and that basically embody the values of not only ethereum, but also the optimism ecosystem as a whole as well. So just great to see that. I just figured it was worth pointing out because there has been a lot of criticisms, I think, of base, especially around the fact that it's tied to Coinbase, and people think, okay, well, if it's tied to Coinbase, what motivation does base have to do to decentralize and be credibly neutral and be censorship resistant? Well, at the end of the day, they have every motivation to do that. And I believe that for quite a while. And I'll quickly explain why regulatory is a huge reason why base, why Coinbase would not want base to be centralized, would want base to be decentralized so that it can maintain censorship resistance. It can be credibly neutral, and it can be a place for not only Coinbase customers to go to, but everyone within crypto to go to and get value out of and to use without, I guess, like fear of being censored or anything like that by Coinbase.
00:14:47.900 - 00:15:30.736, Speaker A: And that is a huge regulatory burden off of Coinbase's shoulders by making the base network into basically like any other l two out there. So that's one reason. Another reason is basically having an arms, I guess, arms length or more than an arm's length detachment of base from Coinbase. Yes, Coinbase hires developers that work on base and obviously a built base to this, to this date. But it's kind of like what happened with the Ethereum foundation, where they were really the sole developers of the Ethereum protocol for a long time. Then there were other developers that came along, like consensus and parity split out of it as well. Like, the fun fact is that everything that just basically started from the Ethereum foundation, then it all split off.
00:15:30.736 - 00:15:50.750, Speaker A: Joe Lubin went on to found consensus. Gavin Wood went on to found parity, and they built the parity client and developed Ethereum stuff. And then other teams joined here and there. And they're part of different ecosystems. Like, you know, as I mentioned before, nethermines, that's an independent team that, uh, basically develops a client for Ethereum. There's prior labs. I'm just naming random things here.
00:15:50.750 - 00:16:37.182, Speaker A: There's Sigma prime, they develop the lighthouse client. There are all these independent kind of teams now working on the Ethereum protocol, all these independent researchers working on the Ethereum protocol, and that's, I think, what the op stack wants to become and what Coinbase can contribute to with base and can make base into an ecosystem like that there. But anyway, I'll cover optimism's open neutrality framework when it gets published next week. All right, Espresso Systems has announced today their second major milestone in building their espresso sequencer, the Doppio milestone. So basically this milestone is a new testnet, I believe here. Yeah, the Doppio is basically a new Testnet release here. And you can see details of this in the Twitter thread.
00:16:37.182 - 00:17:21.800, Speaker A: I've talked about espresso systems quite a while, quite a lot recently, especially around their shared sequencer technology that they're building that teams can plug and play, or l two teams can plug and play into in order to basically decentralize out their sequences. Testnet one was codenamed Americano. It was their first demonstration of what they had built, which is something called hotshot, which is a fast finality consensus protocol designed to reach the same scale as a theorems validator sets. And they will use restaking to enable Ethereum validators to participate in the protocol. And then they have their second testnet here, which is dope, yo. Now it seems they're naming their testnets after different types of coffee, which I love because I am all about coffee, but you can go check out more details about this. I'll link it in the YouTube description below.
00:17:21.800 - 00:18:28.932, Speaker A: And the second espresso related announcement is that their espresso sequencer testnet is now integrated with the Polygon ZK EVM stack. So roll ups built roll ups built with the Polygon ZK EVM stack can leverage the integration to process transactions with the espresso sequencer. So a lot of movements happening in the sequencer space lately, and great to see espresso systems at the forefront here of that. All right, a big announcement out of the stocknet ecosystem yesterday. So Starknet announced that they have, that they are building, or they introduced something called Starknet app chains, which I guess is on brand for Starkware or Starknet because a lot of the other l two s are doing this as well, basically creating a framework for people to build their own l two app chains. Now we've seen announcements about this recently from Polygon and Zksync and as well as the arbitram arbitram one and building the arbitrary trust chains, which have been out for quite a while now, as well as the op stack. Pretty much everyone is doing the app chain thing now.
00:18:28.932 - 00:19:03.996, Speaker A: You can see here, Stocknet says that Stocknet is emerging as one of the most performant, innovative scaling platforms out there. The most brilliant and innovative apps and tools are all there. So it seems like they're trying to capture that market of people who want to be building their own app change as altoos. And instead of just building it as a EVM, people can now build it as a stocknet app chain, which, as you guys know, is not an EVM chain. It is built using their own kind of virtual machine here, as well as their own programming language called Cairo. So, yeah, cool to see Starkware join in on this race. I kind of.
00:19:03.996 - 00:20:03.912, Speaker A: It kind of like, begs the question about what success is going to look like for a lot of these different app chains. Like I've said plenty of times before, I'm repeating myself for the, like the millionth time, but I've said plenty of times before that I expect there to be a lot of app chains out there. But now the question becomes of, okay, like, who is going to capture most of the app chain market share for developers? You know, our developers going to choose to go with Polygon? Are they going to choose to go with Stocknet? Are they going to choose to go with Zksync or op Stack? So far, Opstack has captured a lot of the mind share in that, in that realm. But I think that that's just simply because they're probably the furthest along when it comes to enabling people to easily deploy their own app chains. But really, it remains to be seen which ones are going to be used the most to build app chains and which app chains are actually going to be the most successful. And I don't think we're gonna have an answer to that for many years to come. It's probably gonna take at least five years to have any kind of answer to that, I believe, if not more.
00:20:03.912 - 00:20:38.560, Speaker A: And it's not just gonna be a static thing. There could be a very successful app chain that spins up and then, you know, maybe in five years time, it's. It's a ghost town. Maybe people have moved on from it. This definitely happens a lot in the l one space. I don't think it's gonna be different for l two s, but as you guys know, I'd rather see l two s than l one s. Right? And then there was this also this new concept that I came across recently of these, I think it's called a flash roll up or something like that, where essentially you would spin up a roll up or an app chain essentially for a particular use case and then spin it down once that use case is done.
00:20:38.560 - 00:21:07.542, Speaker A: So for example, you could spin up a roll up to do like an NFT mint. And then once the mint is done, you spin down the roll up and then the roll up basically just becomes ephemeral. Doesn't exist after the nft mint. So there is so much happening in the l two space. And I think that the main theme of ETH Cc from what, from what I've seen has been l two s. And it definitely feels like we're getting to the point where the l two stuff is becoming overheated. And as I said a few months ago, I expect us to have a proper l two summer.
00:21:07.542 - 00:21:59.884, Speaker A: And that's where things will get completely overheated. That's where things will peak, and then l two s will probably go into this long, well, I wouldn't say bear market, but this long consolidation phase where a lot of the l two s will probably fade into relevancy. And then over the longer term we'll see which ones stick around and which ones become the dominant ones. It's just the way things work, right? There's just the way these cycles work. But I definitely am more confident than ever in a potential l two summer happening towards the end of this year, if not early next year. Given everything that I'm seeing playing out in the L two space, given that I'm seeing a lot of the traders now focus on L two s and yellow tokens and speculating on them, and given that, I believe that the general market is going to shift more towards Pve than Pvp over the next six to twelve months, especially the next twelve months. And what I mean by that is that right now the market is pvP.
00:21:59.884 - 00:22:40.630, Speaker A: And what that means is player versus player, where everyone's just playing against the same people, right? The same people in crypto right now, the same people trying to trade the markets. And that's why you see the crab market chop happening all the time. But when it becomes pve or player versus environment, it means that a lot of new money is coming in. And basically it's, it's no longer just the same people that were in crypto for the last few years playing against each other. Now those people are playing against the environment, so to speak, or the new people. And it becomes a lot easier to make money in that environment because the new people are just indiscriminately buying things for whatever reason, right? And there's a lot of new money coming in. It's not just the same money sloshing around, and that's what we saw happen in Defi summer.
00:22:40.630 - 00:23:14.936, Speaker A: That's what we saw happen in 2021. That's what I think we'll see happen for L2 summer and the next bull market. So keep an eye on that. But it's going to be an interesting next twelve to 18 months, at least, I believe. All right, speaking of l two, staying on the l two topic here, Arbitrum has introduced phase one of the Arbitrum foundation grants. Now, the full details are at this blog post here, and you can go to Arbitrum foundation slash grants to check out more info about this. But basically, the foundation grants are an ongoing initiative and will operate in distinct phases.
00:23:14.936 - 00:24:07.202, Speaker A: With phase one, they're going to be targeting decentralized applications and infrastructure for arbitram, nova and arbitrum one and current phase categories are listed here in this post, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. But essentially, this is a way for the arbitrum community to distribute arb tokens as grants out of the treasury. I believe two different projects building within the arbitrum ecosystem to encourage growth and business development and all that good stuff there. We've seen this from a bunch of different projects already doing this, but this is really the best use of a treasury, right? When it comes to distributing treasury funds. You don't want to see it rated by kind of useless people that just are getting paid to do nothing. You want to see the funds distributed to the various projects within the ecosystem. You want to see it distributed to people actually working on on Arbitrum and arbitrum projects, and you want to see the money be well spent.
00:24:07.202 - 00:24:46.270, Speaker A: And if you are an Arb token holder and you've delegated your arb to, you know, one of the delegates out there, they'll be voting on your behalf for this. But if you want to read all about this and learn more, you can check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. Now, I talked about Athena yesterday and this new project that I backed, this new stablecoin project. So I'm not going to go into more detail about them because I don't need to. They had published a blog post today titled introducing Athena Labs at describing basically what they're building. So if you're still confused about what Athena Labs is, what Athena is, and how it's all going to work and what exactly they're building.
00:24:46.270 - 00:25:10.262, Speaker A: Then this blog post is for you. It's basically your quick little read to get up to speed on the project altogether. Now, I'm not going to explain the project again because I explained it yesterday. So if you're interested in what that's all about, you can check out yesterday's video for my explanation there. And I should disclose again that I am an investor in Athena Labs here. Very excited about what they're building. But, but yeah, you can go check that out.
00:25:10.262 - 00:25:46.782, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, I got a few minutes here. I want to discuss something that's been on my mind over the last maybe couple of weeks especially, and it's got to do with l two s, of course. And it's kind of like in the same topic as I was discussing before about the l two s and how we have so many l two s now and so much activity happening in that space. I do want to just quickly caution people against this. An l two is is cool and all right. And it's better in my mind, l two s are cooler and more useful and, and just better overall than l one's.
00:25:46.782 - 00:26:05.662, Speaker A: But I think it's worth keeping in mind that not all l two s are created equal. If you go to l two beat.com, you can clearly see this, right? Some have multi sigs, some have training wheels on them still. Some, you know, don't have any training wheels. Some don't have fraud proof. Some do. Some, you know, are more expensive than others.
00:26:05.662 - 00:26:56.386, Speaker A: All this stuff, right? They're not created equal. So when looking at the l two space and looking at l two s to use, what you need to understand if that, if you go and use arbitram one, for example, and you're aware of the fact that arbitram one has fraud proofs, has a decentralized governance process, has time locks on their contracts to upgrade them and things like that. But then you go to another l two that's maybe brand new. You need to assume that that brand new l two if, especially if it's not listed on l two b, is completely centralized, right? Centralized to the point where there's probably just like a multisig held by the team securing the whole thing. Now, the reason why I bring this up is because, as I said before, the l two space is growing exponentially. There are so many l two s coming online, but not all l two s are created equal, just like not all l one s are created equal. And you need to be very aware of where you're putting your money.
00:26:56.386 - 00:27:54.416, Speaker A: For me, for, for example, I would not trust significant amounts of money on anything that is 100% completely centralized. It doesn't matter if it's an l two or a centralized exchange or anything like that. And I'm very aware of, just because it's an l two doesn't mean that it's automatically inherited. Ethereum security and Ethereum's decentralization, it has to be constructed in a way for it to inherit. Ethereum security and decentralization, it can't just do it out of the box. Right? And I've gone through this before on the refill plenty of times. But I want to warn you guys, because, as I said, I do expect there to be an l two summer, and because it's going to be so easy to spin up l two s, what you're going to see is you're going to see opportunistic people come along, spin up an l two using, you know, one of these kind of like development stacks, whether it be op stack or something else, have it be completely centralized, have a completely centralized sequencer that they run, and then some of them will rug, some of them will be exploited, some of them will just shut down and there will be no escape hatch for you.
00:27:54.416 - 00:28:45.414, Speaker A: So if you are bridging funds to these things, just be completely aware that you are taking on large risk in doing so. Because if an l two summer happens, there will be lucrative opportunities to make money on these things. But there will also be a ton of risk involved. So just keep that in mind and make sure that you're not taking on too much risk, that you're not putting all of your funds into something. Uh, it does, it obviously doesn't feel good to lose money, but if you put all your funds onto one of these l two s that come up and the l two just goes away, and there's no way for you to get your funds back because, for example, they're storing their data elsewhere, and then the funds are just frozen because the data is no longer available and all your funds are stuck. I mean, that is going to be the worst feeling, right? Especially just before the bull market gets started. Because I saw a lot of people blow themselves up in DeFi summer for various different reasons, and they blew up their ETH positions, they lost a lot of ETH.
00:28:45.414 - 00:29:17.648, Speaker A: And then the ETH bull market happened, where Ethan skyrocketed from like three to $400 to like 4k plus. That's like a ten x, right? And I saw people coping the whole time they had been holding through the whole bear market, through the, through the crab market, stacking ETH. They lost it from taking on too much risk and they had to watch ETH skyrocket. I'm telling you guys right now, that is the worst feeling in crypto. That will make you severely upset and depressed and that will probably make you not want to look at crypto anymore. So I don't want that happening to any of you guys. So just to keep in mind that you need to monitor your risk.
00:29:17.648 - 00:29:32.496, Speaker A: Doesn't matter if it's an l, two or not, doesn't matter what it is. Be aware of what you're interacting with always on chain. So, yeah, just a little bit of advice there. But on that note, I'm going to end it there for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up.
00:29:32.496 - 00:29:36.664, Speaker A: Subscribe to newsletter join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
