00:00:00.280 - 00:00:37.236, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Gray Refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Sono, and today's the 27 January 2022. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So first on the agenda for today is this brand new website from the Ether Alpha team called clientdiversity.org, which is a resource website geared towards Ethereum client diversity. As the name implies here, this website is really awesome. I mean, you can see here I've been talking about client diversity a lot on the beacon chain lately, but you can see here basically a real time dashboard, or maybe not real time, but like a, I guess like an updated dashboard on what the client diversity landscape looks like right now.
00:00:37.236 - 00:01:06.604, Speaker A: Now, as I mentioned to you guys last time, Prism has, you know, a pretty big share of the network right now at about 66.17%, Lighthouse following in second place, 18.7%, taeku at 9.04%, Nimbus at 5.21% and then the other three minority clients under 1% there. So I guess, I mean, I've talked about client diversity a lot recently on the refuel and about why it's important for the Beacon chain to not just be dominated by one client. There's been a lot of work being done, especially from the eats they community.
00:01:06.604 - 00:01:54.650, Speaker A: There's been a lot of outreach happening behind the scenes I'm aware of, especially two major exchanges and staking service providers and things like that. We definitely want to get the ball rolling here because at the end of the day, like, I can encourage you guys as solo stakers to change if you're running prism to something else. And we can get like a lot of individuals to do this. But the thing is, is that it won't move the needle as much as getting one of the bigger providers to do this. Cause if we can get an exchange or a staking service provider to essentially not, you know, stop using prism altogether, but change to a setup where they can use, you know, all four of the major clients in kind of like equal parts, or if they want to, they can have like 50% prism and 25% lighthouse and or 25% another client, and then twelve and a half percent for the other two. But a lot of them are running like 100% prism now. And that's why prism is so dominant.
00:01:54.650 - 00:02:41.696, Speaker A: So we definitely want to get that down to below 60% at least ideally below 50%. But as I said to you guys, I think that's going to be a little bit difficult to get there especially before the withdrawals are enabled on the beacon chain, which actually comes about six months after the merge. So I think we're going to be having this kind of issue probably for the remainder of this year. But it's still good that there's a lot of initiatives happening, happening around this. And you can see on this website, you know, why is client diversity not optional? And there's a description here, basically. And, you know, as I've said to you guys, um, if two thirds of validators, uh, are kind of like, um, you know, reaching finality, and those two thirds make up one client, and that client has a bug, then, uh, the validators basically go onto that chain, that the bug chain, and that becomes the canonical one. And it can't be kind of like returned to the real chain without being slashed, unless it was done as part of like a hard fork or a social layer thing.
00:02:41.696 - 00:02:56.848, Speaker A: And that's obviously very, very messy. There's further reading here. There's a bunch of resources. You can read about client diversity if you want to get more involved there. And there's a bunch of links to the clients here as well, to kind of like change there. And there's also guides. This is the one thing that I actually requested from people.
00:02:56.848 - 00:03:20.448, Speaker A: I'm like, you know, guides would make a lot of sense. And it's really actually simple here. You can click from whichever client you're coming from, say you're coming from prism. You want to go to Lighthouse, click to, and then search guides and will bring up some guides for you to, to play around with. And I'm sure there'll be more guides added here over time. So if you're a solo staker and you're on Prism right now, there's pretty much no excuse not to change to one of these other clients. And it's, you know, those other clients aren't bad clients.
00:03:20.448 - 00:03:39.708, Speaker A: They're pretty much on par with Prism, from what I know. I think Prism just had the brand awareness at the, at the start much more than the other kind of like clients did. But from what I know and from what I've seen, the clients are pretty much all, all the same, essentially. Right. In terms of kind of functionality, in terms of performance. Performance. Some of them, you know, probably inch out some better performance than others, but they're mostly the same.
00:03:39.708 - 00:04:08.946, Speaker A: And I think the reward difference you would get is probably, you know, I think actually, I think one of the minority clients has a better, better reward. Sorry. Will give you more rewards than the majority clients, and they will kind of like based on the protocol rules as well. So yeah, definitely go check out this website. It's got all the resources you need here. Very glad to see this. But as I said, I don't mean to discourage people from changing over by saying that I don't think it's going to move the needle enough if the solo stakers change over, because most solo stakers won't change.
00:04:08.946 - 00:05:03.384, Speaker A: Like, that's just the way it is, especially not before withdrawals are enabled, because what people are worried about is screwing something up. And if you screw something up, you won't be able to restake until withdrawals are enabled because your funds will be stuck if you get kicked out of the validator set. So it's kind of like potentially a year where you wouldn't be staking and you could get slashed. And I totally understand people's hesitation to change, but I mean, if you're not worried about that, then definitely change and you're running prism, definitely consider changing to one of the other clients out there. So ethereum.org has a brand new page that kind of like runs you through how to run an ethereum full node and why you would want to do this and all that good stuff there. So I have obviously talked about this a lot on the refuel over the months and why you should do it, but this is like a very, very simple guide of how to get started, a bunch of different ways to get started, and to kind of like run your own node, kind of like hardware requirements for this.
00:05:03.384 - 00:05:42.100, Speaker A: As I said to you guys, you real, I mean, the biggest hardware requirement is probably just a SSD, and they're pretty cheap these days. So about a two terabyte SSD would work here, and then a bunch of links to other things and also the guides to staking your Ethan, stuff like that. So very, very cool to see this page from the ethereum.org website here. If you're not running an Ethereum full node yet and you have the capacity to do so, I would highly recommend doing it because, I mean, you're helping the health of the network by doing it. Yes, you're not getting any rewards for from it, but you are definitely helping the network stay decentralized. And this is the main reason why we keep the network, you know, so limited at layer one.
00:05:42.100 - 00:06:09.038, Speaker A: We want to make it so that people can run full nodes whenever they want. And I think, you know, as ethereums, our, our duty is to run a full node if we're able to, like, and if you can afford to. I mean, it's not a cheap endeavor. If you don't have a pc that you leave on all the time, then you probably need to buy a separate pc that you. That you would kind of, like, have as your dedicated, dedicated station to running a full node on. So I totally get it, but at the end of the day, it's not super expensive. But still, if, even only if you're able to do it, you should do it.
00:06:09.038 - 00:06:25.360, Speaker A: You shouldn't force yourself to do it or anything like that. But. But, yeah. This guide will help you with that if you're interested. So the block is reporting that consensus is poised to double its valuation in a pending fundraise. Now, I don't know. I can't remember what their last valuation was.
00:06:25.360 - 00:06:35.360, Speaker A: I think it's. Yeah, yeah. So they've. Their last valuation was $3.2 billion a little over two months ago that I. That I covered back then. So if they double that valuation, it'll be $6.4
00:06:35.360 - 00:07:02.324, Speaker A: billion or $6.5 billion. I don't think consensus commented on this report from the block, but the block's pretty good. So I'm sure this kind of, like, is very accurate here. Now, the reason why I wanted to talk about this was because it's just crazy to see how far this stuff has come, because, like, I don't know how many of you were around back in 2018 and 2019, but consensus was really struggling for funding. They had to cut staff. There was a kind of, like.
00:07:02.324 - 00:07:22.946, Speaker A: I'm pretty sure consensus was basically being run off. Joe Lubin's ETH stash. Right. He was selling ETH to. To kind of, like, keep the company afloat, and no one wanted to invest any large sums into consensus from. From. From kind of like, from memory here, because no one really wanted to invest large sums into crypto in general, because people either wrote it off or it just wasn't a hot area.
00:07:22.946 - 00:07:46.156, Speaker A: It wasn't considered a place that you could put your money. Now, obviously, fast forward a couple of years, and it's a night and day difference. People would are clamoring to invest in everything. They're clamoring to invest in consensus because the consensus is, you know, for all intents and purposes, a very successful company. They're the company that created Metamask and infura and truffle suite and a bunch of other things out there that a lot of people use. They've funded a lot of. A lot of different things in the ecosystem.
00:07:46.156 - 00:08:23.324, Speaker A: They've been a force for good, a very, very positive force. So no wonder, you know, people are clamoring to kind of, I guess, invest in them, especially because they want to get exposure to metamask as well. I mean, Metamask is an absolutely massive tool. Yes, people hate on it all the time, but it doesn't matter. They have tens of millions of active monthly users, and that's nothing to scoff at, especially crypto users who are using it for financial transactions and all that sort of stuff there. So not much more details about this fundraise, but I'm sure it's going to be have participation from all the names that we all know in terms of like VC's. I've also, it's also got me wondering if consensus is going to do a token themselves or if they're going to go public.
00:08:23.324 - 00:08:46.388, Speaker A: It would probably make sense for them to go public, not actually do a token. So just list on the stock extent, a stock exchange or the, you know, in New York or something. Because they're a us based company, I don't think it would make sense for them to do a token. I don't see why that, what benefit that would bring to them. I don't see consensus wanting to become like a dow, but maybe they do. Maybe this was kind of like Joe Lubin's goal all along. Maybe he wants consensus to become a true dao.
00:08:46.388 - 00:09:19.890, Speaker A: And really the only way to do that is to have a token attached to it. But I don't know. I'm not convinced. But we'll have to see, you know, even investing for equity and for, for shares, if consensus was to list on the, on the stock market, would still offer up a pretty decent return because I'm sure metamask will eventually tokenize and that kind of like. And obviously consensus will own a large chunk of that, and that'll be worth billions, if not tens of billions of dollars. I reckon then you have all the other properties that they kind of make money off of, and then you have the consulting services and auditing services. So definitely it makes sense there.
00:09:19.890 - 00:10:12.844, Speaker A: But yeah, really, really cool to see consensus raising another round. Just such a night and day difference between what it was like two to three years ago, struggling for funding, massive layoffs, hundreds of people getting, losing their job to what we are, what we are, where we are today, where consensus seems to not be struggling for money at all anymore, actually, probably having too much money thrown at them from what I've seen from the private markets over the last few months. So, yeah, I'll cover this when it, I guess, like officially public, but just wanted to kind of, I guess, a signal booster there. So yesterday, Ark invest, which is a very popular in kind of like, fund in the traditional finance space that's been making moves into crypto, recently published, I guess, one of their investment kind of reports here. And they were pretty heavy on crypto. So they kind of talked about crypto a lot in this report. And they also mentioned that they believe ETH market cap could exceed 20 trillion in the next ten years.
00:10:12.844 - 00:10:45.958, Speaker A: Now, I, quote, tweeted this, and I said, I tend to agree. Now, you guys know that I have said, you know, plenty of times before that I believe over the next five to ten years, ETH really has a shot of going to a $10 trillion market cap, which would put it, you know, depending on the eat supply, based on the burn and things like that, we would put it anywhere from 80 to kind of like token here. It really depends on how much we're burning and things like that. And it really depends if it happens in five years or ten years. So. But, yeah, I added it to 100k, depending on the supply there. Now, you know, Ark invest is saying that they think it's going to go to 20 trillion in ten years.
00:10:45.958 - 00:11:24.044, Speaker A: And, look, I'm not going to disagree with that. Like, I, you know, obviously, it'd be nice if it went there, but I actually don't think it's too far fetched to say that because I think what ends up happening in crypto or in just, like, general with a lot of things is people just don't. I mean, humans inherently don't do well with exponential growth. They kind of, like, are very linear based, where it's kind of like, okay, if something's growing, you know, slowly over time, they kind of understand that. But it's when you kind of hit exponential growth, humans have a really tough job. But kind of, like, rectifying that or coming to terms with that, not rectifying when. What's the word I'm looking for? Reconciling that in their head.
00:11:24.044 - 00:12:03.890, Speaker A: Because think about it like, most of our lives are linear and not exponential. What we feel like us aging is a linear process. It is not exponential. We don't just jump from age one to 20, right? We go one, two, three in a linear kind of fashion. Whereas a lot of this exponential growth that we see within tech, and particularly when we talk about network effects, happens so, so quickly that it just blindsides us. Like, you know, for example, within crypto, a protocol can have, like, $10 million of TVL, and then the next day, it can literally have a billion dollars of TVL just literally overnight. And people underestimate how far quickly that can happen because it's just, it's very foreign to us unless you, you know, you're in the weeds and you're actually diving deep into this sort of stuff.
00:12:03.890 - 00:12:36.846, Speaker A: I think the same applies to pricing. You know, right now its market cap is, what, 300 something billion dollars, 320 billion or something like that. Billion dollars. I think. I think it might be less than depending on the price, you know, depending what the price is there. But essentially, to get the 20 trillion, obviously, it's a slog from here, but it could happen relatively quickly. If you actually study what the crypto kind of like, ecosystem looks like, much of the major price moves are done in a relatively short period of time, and then a lot of the time is just kind of like trending sideways for a while and kind of like correcting and just like finding a new bottom.
00:12:36.846 - 00:13:18.044, Speaker A: So I think that's maybe 20 trillion in ten years. Maybe a bit optimistic. I still think we can see 10 trillion, but it's good to see these kind of, like, signals coming from the more traditional world because I think that, you know, they're kind of like waking up to the fact that ETH is, you know, the premier collateral within Defi is a store of value. It has like a risk free kind of like Internet bond with staking is you being used as money within NFTs is going to become deflationary. Right. Has the burn and things like that, and has all the demand at the end of the day and will scale. So I think when you kind of, like, put all that together, it doesn't surprise me that these firms are kind of putting out reports like this, and these investment reports go out to, you know, the non crypto people.
00:13:18.044 - 00:13:43.380, Speaker A: Right. A lot of non crypto people and especially people that have all the wealth. Right. Like the older generations that have a lot of the wealth. And I actually do believe over the next few years, especially when it comes to staking, there's going to be a lot of the. A lot of staking products repackaged by traditional finance institutions and sold on, sold to these people, and it's going to bring in a ton of money into this space. So I actually don't think it's far fetched to say the market cap could exceed 20 trillion in the next ten years.
00:13:43.380 - 00:14:07.062, Speaker A: It's not a guarantee, of course, just. Just kind of like my belief, just ark invest belief. And it's not investment advice. It's just that it's just kind of like a price target there. And obviously Ark has, as far as I know, I think they have a bit of an 8th position. Obviously I have an ETH position, but I think if everything goes right for Ethereum and ETH as an asset, I don't see a reason why this can't happen. Ten years is actually quite a long time when you think about it.
00:14:07.062 - 00:14:28.006, Speaker A: I mean, you know, relative to a lot of different things. You can think back ten years, like what the world looked like ten years ago was very, very different to what it is today, especially the tech world. So that comes back to exponential growth and how quickly these things can, can go absolutely bananas. So very, very cool to see that Ark investors put out this kind of, like, target here. We'll see if they're right. Maybe. You know, I'm.
00:14:28.006 - 00:14:50.454, Speaker A: I want to say I'll still be doing the refuel in ten years. I hope. Hope I am. I don't know if I will or not, but, uh, you know, if I am still doing the refuel in ten years, then definitely we'll try to remember to come back to these. Maybe I should do a reminder underneath my own tweet and say, remind me in ten years to see if they were right. But I'm sure at that point we'll know. Or not.
00:14:50.454 - 00:15:37.100, Speaker A: So Nifty island is out with another teaser video today, I think yesterday, actually, I think I missed this, one of my friends pointed out to me. But basically, this is a very early alpha demo of the Nifty island game world here of the Metaverse world looks like a bunch of buildings around here. And, you know, their character vbooder, and he's jumping around to a few different kind of like, floating little islands, I guess. But, I mean, you guys know, I'm really looking forward to this game. I've been following it for quite a while. I have my, you know, legendary Neon Palm, I have my nifty blade and all that sort of stuff. But I'm really looking forward to being able to finally play the game because for me, look, I like or love nfts in general, but I I'm just so uninspired by all the copy paste and, you know, 10,000 profile picture nfts.
00:15:37.100 - 00:16:26.614, Speaker A: I've said this, talk to you guys before. I'm just looking forward to being able to do stuff with my nfts and to bring them into game worlds, to show them off, to hang out with my friends, to do VR stuff. Like, I just want more of that and I want less of, I mean, buy a profile picture and choose between the ten other picture profile pictures that you bought, because you can only have one, right? You can only have one profile picture on Twitter, and if you keep changing it, it kind of confuses people as well. So that's another reason why I'm not really a big fan of that. And it feels like a lot of them are just people kind of like flipping, flipping the profile pictures, which is fine, I have nothing wrong with that. But it's just, it's uninteresting. Right? Like, I feel like the more interesting aspect is being able to bring all of our items into these, you know, open game worlds, open metaverses, hang out with friends, do cool stuff with it, rather than just staring at it at our open sea kind of like profile, right? So cool to see this from Nifty island.
00:16:26.614 - 00:17:10.972, Speaker A: I can't wait for their alpha to go live soon. So Bartek is out with another great thread about why independent monitoring of roll up parameters is important. So in this thread, he's taken a look at anti censorship mechanism of arbitrum and using their gen nine sequencer outage, which was a nine hour outage as an example here. So I highly recommend giving this rate, giving this thread a read. I've seen a few, fair few people kind of like ask about this sort of stuff and asked about what happened with kind of like arbitrum, asked about like what's, you know, what's the, what's the go with kind of like censorship and censorship resistance and things like that, and what you can do to exit to l one and all that sort of stuff. So I just wanted to kind of like point this out to you guys. Definitely go check out this thread for a read on that.
00:17:10.972 - 00:17:59.394, Speaker A: And in a related kind of, I guess, post here, one from hexonaught, who wrote an article about deploying your token, or dapp, to l two first, and the mental model to switch involved with making this choice. So you've probably seen some discussions recently about how when you deploy your contract to arbitrary optimism on l two, only you can do that. But then if you want to exit to l one or have it on l one, you have to deploy it to l one as well, which is obviously a larger cost than it is on l two. There's a lot of kind of things coming for developers to make this an easier process. And in this kind of blog post, Hexanot describes a bit of this and goes through Eric Wall's tweet, who actually started discussion around this and how we can kind of like, I guess like fix this and how we can kind of like make this flow better for developers. So if you're a dev, definitely go check this out. It should be very interesting for you.
00:17:59.394 - 00:18:34.928, Speaker A: So investor Finance today announced that they are conducting their treasury bootstrapping event using Prime Dao's prime liquid launch, an interface for conducting liquidity bootstrapping pool events. So if you're interested in getting your hands on this, you can definitely check this out. I don't usually bring up token sales, but there's two, you know, two reasons why I'm bringing it up. One, I'm an investor in investor and I'm actually super excited about this project they're launching natively on L2. And I've told you guys plenty of times that I'm very, very excited about L2 native projects. And two, I've seen a lot of people in the Discord channel talking about Vesta. So I felt it was just very relevant for you guys out there.
00:18:34.928 - 00:18:54.484, Speaker A: Don't want to show you too much on it. Please, you know, don't buy this on my recommendation. I'm not even recommending you to buy it. I'm just pointing out that they're going to have this treasury bootstrapping event. So just think, just because I know a lot of you guys interested in it, I didn't want you to miss out or anything like that. So you can definitely check out the thread and the blog post for more details on how this is all going to work here. It's a pretty interesting mechanism.
00:18:54.484 - 00:19:29.556, Speaker A: So, so yeah, definitely have a, have a, have a look at this in the YouTube description below. So Paul Miller here released an Ethereum cryptography 1.0, which was funded by the Ethereum foundation. So this is a new audited library set, and behind it will empower all kinds of projects in the space. So you can, it's basically a cryptographic cryptography stack for developers, for researchers, for all that good stuff. There's, um, if you're not a developer or a researcher that handles cryptography stuff, then this probably isn't going to be very relevant to you. But I figured I'd point it out for those people out there who were, who were kind of like interested in this.
00:19:29.556 - 00:20:04.112, Speaker A: And, you know, it's funny because I've seen some discussions around, you know, why would you want your own l one over an l two? And one of the, one of the answers was that with your own l one, you have control over things like what cryptography it uses. Obviously, ethereum uses its own set of cryptography, and the evm does as well. And that's not likely to change anytime soon. Whereas if you want to use something custom, you can't do. I mean, you can do it in altus to an extent, but you're still kind of like a subject of l one cryptography. But like, if you wanted to, you could have your own l one and do whatever you want on there. I think that's like a very niche thing.
00:20:04.112 - 00:20:40.938, Speaker A: I don't think it's actually a selling point. I don't think most projects, or almost all projects, should ever be spitting up their own l one. It doesn't make sense for a number of reasons, as I've outlined before, but this, you know, ethereum cryptography stack basically runs through what you can do with Ethereum cryptography and how it covers a lot of the major use cases that you would want here. So definitely go check out this if you're interested in that sort of stuff. So Connext tweeted out they've done that. They've done some gas cost reductions, so they've been analyzing gas consumed on every roll up chain that they support to optimize their estimates. Eggs, you can see optimism below.
00:20:40.938 - 00:21:19.466, Speaker A: And now because of that, fees are now 30% to 40% cheaper throughout the entire Connexton network here. This is awesome. I mean, as I've said to you guys plenty of times before, I've talked about this so much lately. These networks, these bridges, these l two s, they're so early, and they're going to optimize the shit out of their gas because that's their selling point a lot of the time. Like, the bridges selling point obviously, is twofold. One is being able to bridge quickly in and out of altoos and different chains, but two is being able to do that cheaply because there's no use being able to bridge between things if it's super expensive to do. And then the same, you know, goes for optimism where, or kind of like these l two s, where obviously they want to kind of get their costs down as much as possible.
00:21:19.466 - 00:21:55.054, Speaker A: And that can all be kind of like taken holistically and users can just enjoy a very, very seamless and cheap experience. And obviously, as more l one upgrades come to ethereum, that lower kind of costs for roll ups and things like that, uh, we're going to have even a better optimizations there as well. So super excited to see this from Connext. And yeah, all this stuff's just going to get so much better with time, guys. Like, we're so, so early. I mean, if we're, if you think we're early to crypto, we're like a hundred times earlier to the l two stuff into the bridging and, and to how big this thing is going to get. As I was saying before about exponential growth, you know, we're, a lot of us just can't fathom that.
00:21:55.054 - 00:22:26.224, Speaker A: Like, I mean, to be honest, I probably can't even fathom it, like, how quickly this stuff is going to grow and, and how, how much it's going to grow by. Because you might be seeing today on aggregate all across, like, all the chains and L2s, we might be doing a few thousand transactions per second. Maybe. Maybe that's right. And I'm talking successful transactions, not like spam transactions that people count as being successful. No, I'm talking about successful search transactions that are executed at an execution layer, whether that be at layer one or L2. It's not more than a few thousand.
00:22:26.224 - 00:23:11.122, Speaker A: It's probably not even near a few thousand. Now, I'm going to tell you, within the next ten years, we could hit a point where that becomes millions of transactions per second and aggregate and successful transactions. And that's exponential from here, right? That's an absolutely massive amount of growth, and we need to keep costs down. We can't have the costs going up with the transaction demand at the execution layers. Obviously, Ethereum L1 is always going to be very limited and the costs are going to go up. But the point is, is that users at these other execution layers, such as rollups, will be able to get the cheap experience of these roll ups because they scale better with transactional demand. And then layer one does while being able to maintain security and decentralization here.
00:23:11.122 - 00:24:25.554, Speaker A: So, yeah, I mean, honestly, I should just set a reminder on my phone ten years from now, watch the refuel from 2021 and 2022 and see how much, you know, you were able to predict. Because I actually think that it might even happen faster than ten years because of, as I mentioned before, exponential growth and how quickly that stuff can happen there. So, yeah, anyway, very cool to see this fee reduction here from Connext. All right, so finally, we have another blog post out of Polygon titled ZK Verse Polygons Zero Knowledge strategy explained, which I'm very, very glad they put this out because I've seen a fair few people ask me recently, recently about Polygon, ZK strategy. You know, now that they have these teams under their umbrella, Polygon, Hermes might and night fall and zero, what's their strategy? You know, what are they going to do with this? What's in store for the future? When are users going to be able to kind of like play around with them? And in this blog post, they basically go through the technology behind each solution, the people behind them, and the roadmap. So if you're interested in any of this, you can definitely check out the blog post here. I'm really glad they put this out because, as I said, people have been asking me about this, and it can be confusing because you might be thinking, okay, well, there's a Polygon Pos chain that's really the only thing that anyone uses today, because the other stuff is, I mean, Hermes is live on Mainnet, but it doesn't really have any kind of like applications right now.
00:24:25.554 - 00:24:58.116, Speaker A: But, you know, everyone's wondering, okay, well, you know, there's the pos chain. We're all using it, but I want to use polygon zero knowledge, kind of like roll up stuff. And that's coming right, like, and this blog post details that, but it's going to take longer than people think it will. And as I've explained before, this is exactly why I've been such a champion for optimistic rollups in the face of ZK rollups. Like, even if ZK rollups end up being like, you know, in a couple of years, end up being like a million times better than optimistic rollups on, on costs and on speed and all that sort of stuff. Um, you know, optimistic roll ups alive and working today. They've got adoption, they have an ecosystem.
00:24:58.116 - 00:25:31.176, Speaker A: So let's kind of like use that sort of stuff. But at the end of the day, you know, I think we're going to be using both for a very long time, which is fine. I mean, you know, you use what you want to use, you use what you get value out of. And I'm really excited to see more people use, use these kind of like tools, no matter what they are. And as I explained yesterday, the L2 walls, they're heating up, right? And the L2 wars have so many teams, a part of them now. And you know, when I talk about the actual wars between different L2s, I'm talking about the generalized platforms, not so much the app specific ones. Like, for example, example, DyDX is roll up is not competing with Arbitrum's roll up.
00:25:31.176 - 00:26:22.006, Speaker A: It's not competing with optimisms, whereas arbitrum, optimism, Starknet, Zksync and Polygon solutions are all competing on the generalized fronts. And you know, this, I mean, and obviously, the optimism forks like Boba and Metis and I think Nami as well or something like that. They're all competing on that kind of generalized front there. But I've told you guys before that I don't expect there to be more than a few major winners in terms of kind of like having the most market share because of a variety of different reasons, but it's just how things kind of tend to play out with the Pareto principle there. Or kind of, you could kind of like Google that and check out the 80 20 rule. Same goes for L1 s. Obviously, I expect Ethereum to, you know, remain the dominant L1 smart contract platform and eventually replace bitcoin as the dominant crypto network in, you know, by market cap.
00:26:22.006 - 00:26:51.112, Speaker A: But, you know, at the end of the day, I think, you know, everything is competing with everything, but all this competition is going to be very, very healthy. And I'm super excited to see, you know, what Polygon does with their solutions and in terms of like their ZK solutions. And I'm really, really excited to see how everything else scales alongside it as well. But I think on that note, I'm going to end it there for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow.
00:26:51.112 - 00:26:51.584, Speaker A: Thanks everyone.
