00:00:03.840 - 00:00:42.754, Speaker A: Thank you, everyone, for having me. Bon soise Toulon de Charles colleague. I'm glad you like the title. So that's already a good thing. So perhaps some of you know that I was very briefly part of the board of the Fields institute and then I had to step down when in September, I actually accepted the position of chief science advisor of Canada. I thought I could still have mathematics, and I sure do. So, in fact, my friends laugh at me because they think I'm a wannabe mathematician.
00:00:42.754 - 00:01:22.394, Speaker A: So just for the record, I took my undergrad in chemistry and my PhD in chemistry. During my undergrad, I took all my electives in math. I loved math. I was actually two courses short for a major in math, and the math department actually offered to accept me conditionally to do a master's degree and catch up with these two courses. So I didn't do that. And it's going to be a theme that I'll come back to because I just. I loved math, but I didn't know what you could do with a degree in math.
00:01:22.394 - 00:02:41.864, Speaker A: So I think that we need to perhaps all reflect a little bit on that. So I'll just maybe tell you, remind you a little bit what my mandate is and why I'm here is not only because I love all the mathematicians and I love math, I'm here to say thank you, congratulate you on all the great work that you do by my entity. You know that I really think that math is going to be increasingly important to our society, to solving actually the challenges of the 21st century. So, yes, I want to say thank you and encourage you, but I also would like to ask you to do a little bit more on certain fronts. So actually what I want to ask you is to help me and to help me, I guess, to understand what my mandate is. And the mandate given to me was to basically help the government make recommendations to the minister of science, to the prime minister, on how to strengthen evidence based decision making. So that's one important aspect.
00:02:41.864 - 00:03:18.590, Speaker A: The second one is how to further enhance the science and the scientific enterprise in Canada. And the third and very important one is how to promote a culture of science and public understanding of science. I realize I'm here with mathematicians. Please understand, when I say science, I mean math as well. Okay? So don't hold it against me. And I mean math, both pure math and applied math. I see Terry here, I had the lecture at the University of Ottawa about the importance of both.
00:03:18.590 - 00:04:10.564, Speaker A: So I'm completely on board with this. I'm not getting myself in trouble with any of this. So to achieve these three, I think, very important and as you can imagine, aspirational objectives that will take us. This is going to be an ongoing, I think, priority for Canada. And I'm hoping to be actually the first of a long line of chief science advisors for the government of Canada, because I think this position is very much needed and has value added for both the government and for society. But to achieve it, we have to, you know, we do certain things. So I guess there are three major themes that occupy our day to day, which is outreach and building public trust.
00:04:10.564 - 00:05:02.144, Speaker A: Those of you who are on social media know that I actually have been to many places to encourage scientists to engage with the public and to engage with the public at all levels, not just with the students. Students very important to talk about this, but also with the public more generally. I work hard at strengthening the STEM community. And, you know, something that's very, also important. We try to work at enhancing multidisciplinary collaborations because this is critical to addressing global challenges. And it's easier said than done among scientists. We don't often understand each other's cultures, let alone each other's language.
00:05:02.144 - 00:06:04.444, Speaker A: So I think that, as you know, the distinguished mathematicians that you are and the distinguished institute that the field institute is, I think you are in a unique position to help on all these objectives. So I'm not here to tell you how important mathematics is. You know what, I'm preaching to the converts here. We don't talk, though, enough about the importance of math as, you know, foundational in critical thinking across all disciplines. So I think that we're going to need to keep this in mind. We need to have more students take math, even if they don't major in math, even if they don't go into science. I think this is something that's very important, and I personally believe that it's almost irresponsible.
00:06:04.444 - 00:07:03.184, Speaker A: And it's actually, you know, cheating out the young generation when we allow them not to complete, you know, all the mathematics courses in high school and even take some mathematics at university. People don't realize, I certainly didn't realize when I was an undergrad that actually, as a mathematician, you can work everywhere. You're in the financial sector, you're in banks, you're in insurance companies, you're even in hospitals. You're just about everywhere. Computational math is vital, even in chemistry. You can't publish anymore. Prestigious term of the American Chemical Society as a synthetic organic chemist, if you don't have the computational model, and I certainly don't mean to be, you know, being simplistic and diminishing the complexity and the importance of math.
00:07:03.184 - 00:08:21.674, Speaker A: No need to talk, of course, about bioinformatics, about numerous areas where computation, mathematics is important. In fact, you know, recent reports show that there's going to be increasing demand for skills that mathematics provide. And I believe there was a recent report in March from the RBC that found that over the next four years, over 70% of job openings will place significant importance on math and on numerous skills. It's not that surprising. Every time you look at actually a survey done by whoever looking at what our future needs and expertise, mathematics is systematically in the top five spots of most needed expertise. But again, this cannot stay, you know, the best kept secret in town. I think this needs to be, to be talked about and it needs to be better communicated to everyone in society.
00:08:21.674 - 00:09:21.968, Speaker A: So we need, like I said, to do this because it sounds just promote your work, but it's to recruit talent and to recruit more diversified talent as well. So that's why I say math is supercharging the 21st century solutions. I have a long list here, from quantum to artificial intelligence, to data analytics, to fintech, to blockchain network security. And, you know, the list goes on and on. And we need more people at the intersection of math and other fields, life sciences. You know, I could see firsthand the increasing importance of math in so many areas. The use of now artificial intelligence for drug development, it's just revolutionizing everything that we have, you know, been doing.
00:09:21.968 - 00:10:22.234, Speaker A: So I think that we need to have more people appreciate math. And if we want to continue to be ahead of others as a society, we're going to need to have more math literacy and more people graduating in math. I know that fields does, you know, a great job, so don't get me wrong, it's just that I think that we collectively need to do more. The foundation programs are very important. You know, the summer programs, Ian, we talked about them when you visited at the University of Ottawa. I know that you're taking it hard promoting gender diversity. So, you know, all this is important and, you know, thank you for doing it, but we need to be increasing our engagement with industry, with government, and with other civil, non academic partners.
00:10:22.234 - 00:11:18.954, Speaker A: We need them to be our champions. We need them to be talking on our behalf, on your behalf about the importance of MA and why you need to have more people go into this very important field. You recently launched center for Quantitative Analysis and Modeling has key goal to develop new and impactful mathematical techniques that address challenges arising in society, I think that's the right way to go. That's very important. Congratulations for doing it. This is a perfect alignment, actually, with my priorities to promote collaborations between sectors, between actually countries, as well as training highly qualified personnel. So notwithstanding all these great initiatives, I think that we need to do more.
00:11:18.954 - 00:12:35.834, Speaker A: We need more kids, like I said, completing math. And we need to explain to people the diverse careers that they can have if they study math. We should do this early, needless to say, because when they don't complete math at high school, game is over. If they don't take any math classes, how are we going to have people looking seriously at big data and doing quantitative social sciences? So this is a. I think that we have some challenges ahead of us. They may be communications, but I think that we need to put them out there and you need to have, you know, to see all these different role models, people who have done math and who have, you know, gone on to do all sorts of different things and put them in front of the kids. So I think it's important to note that as we approach the one year anniversary of the passing of Maryam Mizrakani, her impact on the world goes far beyond her mathematics.
00:12:35.834 - 00:13:57.204, Speaker A: I think that having a woman, I believe the only woman who's a field Methodist, is really important to encourage the woman out there who love math that we don't see math as an option because they just don't see necessarily themselves and the people around them. So going forward, again, say we need more money condition to step up and participate in the public discourse, we need more mathematicians at decision making tables. And if you think this is sort of pure fantasy, well, let me tell you, I spent a few days, two weeks ago now with Cedric Villany Fields Methodist, who's now a member of parliament in France. And, you know, when people asked him, why did you do this? He said, well, I didn't like what I was seeing and I thought, you know, it's time to just do something about it. Hey, hallelujah. Isn't that wonderful? Well, guess what? He's in charge of developing the AI strategy for France. And when he comes here to talk about collaborations between Canada and France, well, he knows what he's talking about.
00:13:57.204 - 00:14:35.478, Speaker A: So I think that we need more people, you know, like Cedric. I'm sure there are, you know, many people who can, you know, contribute immensely, you know, public life here in Canada. I don't know what's going on in France. Maybe when you get one mathematician, you get them all, like, do they come in package but Thierry Coulomb is actually, like, my vis a vis the science and education advisor for President Manholm. He's a mathematician. Not sure if it's, you know, pure or applied, but there's no distinction. No.
00:14:35.478 - 00:15:19.054, Speaker A: Okay, this is great. So this is just to say that, you know, I think that we, again, need to have, you know, broader horizons. We need to keep in mind that recruiting. Recruiting certain groups, and most notably, recruiting women, is a problem in engineering. We're going to get, actually, this circulation. You know, you have to put in front of them maybe a different career path. And since there are so many things to do in math, I think that, you know, we need to talk about the entire, entire possibilities and the world.
00:15:19.054 - 00:15:53.084, Speaker A: So, this last weekend, I was speaking with my niece. She's doing neurosciences. Said, oh, how's it going? I said, well, you know, one more year, and I really don't like what I'm doing, but, you know, I'm just gonna tough it out and finish. Oh, you know, heart starts beating. I think that, oh, she's gonna tell me she wants to go into some other areas, like, I don't know, marketing or communication, stuff like this. I said, oh, why? Why don't you like it? What is it that I don't like? The biology. I really like math.
00:15:53.084 - 00:16:45.148, Speaker A: Oh, you like math? Like, why did you do math? She said, I didn't do math because I don't want to do engineering. Okay. And it wasn't the first time I was hearing it. You know, I'm not doing math because I don't want to do engineering. Okay. Can you please go out and just tell people that you, there is life in math without engineering anyway, so where do we go from here? Okay, I'm concluding, how do we get more mathematician involved and publish this course? How do we get more diversity in math? I think that a good place to start is to begin a dialogue and perhaps, you know, throw a challenge. And, in fact, I was thinking.
00:16:45.148 - 00:17:53.444, Speaker A: I was just looking a little bit before coming here. There are also some challenges and, you know, fairs and this and that. So I'm going to throw, actually, a challenge at you. Why not develop a list of the most pressing mathematical problems that are related to global challenges of the 21st century? And it's not something such an original idea, actually. It's a little bit like the millennium price problems or DARPA math challenges. So, you know, they do it there. Why don't we do it? So, this problem, you know, we would invite mathematicians, you know, would invite teams of mathematicians and perhaps other folks from life sciences, from physics, from chemistry, who knows from what, from, you know, cognitive neurosciences, to find solutions to problems that could dramatically, actually revolutionize both mathematics and also some technical, increase our technical capabilities to solve important challenges of the 21st century.
00:17:53.444 - 00:18:42.808, Speaker A: I think this would teach people to work across disciplines and to have applications across research fields. Nothing like learning by doing it. So this way, we could help Canada, we could help the world, and we could also help the youth, you know, by, you know, having these global challenges. So just something maybe to reflect on and to think about and, you know, I simply want to close. I think maybe I've repeated myself, but, you know, in education, that you have to repeat, not that you guys are not smart, you're remarkable. But I think that we really need to make math more visible in society. Okay.
00:18:42.808 - 00:19:25.656, Speaker A: This is something that's really extremely important. It's. People don't realize and appreciate all the math that goes into so many, you know, the long list that I have in enumerated and so much more. We have a great tradition in Canada of mathematics. When people talk about artificial intelligence, they think of computer sciences, they don't think of math. So I think that you guys have something to do to rectify this. A competition between math and computer sciences that are all extremely important.
00:19:25.656 - 00:19:37.184, Speaker A: But I think that math is so foundational and that we just need more people to appreciate it, and who better to do it than you? So, thank you for having me and bona fide.
