00:00:00.250 - 00:00:09.306, Speaker A: What can you share about the potential risks associated with restaking, especially in terms of systemic risk and increased leverage on the ethereum blockchain?
00:00:09.418 - 00:01:44.538, Speaker B: Yeah, so I think that the risk of Eigen layer is something that comes to mind immediately when people learn about Eigen layer the first time. I think the first thought is, why didn't I think of that? And the second thought is like, this is why I didn't think about that. There's obviously all this risk, but I think that it's often misunderstood as something that poses systemic risk as opposed to sort of one off risk, where Eigen layer does not introduce any sort of domino effect between different protocols that are operating on Eigen layer. That means that in the event of a slashing condition being invoked, that may result in a decrease in security, but that decrease in security is never going to trigger some other sort of slashing event on the basis of that decrease in security. So the thing to watch with Eigen layer, and this is true with literally any amount of staking, is exactly to what risks are my assets subject? If you go and restake with ten different protocols, maybe nine of those protocols are safe in the sense that operators are doing a good job. The slashing conditions are well defined. They're not likely to be triggered.
00:01:44.538 - 00:02:59.510, Speaker B: But if that 10th ABS has a slashing condition that an operator doesn't manage well, maybe they miss an upgrade or something like that and you suffer a slashing, then that's something that you could have potentially anticipated, at least as a risk beforehand. Essentially the fact that the stake is not ever actually changing hands. It's not like a loan or a bond, where if you were to use a piece of collateral twice or three times, then that would subject your system to some kind of domino effect. Risk. Unlike that with restaking, the money is always held in escrow on eigen layers contracts. And there's no risk of this sort of like total collapse scenario that I think people sometimes jump to in their head. But yeah, I think that as a restaker, your job is to evaluate exactly what are the risks of any given abs that an operator that you might restake to is running these protocols.
00:02:59.510 - 00:03:36.960, Speaker B: There should be no protocol that has any kind of slashing condition that is based on the total amount of security provided to that protocol. If that were the case, then we would get into trouble. But there's no reason you would ever want to place some kind of slashing condition on the total amount of stake at risk for the protocol. And so if one slashing condition occurs, the security decreases some amount. And we really don't expect any other slashing conditions to occur on the basis of that decrease in security.
00:03:37.430 - 00:04:22.906, Speaker C: Ethereum foundation in general seems to just like, because they have to do it in such a safe way, they often go overboard. For example, the past half a year has been filled with research on what if all Ethereum gets staked and everybody who has ever been on the operator side, like guys, listen, you can have some edge cases and then there are cases that are practically impossible. So that just feels like one of those. Honestly, there are probably risks once you start looping it. And obviously people will loop it, right? Whatever other tools and projects that we might or might not have bags of, let's say, start doing those kind of stuff, that can happen. But it's not eigen layer score thing, right? It's like saying, oh, what if somebody buys and sells lot of ethereum at the same time? Okay, you're an infra, it's not your thing, what you do.
00:04:23.028 - 00:05:22.370, Speaker D: No, but I do think we do do a good level of risk modeling and analysis. We heavily advise and discuss the EF with the EF. A lot of the research that the research team is doing. Sriram Robert Shobhik, our head of research, a number of ideas that they have in early stage development and R D before it's even implemented. So those are ideas that they get consensus from the F team from. A second thing is, there is a lot of risk modeling that's done that people don't see behind the scenes. So one good example is the attributable security that Teddy was referencing in a concept like Eigensert that is being built right now for eigenda or different ABS that are underlying.
00:05:22.370 - 00:06:35.602, Speaker D: A lot of thinking is done behind how those signatures for Eigensert will be aggregated and then how these are going to be posted to Mainnet, and then what the signature verification cost is going to be for ABS, and then how that will potentially be a risk for ABS consumers or the ABS themselves. If, let's say, Oracle ABS is like chainlink that you mentioned prior in our conversation, change to eigensert, and what the general economic security of a DeFI application is with Eigensert and the Oracle on Eigen layer. So a lot of that risk modeling, analysis and thinking goes internally in discussions, and it's just something that we don't publish. We definitely want to publish more, but we do think about it. And we also do heavily engage the EF because we love a lot of the work they're doing. And even though they're slow and like you're referencing, they do it with good reason. They do it because there's so many applications that are built on top of them, protocols that are built on top of them, and so many other blockchains that look to them for their research purposes.
00:06:35.602 - 00:06:37.570, Speaker D: So I understand why they're slow.
