00:00:00.360 - 00:00:20.094, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deli Gwei refuel, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Cesarno, and today's the 3 January 2022. Alright everyone, New Year 2022. I hope you all had a great New Year's. I actually stayed home for mine. I didn't do anything too flashy, just stayed home with the fiance and kind of had a quiet night. Quiet night in there.
00:00:20.094 - 00:00:58.012, Speaker A: But I saw a few pictures on Twitter of people, kind of like at various parties around the world. But I think with the COVID situation, you know, different parts of the world, it still seems a bit all over the place, right? Some people going out, some people staying home. Not exactly sure, kind of like what's going on there. But you know, we soldier on, we keep going and we go into a new year, a new year, new exciting things happening. I went over kind of a recap on last week's refuel about 2021 and gave some 2022 kind of like not so much predictions, but kind of outlooks. And as a related thing that I wanted to talk about today, which is related to a tweet that I put out yesterday, and I'll just read out the tweet. It was a three part tweet.
00:00:58.012 - 00:01:38.652, Speaker A: Basically, I said in late 2020 there was a strong narrative being pushed that you didn't need to buy or hold ETH. All you needed was BTC, plus the Defi blue chips, aka the crypto barbell strategy that turned out to be horribly wrong, with ETH strongly outperforming BTC and most of Defi in 2021. Now there's a new narrative being pushed that L2s are bearish for ETH. So you only need to buy L2 tokens and alt l one tokens. It really amazes me how people can still be bearish on ETH after all this time and how many times these same people move the goal post. Now there's two other tweets after that, but I want to focus on the first half of this little tweet thread here. So for those of you who are around in late 2020, like, it's actually amazing how bearish people were on ETH and how bullish they were on Defi tokens and how wrong they were.
00:01:38.652 - 00:02:29.490, Speaker A: I don't have to rehash that for those that were around back then, and if you weren't around back then, I'm sure you've heard heard about it before. But what I find even funnier was that there was a lot of predictions about what 2021 was going to be and how many people got it wrong, which I also went over on last week's refuel, how I talked about people didn't see kind of like the dog tokens coming, the alt Al one stuff coming, the NFT stuff coming. And I think that there's a lot of predictions being given right now for 2022, and I feel like so many of them are going to be wrong again. It's just, it's so very hard to get things right about this industry. It doesn't matter what timeframe you're looking at because it's such a new industry. There's so many unknowns. There's so many kind of like, things that just catch everyone off guard, especially if you've been in the crypto industry for a while, you kind of miss things because you get used to a certain way of things being, and then all the new entrants that come in, I mean, they've got no prior contacts, they've got no history.
00:02:29.490 - 00:02:55.114, Speaker A: They are literally coming in for the first time. So their mindset is very different to yours if you've been in it for a while. And that's exactly why a lot of people actually miss the Alt L1. Stuff like they obviously went, went pretty crazy. And there was, yeah, there were some people that caught that train that saw it coming. But for, on the most part, most people missed it and most people missed ETH because they were kind of like, had priors about BTC. And I'm talking, I'm going back to like, 2017 and, and even further back than that.
00:02:55.114 - 00:03:43.478, Speaker A: So I think when it comes to not just investing in crypto but spotting trends, you really need to try and reset your, your thinking about it. You can't just, like, be stuck in a mindset that you were in before because what ends up happening is you miss things. And I, I'll be the first to admit that I've missed a lot of things because of that, where I get stuck on a certain narrative or I get stuck, uh, kind of looking at certain things and I miss things kind of playing out. And I think 2021 was a, was a humbling year for me, especially the second half where I kind of, I mean, I feel like I had an edge in 2020 and the first half of 2021, where I'm, while I was making a lot of good investments and I kind of, like, saw where the, where things were going. And then the second half of 2021, I kind of, like, lost that edge and I didn't see a lot of the stuff playing out. I mean, I think I knew nfts were going to be big, but I didn't realize how big they were going to be. I didn't really know how to play it correctly.
00:03:43.478 - 00:04:09.768, Speaker A: I didn't really place any big bets there. I mean, I bought some nfts, but nothing, nothing crazy there. Whereas a lot of people kind of saw that trend coming. Oh, sorry. Not a lot. But, like, some people saw that trend coming and played it really, really nicely there. But obviously, I think, like, in 2022, there is a way to kind of not just reset your thinking, but also kind of like, look at what's playing out, look at what the most popular narrative is, and try to find something that is different to that.
00:04:09.768 - 00:04:40.420, Speaker A: Like, right now, I think in the ethereum ecosystem, the most popular narrative is that 2022 is going to be the year of l two. We're finally going to have all this l two adoption. It's going to be great. It's going to be awesome. Look, as bullish as I am on L2s, guys, I'm not convinced that, you know, we can just kind of like, bucket a L2 adoption into one year or one specific year. Like, people go on about how last year was the year of Alt L1 s and a lot of them kind of, like, got traction, and a lot of them kind of, like, prove themselves and, and east, you know, TvL dominance went down and all that sort of stuff. Yes and no.
00:04:40.420 - 00:05:18.754, Speaker A: Like, I feel like people, just, as I said before, people not just with the old tale ones, but with anything, the narratives are usually stronger than the fundamentals and the actual traction. And I feel like people get stuck in this hole where they think that there's much more traction for something than there actually is. And this goes for everything. I'm not just talking about the old town, talking about anything. Ethereum, Ethereum based projects, anything. And there are a lot of real projects that get neglected, especially their token prices. There's plenty of the defi quote unquote blue chips that have been neglected for a very long time, or their prices have been doing very, very poorly, even though they've been growing, they've been innovating, they've been releasing products, and then the ones that have, like, a stronger narrative seem to be doing better than them.
00:05:18.754 - 00:06:17.604, Speaker A: So I wrote about this in the newsletter today. But basically, this is the concept of shifting narratives, where you've basically got these narratives that play out on short term, long term timeframes, and people get stuck in them, and people kind of, like, get stuck in that frame of mind, they fail to evolve, and that doesn't make a good investor in my mind, like, obviously, none of this is investment advice, but just generally, I think that if you get stuck in like an old way of thinking, or if you think things have to play out like they have in the past, or if you think that you can see what's going to happen even though you're, you know, you've been around for a while, you're not kind of like thinking from a new person's perspective. It can be difficult. And I, I find it actually really good exercise to talk to newer people in the ecosystem and to see what they're focusing on and to see what, what kind of like their friends are focusing on and, and what they find interesting, because a lot of the time it's very different to what you find interesting. There's plenty of people out there who don't find ethereum interesting because the fees are too high for them. Right. And we have the L2s and stuff like that, but there's no easy way for them to onboard to most of those things yet.
00:06:17.604 - 00:07:08.380, Speaker A: So they went and played on the other things. Right. Obviously, the polygon Pos chain was a big, a big thing as well, but a lot of them kind of like played with Solana or avalanche or some of the others out there, and that's why a lot of those tokens did very well in 2021. So I think always keeping on your toes and realizing that it's very easy to get stuck in kind of like a boomer mentality, even though you think you're on the forefront of things. Um, uh, especially when it comes to investing thing, I think that's always a good thing to keep in mind there. So that was kind of my point about this, because I feel like a lot of people got stuck in a mindset in late 2020, and they just kind of like missed ETH completely and they tried to make up for it with the other L1 s in 2021. I mean, it was successful to an extent, but it's always funny to see kind of the narrative shift there and then, you know, in the, in the second half of my tweet thread here, I said, you know, of course ETH isn't going to give you 100 x within a few months because its market cap is already high.
00:07:08.380 - 00:07:54.516, Speaker A: And yes, you can outperform it by investing in certain other things, but I believe ETH is the most bullish asset in crypto. From a risk reward perspective, it's simply a comfort comfy hold. So I think, like, people, people usually have kind of like a, not, not just around ETH, but just like any asset, they usually have like a mentality that they go in with where they're like, okay, well, if I put money into this, am I going to get like a ten x or 100 x or a thousand x? What am I going to get out of this? Like, as bullish as I am on ETH? Guys, you're not going to get 100 x from ETH anytime soon. Its market cap is already half a trillion dollars. The 100 x from ETH could happen in a decade or something like that, or longer than that, but it's not going to happen within a few months. Whereas there's a lot of other assets out there, not just the Alt L1 S or anything like that. I mean, many of those Alt L1 s are actually pretty high market cap now.
00:07:54.516 - 00:08:23.678, Speaker A: So I don't think you're going to get 100 x out of a lot of them anytime soon. But there's a lot of other things, like a lot of emerging projects, new projects in different kind of categories, whether that be DeFi or NFT, stuff like that, that are incredibly risky, but they also have the potential to go 100 x plus. And we've seen these play out, like, pretty quickly. I mean, there were a few late last year that were kind of like DeFi 2.0 that went, you know, 100 x or more. There was a bunch of NFT projects. There was not just the NFTs themselves, but like infrastructure projects around that and those sorts of things.
00:08:23.678 - 00:08:47.971, Speaker A: A bunch of other tokens. Yeah, I mean, these and, I mean, there's a lot of scams and Ponzi's as well that would go up really high, but then come crashing down. But the thing is, is that these things are always much more risky than something like ETH. Like there's a reason ETH is already worth what it is. I mean, ETH was obviously much more, much riskier a few years ago. That's why you had a better return. But now Ethan and bitcoin as well, are much more mature as assets.
00:08:47.971 - 00:09:30.870, Speaker A: You know, obviously, I still believe ETH is incredibly bullish, but if you're looking for 100 x and then you have to play in the riskier assets, that's just the, that's just the way it is. And you can structure your portfolio however you want to structure it. You can have like 10% of your portfolio just like doing complete Degen stuff where you basically say to yourself, okay, well, there's a high chance I'll lose this 10%, but I'm going to do it anyway because I want to make that hundred x. Whereas you keep most of your portfolio in, quote, unquote, safer assets like ETH, and you do that because, say you put 10% into something that goes 100 x, that is still a massive win, right? But say you put, say you did it another way. Say you put 90% of your portfolio into something and you kind of said to yourself, okay, I'm going to 100 x from this. And then in reality, it just crashes. And you.
00:09:30.870 - 00:09:56.402, Speaker A: And say it crashes like 50% and you lose 50% of your, almost all your portfolio. Risk reward is kind of like out of whack when you do it like that. So that's how I usually play it. And obviously, this is an investment advice, but this is how a lot of people play it. They don't put their whole stack into something, or at least most people don't put their whole stack into something and hope that they're going to get, like, a massive gain out of it and it's going to be. It's going to be all well and good. Many of the best investors will play it, like, safer like that.
00:09:56.402 - 00:10:15.938, Speaker A: Yes, they'll do, like, risky stuff, but only with a small part of their portfolio. So there's that aspect to it. And the last tweet, I just said, moral of the story. Don't take investment advice from crypto Twitter. Most people get it very wrong. I believe the best course of action is to learn from smart people with a proven track record and apply their thinking strategies to your own. So, cheers to a profitable 2022 for all.
00:10:15.938 - 00:10:46.416, Speaker A: So, I mean, I think that if you're following people who are just shilling a new coin every week, that's not going to be a good time for you. I feel like the people who shill a new coin every week are the ones just unloading it every time they're shilling it, because no one really shills a coin before they've bought it. And even if they say they have, there's no way for you to. For you to verify that, right? Because, for example, someone could say to you, some random ain't on Twitter account that has, like, a decent following can say, you know, I love this coin. I believe in it. I think it's going to go like 100 x. It's going to be awesome.
00:10:46.416 - 00:11:04.974, Speaker A: You know, come join me. This is, you know, for such and such reason. Reason. And then they're just offloading their tokens on you with, with their wallets and you've got zero way to prove any of that because they can keep their wallets completely anonymous. You've got no way to tie it back to them. If they slip up, you do. But even then, there's hardly any consequences for this sort of stuff like that ain't on account.
00:11:04.974 - 00:11:33.782, Speaker A: If it becomes really bad, they can just start another account and do it all over again. And this sort of stuff plays out all the time. I'm sure you've all seen it, right? Like on crypto, Twitter plays out all the time. It's the concept of exit liquidity, especially on the lower market cap things where there's not much liquidity and not much volume. These people need to kind of like shield these things in order to, to exit them once they've entered. But that's always, you know, it's always a kind of like, dangerous game you play when you, when you're playing in these sorts of things. Incredible amounts of risk, but also incredible amounts of rewards if you play it right.
00:11:33.782 - 00:12:16.760, Speaker A: And I think the, actually, this, this is an advice. But like, number one thing I always like to keep in mind is that don't look at the wins that hat played out last year and say to yourself, oh, if only I'd put money into this, you know, it would have been this much and it would have been awesome. That is the worst way to think about it, because what ends up happening is that you think that the next thing that you're really bullish on is worth you putting the money that you put in that other thing that did really well, and then it doesn't play out the same way. It never plays out the same way. It's not, it's not going to play out exactly the same way as it has for, for the other thing. And I know a lot of people have been doing this lately where they're like, oh, if only I had invested in the Alt L1 s last year. I knew they were going to pop off because ethereum fees were high, the narrative was there, blah, blah, and now they're all chasing it now again.
00:12:16.760 - 00:12:48.692, Speaker A: And to be fair, that can still play out. It can still go up, but still make money there. But the thing is, is that I feel like that trade is pretty much like done at this point in terms of like, giving you massive amounts of returns unless you find something that is kind of like a much lower market cap. But a lot of them got just re rated up already. And the same thing happened with Defi, mind you, right. When, during Defi summer. So I think that when you're looking for the next kind of like hundred x or more than that, you really have to not only be very careful about what you pick, but you have to kind of like write off the money that you put into it.
00:12:48.692 - 00:13:08.822, Speaker A: You have to say, okay, well, this 10% of my portfolio, whatever percentage it is, is in, is in this, and I'm comfortable losing everything. But if it plays out really well, and if I'm right about my thesis, I could make a lot of money from it. That's all you have to do. And you really have to come to peace with it. You can't just tell yourself, oh, yeah, I'm at peace with this. If this goes to zero. No, no, you actually have to write that money off and not even think about it.
00:13:08.822 - 00:13:29.754, Speaker A: It's either 100 x or zero. And I know that sounds like gambling because it really is, to be honest. Like, if you're, if you're kind of like degenerating into things, it is very close to gambling. It's pretty much gambling. Like, if I'm being honest, I mean, and we've all been there, we've all done it. And I guess like, uh, you kind of like switch modes depending on what you, where you're at. Like, if you have a lot of money already, you're in wealth preservation mode.
00:13:29.754 - 00:13:51.254, Speaker A: If you're just starting out, you've only got a few thousand dollars to your name. Well, you're probably going to be like, well, I don't care, like few thousand dollars. I can afford to lose it. I'm going to go and like do all the degen stuff because the reward is like lucrative if I, if I play it right. But, you know, it's all up to you, it's up to your decisions. And of course, uh, I'm not here to give investment advice. I'm just here to kind of like give my experience and how I kind of like view these things, uh, playing out.
00:13:51.254 - 00:14:15.526, Speaker A: So I just wanted to highlight this thread from Vitalik. Over the weekend, he put out a thread, which I'm sure a lot of you already saw, where he said happy new year today, a mini tweet storm of some of the things I've said and written over the past decade and what I think about those subjects today. So a lot of these things go back to 20 13, 20 14, 20 15. A lot of them don't have to do with Ethereum specifically. It's about bitcoin. Bitcoin cash, a bunch of other things. I suggest giving this thread a read if you somehow missed it.
00:14:15.526 - 00:14:58.868, Speaker A: It's obviously a very popular thread here. I really liked it because, I mean, it's obvious that Vitalik is one of my favorite people in the ecosystem for a number of different reasons. I just think that the fact that, I mean, one of the major reasons is the fact that Vitalik has created such an incredible movement in Ethereum, such an incredible ecosystem, and he's still as humble as he is. He's still as dedicated to Ethereum as he is. He's still able to have such self awareness to actually call himself out on a lot of this stuff that he made predictions about that were wrong and kind of like why they were wrong and what he got wrong, what he got right, all those sorts of things. I, yeah, I just find that incredible. And the fact that he's so young as well, like you expect this from old, maybe older people who have more wisdom in, under their belt, but no, Vitalik's young.
00:14:58.868 - 00:15:20.184, Speaker A: Like, I think, pretty sure he's 27, so he's three years younger than me. And like, he's just, yeah, he's a very, very unique and special person in the world. And I'm very glad ethereum has him in the ecosystem still. You know, obviously he could have created Ethereum. I mean, he could have like just stopped a few years ago. He would, I mean, he is set for life in terms of money. He doesn't have to do what he does, but obviously he does it for more than money.
00:15:20.184 - 00:15:41.996, Speaker A: And, you know, he doesn't really care about money from, from what I've seen anyway. So. Yeah, definitely go give this thread a read. It is a really great one. I loved getting his perspective on all these different things here. So another great thread from Polynyar over the weekend, going over some shower thoughts on what they'd like to see from roll up tokens. Now I spoke about roll up tokens last week on a few of last week's refuels.
00:15:41.996 - 00:16:19.336, Speaker A: I mean, I've been talking about them for quite a while, but I wanted to kind of like go through some of the points that Polina brought up here and add my kind of like color to it. So the first point, which I believe is the most important that I hadn't actually considered or thought too deeply about was Polynya says vampire attack l one s to oblivion. And yes, this includes ethereum smartly is target active users across different l one s. Fewer tokens drop to the yield, farming, chasing chain hoppers and high value ethereum users. So we all know vampire attacks, right? They've been used to, I wouldn't say incredible success. I would say that there's been kind of like mild success with the vampire attacks. They have to be done right.
00:16:19.336 - 00:17:03.790, Speaker A: They have to be done in such a way that it not only, you know, vampire attacks liquidity, but it's used as a marketing tool as well where everyone's talking about it. So if the l two s do it right, they can vampire attack these other l one s, including ethereum l one, and move a lot of that liquidity to the l two where it would possibly stay even without token incentives. Because the l two s offer a much better experience than pretty much all the l one s. Even. I mean, yes, they're more expensive today, but even in their kind of like more expensive state, they just offer a much better user experience, in my opinion. Maybe, you know, it depends on the l two you use and things like that, but in my opinion, they're much further along. So I think that they have a pretty good opportunity to vampire attack these l one s, get the liquidity across and, and basically start growing their ecosystems out.
00:17:03.790 - 00:17:28.634, Speaker A: Because once you have the TVL there, a lot of the other things kind of like fall into place and a lot of the network activity falls into place. And it's, it's a really great marketing vehicle. So I thought that was a, that was a good shower. Thought there. I think there's a couple of others here. I'm not going to go through them all, but yeah, this one distribute at least 70% of the tokens to the community treasury, and at least 70% of tokens to active circulation have a clear long term plan for incentives. This is very important, as we've learned from defi liquidity mining.
00:17:28.634 - 00:18:17.246, Speaker A: If you kind of like have 5% of the token circulating and 95% kind of still not circulating and the fully diluted market cap is really high, your token ends up just stagnating or going down continuously. And you don't build a community like that because no one wants to buy the token, no one wants to hold it, no one feels like they're getting rich. Making your early community rich is the um, is the, is the play is definitely the best way forward. So airdropping a lot of the tokens, because a lot of these l two s are going to have high market caps from the get go no matter what they do. So I think that the only kind of choice they have to distribute tokens in a fair way is airdropping the majority of them. Because then the users get, the users get like a large stake like depending on the airdrop amount in the network already from the get go. And a lot of people will sell it, of course, but that's just distributing it out to the people who want to buy it from there.
00:18:17.246 - 00:18:44.156, Speaker A: And then you kind of have a much better distribution. So I think that is definitely, definitely something to keep in mind for the l two teams here. And then the last point was pointer saying liquidity farming is old news. Keep someone major assets and the roll up token, but keep a tight lead with very low inflation. This is another mistake that a lot of Defi projects have made. They've done too much liquidity mining too fast. You have liquidity locates that come dump the token, no community gets built and they just leave from there.
00:18:44.156 - 00:19:09.136, Speaker A: So I think that the l two s have to be very careful with this. Do light incentive programs. Don't just do it as kind of like liquidity mining, giving away tokens to liquidity providers or anything. Just don't just do that. Do kind of like liquidity incentives or token incentives in terms of like paying people to develop on there being like okay, well, will give you a certain number of tokens if you come and develop or port your app to our l two. That's probably a better way forward there. But there's a few other kind of points here that poly now made.
00:19:09.136 - 00:19:49.534, Speaker A: I'll link this thread in the YouTube description below, but I'm going to move on here because I'm running out of time. So Marius from the Go Ethereum team gave a kind of like update thread on the Kintsugi testnet, which on the 31 December which was like four days ago now. So it has already hit block 100,000 and it already had 97,000 accounts on it and it seems as a new transaction every block as well. So it's a couple other stats here outdated now, of course, because this was, this was from about four days ago, but cool to see the Kintsugi testnet just, you know, plotting along here. It seems to be going really well. I'm sure we'll get an update in the next couple of weeks around how that's gone and everything like that. So really, really cool to see that.
00:19:49.534 - 00:20:21.570, Speaker A: Santi here from the proof of humanity and Ubi project basically put out a great tweet where he said el Salvador is top down crypto adoption, Argentina is grassroots bottom up crypto adoption. El Salvador enforces bitcoin and Argentina embraces ethereum at the developer using an entrepreneurial levels. The rates of crypto adoption in Argentina are way ahead than any other country out there. The pandemic led to a quantum leap in the sector. So this is something that I brought up before. Right. I thought that El Salvador's way of adopting crypto, obviously, bitcoin, was very coercive.
00:20:21.570 - 00:20:58.174, Speaker A: I don't think that it was the great way to do it. I don't think that the people of El Salvador really had a say in it. I think that the government just wanted to do it, or the president just wanted to do it and he did it. And he keeps buying the Div, apparently, and doesn't feel very organic at all. It feels very, very forced, aka top down crypto adoption. Whereas within Argentina, they've actually been building out an ecosystem for the last few years, primarily around the Ethereum ecosystem. There's a lot of really, really cool theorem people that are out of Argentina, Argentina and have lived there, you know, their whole lives or come from there or born there, and they're basically part of the grass roots, roots, bottom up effort.
00:20:58.174 - 00:21:34.882, Speaker A: They're not, you know, the government isn't trying to force crypto on them. No one's trying to force crypto on anyone. They've been using things like dai for years, ETH for years, advocating for crypto, getting it kind of involved with, with their day to day activities. And obviously, Argentina has a high inflation as well of their native currency. So it's been kind of like a lifeboat for them. But yeah, as Santi puts it here, it is a bottoms up approach, which is what crypto should be. This is what I think a lot of projects get wrong, not just ethereum and bitcoin or whatever, but like projects in general in crypto, they try to do a top down approach that doesn't work in crypto, because crypto is all about ownership.
00:21:34.882 - 00:22:24.198, Speaker A: Web three is all about ownership. If the old users and your kind of like, I guess, token holders in your community doesn't feel like they have any kind of like, ownership or say in the protocol, they'll just leave, they'll just go somewhere else because the switching costs are so low within crypto, whereas if you feel like that within your own, within your own country, the switching costs are much higher. Right. Not, not just because, like, leaving your country, depending where you are, can be quite difficult, but because you have your roots there, right? You have your family there, you have your friends there, you have, you have a house there, you have, you know, you're used to the area and it's just very, very different. But within crypto, switching cost of particularly applications is very, very low? Maybe not for ecosystems. Like, for example, the switching costs from going from ethereum to another l one. If you've been a hardcore ethereum is obviously really, really difficult, but the switching cost from going from application to application is super, super easy.
00:22:24.198 - 00:22:53.500, Speaker A: So I think that all projects within crypto should always be a grassroots, bottom up approach because of that kind of like ease of switching costs there. But yeah, great tweet from Santi here. Moving on, Brantley set out another kind of tweet going over December 2021 starts for Ens. There's been a new record for most ETH names registered in a month, 109,000. All ETH are one, despite the high gas fees. Over 250,000 owners now 600,000 names, 91 new integrations now 423. Total $5.8
00:22:53.500 - 00:23:04.544, Speaker A: million in revenue. All goes to the Dow and 99% of opensea volume for domains. ENS is dominating it. We all know it is. It's awesome. We all have our eats. It's really, really cool to see the progress there.
00:23:04.544 - 00:23:45.712, Speaker A: Mahaylo from the Polygon team put out a recap of 2021 on Polygon had a massive 2021. Like, I just, I was thinking about the other day, thinking back to the start of 2021 and like, basically, I mean, that's when Polygon did their rebrand in about February. I mean, so Matic did their rebrand to Polygon in February. They were basically not even on the map. Now there's over 100 million wallets on the PoS chain, over 3000 apps, 1 billion plus transactions, six new solutions which were all weren't out at the beginning of 2021, by the way, the SDK, Polygon Avail, Hermes Night for maiden, and zero Top Web. Three names such as Uniswap, ARVN, Openseer on Polygon, and big brands such as Dolce and Gabbana, NFL, Macy's and everything like that. So Polygon had an absolutely massive 2021.
00:23:45.712 - 00:24:27.052, Speaker A: I'm looking forward to an even bigger 2022 from them there. So there's an account that I've come across recently that I just wanted to highlight called Sudo Theos, who is doing a lot of great threads around Ethereum and ZK lately. So I really like this thread where they basically put together a thread on what do all the ZK terms mean? So what do all the zero knowledge terms mean? Go check out this thread. But I also highly recommend going and following this person because this may be another polygny in the making. Like, there's not often that I come across people who really know their shit and know how to kind of like I wouldn't say dumb it down but like explain it in such a way that everyone can understand. And I think Pseudo Theos is definitely one of those because isn't just this thread. They've been doing a bunch of different threads lately.
00:24:27.052 - 00:24:48.156, Speaker A: Not just, you know, not just one off threads. You can see here everything like that. Look, all these threads, I mean, scroll through their profile to kind of, I guess like have a look here. But yeah, just wanted to highlight this account for a highly recommended follow. And Sudo, if you're, if you watch or listen to the daily way, please reach out to me and dm me. I do have a backlog right now, but I'd love to talk to you. I have a few questions I want to ask you.
00:24:48.156 - 00:25:37.192, Speaker A: But, but yeah, definitely go give this person a follow. Ave so Stani announced their first announcement of the year from Aave, which is that they are building a mobile wallet. I think the wallet game is going to heat up pretty, pretty, pretty quickly in 2022 and throughout because I mean when you think about it, the kind of like wallet game is such a huge kind of business kind of opportunity because it's like the front door, right? Like centralized exchanges are a front door right now in terms of like getting people on with fiat on and off rams. But once we have all these mobile wallets that have like all these on ramps integrated and everything like that, they're going to be the front door for most people. I mean, look at Argent, for example. They already have native l two integrations happening. They've got fiat on ramps happening.
00:25:37.192 - 00:25:59.640, Speaker A: They've got, they're bringing the web to experience of one or two clicks to web3. So I think that's a huge opportunity. And yeah, Aave seems to be building a member wallet here, which I am looking forward to learning about. Learning more about. Another related ave announcement is that Aave three is going to be ported to Stocknet. So there's currently a community effort to get RV three on Starkware's Stark. Net network here.
00:25:59.640 - 00:26:30.620, Speaker A: That's really, really cool. Obviously we want to get all the top kind of like quote unquote blue chip defi projects from Ethereum l one to all the l two s. So it's great to see this already happening here. I hope to see rv three are alive on arbitrary soon and optimism as well because obviously they both don't have whitelist and they're both EVM compatible or equivalent. So it should be very easy to get RBv three on there. I'm sure it's coming once Rvv three goes to Ethereum mainnet as well. I would actually love to see kind of like a multi deployment there where they do kind of like v three on Ethereum mainnet one.
00:26:30.620 - 00:27:07.076, Speaker A: Arbitrary and optimism, and even the polygon pos chain as well. I'd love to see kind of like a multi, multi pronged approach there. But anyway, last update here, because I've gone over time, I believe. I think I've gone over time, maybe not just yet, but yeah, this, this kind of like teaser from Jasper here, who I've highlighted kind of like before, I think, but basically teasing a new kind of integration with JPEG notifications here. So Jasper works at Zappa, by the way. So this might be part of their kind of like mobile wallet effort here. So you can see here that there's a notifications flying in for people to kind of like interacting with NFT, such as minting an NFT receiving one, obviously.
00:27:07.076 - 00:27:42.288, Speaker A: You'd probably just kind of like watch someone's address for this sort of stuff and be able to kind of like watch what they're doing, what nfTs. They're kind of, um, you know, buying or speculating on things like that, which I think is really, really cool. As I said before, the mobile wallet space is going to heat up really, really, um, wildly in 2022 and beyond. There's, you know, as I mentioned, Argent, there's Rainbow Wallet. I mean, obviously metamask has a mobile wallet, there's coinbase wallet, Zapp is designing one, alves coming out with one. It's going to get crazy. And I just can't wait until we have like a really, really, really nice mobile that has all the integrations everyone wants with kind of like l two integrations, bridges, all that sort of stuff there.
00:27:42.288 - 00:27:54.344, Speaker A: It's going to be awesome. But I think that's going to be it for today. So thank you everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
