00:00:00.240 - 00:01:14.938, Speaker A: So welcome, everyone, to our inaugural virtual quantitative finance seminar series here at the Fields Institute. I know it's a very unusual year for everybody, and we're hoping that to continue the long tradition of seminars in quantitative finance that was started back in the fields many several decades ago. Today, it's a great pleasure to have Alex Lipton with us today. He's the co founder and chief information officer at CILA and partner at numerous financial visiting professor and dean's fellow at Hebrew University of Jerusalem. And he's also a connection science fellow at MIT, amongst many other accolades. A couple of little highlights about Alex before letting him take the reign so in 2016, he left the bank of America Merrill lynch, where he was there for a decade in senior roles including quantitative solutions executive and co head of the global Quant group there. His current professional interests include fintech, particularly in applications of distributed ledger technology to payments of banking, digital currencies, including stable coins and asset backed secure, sorry, asset backed cryptocurrencies, robust asset allocation, automated investing, and a host of other things.
00:01:14.938 - 00:01:36.900, Speaker A: And you probably all know Alex very well from his books that he's published over the years. He was also the quant of the year award winner back in 2000, and he's currently finishing his next book with Adrian Trikani on blockchain and distributed ledgers, mathematics, technology and economics. And I guess it's going to be out next year, right near the beginning.
00:01:37.012 - 00:01:38.028, Speaker B: Yes, very true.
00:01:38.076 - 00:01:50.904, Speaker A: Well, with that, Alex, I'd like to like you to take the floor and thank you very much for coming in to speak to us on stablecoins and decentralized finance news from the cryptocurrency universe.
00:01:52.624 - 00:02:26.900, Speaker B: Thank you, Sebastian, for your very kind introduction. And it's a great pleasure to speak again at the Fields Institute, which I cherish very much and have many friends and colleagues and co authors at the institution. And so it's a little unusual, of course, to speak remotely and, you know, but I hope it will at some point go back to the conventional face to face, and then maybe I will be giving a privilege to speak again in person.
00:02:27.012 - 00:02:41.060, Speaker A: But Alex, one small thing I forgot to mention in terms of admin like logistics. Please post your questions in the chat, and then we'll call upon you towards the end of the talk to ask them in person.
00:02:41.132 - 00:03:46.408, Speaker B: Okay, brilliant. Thank you very much. So anyway, the subject of the presentation are stable coins and decentralized finance, as Sebastian already mentioned. And the idea is to connect the most recent developments in the area of blockchains and cryptocurrencies with very old concepts which have been around for quite some time and see how things are developing in perspective. So going back a long time, 2000 years or so, we can go to Aristotle, who noticed that money has been introduced by convention as a substitute for need or demand, and as such it exists in the confines of law. And so he was explaining the name misma for money in Greek, from the name law, from the word law. Enormous, right? So that is very true, I suppose.
00:03:46.408 - 00:05:23.892, Speaker B: And that is a little bit of an issue with the existing cryptocurrencies, that in a sense they occurred out of nowhere on their own volition. And now there is a little bit of a tug of war between the libertarians who think this is the best thing of the sliced bread, and it might very well be the case, and people who would like to put it more in the confines of the existing system, right? So whoever is going to win is going to dominate the world for the next few decades. So it's an interesting competition, right? So the other thing, which is also very important to understand, that kind of money, among many other attributes, has an information quality. So this Nicholas Arezm, monetary theoretician from the Middle Ages, from France, identified the stamp, the value of the stamp image on the coin, as kind of incredibly important informational concept. So that is also important when we start to discuss stablecoins and the likes. And then the third observation, again from the late Middle Ages, is from Nicholas Copernicus, who was in his spare time, actually a consultant, and sort of making a little money on the side by advising the prussian government on the coinage. And I'm not going to go into rather intricate situation on the ground at the 15th century.
00:05:23.892 - 00:06:37.504, Speaker B: But he articulated several sound principle for producing money, and of which the third one is super important, because we will see that even in modern day's debate about Libra and its validity and utility and so on and so forth, this third postulate of Copernicus is routinely misunderstood or forgotten altogether. And so the postulate, of course, says that when the new currency is issued, the old currency must be demonetized and withdrawn from circulation. And that's something which I'm going to return to in a due course, but the rest of it is probably more relevant for the time and day, for the time and place where he was kind of operating in the 15th century, right? So, as Sebastian, already very kindly mentioned in this presentation, covers some of the material from the book, which Adrian Trikani and I am finishing and hope to finish within the next week or so or two weeks. And so it will appear in the beginning of next year. And then, you know, the book which already appeared recently is Sandy Pantalon, Thomas Harjohn and myself. And it's available for download freely from MIT Press. And it sort of also articulates some of our views on this subject.
00:06:37.504 - 00:07:23.936, Speaker B: Right? So the functions of money are manifold, and it's hard to sort of decide which one are more important. But of course, you know, there are several which are understood universally, such as, the money is a medium of exchange, means of payments, of taxes. As we have seen, not everybody's paying their fair share, so to speak. Right? So money is means of payment in general, store of value, unit of account. And this is something which I added to this esteemed list on my own, and I very much like it, but you are free to accept or deny this. So money is a perpetual call option for acquiring goods and services and discharging one's obligations, right? So this is very important. Money is always unstable.
00:07:23.936 - 00:08:25.684, Speaker B: So we will be talking about stable coins galore. But the truth of the matter is that money by its very nature is unstable. It had been unstable when it was represented by talking of value, like the silver denarius in Rome, and it is unstable when it is represented by fiat, by the US dollar. And by the way, this graph below, of course, is more relevant than the graph above, even though they look surprisingly similar. So the only thing is that it's like 100 years for the dollar and 250 for the denarius. The point which I want to make is that even those periods when dollar was ostensibly backed by gold, its purchasing power was declining quite steadily, except for a period of time during the Great Depression, when prices were consistently going down because of the lack of demand. But this is something to be aware of when you try to devise a stable coin.
00:08:25.684 - 00:09:24.216, Speaker B: And we will see that there are several approaches to taking on this problem, right? So money is inherently mathematical in nature, and I'm not going to kind of dwell on it very much, but here is an example. Here is a hundred deutsche mark note from right now it's no longer legal tender, so we can look at it more carefully. It has a number, ad 520-3416 U six. So as it seems like, you know, arbitrary kind of collection of numbers and characters, but reality is a little more interesting. So in reality, there is a mapping, first from letters to numbers, and there are only nine letters in total, so being used, right, so they're in the table above, and so mapped to the letters, I'm sorry, to the digits below. Then there is a transposition. So digits from zero to nine are being transposed according to this rule here.
00:09:24.216 - 00:10:23.400, Speaker B: And then there is a kind of multiplication operation, if you wish, you know, which sort of, for example, tells you how much would be four times three and it is two. And so the idea is that if you start with the original number and then convert it into digits and then start to apply this transposition as many times as the position of the kind of digit in the table. So, like once, you know, for number one, five times for position, for the digit three, six times for the position digit three, which is in position six, and so on, so forth, and then sum, according to this rule, you should end up with zero. And this is an error correcting mechanism which verifies that this number is indeed legitimate. Right. So we will see, well, we will not see it in great detail, but this is the same idea is being used in bitcoins when bitcoins address is being formed. Right.
00:10:23.400 - 00:11:01.142, Speaker B: So it's very interesting. So from that perspective, there is a continuity in how things are done. So there's few observations why it's so interesting and important to look at cryptocurrency and what they can do for you. First and foremost, existing banking and payment system are still working, but they're not working very well. They're obsolete and not aligned with the changing requirements of the modern world. So, for example, in the United States, they're kind of sending checks with this additional payments from the Treasury. Wolf, in many places, parts in the world, the very idea of a check is not known any longer.
00:11:01.142 - 00:12:13.966, Speaker B: That tells you how obsolete and creaky the whole situation is, at least in a number of large countries. The other thing which is very important is that financial system, the way we know it, is essentially on its last legs. The global financial crisis of 2008 was not exactly a death blow, but it was a very, very severe blow and almost knockout effectively. And after that, in spite of all the help from above, this very low positive interest rates and now negative interest rates in many parts of the world are extremely disadvantageous to the banking system. So it might look as a helper to the real economy, which probably does not, but it's certainly a very severe, borderly blow for the banking system. Right. So one of the things which is slightly puzzling but important to understand is that the open Internet protocols unleashed a wave of creativity and growth in many, many fields, but banking is not one of them.
00:12:13.966 - 00:12:55.812, Speaker B: Of course, you can say there are kind of neo banks and, you know, like interfaces based on cell phones and stuff. Like that. But that's not what I mean. So there is no a real protocol for moving money and identity which are extremely closely linked in the legal economy through the Internet. And that's a big problem. In fact, in the beginning, when the Internet standards were created, there were placeholders for this concept, but they were not, never filled. And I would argue that regulatory compliant, fiat backed tokenized medium of exchange can help fill this gap.
00:12:55.812 - 00:14:37.046, Speaker B: And the corresponding token can be viewed as an electronic version of cash. And it has a pluses and it has minuses and they can have numerous fintech applications and they can also be used in order to build a decentralized financial market infrastructure and decentralized finance as well. And that's sort of, if you look why it is really needed, you know, it is because everything which we use right now is super complicated, right? So if you look at the settlement system in the United States, and this is just a skeleton diagram which can be increased and embellished infinitely, right? So you can see that the heart of it is large value transfer system and then it is connected to the fed wire, to the retail system. And there are settlement banks which are performing a lot of important duties, in particular, intercepting, interacting with central clearing counterparties, offshore cleaning, central security depositories and so on, effect settlement, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. The system is simply very complex. And this is a meta picture, right? So if we look at the microscopic picture, we will see something which is equally complicated. So for example, if we have this proverbial and prototypical interaction between Alice on the left and Bob on the right.
00:14:37.046 - 00:15:57.150, Speaker B: And by the way, kind of, if you look at all the cryptographic literature, if you don't use these names, you're not being taken seriously. So that's what we will be using. So Alice wants to pay with her credit card to Bob and he needs to send her some merchandise. Reality of the situation that it looks like a simple transaction, but underneath it there are enormous amount of flows of both information and funds, and then the overall settlement is happening outside of this picture through the previously shown system of transactions, right? So that sort of 1112 of information and cash flows for a simple transaction, it's just too complicated, right? So it becomes even more complicated. Complicated if you look, for example, at the pyramid of payments, cross border payments. So if you have a us based buyer and euro based seller, it actually has to go all the way. In the most complicated case, it will go all the way from the buyers to the buyer bank in New York, corresponding bank in New York and then to Frankfurt and then go all the way down.
00:15:57.150 - 00:17:08.404, Speaker B: And what fintech, you know, newcomers are trying to do is to connect these layers without the need of going all the way to the top of the pyramid, right? So in principle, you can use PayPal, Western Union, a credit card, etc. Etcetera, to pay directly. But as we have seen, reality of the situation is that it will also go back to the banking system and back to the square one. So essentially, the only rails right now which can be used in order to move value or banking payment system, right? So we need to build a third rail, something which is regulatory compliant, but can live outside of the existing banking system, right? So one system like that has been known for centuries. It's Havala, right? So Havala is deceptively simple. And, you know, it has a number of problems, you know, know, your customer antimony, laundering and whatnot. But as a mechanism for moving money, it's basically brilliant, right? So a client comes to Kavalador, say, the United States, and bring some cash.
00:17:08.404 - 00:18:26.974, Speaker B: And then they. So Alice. And then Bob comes to Havalador in India and receives this cash from the Havaladar in India in indian rupees. And that's that basic, right? So Havaladar IA sends remittance call to Hawaladar B and then, you know, same client a sends the same code to client b and then the payment commences. Right? So, as we will not have time to talk about it, but one of the more popular cryptocurrencies and crypto protocols, namely Ripple, is, in fact, you know, this implementation of havala in modern electronic fashion. So the idea is to try and attack the sort of address the rebuilding of the financial system by using a blockchain concept, right? So blockchain is a shared distributed ledger which facilitates a process of recording transactions, right? And so in reality, some of the things which we need to do in order to make life easy is to be able to record transaction permanently and unalterably. And that would really play at least some role.
00:18:26.974 - 00:19:50.342, Speaker B: Some. It would be a useful step towards having a different system for payments, right? So right now, kind of the information superstructure can be organized, you know, in three different way. You know, centralized like the one in the top left corner, decentralized on the right and distributed on the lower left corner. Right? So the idea is to move from one or better to state two, if you look at cross border payments, to three, to put things in a historical context, the distributed ledgers are filling the gap. One of those gaps which are kind of fundamental for our existence, right? So the same way as printing press filled the knowledge gap in the 15th century, and the card loom filled the programmability gap in the 19th century, and steam age and strains and blah, blah, blah. So in the end of the day, we have the Internet, but we don't have trust on the Internet. And so the distributed ledgers can be thought of as trust machines, and they can fill the trust gap in the 21st century.
00:19:50.342 - 00:20:35.224, Speaker B: There are several types of distributed ledgers. Some of them are unpermissioned public ledgers. These are really sort of an audacious approach to things, right? So anyone can join, anyone can transact and all that type of thing. And this is bitcoin, Ethereum, and many, many others right now. And then there are permission private ledgers like r three, IBM, and again, many others. These are sort of more modest, there's a more modest out of shorts of the original idea. So essentially, you take some of the features of the unpermissioned ledger, but make them permission and facilitate consensus, which is paramount to actually build something meaningful.
00:20:35.224 - 00:21:10.712, Speaker B: And then, of course, we can always draw back to the traditional centralized ledger. And then, as I said already, it's very important to be able to have consensus. And the mechanisms for achieving this consensus are manifold. So one is a proof of work, and that's how bitcoin operates and proof of stake, that the dream of what Ethereum has, but has not achieved yet. And it's not so easy. Proof of burn and many other things. And of course, we can sort of go to more modest things like practical, byzantine fault tolerance.
00:21:10.712 - 00:21:49.764, Speaker B: That's how ripple operates, for example, or stellar. And, you know, there are all kinds of variations. And then third party verification, that's the kind of way permission, private ledgers operate. And the reason why it is so kind of attractive is that, you know, if things were to be built properly, then all Alice needs to do in order to move value to Bob is to have something to move. That's of course, a must. Nobody absolves you from the necessity of acquiring money, right? So that's not like, would be a bonanza. We're only talking about moving money around.
00:21:49.764 - 00:22:53.968, Speaker B: And so she can announce that she wants to move money to Bob, to the entire ecosystem, which consists of nodes which kind of monitor transactions, and miners which provide consensus in a variety of ways. And then, you know, if she has the funds and everybody is shipshape and Bristol fashion, then within, say, ten minutes or so, Bob Knowles would be credited with value and Alice Knowles would be with you know, reduce the value for her and that's that. So you see, compared to, for example, how I describe payments through credit cards, it's decisively attractive, right? And so what is good about this picture? So anyone can participate. Transactions are public. Middlemen are not assigned from above, even though it doesn't mean that they do not exist, because, you know, the consensus providers can be viewed as middlemen to some degree, right? And so what is bad about this picture? So essentially exactly the same. Anyone can participate. All transactions are public and middlemen are no understand from the above.
00:22:53.968 - 00:23:53.200, Speaker B: So since all transactions are public, there is a nuanced situation when this setup cannot be used for regulated financial institutions because they have to preserve banking privacy and things like that. And, you know, just comical relief for a moment. It's not like this idea of maintaining, you know, balance, like blockchain, like balance is not unknown. So, for example, rye of japanese stone money is kind of a famous construct. And in fact, given that I'm having a privilege of speaking in Canada right now, you know, in Ottawa and the financial ministry, there is a huge one like that. So if you ever end up there, have a look. Essentially, these are huge stone discs which were mined at a remote island palau, mostly in the Pacific, and taken by Kanoe to the island of Yap.
00:23:53.200 - 00:24:40.488, Speaker B: And then they're so huge that of course, they cannot be moved. So unfortunately, there is no sort of real scale here. But, you know, this particular stone is about 2 meters in diameter and probably with like five tones. And so the way value was assigned, they were divided mentally into pieces, and the elders were maintaining who owns which part of the stone. And then when there were important events like weddings and things like that, you know, value would change hands and that would be recorded in this oral history. Right? So that's essentially how the. So that the elders would be the miners and everybody else would be the nodes, and everybody knew how things of the other example, which is super exciting, but I don't have enough time to talk about it, are medieval english stylistics.
00:24:40.488 - 00:25:46.014, Speaker B: And the thing which I want to mention is that they were created to sort of obviate the fact that in the Middle Ages, there was not enough gold to actually have gold based payment system. And so they used wood, but it worked equally well. Right? And so now, as I said, the very first protocol used for payments was bitcoin. And I mean, I have to say, say what you want about bitcoin, but it is an amazing accomplishment by way of creating something which continues to work without, you know, interruption for ten years in extremely hostile environment, and which was created like that pretty much from the beginning. So, like the goddess Aphrodite appeared fully formed from the sea foam, the same way bitcoin appeared from a certain Satoshi Nakamoto, who might be a person, might be a collective. Nobody even knows that. And, you know, kind of.
00:25:46.014 - 00:26:30.994, Speaker B: And the system started to exist without asking for permission. It cannot be shut, or at least, you know, it's very hard to shut it down, and it is just there, right? So the idea would be, and it came from cryptopunks and so on, that it would be a replacement for national currencies. It will take money away from the social and government control, from the centralized authorities, full decentralization and so on and so forth. Reality is not there, to be perfectly honest. Like, bitcoin has very low transaction per second and very high transaction fees, preventing its everyday usage. You know, there is a struggle for control by different money and other interest. And as a result, there were many hard forts.
00:26:30.994 - 00:27:46.090, Speaker B: So whenever you hear that there will be only 21 million bitcoins, that's true. But then carrying very keep in mind that there are also things like bitcoin, satoshi vision, bitcoin, cash, etc, etc, etcetera. The most sort of disappointingly, from my personal perspective, is that, you know, it does not achieve decentralization. Say what you want, but it is not decentralized. If anything, it's quite centralized, right? And so, and also it uses a very inefficient consensus algorithm for specifically proof of work, which results in enormous electricity consumption. And yet, you know, with all these negatives and so on, it can probably be viewed as an electronic version of regime, right? Often it has been claimed that bitcoin is a version of gold, digital gold, but that is probably not true because of a variety of ways bitcoin itself self organizes. So if the number of miners drops dramatically, the system will still operate, but the difficulty of mining will be reduced a lot.
00:27:46.090 - 00:28:31.546, Speaker B: With, if the number of gold miners drops, the difficulty of getting new gold would not be declining at all. So that's an important thing. So here we can see that bitcoin is highly volatile and going from nothing, essentially, to $20,000 in the end of 2017 and then to 3000. And now it's kind of hovers around. And then if we look at the Google trend, interest in bitcoin, not surprisingly, the same thing. As one would expect, it grew dramatically in 2018, and since then reduced to maybe 20% of what it was. Bitcoin can be thought of as gigantic Markov chain with indeterminate number of vertices.
00:28:31.546 - 00:29:11.810, Speaker B: And so consensus is achieved by proof of work. And so it changes, the state of the Markov chain changes from one stage to the next through adding blocks of transactions. And so that's what we see here. And it's a very elegant system, I have to say. The actual outputs are what is called unspent transaction output. So bitcoin operates on a transaction basis. If you have ten bitcoins and want to send me one, which I would appreciate, then you would have to spend the entire ten by sending me one, sending yourself 8.99
00:29:11.810 - 00:29:54.744, Speaker B: and leaving 100th of a bitcoin or so to the miners, right? So that's how the whole system operates. And as I mentioned already, bitcoin does not achieve decentralization. Why? Because the very nature of capitalist production pushes bitcoin miners into gigantic pool. It's too risky to be an individual miner because you have to spend money on hardware and electricity. The code behind mining is trivial, I have to say, and. But the expenditure on hardware and electricity is humongous and so it's just too risky. And so people naturally congregate into pools.
00:29:54.744 - 00:30:50.488, Speaker B: And the very fact that in the picture below, in this page, we see individual nodes, I'm sorry, individual pools tells you that the whole system is highly centralized. And all in all, there may be like 100 pools, but in reality only like 20, which matter. And the number of observation nodes is maybe 10,000. That's a system. And then comes ethereum. Ethereum is sort of, to a large degree, canadian invention, right? So the original progenitor for the system is Vitalik Buterin, who is actually known as opposite to Satoshi Nakamota. And so what Vitalik suggested is to create an ethereal virtual machine, the first distributed Turing complete computer with smart contracts, distributed autonomous organization, full decentralization and so on and so forth.
00:30:50.488 - 00:31:49.344, Speaker B: This is a truly bold idea and also a little bit of a triumph of marketing over common sense, because reality of the situation is that the payment structure within the ethereum itself is such that it cannot be a Turing complete computer because it only allows so many steps per cycle and that sort of thing. Smart contracts are not really particularly smart and all the things, etcetera. And of course the decentralization has not been achieved either. And it cannot be if you use proof of work, right? So it suffers from the same thing, low transaction per second, very obsolete payment model for gas consumption, for the making this ethereum virtual machine to work. And smart contracts are not that smart, as I said, they cannot be fixed if there are bugs. And that can result in kind of disastrous consequences. Like, for example, happened with the first distributed autonomous organization, which was hacked to the tune of $100 million or 60 million, whatever.
00:31:49.344 - 00:32:33.404, Speaker B: And smart contracts are voracious consumers of collateral centralization, etcetera. And yet it is very convenient as a provider of consensus, as a service. So that's how I think about Ethereum. That's what I think it actually does. And again, the prices went up the same as bitcoin, and the interest again, you know, went up dramatically and then went down. That's essentially. And so the difference between bitcoin and Ethereum is that in addition to conventional nodes, which are called the externally controlled accounts, there are also nodes which do not have associated private key, secret keys which can open them.
00:32:33.404 - 00:33:24.560, Speaker B: And these are smart contracts. And so in this first transaction, smart contracts are left unchanged, but the number of ethers per address has changed. But in the next one, there are certain messages which have been sent to smart contracts which change the conditions. So essentially, you can think of a smart contract as a bitcoin and miniature. So the consensus is provided by Ethereum, but the ledger is being kept like any type of thing. So essentially you can have a token operated on Ethereum, with consensus provided as a service that comes very handy when you want, for example, to build stablecoin or things like that. Again, there's no time, but the picture speaks volumes.
00:33:24.560 - 00:34:19.474, Speaker B: There is a high centralization of miners. And so the advantage of ethereum smart contracts is that they provide autonomy, trust, reliability, savings and accuracy. So essentially, the codes which are being executed, and these are programmable financial instruments, so maybe not necessarily financial. And as I said, consensus as a service, that's very, very important. However, one needs to understand that consensus is a useful service and hence it is very expensive. So, for example, my startups, we use Ethereum, but it is super expensive and we're not really super happy about it. And so then, of course, there are variations of the theme which are produced by various banks and so on and so forth, the quorum, which is the permission version, and other things like that, IBM, Abrik, Microsoft Azure and all of that, right? So, and then it's very interesting.
00:34:19.474 - 00:35:33.190, Speaker B: I want to spend literally two minutes on something which is slightly outside of the topic of the presentation, but very interesting. So, efficiency of mathematics is inexplicable, but staggering, sort of. In 2019, I wanted to understand the so called bitcoin dominance, which means the proportion of the overall crypto universe capitalization, which is allocated to bitcoin and to this end I wanted to use the deterministic version of the susceptible infected removed model or stochastic susceptible infected susceptible model. And as it turned out, it was prescient because then of course, three or four months afterwards, everybody became an expert in this because it was a popular pastime for people with mathematical inclination to model Covid-19 and things like that, which I part took as well. But that was the sort of background which was very healthy. And the idea is that money moves from bitcoin to other cryptocurrencies, like Ethereum, for example, which was exactly what it is. But then eventually people go back to bitcoin and that sort of thing.
00:35:33.190 - 00:36:07.592, Speaker B: And we're interested in the ratio which tells you how much money kind of is in bitcoin versus the entire universe. And so this is shown in the yellowish curve here, the output of the model. And then in blue you will see the, you know, the actual market observation. So it's not ideal, but it's indicative of what's going on. Right, so now, as I mentioned, Ethereum can be thought through as a machine for producing new tokens and new coins. So I start with coins. Coins live outside of Ethereum.
00:36:07.592 - 00:37:05.584, Speaker B: Coins, by definition, live on their own, on their own blockchains, and there are many of them. So like this is show the capitalization of the first hundred coins. And the interesting thing is that they are driven by power law. And this is a kind of fit of the power law, which is quite good. And then they all can say leave essentially on Ethereum and possibly on a few other blockchains which have smart contracts. And again, we can see that there is a power law distribution that's pretty much the same as for coins, right? And so now we can ask ourselves, can we actually do something and improve the financial system? Because using bitcoin or ethereum is not really so advantageous. They're too unstable and they might have their role in a well diversified portfolio and generally sort of something, you know, to look at.
00:37:05.584 - 00:37:29.740, Speaker B: The way I think about it is as follows. So bitcoin has no value. It has no value, which is actually not a drawback. It's an advantage because of that. It can have any price. And so essentially bitcoin is a gate. It's a giant casino where everybody can play and things can go up and down as they do, precisely for the reason which I have mentioned.
00:37:29.740 - 00:38:16.624, Speaker B: But if we want to build a new system for payments, we need to do something else. So we can use central bank issue digital cash, for example. This is all the rage right now in China. They already sort of doing it in earnest and having a pilot project in several cities in many other places. They also are looking into that. And, you know, it can open a venue for better monetary policy, or at least a policy which can be executed bolder. Right? So Matthias Gracelli and I have argued that with this central bank digital cash, you can have seriously negative interest rates, for example, for better or worse, right? And so they also can increase tax collection, fighting crime and whatnot.
00:38:16.624 - 00:38:52.444, Speaker B: But at the same time, they can provide excess control over ordinary citizens. And the question is whether or not they should be token based or account based. An account base would allow every citizen to open an account with central bank, which is unlikely possibility, because in addition to everything else, banks have to solve the know your customer and anti money laundering function. And this is not what central bank can actually do. They can monitor this and regulate that, but cannot do it themselves for a very simple reason. They're very small, right. Personnel wise.
00:38:52.444 - 00:39:41.572, Speaker B: Right? And it's probably would be more convenient to do it through narrow banks, with banks which only have. Which only have accounts with the central bank itself. So essentially the same way as most of the armies do not produce their own tanks and armaments, but outsource it to private companies the same way it's likely that central bank digital cash would be outsourced to either existing banking institutions or banking institutions which were created specifically for this purpose. So then, of course, in order to do settlement between financial institutions, one can think about utility settlement coin. This is an interesting project which has been going on for quite some time. I'm waiting to see whether or not it comes to fruition. And then, of course, we can do stable coins.
00:39:41.572 - 00:40:45.472, Speaker B: Stablecoins is a super interesting area, and they are built as tokens on top of existing, existing protocols, right? So it can be built on top of ethereum, it can be built on top of stellar, it can be built on top of zilliqa. So the question is, which system provides the best smart contract environment and is actually sufficiently cheap to be practical, right? So, you know, there are several possibilities of building stable coin. One would be a fiat, fully collateralized coin. There are several like this, of course, the oldest one is tether, and nobody knows if it is collateralized or not, but it has been around for quite some time. And among other things, tether is remarkable because it has extreme velocity. So essentially tether may be like 15 billion in value, and bitcoin maybe 200 billion. But in a day, the amount of tether changing hands is actually bigger than before.
00:40:45.472 - 00:41:17.284, Speaker B: That's quite interesting. And so one of the project is sila money, which I'm part of, and sort of, you can look at how we do it. Right? So then, you know, there is no time and no need to dwell on coins partially collateralized by fiat. That was an idea proposed by saga and a few other people, but it's a bad idea, so no time to spend on that. So crypto over collateralized coins. These are actually walking coins like dai, produced by marketdao. But they.
00:41:17.284 - 00:42:13.908, Speaker B: The overall situation with them is that they go against the grain of what the finance should be. Finance, in principle, should allow you to operate on margins. In other words, by putting a dollar, you should get maybe say, $5 worth of goods to trade, of course, not as a gift, but to trade whilst the market Dow goes the opposite direction. So you have to deposit $3 worth of ethereum, for example, to get $1 worth of Dow, that sort of thing. And so there are also very nuanced situation with interest rate policies, extreme fines if you breach margin rules by way of sort of losing up to 15% of the value, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera. But at least, you know, it's a possibility. And finally, dynamically stabilized coins with sort of coins stabilized by all algorithms, that's not a suitable proposition.
00:42:13.908 - 00:42:54.760, Speaker B: Right. So. And now asset back coins, that's something which my colleagues at MIT, Sandy Pentland and Thomas Harjon and myself have been working on a lot. And so the idea is to use real assets for the pool and then have coins representing shares in this pool, essentially, that is something which can facilitate fighting inflation or deflation and other things like that, and in general serve as a counterbalance for the activities of central bank, if such a counterbalance is needed. Right. So they have. They can improve stability, improve trading and so on, though you can.
00:42:54.760 - 00:43:48.940, Speaker B: And then we were thinking both small, like, you know, cooperatives of small producers in Africa and so on, and big, like currency backed by oil and mourning rights and so on. Trade coins are not exactly unknown. So they were known all along, along the, you know, the Chinese, the old Silk Road, and as well as in later on, in the form of spanish pieces of eight and Maria Theresa thalers. Right. So. And then, you know, they have a lot of advantages, but unfortunately, time is running short, and I wanted to spend a little time on Libra, you know, which was introduced by Facebook, you know, my take on it is that I can only follow what Samuel Johnson said. Your manuscript is both good and original, but the part which is good is not original, and the part which is original is not good.
00:43:48.940 - 00:44:48.376, Speaker B: And indeed, you know, if you look at what Libra white paper says, it is pretty much what Sandy Pentland and Thomas Hardjoni and I have written, that's a good part. The part which is not so good as that it doesn't use immunization, and then it violates the third postulate of capernaum. And hence, if one were to introduce such Libra in the developing world, that would actually not be a good thing because it would increase inflation manifold. And so there is no time for me to go through this. I only want to cover this, a little bit of centralized finance applications. As I said, ethereum, warts and all, can be viewed as a consensus, as a service provider, and as such it can be used as foundation for decentralized finance. In fact, I think that either Ethereum has to change and switch to proof of stake concept, or it will migrate to other chains where consensus is cheaper.
00:44:48.376 - 00:45:29.280, Speaker B: But for the time being, it's Ethereum. You can think about decentralized autonomous organizations, decentralized exchanges, payments and stablecoin yield farming, which is all the rager now, but it will not end well. Tokenization, which is very important because it can tokenize real asset and create something really interesting. And then gaming identity provisions, things like that. So I will literally spend two more minutes on the automated market makers and then I will draw my conclusion. So automated market makers such as Uniswap, bouncer and curve became immensely popular. So there's up to $15 billion kind of sucked into this universe.
00:45:29.280 - 00:46:23.122, Speaker B: And originally the idea is very simple, right? And you can make it more complicated, but I mean, it's sort of not really essential. So suppose that you want to be a market maker in two tokens. So for example, two stable coins, or more audaciously, a stable coin and ethereum, right? And so initially they priced on par. And of course, ethereum worth $400 and stablecoin worth $1 in principle. So, you know, think about it as a blocks of, you know, like 400 stable coins, that sort of thing. 300 stable coins, right? So a participant who wants to be a market maker has to put in the pool equal number of tokens, right? So n one equals n, two equals n, and it's put in the smart contract, as I said, which will be executed automatically and at any moment in time. The rule of market making is super easy.
00:46:23.122 - 00:46:52.582, Speaker B: N one times n two is equal to n squared. And so every time an arbitrager charges the changes the composition of the pool, a percentage is paid to the pool operator. So half a percent, something like that. That. So assume that the price of the second token, expressed in the price of first one, sort of deviates from the initial value of p equals one. So for example, it went up. Then an arbitrator will step in and purchase the second token by paying for it with the first.
00:46:52.582 - 00:47:36.280, Speaker B: And then it is easy to calculate the optimal positions. The optimal position would be n. One is equal to square root of p times n, and then two would be one over square root of p times n, and the arbitrageurs profit from doing it. Aside from paying, a transaction cost would be square root of p minus one squared times n. And then of course, the buy and hold portfolio would be n plus one times n. And so, arbitrage portfolio value at the same time is two times square root of p times n. So, percentage loss, which is called quite disingenuously in this parlance, as impermanent loss, is square root of p minus one squared divided by p plus one.
00:47:36.280 - 00:48:19.350, Speaker B: And the idea is that if price has been reverting, then the impermanent loss will go away, as the name suggests, and transaction fees will accumulate to provide maybe 10% return. But of course, if the price does not mean revert, then kind of things will be lost. And so this is a curve which shows the percentage loss when price deviates from its equilibrium value of one. And you know the jury is still out to what extent the whole thing is profitable. And let me draw my conclusions, and I apologize for overrunning by five minutes. So, the idea of distributed ledgers is not new, and modern technology gives them new lease of life, and they can have numerous applications. And of course, digital cash is a promising venue.
00:48:19.350 - 00:48:58.154, Speaker B: And if this were to happen, then retail banks can potentially bifurcate into narrow banks and investments pools and asset backed cryptocurrency can be a much needed counterpart to fiat currencies and decentralized finances will still early stages, but if it develops further, it can provide a viable competitor to exist in centralized framework. And at this stage, I want to thank various people who helped me thinking about it, like my wife and partner in numerous financial Marshall Lipton, Sandy Pentland and Thomas Harjono from MIT, and my co author for the book, Adrian Trikani. And that's about it. Thank you.
00:48:59.694 - 00:49:24.914, Speaker A: Okay, wonderful. Thanks Alex, for a very interesting and broad view of the defe world and stablecoins. We do have. I do have. I've received one question typed in. I encourage you to please type in your questions or raise your hand or something to indicate that you'd like to ask them. Matzella, would you like to ask your question? You could unmute yourself and turn on your video.
00:49:24.914 - 00:49:41.834, Speaker A: Matzella, are you there? Okay, how about I will read. Oh, okay, I see. He's coming on. You are. You're on mute right now.
00:49:45.734 - 00:49:47.222, Speaker B: Can you hear me, professor? Hello?
00:49:47.278 - 00:49:48.188, Speaker A: You can hear you now.
00:49:48.286 - 00:50:56.872, Speaker B: Go ahead Matson good afternoon. Thank you very much for the very detailed presentation. I think I have a very simple question. In your opinion, do you think the current technology is moving from central bank digital currencies, asset backed currencies, smart contracts, do you think they will lead to more inclusivity, specifically towards the emerging markets, which may have certain particular market niches in terms of their applications? It's an excellent question, and the simple answer is yes. The hope is that they should increase inclusivity and help those developing countries where, say, currencies are unstable and things like that. But how exactly to do this? It's not so easy because there are forces making this decentralized, originally decentralized project highly centralized in the end. And I have already shown that there is a level of centralization, for example, for bitcoin and ethereum, at the level of mining, but even more so, it's at the level of exchanges.
00:50:56.872 - 00:51:58.928, Speaker B: So, for example, if you want to get a bitcoin, you have to actually become a member of a customer of an exchange, which sort of defies the purpose of sort of being able to do this in a decentralized fashion. But the hope is, and that's what, for example, my colleagues at MIT and I have been aiming at, is to indeed make the situation more inclusive, create a stable medium of exchange for those countries who are struggling with having this thing. Because the hope is that when the exchange is stable, the commerce will flourish and life will be actually easier for people and that sort of thing. Right. But whether or not it will be done through the blockchain technology or maybe through something very different, that is, the jury's out. I mean, I myself am of two minds. I don't think that you really can afford the entire machinery of a distributed ledger, for example, to issue central bank cash.
00:51:58.928 - 00:52:39.792, Speaker B: And it is quite possible that it will be done differently by resuscitating and building at a new level the old ideas of David Chown, of sort of blind signature mechanisms and things like that. So that is something which, again, you know, my colleagues and I have been working actively, and hopefully within the next few months, we will be able to publish something to this effect. But this was a long answer. A short answer is yes. The hope is that it will be a tool for inclusivity. The details and practicalities remain to be seen. Thank you very much.
00:52:39.792 - 00:52:40.896, Speaker B: Thank you very much.
00:52:41.080 - 00:52:44.488, Speaker A: We have a question. Matt would like to ask it.
00:52:44.656 - 00:52:45.288, Speaker B: Yeah.
00:52:45.416 - 00:53:25.196, Speaker C: So, Alex, you mentioned that you think this whole yield farming craze that is going on right now will end rather poorly. So as one who is doing a fair bit of this myself, I'm wondering, do you think that all forms of yield farming are going to sort of end poorly and are contributing to sort of destabilizing the system? Or do you think there are some forms of yield farming that are advantageous? So, I mean, one of the simplest forms is being a liquidity provider. Another one are some of these sort of ponzi like coin issue?
00:53:25.260 - 00:53:36.644, Speaker B: Well, look, I mean, Ponzi like, you know the answer yourself. By the way, Matthew, I owe you this interview. Can you resend me an email? I will send you this stuff.
00:53:37.864 - 00:53:49.384, Speaker C: But let me actually ask one additional. It's part of this whole yield farming thing. But I would like to hear your opinion in particular on the value of these governance tokens that seem to be highly valued.
00:53:49.544 - 00:54:46.464, Speaker B: Yeah, well, look, my take on it is that there is only so much yield in the world. And whenever you hear that, rather than having a parabola, you can draw another curve for the liquidity provision, and that will give you 300% a year. Well, whenever you hear that something will give you 300% a year. Right. So under regular conditions, you should be very, very cautious and sort of, I would say that providing liquidity might indeed, you know, might indeed be a viable proposition. And as I was explaining, even though I didn't have time to go through detailed analysis through, for example, you know, kind of calculating the actual return by using the Ornstein Uhl and back at the underlying process, which I actually did. But I'll put it in the book, it was just not enough time to do this.
00:54:46.464 - 00:55:46.604, Speaker B: That is something to sort of to look at. As long as this is really, the underlying process has mean reverting. You can have the same as you can have pairs trading for a strict min reverting process or even process which kind of has a weekly changing parameters, but overall as mean reverting. You can have this, but this the magnitude. You know, I would imagine, look, I would imagine that anything more than 10% interest in this DNA is probably a figment of people's imagination and cannot be sustained as far as government tokens are concerned. They're being kind of dumped on the system and so on as a sweetener, if I understand correctly, at least some of those protocols. And again, let me put it this way, for early adopters, perhaps with any ponza scheme for those people who enter into it early on.
00:55:46.604 - 00:56:53.440, Speaker B: So this is probably a money making proposition. The art of the situation is to get out of it on time, right? So, because if you don't, then clearly you will lose your shirt. So all in all, I would say there is some value to be made, you know, in this environment, but it is relatively small and there is additional aspect which needs to be people. By the way, I'm not at all, I'm not approving any of those endorsing or anything, you know, whoever wants to do whatever they want to do, it's up to them. I myself am not doing it. But the point which I want to make is that even if there is a return, it would be return and intrinsic return the same way as bitcoin and ethereum are self consistent system where kind of the ledger is maintained intrinsically, right, and cannot be altered. But the value of bitcoin or ethereum vis a vis outside quantities like dollars, cannot be maintained within the system the same way is there, right.
00:56:53.440 - 00:57:18.274, Speaker B: So as long as you, for example, provide liquidity for automated market maker, right, you can grow the value of your tokens. However, if the tokens overall lose value vis a visa us dollar, your position in dollar terms can be completely wiped internally. It will produce return. Whether it will produce return external, it's anybody's guess.
00:57:19.654 - 00:57:30.554, Speaker A: Okay, there are a couple more questions, one from Jorg and one from Iris. Maybe we can try to make them short since we're already at six. Jorg, would you like to go first?
00:57:31.374 - 00:58:15.202, Speaker B: Yeah, sure. Thank you. Thanks, Alex, for this outstanding presentation. Hello, Jorg, how are you? Good to see you. After. Do you mind giving some more details on your criticism, but also the positive aspects about libraries? Yeah, well, look, I mean, my criticism is that, you know, they really did not read carefully and did not quote things which we have written, but they should have done it. But putting this aside, overall, my major problem with sort of libra is that Libra is not being issued in an immunized form.
00:58:15.202 - 00:59:07.138, Speaker B: So in other words, if you live in a developing country and want to acquire Libra, which by the way does not exist, and the jury is out whether or not it will exist in its kind of current form and so on. But putting this aside, assuming that it were to exist, then you would actually come with your pesetas or whatever currency is there, right? So. And you would have to buy the Libra. And so pesetas will be in the system, because that will go to the seller of Libra, and the libra will be in the system. And so suddenly there are two, you know, two instruments which both can be used for payments. So essentially, the number of units of, you know, count increased by a factor of two, for example. And so clearly, the prices have to react very negatively.
00:59:07.138 - 00:59:55.932, Speaker B: I mean, as I pointed out, you know, kind of Copernicus, you know, wrote about it in the 15th century. Right? So he said that, you know, you need to demonetize the existing currency prior to issuing the new one. So essentially, the way it should have worked, but it's not possible, given that everything is digital. So, for example, when they were depreciating this polish loyalties and issuing their own groceries and whatnot, so they would really take the old coins, remind them as a new ones, and then the old will disappear and the new one will appear. And that's why the amount of silver and circulation will stay the same here. As I said, this is a very, very serious issue. And, for example, with bitcoin, it's less of an issue.
00:59:55.932 - 01:00:32.242, Speaker B: And then generally, the overall capitalization of all the cryptocurrencies, it's relatively small, even though it's not infinitesimally small, but relatively small, like 400 billion or 500 billion. So nothing to sneeze at, but not a lot. And then also, they're being. Not really being in circulation, and you cannot really pay for anything in bitcoin, you know, regardless of what people say. And so there is no kind of the major thing. So it stays outside of the system, is not being used for payments, and does not increase inflation with libre is specifically designed as a payment mechanism. Yeah.
01:00:32.242 - 01:00:38.050, Speaker B: All right, that was a brief answer, but shoot me an email. We can talk about more. Very good. Thank you.
01:00:38.202 - 01:00:43.666, Speaker A: Okay, maybe we'll take our last question from Iris. Iris, would you like to ask a question?
01:00:43.810 - 01:00:45.514, Speaker D: Okay, thank you. Can you hear me?
01:00:45.634 - 01:00:46.898, Speaker B: Yeah, how are you?
01:00:47.026 - 01:01:07.084, Speaker D: Yeah, I'm great. Thank you for the presentation. So I have a question about the IPO and Sto, their security token offering. Do you think Sto have a brighter future compared with IPO? Because I did a project on it to compare the.
01:01:07.904 - 01:01:10.912, Speaker B: You talking about ICO or IPO?
01:01:11.048 - 01:01:11.944, Speaker D: IPO.
01:01:12.064 - 01:01:15.456, Speaker B: IPO, like the conventional initial public offering. Right.
01:01:15.520 - 01:01:17.528, Speaker D: Yeah, yeah, exactly. And.
01:01:17.616 - 01:01:17.904, Speaker B: Yeah.
01:01:17.944 - 01:01:50.814, Speaker D: Because nowadays the IPO is still more popular than Sto. But. But we do know there are a lot of advantage of the STO, like you just mentioned in the presentation, you said about a decentralized blockchain network or decreased intermediate feeds like those things. So my question is, what is the reasons causing it? Or what solution would you suggest to improve STO? Like, what do you think of?
01:01:51.334 - 01:02:55.932, Speaker B: I think it's a positive initiative. And as I already mentioned, I think that I do see bright future in tokenization and generally sort of moving assets to blockchain. And, you know, in particular, like if I had more time to show, for example, some of the slides where I was talking about decentralization, of centralization, of clearance and settlement and so on, so forth. So in the ideal third stage of this process, you could issue stocks directly into the blockchain and then sort of that would be an sto for you. So, yes, I hope. I mean, it's still in its infancy, but that is clearly, that is clearly something which will become important down the road. So some of the things which need to be taken into account is that one needs to have a very solid legal framework for doing this.
01:02:55.932 - 01:03:11.874, Speaker B: And that is something which is being worked in several jurisdictions, in Switzerland in particular, and even in the United States. There are some states, like Wyoming, where they are working on, you know, really building something like that when and if it is done. Yeah. Then the future will be bright.
01:03:12.414 - 01:03:13.310, Speaker D: Okay, thank you.
01:03:13.342 - 01:03:18.646, Speaker B: Thank you for shoot me an email. I would like to see what you have done in this direction. All right, sure.
01:03:18.750 - 01:03:19.914, Speaker D: Okay, thank you.
01:03:20.614 - 01:03:21.070, Speaker B: Great.
01:03:21.142 - 01:03:47.734, Speaker A: Wonderful. Thanks, Alex, for a really intriguing talk. Lots to digest and chew and I'm sure. Well, I'm certainly looking forward to the book. I'm sure that a number of the participants here and others are going to pick it up pretty quickly once it's out. And I guess with that, I'll thank the audience for being here. It's been a very fantastic talk, and we're looking forward to the next seminar, which will be on October.
01:03:49.034 - 01:04:03.162, Speaker B: Thank you very much, everybody. Sebastian and Thomas Mateusz. Thank you very much, Dan, for organizing this wonderful opportunity. It's really invigorating. Thank you very much. Matthaus, shoot me an email. All right, bye bye.
01:04:03.162 - 01:04:06.074, Speaker B: Thanks, Alex. Great seeing you. Really appreciate it.
