00:00:00.400 - 00:00:48.566, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deli Gwei refuel, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today's the 24 September 2021. All right, everyone, let's get into it. So a bit of volatility in the markets over the last few hours, and it's due to some really silly news out of China, which it's just ridiculous. Like, at this point, I kind of, like, saw this and I came back to my computer and I saw, like, a big red candle on the ETH chart. I'm like, what happened? Like, what's happened now? The market actually looked healthy and it looked like we were going to head up again, but I can't. I went on Twitter and I saw that apparently there was kind of some news from China back on, I think, September 15 it was, where basically chinese officials were cracking down on crypto some more, basically saying to exchanges to kind of like, I guess, cease operations and things like that.
00:00:48.566 - 00:01:17.056, Speaker A: I don't know, there's a lot of kind of confusion around this. But the thing is, is that the only reason why it was like, news today was because it was translated from Chinese into English and all the english media sources. Sorry, media outlets basically reported on this story today, which is like nine days later than it was actually originally reported. So in true crypto fashion, whenever China bans crypto, for the billionth time, the markets sold off. And it's just ridiculous. Like it really is. I was looking at it.
00:01:17.056 - 00:01:56.486, Speaker A: I'm like, I can't believe this is still happening after, I think it's been eight years since this has been happening, where China basically will, quote, unquote, ban crypto or ban bitcoin or ban whatever, and then it just really never eventuates to anything. And, you know, I don't want to get too tinfoil, hattie here, but it always feels like it happens when the US is asleep and when the US trading hours are kind of like offline. So I don't know. I don't know if that's coordinated or not, but it's just, it's ridiculous. And it really, like, in the grand scheme of things, it doesn't really mean anything. And China banning something doesn't make it bearish. I mean, China banned all of the most popular kind of like western, I guess, like Internet apps, like, you know, Facebook, Twitter, all that YouTube stuff.
00:01:56.486 - 00:02:17.902, Speaker A: Um, and those are still trillion dollar companies. I mean, Google being the trillion dollar company there. Uh, and then Facebook and, and Twitter are multi hundred billion dollar companies. So I don't know. I just don't think that's bearish. And I think the market just loves to kind of use these things as opportunities to, you know, I guess, like, wreck people. Either way, I think that what ended up happening today was that people started getting, you know, more bullish again.
00:02:17.902 - 00:02:40.466, Speaker A: They started opening up leverage positions or long positions, and then this happened and trapped those people. And then we had a few liquidations going off. And, you know, we have what we have now, like, at time of recording, I think the price is 2800. I think it was around 3100 just before this news came out. So it's quite, quite the dump here. And I think bitcoin, I can't remember what the price of bitcoin was. A bitcoin almost went back to 40k.
00:02:40.466 - 00:03:13.050, Speaker A: It's just, yeah, it's just bizarre. But I don't want to spend too much time talking about the markets. I just, like, wanted to focus a little bit of time on just, like, the media reports about crypto and mainstream media and kind of like, the fake news. I mean, it is so easy for fake news to spread in this industry. We saw this the other day with, uh, the litecoin stuff that happened where someone, uh, you know, pretty much planned to do this. This wasn't, this isn't a conspiracy theory to say that they plan to basically fake a news release that Walmart had teamed up with litecoin, or it started accepting litecoin in order to, to pump litecoin. And it did.
00:03:13.050 - 00:03:44.336, Speaker A: I mean, it worked for a few minutes, and then, you know, everyone caught on and was like, this is, this is actually not true. But a lot of mainstream media publications actually publish this as news. So whether they did that intentionally or not, I'm sure they've got tricked into it as well. But the thing is, is that they're set to, that they should be held to a higher standard. Like, they shouldn't be able to get tricked into that. And, you know, I remember giving, at the time, I gave kudos to the block because they actually dived a bit deeper into this and didn't just take the press release at face value, and they realized that it was fake very, very early on. So, yeah, I don't know.
00:03:44.336 - 00:04:12.924, Speaker A: This, this kind of stuff just really irritates me. It irritates me even more than it can still move the market, and it just shows that the market is still, like, really immature. I personally thought it was more mature than this, but it seems it's not. I I don't know if that's because there's just like a much more heavy retail presence in these markets where these retail investors will get spooked much easier than, say, a traditional institutional investor or something like that would. I'm not sure. And there's no circuit breakers or anything in crypto either. There's no stopping of trading.
00:04:12.924 - 00:04:43.832, Speaker A: You can't halt trading just because it dumped too much, just freefall, and then, you know, it can go the other way too. But it's just like free fall a lot of the time. So, yeah, I don't think this is going to be anything like damaging long term. Of course, this is just short, the most short term silly noise. And I'm pretty sure crypto tutor will stop talking about it within 24 hours anyway. But yeah, I guess if you're just waking up and you're seeing the price while you're listening to the refuel, this is exactly why it's happened and it's just crap. But anyway, I'm going to move on from that because it's just kind of like not something that I wanted to focus too much time on.
00:04:43.832 - 00:05:20.504, Speaker A: The other big piece of news, I think, from the last 24 hours was that Twitter has gone live with bitcoin tipping on the lightning network. Now, I don't. I don't know the exact details of it, but from what I can see, it's not actually using the non custodial version of the Lightning network. It's using a API called Strike, which is a centralized service to kind of like route the payments through. But I guess it's still a major integration, right? For. For bitcoin being integrated directly with Twitter doesn't come as a surprise considering the fact that Jack is a, you know, bitcoin maximalist. Jack, the CEO and co founder of Twitter, he's definitely a bitcoin maximalist, but they aren't just doing bitcoin integration.
00:05:20.504 - 00:05:45.684, Speaker A: You can see here. Dame put out a tweet that said that showed that, like, the Ethereum address can be also kind of like integrated with this. With this kind of, I guess, payment flow here. As you can see, bitcoin address, Ethereum address and PayPal and Venmo and stuff like that. And it's a tipping service, basically. It's not available to everyone just yet. I think it's only available on iOS, the bitcoin one of it, the bitcoin version, but the Ethereum version isn't available just yet.
00:05:45.684 - 00:06:21.326, Speaker A: But Twitter has also said that they're going to be essentially integrating a service that you can kind of verify your nfts or your profile picture as the NFT that you own at your address. And that obviously means ethereum integration. You could imagine going and saying, okay, well, I am going to sign this message from my ethereum address to say that I actually own this NFT, and then that's somehow integrated with Twitter. And Twitter can basically give you a verified badge. Not a verified badge, but something that kind of verifies that your profile picture is actually an NFT. Now, I think that is really, really cool. I think that profile picture nfts are really cool.
00:06:21.326 - 00:07:17.596, Speaker A: I know that there's a lot of them that are just kind of like money grabs and a lot of, it's just unoriginal. But I think that there's a lot out there that are just really cool and work really well, and those communities will be able to kind of like show it off and prove the authenticity of their profile picture, which I think is even better, because right now a lot of people probably just kind of like, you know, just assume that that person owns their profile picture, and if that NFT, if they have it as their profile picture, whereas in the future you'll be able to prove it. So I'm just really glad to see that ethereum integration is coming on top of the bitcoin integration, because my whole, I guess, kind of thought process here is that I don't think that Twitter should pick winners or should try to shoehorn a winner into the, into the market. If they want to support crypto, then they should support crypto. They shouldn't just support bitcoin. Um, you know, give the users multiple options and they'll use whatever's easiest for them. Like, for me, I, I believe that users would prefer to use an ethereum L2 than, uh, the bitcoin lightning network.
00:07:17.596 - 00:07:40.932, Speaker A: So why not integrate with an ethereum layer, too? And then some will ask, okay, well, which layer? Two. I mean, start with the one that's the, um, that's actually out there right now. And fully generalized arbitrum. Right? For example, start with arbitrum and then add other ones over time as they come along, or even, even kind of like doing some integration with the polygon pos chain. There's, there's multiple ways they can do it here. I'm sure they will. Um, they're definitely experimenting and playing around with all this sort of stuff now.
00:07:40.932 - 00:08:19.956, Speaker A: And it's great to see that, that Twitter is kind of like doing this, but at the same time, you know, we're all about decentralization here. So I'm curious to see what the decentralized social medias end up looking like. And I mean, they're, they're obviously going to be, I guess, like much further ahead with these integrations than their centralized counterparts, but they've got to be much better on what the centralized ones do, right? And that's kind of like, obviously the network effect and the, the service, the availability of the service and the uptime, all that sort of stuff. So that's going to be interesting to, to see it all play out, but great to see, I guess, Twitter making moves here. I hope to see an ethereum L2 supported soon. That'd be really, really cool. All right, so three updates out of hot protocol today.
00:08:19.956 - 00:08:52.765, Speaker A: They announced, I guess, like earlier today, that they are now supporting Dai on Arbitrum. So you can now send die across optimism XDai arbitrary and polygon in minutes using the hop exchange. Now, unfortunately, this announcement also came with an announcement of a delay for their ETH support for arbitrum, which is apparently going to be happening early next week now. But, you know, you can do die now. You can do USDC, which is cool. As I've mentioned before, I think the fact that you can do stable coins is great. Obviously, ETH is the best, I think, in terms of like the tier of what you would like to see.
00:08:52.765 - 00:09:27.334, Speaker A: It'd be like, obviously, number one being ETH, number two being stable coins, and then I guess, like number three, maybe the next most popular coin from there and then going down the list. But if you are in a, you know, if you do want to kind of like use one of these bridges that has ETH support enabled. Synapse protocol, as I mentioned yesterday, has ETH support enabled. They have a lot of liquidity in that pool right now, too. I think there's like $60 million worth of liquidity in there. So you're going to be able to transfer large sums of money in and out of arbitram through the Synapse protocol bridge. But I'm sure hop will be joining the game early next week with enough liquidity for you as well.
00:09:27.334 - 00:10:04.502, Speaker A: So, yeah, you can see which one you want to use from there. And hoppers also made changes to their optimism bridge contract, which results in a 30% which has resulted in a 30% drop in gas costs. Now, these gas costs are now almost on par with the native optimism bridge, but due to the positive slippage, it's now even cheaper to send funds from Ethereum to optimism using hop than the native bridge. So this is great. Just more optimizations coming to these bridges already. I mean, I've spoken about hop a lot lately, I think on the refuel, but they're doing a lot of great work. I love the fact that they've just integrating things, you know, almost pretty much on day one that the, that kind of things get the, get, uh, get, get integrated on these L2s.
00:10:04.502 - 00:10:35.646, Speaker A: Like for example, arbitrum integrated die and then, sorry, makeup kind of put die on arbitrum. And then a hop came along and said, okay, now we have a die bridge, right? They're just right there on the forefront. And they're not just only adding features, but they're also optimizing their existing kind of like, features. Like, you know, the gas costs here, which is obviously very, very important. So 30% drops quite substantial here. So kudos to them for doing that. And the final kind of like, update is just the one on growth from, from litter Cohen here, who, who basically shows there's, you know, zero token incentives for hop protocol right now.
00:10:35.646 - 00:11:03.088, Speaker A: And the L2 ecosystem is still in its infancy, infancy. But the total value locked in hop is 37 million. And you can see on the chart, it's grown pretty rapidly over the last couple months from basically nothing in July to. What is that? Yeah, 37 million in late September here. And this is just going to keep growing as things go on. And obviously, you know, if they ever have token incentives, I don't know if hop's gonna have a token or not. You know, our rule guys, every, we think every protocol is gonna have a token.
00:11:03.088 - 00:12:12.454, Speaker A: So, I mean, yeah, I just, I feel like these things are gonna have billions of dollars locked in them eventually. And, you know, this is why I'm kind of like betting on the bridge ecosystem as well from, I guess, an investment standpoint, but also from like an intellectual standpoint, it just makes too much sense to me that bridges will be the thing that essentially accrues a lot of network effect, accrues a lot of liquidity, because we obviously need these bridges when we want to go between different L2s and side chains and chains at the end of the day. And it basically helps to alleviate that issue of fragmentation that a lot of people speak about. But I do think, and I'm going to talk about this in a little bit, sorry, in a set, in a later tweet here about this. But I do think that while these bridges are awesome and they're going to be awesome into the future, there's going to be other ways to kind of, I guess, like solve or at least alleviate the fragmentation issues from the arbitrary message relay protocols like Nova and Starkware's damm that I've spoken about before. But on top of that, there's also volitions and kind of like interoperable ZK roll ups and stuff like that, which I'm going to talk about in a bit, so I won't get into that for now. But yeah, still cool to see this growth from hot protocol here.
00:12:12.454 - 00:12:54.950, Speaker A: And speaking of bridges, Elias has updated his doon analytics bridge dashboard. So now in this dashboard, he has added all the missing polygon bridges, all the missing optimism bridges, XDai, sello optics bridge, Moonriver, any swap, BSC, anyswap, and the RSK bridge bridge here. So if you want to go check out this dashboard, it'll be linked in the YouTube description. But this is the one that I showed, I think, maybe a week or so ago on the refuel, where you can basically see their liquidity locked and kind of like change. And I mean, I can load up the dashboard here, but basically it shows like, the different metrics around bridges. You can see here total value locked in them, which is now at $11 billion. The change in TVL, the unique depositors, everything like that.
00:12:54.950 - 00:13:20.114, Speaker A: And these aren't just like the generalized bridges. These are also the bridges that go to specific chains. So you can see here that the Polygon bridge, I mean, that's the bridge from Ethereum to the Polygon pos chain. And then you have the other bridges that are kind of like more generalized, like any swap and stuff like that as well. And you can see all of them here, and you can see how they grow and how the kind of like, growth changes over time. So, yeah, check this out. It'll be linked in the YouTube description.
00:13:20.114 - 00:13:49.114, Speaker A: All right, so, second last thing on L2s here, item are from Argent is teasing that Argent ZK sync. He just did the first Argent ZK sync transfer on Mainnet, and it feels like magic, so. And he says in the comments that they're starting private beta now. And I've been teasing this for quite a while. You were able to sign up to the early access list. I'm pretty sure they had over 300,000 signups, which is insane. There's probably going to be some spoofing in there, because they did have a prize for, uh, for people signing up, so I'm sure they'll filter through that.
00:13:49.114 - 00:14:30.224, Speaker A: But still, pretty, pretty cool number there. And I mean, I can't wait for this. Like, Arjun is a, is a great crypto wallet, mobile wallet, if you haven't tried it out yet, I suggest you do so. It's a smart contract wallet as well, which is awesome. But if once they have, like, full Zksync, kind of like native integration here, and Zksync kind of like, continues to upgrade their system, continues to add more features, obviously they have, like, nfts on there right now, but when they have, I guess, like the centralized exchanges and all that sort of stuff and other apps on there, it's going to be great to have argent integration here. And I think Argent isn't just integrating with Zksync. They're going to do optimism, arbitrum, pretty much everything, right? I feel like they're not just going to limit themselves, which is going to be really cool to play around with as we continue this L2 rollout.
00:14:30.224 - 00:14:59.466, Speaker A: All right, so this is what I briefly touched on before, but Pauline had another great tweet today where he. Where he said, or they said, the more I learned, the more I realized stockinette is the biggest leap forward for the smart contract blockchain space since Ethereum released in 2015. Starknet Winter is coming, and fewer prepared for the imminent technological obsoletion of smart contract monolithic l one chains. And then he goes on to say, majority of comments on this are about investing in tokens. There's no stocknet token yet. And when it does release, I will stop making such comments. I wouldn't have to.
00:14:59.466 - 00:15:41.764, Speaker A: Meanwhile, check out DyDX immutable x, so rare, and diversify as precursors to Stocknet. Now, Stocknet is kind of like Stockware's, I guess, generalized volition that they're kind of building out, um, and, you know, it promises to basically be completely interoperable with, I guess, like each other. So, for example, all these other apps that are already running on validiums or ZK roll ups within the starkware universe, such as Dy Dx, immutable sora, and diversify the. I think the dream here is that they'll be able to interoperate with each other while, you know, kind of being able to read the same state from. From the layer one. Now, the reason why I wanted to kind of, like, talk about this a little bit is because it's not just starkware working on this. There is Zksync with ZK Porter.
00:15:41.764 - 00:16:12.094, Speaker A: They're working on that. And that's kind of like, very, from my understanding, very similar to Starknet. There is Polygon with Hermes. They're also working on that in a very big way right now. They're trying to build the ZK EVM, which is a generalized, kind of like ZK roll up EVM compatible chain. But then you also have them working on volitions and volidiums and all that sort of stuff as well. And then I think those are the three main ones right now, ZK sync, Starkware and Hermes.
00:16:12.094 - 00:17:06.882, Speaker A: But I think there are other ones out there as well, not just them that are going to be working on this arbitrary optimism, are definitely going to be looking into the ZK tech as well. But, I mean, for Poly now, to say this is a big deal, because, I mean, I've talked about Poly now before, a lot, and how I really enjoy their, their writings on both Reddit and their blog posts. But when they talk about this sort of stuff, I listen because they really know what they're talking about. And I, you know, I remember the other day when I spoke about the fact that I think that these monolithic l one chains are going to be obsoleted by the l two s. And, you know, this is informed a lot by polynyards, kind of like blog posts and research into this. But essentially, people kind of, like, argue back and say, well, you know, if we could do everything on layer one, it would solve the issue of liquidity, liquidity fragmentation, composability fragmentation, all that sort of stuff. And I push back on that by saying that you can't scale everything at layer one without sharding, and even with sharding doing execution.
00:17:06.882 - 00:17:54.710, Speaker A: Sharding is very complex and a lot of overhead as a lot of security risks. So, as I've described before, the only sustainable, long term sustainable way to scale a blockchain is to have the layer one as a basically not a dumb settlement layer, but basically like a kind of like a limited throughput settlement layer with, you know, coupled with sharding and kind of like, keeping it decentralized and keeping it secure and then building whatever you want as an l two on top of it. And I've been thinking about this a lot lately, from the last five years. I don't know if I've said this on the refuel yet, but this has been something that I've actually, that's actually been on my mind for a lot. And I've been thinking very deeply about this. But if we look back at the past five years of the way the crypto ecosystem has evolved, you look at 2016 to today. You know, ethereum came out in 2015.
00:17:54.710 - 00:18:26.986, Speaker A: 2016 is where we started seeing a lot of other smart contract platforms. You know, start coming to market or kind of like start hearing rumblings about it, uh, start seeing white papers. A lot of them raised a lot of money, especially in 2017. They did massive raises. And now we've seen over the past, I guess like year or two, I guess you could say a lot of them came to mainnet and a lot of them are getting a lot of attention now. I think we're pretty much at the tail end of that world. I don't think the next five years is going to see an even greater focus on other l one s or anything like that.
00:18:26.986 - 00:19:12.580, Speaker A: I think the next five years is going to see a focus on l two s and how those l two s can tap into not only Ethereum but other chains as well. But in my mind, Ethereum is really, I mean, as I mentioned before, ethereum and bitcoin are the only l one s out there that would be decentralized and secure enough to actually act as a proper settlement and data availability layer for these l two s. But bitcoin can't right now. So it means Ethereum is the only one. But that's not going to stop these other chains from following down that path. I've mentioned before that Tezos has basically pivoted to the roll up centric roadmap. I'm sure other ones will follow, but I do believe that many of these layer ones will finally die off once I think both teams and investors and people realize that l two is where the battleground is going to happen for execution.
00:19:12.580 - 00:19:45.246, Speaker A: The execution layer l one, is not going to be that battleground. So from that perspective, as I mentioned before, once these l two s have tokens, they're going to be worth. I mean, I can't see them not being worth tens of billions of dollars. Like the l one s are worth tens of billions of dollars. And these l two s already have more use than them. So their native tokens, I foresee being worth that much, which is going to signal to pretty much everyone that was thinking of creating their own blockchain to be like, well, instead of creating our own chain, why don't we just create a L2? We can still have our token, but we don't have to boost up our own ecosystem. We can just tap into Ethereum's ecosystem.
00:19:45.246 - 00:20:21.350, Speaker A: We can leverage ethereum security and decentralization, and we can build whatever we want on our alt. I think that is going to be what the space is going to look like over the next five years. And, you know, I hope to revisit this in five years and see if I was right or wrong, but that's where I'm investing pretty much all my time and energy right now is into the L2 space and also my money. I'm placing big bets on the l two space because I believe that, you know, the fat protocol thesis is going to apply to l two s, just as it seemed to have, has applied to l one s. And for those of you who don't know what the fat protocol thesis is, it was basically a thesis put forward. I can't remember what year it was. It was either 2016 or 2017.
00:20:21.350 - 00:20:59.034, Speaker A: And the thesis said that the majority of the value would accrue to the base layers, so to the l ones instead of the apps built on top. And so far, that's been the case even for the other chains. I mean, look at, even just looking at Ethereum, its market cap is many hundreds of billions of dollars. There's no apps built on Ethereum that have that market cap or have anywhere close to that market cap, and definitely not exceeding it. So from that perspective, I think that the fat protocol thesis will also apply to L2s with their own native tokens, and the value will accrue there. So that's going to be very interesting. But there's also a dynamic here where the l two s are still going to be adding value to ETH, because they're going to use ETH as a fee token.
00:20:59.034 - 00:21:29.994, Speaker A: They're going to be committing themselves or securing themselves on Ethereum's base layer, which means paying ETH fees, which means burning ETH. They're going to use ETH within their apps as kind of like trustless collateral, all that sort of stuff that are on those l two s. So there's, there's no kind of like, I guess, bear case here for ETH. But it's going to be interesting to see, like, how much value ETH accrues and how much value these l two tokens accrued are. The alt two is going to be like 10% of eats value. Are they going to be 20%, are they going to be 50%? We don't know. I'm betting that they're going to be a substant.
00:21:29.994 - 00:22:17.756, Speaker A: They're going to accrue substantial value, but I'm also betting that ETH is going to accrue substantial value. So if we kind of, like, take a numbers game here and look at this from a numbers perspective, let's say that ETH is one day worth $10 trillion, the market cap of ETH, and then these l two s, well, there's nothing. Even if the l two only accrues 10% of the value of ETH, it's still worth a trillion dollars. That's, that's an insane amount of value for, for just one l two. And as I said before, I don't expect there to be, um, you know, too, too many of these generalized l two s that actually get a lot of traction. I think that there's going to be a handful of them, maybe at most five, maybe. I actually don't see it being that high, but maybe you have five, you know, generalized solutions that have a lot of traction and, and basically obtain like a, you know, anywhere from a half a trillion to a trillion dollar market cap for their tokens.
00:22:17.756 - 00:23:06.122, Speaker A: You know, I'm talking like 510 years in the future sort of thing. Not, not today, not tomorrow, but, you know, in the future. And then, you know, where does that put things like bridges as well? Like I said before, I'm investing a lot of time and money into the bridge ecosystem. Like, what does that look like? How much value accrues there to those native tokens? So all these sorts of stuff, they're kind of like questions that are like up in the air. The fat protocol thesis seems to have held up until this point for the l one s, but I'm curious to see if it holds for the l two s. But regardless of the value accrual mechanisms and the fat protocol thesis, I'm still very curious to see if my thinking is correct in that the era of layer ones is pretty much over at this point, and the era of L2s is just beginning. So I think the L2 ecosystem is pretty much where is pretty much today where layer ones were in 2016.
00:23:06.122 - 00:23:56.370, Speaker A: So let's say by 2026, we're going to have a L2 ecosystem that is absolutely massive. Right? And I believe that alt two s are going to be the things that are going to be in the top ten. There's going to be, obviously, ethereum at number one. Yes, yes. Ethereum is going to be number one. And then you'll probably have like these l two tokens, and you probably have maybe some couple of other l one s in there that have somehow managed to, to stay relevant, because I do think most of them will, they're not going to go to zero or anything like that, but I do think most of them will just fade into relevancy in, because they'll just, they'll just be inferior to what Altoos can offer. And Polynar has also written a lot about this before, where they where he basically says that he believes that these l two s are just going to blow the l ones completely out of the water on the execution side of things, and Ethereum already blows them out of the water on the settlement layer, security decentralization aspect.
00:23:56.370 - 00:24:38.114, Speaker A: So what are these l ones actually have at the end of the day, if they don't, if they can't compete on either of those things, if they can't compete on data availability, security, decentralization or execution, then they lose pretty much, and they lose mind share, they lose market share, they lose liquidity, they lose everything at the end of the day. And the funny thing is, pretty much all of them, I think, I believe in my mind, pretty much all of them only have traction because of two reasons. Cheaper fees than Ethereum, which is commoditized at this point, like the Altus already, you know, cheap fees and they're going to get cheaper from there. And the second is incentives. Those incentives don't last forever. Those incentives are actually long term bad. I think if you keep them going for too long, you just kind of like destroy your token price.
00:24:38.114 - 00:25:15.852, Speaker A: And once they run out, people just like flood back and they're just going to flood back to l two s, I believe. I don't think that anyone's going to stay on these chains for very long because it just doesn't logically make sense, especially the big money. Like if the big money can get the guarantee of layer one, ethereum security decentralization while, you know, still experiencing cheap fees and fast transactions, I think they're going to, they're going to do that. But anyway, that's my bet for the next five years is that Altus are going to be the thing. They're going to, they're going to be, and they're all going to be competing with each other. They're going to be the things that accrue a lot of value and they're going to overshadow pretty much all of the layer ones. I think.
00:25:15.852 - 00:25:59.660, Speaker A: I think the layer ones that, that may, the other layer ones that will, I don't know if succeeds the right word, but that like kind of like stick around are the ones that are able to cultivate an ecosystem around them through either sheer brute force force, like through money, or through organic community. I think there are a few out there doing it through money right now. We'll see how they look in a couple years. It's not going to take five years to weed them out. It's probably going to take only a couple of years, especially if the incentives dry up and maybe they'll pivot to just being an l two on Ethereum, that'll be a wild thing to see as well. If there's an l one that transforms itself into an l two, I think that's going to happen as well because you want to stay relevant and you can still keep your token as an l two, but you kind of like have to, I guess, like reinforce Ethereum's network effect then, right? You have to kind of like bow to the king, so to speak. But anyway, I'm gonna, I'm gonna leave that one at that for now.
00:25:59.660 - 00:26:18.804, Speaker A: I'm running out of time here and I want to get through a bunch of other things. An interesting tweet from Lucas here today where he said Web 1.0 was about connecting all information in the world, Web 2.0 was about connecting all the people in the world, and Web 3.0 is about connecting all the value in the world. I couldn't have said this better myself, to be honest. I wrote a newsletter the other day and I didn't even think of putting it this way.
00:26:18.804 - 00:26:40.642, Speaker A: This is an excellent, excellent way to put the evolution of the web over time. And kudos to Lucas for coming up with this tweet. But just to break it down a bit more, you know, he says here, Web 1 hour. Web 1.0 was about connecting all the information in the world. And for those of you who maybe were around back then, and even if you weren't, Web 1.0 was essentially, you know, the start of the web where we had like these, these basic sites where they had information on them.
00:26:40.642 - 00:27:11.078, Speaker A: You can go there and you can do basic things. You can kind of like read up on things. Maybe you, you'd be able to edit the, edit the website or kind of like publish your own, but it was very limited. And then Web two was basically the, I guess, the dawn of user created content through social media, through blogging, all that sort of stuff. And that was all about connecting people at the end of the day, right? Like connecting people through different kind of like social media apps and chat apps and stuff like that. And now we have Web 3.0, which is about connecting all the value in the world.
00:27:11.078 - 00:27:39.862, Speaker A: We haven't had. Until crypto came along, we didn't have a digitally native, kind of like value transfer layer for the Internet. We had shitty tradfi, old rails that had been patchworked up to try and attempt to work with the Internet. But really, at the end of the day, it doesn't. And obviously with things like Ethereum, we have those kind of like native layers where it just flows freely on where liquidity flows freely, flows as freely as information does as well. So that's really, really cool. It's a great way to put it.
00:27:39.862 - 00:28:20.314, Speaker A: I just wanted to point out this tweet from Lucas because, and I hadn't thought of it this way myself before. All right, so speaking of bridges, before, Diversify announced that they will soon be launching a brand new bridge to Bitfinex. So this will be the first ever L2 bridge to a sex sex to a centralized exchange. And it's bringing, bringing so many possibilities to users of both platforms, as Diversify says here. And you can check out more info in the blog post. So for those of you who don't know, diversify is actually, was actually originally known as Nectar Protocol which, which was spun out, which was part of Bitfinex. And now diversify has been spun out of Bitfinex, but they still kind of like share liquidity, they still work together, and now they have these kind of like bridge, this bridging going on.
00:28:20.314 - 00:29:16.140, Speaker A: So this bridge will allow for instant tether transfers from, from kind of like bitfinexia into the diversify a L2 exchange. So if you want to learn how this all works and a bit more information about it, you can check out this blog post here from diversify. A couple of updates from the index co op the new data Economy Index is now alive, so you can see here that seven tokens are included in this index, including link Filecoin through the Ren Filecoin token. The graphs token, GRT, basic attention token, Livep's token, LPT ocean and numerous token here. So this tweet thread goes through kind of like, I guess a bit more details about the data economy index, how there'll be sushi rewards for it soon, how you can kind of get your hands on it. So definitely go check this out if you're interested in getting exposure to the data economy. And great to see the index cop releasing kind of like more index products as we go on here.
00:29:16.140 - 00:30:01.734, Speaker A: And lemonade Alpha put out a kind of like a concept for a risk on small cap defi index that the index co op could create here. And you can see the different tokens that I guess lemonade kind of put forward here as to what he'd like to see. You can see everyone's favorites like CVX and Alchemyx token and Spell, which I've been seeing a lot lately, IGT Dopex's token and then you know a bunch of others in there as well. We'll go through them all here. I think this would be really cool because I think one of the common complaints about the Defi pulse index is that it's all pretty much like high cap blue chip assets and people want to take on more risk at the end of the day. Right? So these smaller DeFi assets that have like a much lower market cap, but obviously are much more risky. People want an index for this.
00:30:01.734 - 00:30:37.422, Speaker A: So, I mean, I'd be supportive of this. This would be really cool to see, to be part of the index co ops kind of like product suite here. And I would kind of like, love to see this go ahead. And I would definitely vote with my index tokens for this to go ahead. So I'm going to be keeping an eye on this. And finally, the ultrasound money account posted on Twitter yesterday that one Dap on Ethereum, Opensea is burnt, has burnt almost as much as their proof of stake beacon chain has issued in ETH. You can see here, Opensea has burned 55,000 ETH since ErP 1559 in total, and the proof of stake issuance has been 59,000 ethics since Erp 1559 went live.
00:30:37.422 - 00:31:14.232, Speaker A: So this is funny because this is just one app, right? And now when you, when you kind of quantify it like this, the proof of stake issuance is 59,000 ETH. And we've, since 1559 went live, but the total amount of eat that we've burned is 360,000. So we've burned so much more ETH than we've issued on the proof of stake already. So if we, if we, if the merge was already done and we're already in just a proof of stake world, we would be so net deflationary, it would be just so stupidly bullish. I mean, I went through this the other day, I'm not going to go through it again. And I wrote my newsletter about it. But essentially, like, the merge just, you know, I can't wait for it.
00:31:14.232 - 00:31:56.054, Speaker A: I, I'm actually more excited, like a hundred times more excited for the merge than I was for 1559 because there's other reasons to be excited about the merge other than the monetary aspect of it getting off proof of work finally, you know, de risking, kind of like the Ethereum development, because this is the biggest change in Ethereum's history. Um, you know, showing the world that we can do this in a really successful way, and they're off proof of work now, and then we can stop worrying about that sort of stuff and start focusing on, um, you know, start focusing more energy on getting sharding out there, because that's another major upgrade. Statelessness, snarkifying the base layer, all these good stuff that we want to do. That all comes after the merge. So I just. I'm so looking forward to it. And as I've said before, the merge is due q one, q 220 22, not too far away now.
00:31:56.054 - 00:32:42.308, Speaker A: I'm hoping to see it in Q one, but at this rate, I don't think it's going to be, you know, early q one. It could be late q one, but I would wager q two. I wouldn't put a bet on Q one, if I'm being honest, just because I have experienced this many times before with both, you know, Ethereum layer one core development and Ethereum L2 development, there's always delays around this sort of stuff because it's bleeding edge, the bleeding edge stuff, and because the merge is the biggest upgrade in Ethereum's history, and it's a very risky upgrade at that. Uh, uh, I mean, I would. Okay, it's maybe not very risky, but, like, a lot could go wrong if it did go wrong. Um, because of that, I think that I would be fine waiting longer, as long as we do the correct testing and we make sure everything would run fine, uh, once kind of like the test nets and everything are done like that. But anyway, I'll keep you guys updated on the merge.
00:32:42.308 - 00:32:53.124, Speaker A: Uh, I think that is it for today, so thank you, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel, and I'll catch you all next week. Thanks, everyone.
