00:00:00.250 - 00:00:36.610, Speaker A: Everyone, Doran here to give you latest on what's happening in the near ecosystem. This is nearbytes, yeah. Today on the agenda, we have a new road to Mainet podcast. ETH Denver speaking slot applications Metatransactions Roadmap spotlight, details on the conclusion of Metabuild three and details on the Aurora engine update version two. And finally, Nier will be coming to grocery stores near you, which will be a lot of fun to talk about. So with that, let's get started. A new series was launched by our very own Nico Padgie called Road to Mainet.
00:00:36.610 - 00:01:15.438, Speaker A: This new series is where they're inviting developers from rising projects to share advice about building on Nier. The very first guest was our very own Benjamin Couric, who discusses Keypom, which is a company and organization he created. This is an awesome way to get a spotlight on new projects, and if you could take a listen to this podcast, please follow the link in the description below. Near will be appearing at East Denver again in the coming year. We had so much fun last year and we'll make a big impact this year. So we're calling on members of our very own community to apply to speak at the upcoming March event. If you're a builder, creator, or member of the near community and want to speak, please apply before January 7 to become a speaker.
00:01:15.438 - 00:01:54.638, Speaker A: Get your applications in guys. NEp 366 for metatransactions has been reviewed by the Procl working group and you can see the results of the protocol working group's review in the link in description below. If you don't know, metatransactions are way to allow for users to engage with a decentralized application. So having to pay for transaction fees or pay for gas fees, those are covered by the owner, the creator, or the founders, or anyone who wants to take coverage or take ownership of those fees on behalf of their users. So they're really good way to onboard new users into your platform. If you're interested in learning more about metransactions and learning more about this review process, please check the link in the description below. Metabol Three has officially come to an end.
00:01:54.638 - 00:02:27.500, Speaker A: We had over 3100 hackers participate and out of that 50% of those have joined created over 1000 draft submissions. 300 projects were submitted successfully and we want to say thank you to everyone that participated. Your hard work is very much appreciated. So the project gallery, if you guys want to check it out, is open for everyone to see. Technical reviews of the projects were done today on December 2, and project judging will now take place between now and December 15. We'll keep you guys posted and updated on the winner. Until then, keep an eye out for more details about this hackathon and future hackathons to come.
00:02:27.500 - 00:03:08.594, Speaker A: Aurora releases engine 280, bringing enhancements to security response, reproducibility and updates across contract calls and more. As of this recording, an ongoing audit is being done with Sigma prime, including fuzz testing. Throughout this process, they fix issues such as an unfortunate logic regression in BN two, five, six and modular exponentiation of pre compilations and more. If you're interested in seeing the details of this update and the patches deployed, please check the link in description below. I'm really excited to see what builders do with this new update. I'm really excited to see what Roar does in the future. Near partners with Groupo Nutresa for customer experience innovations in web three Groupo Nutresa is one of the most important food processors for food in South America.
00:03:08.594 - 00:03:56.134, Speaker A: With this, Groupo is building one of the first open source loyalty programs on near with long term aspirations to reach a million users in Colombia and Latin America. This partnership was established with the support of Peersyst. The loyalty program will enable Groupo to test the customers to collect loyalty points without any worry of their points being stolen or denied. These points can be transferred more efficiently leveraging's near technology, which also increase usability and accessibility of the Roars program as a whole. 87% of shoppers report that they want brands to have a loyalty program, and over 70% of consumers are more likely to recommend a brand with a robust loyalty program. I'm very excited to see how this partnership plays out, and I'm really excited to see what grows in terms of it as we move forward into the future. If you would like to learn more, please check out the link in the description below.
00:03:56.134 - 00:04:07.926, Speaker A: And with that, that's all I have for you guys today. I really hope you guys enjoyed this video. Please let me know what you guys think of these topics in the comments below. I want to know. I want to hear your thoughts on everything with that guys. I hope you guys have a great and wonderful day. And one more thing.
00:04:07.926 - 00:04:15.100, Speaker A: Just posted a new tutorial for blockhead for Blockvote js edition. So go ahead and check that out for me with that. Have a wonderful day.
