00:00:00.320 - 00:00:33.936, Speaker A: Some of the trends that are super hot right now, obviously, meme coins. I think memes have been a great vehicle for onboarding retail this cycle in the same way that nfts were last cycle. Like, it's really easy for somebody to understand, okay, dog with hat, or Pepe, or frog, or this cat, dog, whatever. I think the memes have existed on the Internet for a really long time, and crypto kind of allows an easy way to financialize all those, and then people can interact with them. And once these people have wallets, like, oh, I'm holding with, all these other people are holding with. Now I'm part of this with community, okay. But now I'm in crypto.
00:00:33.936 - 00:01:09.350, Speaker A: What other apps do I need to use in crypto? I think memes have done a really good job of kind of like, it's like a Trojan horse for getting people into all the ecosystems that's been really big. I mean, it's hot. Leading the market for a while now, past like six months. I think AI is going to be really interesting this cycle. Early 2023, a lot of the, like, AI coins popped off hard when chat GPT dropped, which is like crazy. People are like, oh, AI, what can I buy? It's AI and crypto, and all the AI coin just immediately rips. But there's a lot of really cool applications, I think, that are going to be built there.
00:01:09.350 - 00:02:06.012, Speaker A: Whether it's the decentralized compute applications where it's like artificial intelligence takes a ton of GPU power to run their models, train their models, and crypto, you kind of can align incentives with a ton of people globally to use their spare GPU power to do that and train these models. And then I think the other piece of it that's really interesting is going to be the AI agents. So AI agents, meaning like these autonomous agents that can do work for you, transacting on chain, interacting with protocols, doing all these other things in crypto that you typically would be doing manually. So if you have a smart agent that's able to take trades for you, find the best yield in crypto across multiple different blockchains, that's super powerful. And I think a lot of people are working on implementing protocols like that. What's overhyped? Overhyped? Honestly, I think EvM l two s are overhyped. That's my biggest thing.
00:02:06.012 - 00:02:50.838, Speaker A: And the reason I say that is because if you're gonna push execution off of Ethereum to these rollups, the only reason you're doing that is because you want them to be a lot more performant a lot faster than the default Ethereum l one is. And if you just use the EVM again, it doesn't really make all that much sense. You don't have the issues with state bloat and some other things, but I think it makes a ton more sense to do alternative VM structures in that way. What's a good one? Arbitrum, I think, is working on stylists, which is going to have alt vms movement is working on their move. VM roll up. There's a ton of different roll ups kind of working on that. I think like pure EVM roll ups don't really make all that much sense.
00:02:50.838 - 00:02:52.094, Speaker A: I'll say that's overhyped.
