00:00:01.440 - 00:00:33.226, Speaker A: Welcome to the Blockcrunch podcast, the show for crypto natives. Every week we do short but in depth conversations with the most important builders and investors in crypto so you can filter through what's noise and stay ahead of the markets. I'm your host, Jason Choi. Nothing on this show should be construed as financial advice, and my guests, myself and my employer may hold positions and assets discussed on the show. Today's episode is brought to you by radix, Crypto.com and Bittrex Global. If you use services like Spotify, Netflix, and Amazon prime, you can get a full subscription rebate by using Crypto.com
00:00:33.226 - 00:00:35.614, Speaker A: quote s visa card. Stick around to learn more.
00:00:36.474 - 00:01:34.996, Speaker B: Welcome back to another episode of the Blockchain podcast. This is the second part of our interview on algorithmic stablecoins that I have with the analyst from Mechanism Capital, Benjamin Simon. So if you missed the first part, which introduces to you what algorithmic stablecoins are, what are some of the basic models, as well as two examples of key projects out there, make sure you go back to last week's episode where you can start from the very beginning of this conversation, because this episode is going to be part two of that interview and a continuation of what Ben and I have been talking about. And in this episode, we're going to dive into two projects that Ben is personally very excited about, including MT set Dollar, as well as a project called Fracs. And we're going to end the interview around what Ben's outlook is for the entire algorithmic stablecoin space, where how big he thinks the opportunity is and how he intends to play that out. So if you're interested in that, make sure you listen to this episode to the very end. There is a ton of Alpha that is leaked in this episode, and I'm incredibly excited to share this with you.
00:01:34.996 - 00:02:24.504, Speaker B: Now, without further ado, here is part two of my conversation with Ben Simon from mechanism capital on algorithmic stablecoins. Now that we've covered kind of ampleforth, which is almost the godfather to this all, and then Basis cache, which is just launching, I would love to kind of pivot, as you mentioned, to these two projects that are very, very similar. So we can, you know, pick one of them to focus on. One of them is mtsetdollar, which is ESD. The other is dynamic set dollar, just DSD. And they both basically function off the same principles, or very similar principles that are almost an iteration or simplification of what Basis cash is doing. So that might be a little confusing to listeners to can you help us break this down? How does it actually work? How does it differ from the model that you described for Basis cache and why you're so excited about ESD in particular?
00:02:24.804 - 00:03:18.644, Speaker C: Sure. So there are a few reasons why I'm pretty excited about ESD, but let's first dive into the mechanism design. So ESD is probably a little bit more complex than either of the other two. It's something of a hybrid between AmpleForth and Basis Cash, but even that isn't exactly accurate. So what do I mean by that? Well, we've said that AmPleForth has this single token rebasing design, meaning the entire network participates in contraction expansion, which also means that the entire network is both the value accrual stablecoin and debt financing token, whereas basis cash separates out all those three functions. What empty set dollar does is it actually has two tokens. So there's the empty setdollar token ESD, and then there are coupons that you can buy when the network is in contraction in order to, and can redeem for future ESD.
00:03:18.644 - 00:04:08.126, Speaker C: And oftentimes you can buy these coupons at sort of a discount and receive a premium when the network has gone into expansion, you're able to redeem them. So sort of the short of it is that ESD is something in between. It has two tokens, unlike basis cache, which has three, and unlike AMP fourth, which has one. Of course, what's missing then from ESD vis a visas cash is this senior shares token. Instead of senior shares, ESD basically just has ESD. But here's actually another sort of difficulty here. ESD has a separate mechanism called bonding and staging to this DAO, this decentralized autonomous organization which has been used for governance a, but more importantly for the network and the monetary policy is actually used for distributing inflationary ESD rewards.
00:04:08.126 - 00:05:02.372, Speaker C: So ESD is not a rebasing token the way Ampleforth is in the sense that if you just hold ESD and you don't do anything with it, you don't receive any inflationary rewards. When ESD is trading above a dollar, what you have to do actually is you have to take your ESD and stake it in this dow. And they call this bonding. And what that does is it allows you to, it entitles you to a portion of, or your pro rata portion of the rewards, the inflationary rewards that accrue from positive supply changes. So one might say, well, why do that as opposed to have a senior shares model? Well, what also is another important factor here is that when you actually want to withdraw and unstake your tokens from the DAO. For ESD, you actually have to wait a certain period of time. They call it staging.
00:05:02.372 - 00:05:31.950, Speaker C: Right now it's five days. And actually there's also, this is maybe not as important of a detail for this, but there's also liquidity provision tokens. They also have to. So they're incentivized through ESC as well. I'm not going to talk about them because I want to keep this as, try to keep this as simple as possible. But specifically for the bonding tokens, as in these tokens that are staked, you can stake your tokens or stake your ESG to receive inflationary rewards. But if you want to take out your tokens, you have to go through this five day staging period.
00:05:31.950 - 00:06:04.172, Speaker C: And that means that during that period you don't actually receive any inflationary rewards. If the protocol is still in expansion and you also can't sell your tokens, they're not liquid yet. So what that in a sense does is actually creates a three token system. It's almost de facto three token, because even though Esdra, um, is basically the senior shares token and the stablecoin, it's really actually bonded ESD. That's the senior shares token. But this actually creates an important difference between ESD and basis cash. And I guess there's, there's a trade off here.
00:06:04.172 - 00:06:30.412, Speaker C: And that difference is, as I just said, ESD Itself is the stablecoin and the senior share token. So what is that? Why is that good for ESD? Well, it's good because the, the net, the stable coin, which is ESD, expands because of speculative demand, as in someone might want to hold ESD because doing so entitles them to a share of inflationary rewards. Now of course they have to stake it, but it's still the same token. WHereas for basis cash, there's.
00:06:30.468 - 00:06:31.224, Speaker B: You don't.
00:06:31.764 - 00:07:01.126, Speaker C: I mean, putting the farming aside, which is the bootstrapping phase of the network, as I just said, but putting the farming portion aside, all things being equal, holding basis cash doesn't give you anything. It's simply a stable coin. You can hold basis shares, which gives you. Which gives you a right to newly, newly minted basis cash. Basis bac basis cash. But holding BaC Itself has no reflexive effects. So that's good for growing the network, as in for ESD.
00:07:01.126 - 00:07:47.354, Speaker C: Because people might speculate on ESD and they want to, you know, earn more money so they can, they want to buy more ESD. And that creates a sort of virtuous expansion cycle. But also that has sort of the negative effect of a, the downward potential of ESD. Because if you can get rich on ESD, then you can also basically get poor holding ESD. But also secondarily, when you try to mush the stablecoin and the senior share token together, it means that you're sacrificing stability. Because if this token itself, that's supposed to be a stable coin, is also being speculated upon, it's inevitably going to be more volatile than something that is supposed to just be a stable coin. Um, so that's sort of the double edged sword, I would say, of the comparison between ESD and basis cash.
00:07:47.354 - 00:08:39.650, Speaker C: I will say that there's also an important, um, another important sort of, uh, quality of both basis cash and empty set dollar in comparison to ampleforth that's worth mentioning, which is that because ample for the entire network rebases, it's very difficult to use as collateral different. It's difficult to sort of plug right in to other protocols. And so we would say it's sort of not composable, or at least not as composable as for example, BaC, which is simply a stable coin, or at least in theory, is simply a stable coin, or ESD, which is also not a rebasing token. ESD itself, if you hold ESD, you don't lose tokens or gain tokens. That's done by creating more ESD, or minting more ESD, which is basically done by the treasury automatically, algorithmically. That's not an essential difference, but it's an important difference practically. Right.
00:08:39.650 - 00:09:31.224, Speaker C: So that's ESD I just explained. And it's in its comparison to base of cash, of course, there's also been DSD recently, dynamics at Dollar, which you mentioned, which has actually very recently had this run up, but it's not very different from ESD. And ESD was sort of the original design, and also, in my opinion, actually still has most of the brainpower. There are some very, very smart people working on ESD, researching it in the discord, a very high level of discourse surrounding this project. But I think is actually one of its main strengths. And the other main strength that it has is the fact that it's shown its ability to be sort of Lindy through both expansion and contraction cycles so far, which has helped it enable to sort of bootstrap its network effects and its attraction to investors and people who might want to hold it.
00:09:32.064 - 00:10:14.564, Speaker B: And just to touch on one comment you made earlier, because I think earlier you made this point that one of the maybe stumbles that basis cash had right out the gate was creating this mechanism where if you hold the stablecoin, which is the basis cash token, you also basically entitle yourself to more basic shares, which is the value accrual token. So by kind of aligning the incentive to hold both of them, you kind of create these weird incentives that you're not sure you want. So for ESD, that seems like there might be a similar problem there, where the ESD token, which is the stablecoin itself, can also be bonded to become the value accrual token, which is the bonded ESD. Would you say that those are similar situations?
00:10:15.104 - 00:11:13.278, Speaker C: Yeah, so I think they're similar. I think the reflexivity is inherent for both of them, at least until basis cash farming stops, or at least until every single token is distributed. I will say that it's a double edged sword, as I said, and it's a trade off all the way down. So you have the benefit of the speculative demand that's sort of transferred into the stable coin itself, because you need to own the stable coin in order to take part in speculative demand for ESD. But otherwise, for basis cash dollar, without the farming, you actually have to grow demand organically through just pure adoption and pure non speculative usage, which is actually much more difficult to do. So it's a trade off, but as you said, it has a negative effect if you're trying to sort of mush these things together. Like I said, this shares token and the stablecoin token, it means that it's going to be more volatile because it's speculative.
00:11:13.278 - 00:12:29.554, Speaker C: That's sort of the inherent nature of it. So I think, yeah, basically my position is that it's a trade off all the way down. And I think the ideal, actually, if you're going to push me on this, I think the ideal is that you would want something that can bootstrap its growth the way ESD is bootstrapped and been able to sort of transfer speculative demand into the stablecoin. But at a certain point, once you reach a network level where you have sort of widespread, at least a market share, even if not fully at full adoption, as collateral and as other usage, you want to eventually transform, transition into, I think, some sort of separation between the senior edge shares token and the stablecoin. Because once you've done the bootstrapping, once the network growth has happened, I think at a certain point you need stability, and I think that's something that the ESD protocol is looking for. Now we can get to some of the actually changes that they're looking at implementing for ESG V two, I'm very interested in some of those, but I think that's sort of, there's sort of this catch 22, which is that you need to bootstrap growth somehow, because you can't just have a stable coin that's $1 million in market cap. So what happens if someone wants to buy 100,000 or sell 100,000? It's going to totally change the price.
00:12:29.554 - 00:12:48.294, Speaker C: So you need to grow the stablecoin to a desirable high market cap. And that's what's only going to make it palatable as to actually hold it. But the cash 22 part of it is that you can't do that without having some sort of speculative component too. And that's kind of a problem. It's a difficulty.
00:12:50.034 - 00:13:24.886, Speaker B: Got it. That makes a lot of sense. And just to frame this for our listeners so that we understand it, so it sounds like, if I want to say, speculate on the growth of any of these algorithmic stablecoin ecosystems, obviously for basis cash, I can't hold the basis cash stablecoin, because it's going to be back to a dollar. I would want to be buying a synergy kind of share token, which is basis share. The equivalent for something like ESD is to buy that ESD stablecoin, but to bond it into the dao so that I gain part of the inflationary rewards. Are those two kind of quote unquote correct ways for people to express their bullish views on either ecosystems?
00:13:25.030 - 00:14:06.294, Speaker C: Exactly. So those are the ways essentially to express your bullish views. There's also, of course, the way, if you're bullish on the ecosystem, you can actually speculate it, speculate on them while they're in contraction, while the network is in contraction. So for ampleforth, of course, you can just buy the token if it's trading at $0.80 if you, if you want to, if you believe it's going back to a dollar for empty set dollar and for basis cash, it's a little bit different. You can, as I said, buy these, these coupons for empty set dollar or base, or for bonds for basis cash. And these have the, have the added incentive, usually, that you can buy them either at a discount or with some sort of added premium.
00:14:06.294 - 00:15:13.824, Speaker C: And what that allows you to do is when the network eventually exits the contractionary phase, reenters expansion before the supplies, as in this is the case for both MQ set dollar and for baseless cash before the supply starts expanding and accruing either to bonded ESD in empty set dollars case, or accruing to basis shares. Before that happens, all the debt needs to be paid off, meaning all the coupons that were bought and all the bonds that were bought. So coupons in Mt dollars case and bonds and base cash case, those need to be paid off or redeemed. Or at least there needs to be some sort of opportunity for those to be redeemed, because there is actually, we've actually seen, it's interesting, in empty set dollar there were coupons that actually weren't redeemed for a very long time, even into expansionary phase for whatever reason. But essentially that's, you can speculate on the network both through the shares token and through the coupon slash bond token. I would say if you want to invest in these, especially if you're looking to do the debt financing part, you should be very careful. Try to understand how the pricing works, because the pricing is different.
00:15:13.824 - 00:15:49.824, Speaker C: For empty set dollar and basis cash, you should look at when these coupon coupons expire. For example, for EMP dollar, currently there is a coupon expiry, so that if you aren't able to redeem your coupons after a certain period of time time, they actually expire worthless. So that's a risk that you take on by basically financing the debt of the network. So I would caution investors, especially for the coupon and for the sort of debt, debt based financing tokens to make sure they fully understand how those things work. But those are the two different ways to speculate on the network if you're looking to do that.
00:15:50.444 - 00:16:25.064, Speaker B: Yeah, got it. That makes a lot of sense. So just to kind of recap what you said there briefly, so if I want to express a bullish view on either ecosystem, I could buy the share token or bond my est tokens to the DAO to gain the inflationary shares inflationary rewards, but I do not get those rewards until after the debt is paid out. So it's similar to traditional finance where debt has more seniority over the equity. We have to kind of clear out the debt for both systems before we start receiving the rewards. So I think that's a really kind of intuitive way to think about it. So thank you for pointing that out.
00:16:25.064 - 00:16:48.422, Speaker B: You also mentioned version two of ESD, which is something that you're very excited about, and I am only peripherally aware of what it is. I know they introduced something like fractional collateralization, which is also championed by a newer project called FrAcs. So maybe we can kind of group them together and talk about what is fractional collateralization and why are you so excited about it being incorporated into some of these algorithmic stablecoins?
00:16:48.598 - 00:17:49.043, Speaker C: Sure, of course. So I think, I think there's an important thing I want to say before I can even talk about the fractional collateralization, which is essentially the problem with the models that we've just described so far, at least the problem as I see it, and this is sort of something I believe pretty strongly, obviously will be happy to change my mind if proven wrong. But as of now, this is sort of my thesis on these algorithmic stablecoins, at least the ones in existence, which is that there is a theoretical problem that could become very, very painfully practical at some point, which is that these tokens, as we've said, are not collateralized. These networks are not collateralized, they're not backed by anything. So the people that created basis cash dollar just essentially minted or not basic basis cash, people who created basis cash just minted these tokens through a smart contract on Ethereum, people that created ampleforth just minted them. There was no collateral that was put down. You don't have to, you can't mint, they're sort of not backed by anything except for essentially speculative value at this point.
00:17:49.043 - 00:18:35.940, Speaker C: And this is sort of very, very much the case for Ampleforth. It's a free floating token that has the soft peg, which is determined fully by supply and demand. But it's also actually the case for basis cash and for empty set dollar. And what I mean by that is that even for, let's say, something like basis cash, which has Bac, as I said, if you're a Bac holder, you're in some sense insulated from market dynamics. So you can hold your bacon without, you know, having to participate in debt financing, and also without gaining sort of rewards if the network grows. But the problem is that you're only insulated to a point because the entire network is only collateralized by demand. There's nothing sort of otherwise that's backing it, only speculative demand, I guess I would say.
00:18:35.940 - 00:19:27.590, Speaker C: So what I mean by this is consider what would happen if at a certain point, for whatever reason, and the network, it could be ample for that, could be ESD, or it could be basis cash. And this is the same, I think this is ultimately the same thing for all of them. But consider what would happen if, let's say, the token, the stablecoin for all of them is trading at $0.50 on the dollar. And either there's a bear market around in crypto, or there is maybe a better stable coin protocol elsewhere, or everyone wants to hold bitcoin, or for whatever reason, there just isn't enough demand to push either the price up, or to buy coupons, or to buy bonds to debt finance. You essentially get into this reflexive feedback loop, like I said, and I would call a death spiral, where the protocol could collapse. And regardless of whether you're holding the stablecoin, you might face a lot of pain holding that stablecoin, because it's not backed by anything.
00:19:27.590 - 00:20:27.424, Speaker C: It's only backed by the promise of future rewards for investors who want to bootstrap the network. I think Haseeb Qureshi, who wrote an article on, on algorithmic stablecoins, or stablecoins in general, I think it was a few years ago, he said that these algorithmic stablecoins are only collateralized basically by future belief in the network. So that's in some sense resembles a pyramid scheme or Ponzi scheme. People have criticized it as those, but that means that they're susceptible, they're vulnerable to massive decreases in demand once. And once the demand isn't there anymore, the network will no longer be resilient, and it will create this sort of reflexive, self fulfilling process. Just to give one other brief possibility and example, I don't mean to sort of scare off investors. I think that this isn't necessarily an imminent threat to these protocols, but it's something that investors should be well aware of.
00:20:27.424 - 00:21:25.414, Speaker C: And one outgrowth of this risk, and this is, I'll again get into partial collateralization from this, because I think this sort of lead into it. But one outgrowth, and this is something I've spoken to Hasu and my friend Richard Chen with, is that these algorithmic stablecoins often present maybe an asymmetric risk profile to investors who might want to short these tokens. So if you think about, like George Soros, who made a made, I think, was over a billion pounds in a day by shorting the british pound, because the british pound, the peg with the german mark at the time, this is, I think in the 1990s, it could have been a little bit earlier. The peg was very shaky, essentially. And what Soros did was he decided to borrow a ton of british pounds off the market and to sell them. And then other investors saw what he was doing and they joined him, which put a lot of downward pressure on the price. So he made a lot of money because the peg with the mark ended up breaking.
00:21:25.414 - 00:22:40.578, Speaker C: But we call this a source attack, because this is basically a strategy of investors shorting a currency down, trying to either break a peg or destroy it. And if you think about what the risk profile is for shorting something like basis cash, or shorting something like ESD, if you know that the way that the mechanism design works is that the token price will always be pushed down to $1 if it's above, because demand can't be infinite. If you know that's how it works, then there isn't so much risk you have in buying a ton of whatever the supply is of these tokens and market selling them. If you can get enough of the supply, you can affect the price and the potential you have to pay, let's say an interest rate if you're borrowing these tokens, if you're shorting them, but the potential windfall is huge if these tokens end up crashing. And again, because these tokens aren't collateralized, algorithmic stablecoins aren't collateralized, there's a real risk that demand will just fully dry up. And so that's, I think, what that means, as Hasu put it, these algorithmic stablecoins have to fear fully efficient capital markets. Now, these don't exist right now because you can't really borrow basis cash on Aave, and you definitely can't borrow most of the supply.
00:22:40.578 - 00:23:44.212, Speaker C: There are these artificial supply and borrow caps on cream. You can actually borrow empty set dollar, but again, you can't borrow a lot of it. But theoretically at least, or what if there is a possibility that you could, that some sort of malicious investor or attacker could, maybe not even malicious, but some sort of investor could attempt one of these attacks and crash the entire stablecoin? I think that's a vulnerability. And again, that's partially because there's this asymmetric risk profile, because these things are reflexive and speculative, and they're not backed by sort of other assets. So you asked about MT set dollar version two, and fracs, which are these sort of partially collateralized solutions. And I think the reason, I think the main reason why we want to move towards some sort of partially collateralized stablecoin is that these stablecoins are ultimately going to be more resilient to those types of attacks. They're going to be, they're not going to require the same amount of continual and unrelenting speculative demand in order to prop them up.
00:23:44.212 - 00:24:02.224, Speaker C: So I can, if you want, I can get into MTD v two, which is actually still very early in the research phases, and it's being debated. I can also talk about fracs which is actually a very, very different design from all the ones that we talked about so far. But I'm very excited about fracs. So, yeah. Let me know which one you want me to discuss first.
00:24:02.924 - 00:24:10.298, Speaker B: Yeah, I think understanding the fracs model could help here, given that they're working kind of specifically on fractional collateralization.
00:24:10.466 - 00:24:44.976, Speaker C: Sure, of course. So I guess the first thing I should say is that I've actually used the term partial collateralization to refer to fracs in the past, and I think that's actually wrong. I would argue that fracs, depending on your definition of collateralized, is actually a fully collateralized token. So what? So what is fracs? Frax is an attempt to create an algorithmic stable coin that is collateralized partially by algorithmic speculative demand. Or it's. I guess that's not a great way of putting it. Let's say it's.
00:24:44.976 - 00:25:11.020, Speaker C: It's part. It's. I guess instead of saying it's partially collateralized, I would say it's partially algorithmic or it's fractionally algorithmic. So what is. So Frax is different from these other algorithmic stablecoins in the sense that it is minted, and it can always be minted and redeemed one to one for us dollars. So the fracs ultimate network design looks somewhat similar to actually basis cash. There are eventually going to be three tokens.
00:25:11.020 - 00:25:46.964, Speaker C: Right now there are only two. There's fracs, which is the stablecoin, and FXS, which is the shares token. And eventually there will be fracs bonds. I think Sam, who's the founder of it, is still working on the design for that. I've been actually been talking to him a little bit. He has some interesting ideas for how to design the bond token in ways that are different from est coupons and basis cash bonds. But anyways, so Frax has this three token design, but it differs from basis cash, let's say, because you can actually, in order to own fracs or to get fracs, you don't have to just purchase it on the open market.
00:25:46.964 - 00:26:28.300, Speaker C: You can actually mint it through a smart contract. And the way you mint it is by putting down a dollar of value into the system. So what is that dollar value? Well, it's a mix of Fxs, which is the fractional reserve shares token, and it's that plus USDC right now. So it's not. So it's like true collateral. And in that sense, it's actually similar to Dai or SDSD because you're putting down crypto collateral. So that might be a little bit of a confusing explanation, but what that means is that fracs can always be minted and redeemed for a dollar, and that allows it to keep its peg.
00:26:28.300 - 00:27:31.936, Speaker C: It's much more of a hard peg, as opposed to sort of this floating soft peg, which is what other algorithmic stablecoins have. And so what does it mean that minting fracs is partially done by putting down USCC and partially done by fxs? So this is where we get to something called the collateral ratio, which is sort of the foundation upon which the entire frac system is built. So the way frax works is that there is the ratio that determines how much USDC versus how much fxs you have to essentially put down into the system in order to mint fracs. That can ratio can fluctuate between zero to 100 based on the market price of fracs. And this is a very confusing mechanism. So I would definitely encourage anyone who's, who is interested in learning more to look at the fracs documents on their website. Actually, Sam just did a podcast with Delphi in which he explained these things much better than I am sure I will.
00:27:31.936 - 00:28:20.534, Speaker C: But just to get back to the mechanism design, this collateral ratio can be anywhere from zero to 100. At 100% collateral ratio. When you want to mint fracs from the system, you have to put down $1 of USCC in order to receive $1 of fracs. If the collateral ratio is, let's say 0%, then you actually have to put down $1 worth of fxs, the shares token, in order to mint $1 fracs. And what this does is it allows the market to determine whatever collateralization ratio it wants, which is the market doesn't have desires, but it basically allows market participants to land on the shelling point. Or maybe it's some sort of fluctuating equilibrium of. Of a collateralization ratio.
00:28:20.534 - 00:28:28.802, Speaker C: And does that. Am I making sense so far, Jason? Or am I, am I getting. Am I confusing you? And probably the listeners as well?
00:28:28.978 - 00:28:57.052, Speaker A: Now, before I continue, I'd like to take a moment to share some exciting companies that made this podcast possible. Now, one product that I'm excited about in crypto is the crypto.com visa card. I was lucky enough to get my hands on one. And this card pays you up to 8% cashback instantly on purchases, and also gives you 100% rebate for Netflix, Spotify, and Amazon prime. The card also gives unlimited airport lounge access and interbank exchange rates. There are also no annual monthly or ATM withdrawal fees to worry about.
00:28:57.052 - 00:29:12.104, Speaker A: You can actually apply for this card today easily on the crypto.com app which you can find on your App Store. And if you use the code blockcrunch, you even get dollar 25 in their native staking token CRO. So check them out today and I thank crypto.com for sponsoring the show.
00:29:12.584 - 00:29:57.138, Speaker B: Id also like to give a shout out to our sponsor, Bittrex Global. As someone based outside of the US, ive always been frustrated about how hard it is to invest in companies like Tesla, Google, Apple and Netflix. Brokerage accounts have exorbitant fees and have terrible trading experiences. Fortunately, BittrexGlobal is now offering tokenized stocks, which means you can invest in us stocks 24 hours a day, not just during stock market hours. You can even buy fractions of a share and manage your crypto and stock portfolio on one single exchange. I'm really excited about this as a user, and if you are too, sign up today for Bittrex Klobo using the link in the description. This week's episode is also brought to you by Radix if you're interested in Defi Radix is a layer one protocol built specifically to serve Defi.
00:29:57.138 - 00:30:28.544, Speaker B: Radix focuses on speed, security and scalability, and previous iterations have delivered 1 million transactions per second. They recently raised $13 million in their token sale and have launched their liquidity incentive program as well. So head on over to radixdlt.com to learn more, or click the link in the descriptions below. It does sound like the frac system is borrowing certain principles from, say, Makerdao, some of them older kind of collateralized models. Would you say that's kind of their inspiration?
00:30:28.844 - 00:31:07.524, Speaker C: I would say it's certainly borrowing from those. So fracs can even be almost identical in some sense to Makerdao, except for the fact that Makerdao's system is over collateralized, whereas FraCs is always in order to mint fracs, it's never more than one to one, it's always one USCC for one. But Sam actually has described this as like when Frax is fully collateralized by USCC, it's almost like wrapped USCC. It's interchangeable with wrapped USDC. And this minting redeeming mechanism actually allows arbitrageurs to always keep the peg. Because if the market price of fracs end up going above $1.01 or $1.02,
00:31:07.524 - 00:32:05.382, Speaker C: there's going to be an incentive for arbitrageurs to come in for them to mint, and for them to basically sell it down and then vice versa. When it's below a dollar. And so it's certainly similar to DAI and SDSU in that it has this minting mechanism which allows it to keep its this peg. But how is it similar to the algorithmic portion? Well, it's similar to the algorithmic portion because it can also not just be fully collateralized by USDC. So when the price of fracs on the open market is, let's say, trading at or above $1, then the collateralization ratio starts decreasing. And what that means is you need to basically, in order to mint Frac, you need to buy fxs off the market, and you actually need to use the FXS combined with whatever percentage of USCC you need. FXS stands for Frac shares, and you need to combine those in order to mint fracs.
00:32:05.382 - 00:32:47.086, Speaker C: And then when you actually do that, you burn fxs from circulation. So it's taken out of circulation, which has this sort of nice value accrual effect of making of. Not only will FXs be in more demand as the collateralization ratio decreases, because you'll need more fxs to mint fracs, but it also actually takes FXS out of circulation. So it has these sort of. So it has sort of both supply side and demand side effects. And that's how FXS accrues value as the shares token. It's not exactly the same thing as these algorithmic stablecoins that have positive supply expansions.
00:32:47.086 - 00:33:08.284, Speaker C: And then those tokens are able to be either distributed or they're able to be claimed by the shares token. This shares token actually is almost like a buy and burn model, and you need to use it in order to mint, and then it's burned by taking, when it's taken out of circulation. I don't know if that clarifies, but that's how I understand the model.
00:33:08.664 - 00:33:25.566, Speaker B: So, are users almost incentivized, or at least holders of FXS, which is the shares token? Are they incentivized to keep the system constantly under collateralized, so that people always have to buy FXS to burn it from the market to keep up the collateralization ratio? Or is my understanding kind of incorrect there?
00:33:25.710 - 00:34:19.980, Speaker C: So you're asking, are holders of FXS incentivized to keep the, to keep, to keep the price of fracs above a dollar, such that FXS will always be being taken out of circulation? I mean, I guess, I mean, it would be, if you're holding FXS and you had infinite demand, then you would want to do that, but that would require you to keep continually minting fracs and basically taking fxs out of circulation, or would require you to keep basically buying more and more fracs whenever it's minted. So if you wanted to. If you had $10 million and you also had a million dollars worth of FXS tokens, yes, you could. Theoretically, what you could do is market buy a lot of fracs, and that would push the price of fracs up. Maybe it's actually a twap, the time weighted average price. So that's. That's that.
00:34:19.980 - 00:34:41.732, Speaker C: Which is what determines the collateralization ratio. The collateralization ratio actually changes 25 basis points every. I think it's every hour. So, like, if the price is at one, this hour, then it'll go. The collaboration ratio will go down 25 0.25%. And then if it's. You know, if it stays there, it'll keep going down, otherwise it'll reverse.
00:34:41.732 - 00:35:06.213, Speaker C: So, yeah, I mean, I think that's. I don't think that there's actually. That's not really a capital efficient way to make FX s increase in price, because I think you would need to have, like, very, very deep pockets that you're not otherwise using on other things, because you could. But if. Yeah, I mean, if you. If you can. If you were able to continually prop up the price of fracs by just continually buying off the market.
00:35:06.213 - 00:35:17.744, Speaker C: I guess I haven't thought about that. But I guess that would actually increase the value of fxs, because more of it would be taken out of circulation, because you need more and more of it to mint it. So, yeah, I mean, it's interesting thought.
00:35:19.004 - 00:35:53.364, Speaker B: Got it. And, Ben, for the purposes of time, I'd like to pull this to a higher level and really take a look at all of the models that you've helped us break down today. We talked about the rebasing model Ampleforth. We talked about the synergy shares model, which is basis cash. And we talked about some of the newer iterations, the Cinereach model, like ESD, DSD, and then finally this fractional cradle model, like fracs. So, for you, personally, where do you think this whole algo stablecoin space is going? Is it trending towards one model or the other? Do you see more kind of long term potential in specific projects over the others?
00:35:54.784 - 00:36:55.498, Speaker C: Yeah, so I think, as I've said, I actually haven't gotten to any of the sort of downsides of the fracs model. But, you know, one. One easy one to just mention is that it's less reflexive than the purely algorithmic ones, and it doesn't have the same sort of early wealth effects for early adopters that the others do, which might hinder its growth. But in terms of your question, I don't want to the cop, Ed, is to say, well, they all have trade offs, and we'll see which one works. I actually have a pretty strong belief that we're going to need to move toward a fractional reserve model. Well, so we haven't even discussed empty set dollar version two, which is probably okay, because that's still pretty deep in the research, but they're actually looking at also partial collateralization. I think eventually my belief is that the market will tend to move toward partial collateralization models because I think those will be the only ones that offer any sort of long term stability.
00:36:55.498 - 00:38:17.984, Speaker C: Otherwise, you have this continuous problem where you made early adopters rich through these speculative algorithmic stablecoins, which critics will just call Ponzi schemes. They have some similarities to them, or maybe more accurately, pyramid schemes, but I think those purely algorithmic stablecoins are going to face a lot of difficulty gaining any real adoption beyond speculative demand. I think we've already seen that. Frankly, if anyone really believes that they're able to hold, hold ESD in their wallet or basis cash or ampleforth, or any of those in their wallet, sort of in sleep, as soundly at night as they would with any other sort of stablecoin that keeps its value, I guess putting notwithstanding any of the other problems that we talked about at the very beginning of the show, in terms of collateralization and blacklisting centralization, but just purely in terms of the Pegasus, if, I think the reality is that people know deep down that these purely algorithmic stablecoins are going to have a lot of trouble maintaining their stability long term because of the fact that they are basically built on speculative demand. And so I do believe that we need to move toward fractional reserve models. Whether that's fracs, whether that's ESTV two, I think that much I'll say, remains to be seen. I also would say that there is a few other tweaks.
00:38:17.984 - 00:38:59.720, Speaker C: There are various tweaks that I would propose for ESD as it currently exists for, actually for fracs. I think that the collateralization ratio, the way it changes, is actually too sticky. I think it should change a little bit more linearly and faster. But those aside, I think the fractional reserve models are important. I guess I would also say one potentially exciting, one potentially exciting new sort of area to explore is, is bitcoin as a reserve for some of these fractional reserve models. And maybe Ethereum too, as an alternative. So we've seen right now, like Fracs, for example, uses USDc as its asset that backs it.
00:38:59.720 - 00:39:50.404, Speaker C: And ESDV two, which is obviously still in the works, is thinking about using USDC, which both make sense just for stability reasons and I think for ease of use reasons, but they ultimately are in some sense self defeating as because you want this sort of permissionless asset. And so I think it's going to be interesting to see if fractional reserve algorithmic stablecoins can use as their reserve asset a permissionless asset, whether that's bitcoin, whether that's ethereum. And I mean, personally, one thing that I'd like to see, I don't actually think that rebasing tokens around bitcoin or around gold make much sense, but I think using as reserve assets or fractional reserve assets, maybe these hard capped currencies, specifically bitcoin, that are more permissionless, is an exciting potential path forward for these algorithmic stablecoins.
00:39:51.464 - 00:40:29.644, Speaker B: And Ben, this is one question that I personally am still kind of toying around, because as an investor, obviously we have to think about how big the total addressable market is, how big the opportunity is, and for something like algo, stablecoins often kind of pivoting between whether I think this is a monetary video game almost, or is this actually going to resemble the market caps that we see in things like tether or USDC. So massive USD based markets. So for you personally, how do you kind of roughly think about just how big the opportunity is for algo stablecoins, like for the winning project, say, in five to ten years? How big is the opportunity we're talking about?
00:40:30.564 - 00:41:08.570, Speaker C: So I think, I mean, I think the opportunity is massive. I hear all the criticisms and the people who say this is just money games, this is Ponzi schemes. I hear those. I think there actually are elements of truth in them, for sure. And I think I'm certainly wary of very, I'm wary in general of the grand visions that this is going to be the future of finance or whatever. But I actually do think that there's a lot of potential for these experiments and for these projects. I think we will start to see in the future problems with centralized stablecoins, in terms of blacklisting, in terms of regulatory problems.
00:41:08.570 - 00:42:01.960, Speaker C: We're also going to see problems with the US dollar. I mean, this is something that is very, very sort of commonplace to hear in crypto circles. But I think this is a lot of crypto people, whether they're bitcoiners or ethereum fans are somewhat, I think, united around the sort of inflationary problem and the fact that there is that money printer go burr mean, so there eventually will be, I think there's, I personally think there's a lot of truth in those economic worries. And so eventually we're going to need to move beyond the US dollar, I think, and whether that, whether we go to a bitcoin standard or whether we go to a different currency, that remains to be seen. But I think that's potentially the most bullish case for algorithmic stablecoins, is that they don't actually eventually have to target just the US dollar. They can target any other currency. They could even target a basket of goods and keep track of consumer price inflation that way.
00:42:01.960 - 00:42:58.754, Speaker C: And if either of those two things happen, meaning if there are sort of real regulatory problems with tether or with USDC or others, or just the sort of impending demise of the US dollar as the world reserve currency, and maybe no sort of real good option to replace it, we might see algorithmic stablecoins really, really take off. And I hope that if either those opportunities were to come to fruition, that algorithmic stablecoins are sort of in the place and they're developed past this early stage. I think we're still very much in this early stage of experimentation, and that they're ready to sort of seize those opportunities. I don't think right now that any, actually, I'm not sure about any, but I'm not confident. I wouldn't say that any of the stable coins in their current form, without any tweaks, could be the next tether or the next USCC. I don't think so. But that means I still believe that there is a lot of opportunity here.
00:42:59.974 - 00:43:36.104, Speaker B: Got it. Thank you for that very clear eyed answer, and I think for the interest of time, we may have to wrap it up here. But this is such an interesting topic and such a complex topic that I don't think there are so many people that really understand it as deep as you do. And for people who want to revisit some of the points that Ben has mentioned, I really recommend you to check out his article on Derbit, which I'll link to in the show notes below. So Ben, once again, thanks so much for coming onto the show and for people who want to keep up to date with your latest thoughts, what you're looking into, what you're excited about. I know this is your podcast debut for your writings, for your maybe for your personal blog. What are some of the ways that people can find you.
00:43:36.684 - 00:43:57.798, Speaker C: Yeah, thanks for that, Jason. You can find me on Twitter, mainly enjaminsimon 97. That's my handle. And yeah, thanks so much for having me. This was quite a pleasure. It's a very complex topic. So I'll also say that any listeners that if you've not necessarily understood anything I've said and the resources that I've either written or that you can find online don't suffice.
00:43:57.798 - 00:44:06.406, Speaker C: You're welcome to reach out to me on Twitter. My DM's are open. I'm happy to answer any questions that I can. And yeah, thank you so much for having me. This is quite a pleasure. Jason.
00:44:06.550 - 00:44:07.294, Speaker B: Awesome. Thanks, Ben.
