00:00:00.250 - 00:00:49.750, Speaker A: I try to think probabilistically. I think there is a very good chance that Solana keeps outperforming and attracting all kinds of new use cases or projects that are interesting. I think what it needs for that is at least one major user facing application, or at least like very successful game or something like that, that attracts new people into crypto. Because so far, everything that we've on Solana, I mean, it's interesting, but apart from some niche exceptions, it's just the thing that you can also do on Ethereum or L2s. It just may be cheaper. It has a little bit of different ux and stuff, but it's fundamentally similar thing. And the biggest thing that's happening on Solana are still some meme coins right now, which you could do on many other chains as well.
00:00:49.750 - 00:02:19.614, Speaker A: So for Solana to keep outperforming, I think it needs to bring some new use cases. I think the other probability is that it kind of already peaked and now we'll just see it kind of going sideways and people will refocus back again on modular TZs, maybe on Cosmos or on Ethereum l two ecosystem, which is already kind of happening. But when we think about long term time frame, one thing that Solana is going for, it is just like the simplicity of development for developers and the steadfast vision of the team of Anatoli, specifically, who is like our North Star. Our main reason Solana exists is to push the costs of using and developing on blockchain as low as possible as our physical loss will allow us. And that's something that no other crypto infrastructure project or blockchain really focuses on with such tenacity. So I would say that long term, with this vision, I think they will definitely carve a sustainable niche for their block space. I'm not sure if it still will be the biggest blockchain out there, but it's one of the top contestants, and for next three years, again, it can outperform.
00:02:19.614 - 00:03:05.270, Speaker A: It doesn't have to. Yeah, I don't know how to answer that question. I would say that there is a higher chance it will outperform slightly, but I don't think it will outperform dramatically going forward in long, long time mean. I think Solana will definitely be one of the major players. But when I think about what and how the blockchains will be used for, I don't know. It still feels to me that blockchain is some sort of bootstrapping technology for something superior. I read a saying that humans are the bootstrapping vehicle for AI, and then the blockchain is the bootstrapping vehicle for zk tech.
00:03:05.270 - 00:04:25.646, Speaker A: So I kind of feel like the very far future of crypto is more looking kind of similar to some sort of trust minimized ZK infrastructure rather than this open public, account based, normal ledger we have today. But again, I don't have very huge, I'm not extremely technical, so it's very hard for me to gouge how hard it is to get to that point. Surely many are trying right now. But yeah, I would just say that Solana is definitely going to be a major crypto player going forward in next five to ten years. I think that's pretty likely, but I'm just not extremely sure that it is like the winning solution forever. I mean, you could also argue that Solana team is extremely technically skilled, and whatever the innovation is that happens elsewhere with like ZK or whatever else, they can just adopt it because they have this north star of being the fastest and cheapest as physically possible. So I would not underestimate this ability of teams to pivot, change and improve.
00:04:25.646 - 00:05:41.080, Speaker A: I think that's something that many investors in the space kind of do wrong, or they have this wrong mindset about things, like they see some crypto economic model or some infrastructure, some technology, and they immediately see some sort of flaws and some tail risks about it. And they have a lot of criticism, but they don't understand that this is just like maybe the first phase of the project. And if the team is capable and smart, they will kind of iterate until it's good. Right. One of my most favorite investments is synthetics, which we did in 2019, and synthetics iterated quite a lot like they are one of the, I would say, prime examples of not just a team, but the whole community and decentralized governance that is able to kind of iterate about something interesting. And they had many flaws, and all the critics pointed these flaws out over the years, but critics, some of them are gone, and synthetics is still here and kind of gaining traction. So I would not underestimate this factor about technology.
00:05:41.080 - 00:05:57.420, Speaker A: If there is some new technology, you don't have to have new project that will implement technology. You can have already existing project with the best team that will just take this new tech or this new innovation and integrates it.
