00:00:00.240 - 00:00:37.522, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of Daily Grade Refuel, where we cap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony so Sano, it's the 16 December 2022. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So first up, we have an announcement from Trent van Epps. Today he announced the KZG ceremony grants round. Now, this round is being run by the Ethereum foundation, and grants are up for grabs for people that are doing one of two things, or both things, writing your own implementation of the of the ceremony here, or submitting entropy generated by non traditional sources, or through a unique process. And there's more details about both of these in this blog post and the tweet thread, of course.
00:00:37.522 - 00:02:00.718, Speaker A: But I wanted to focus on the second thing here, which is, you know, submitting entropy generated by non traditional sources or through a unique process. This is really fun because, as Trent says in his thread here, getting entropy via randomness, randomness that, from sources that are really hard to bias, mess with, allows people to get really creative. So, for example, in the Z cash sapling setup, which was similar, similar in its nature of being a trusted setup, two people here, Socrates and Ryan Pearce, measured radioactivity from a Chernobyl artifact while flying at 3000ft to get that source of randomness there. Now, as Trent says, while they're not expecting every idea to be this involved, they do encourage people to think outside the box and be creative. Like, where can you get randomness that's especially unique to your city and community? What can you think of to engage your local Ethereum community to help? And I think this is cool because not only is it, I guess, providing grants for this sort of sorts of stuff to happen, it's also making the KZG ceremony more socially hardened. Now, I've talked about how this ceremony only relies on one honest participant for it to actually work. So if you're a participant in it and you trust yourself, then you can trust that the ceremony was completed properly, right? But the social proof is also very powerful, because it means that even people who don't participate in it can, can have relative trust in the system as well.
00:02:00.718 - 00:03:04.290, Speaker A: That is, that it was generated using, I guess, like really random data, right? And you can get as random as you want here. You can get this source of randomness from basically anywhere. I mean, Cloudflare famously has a wall of lava lamps with cameras pointed at it that they generate randomness from. Now, I don't know if they still use that, but they were using that in a production setting and essentially the way it would work is that they take inputs from the lava lamps and then they would do something with it, right? But because the lava lamps are always random, you can't really predict where they're going to go next. They have a wall of them and that's their source of kind of entropy. That's their source of randomness, right? So when you, when you think about it like that, you can think outside the box and come up with basically any source of randomness that you want. And you can do it locally in your city, you can go somewhere where you think you can get something that's completely random that no one's going to able to replicate or it's going to be incredibly difficult for them to replicate and go from there, right? So I think it's just a really fun way to get people involved with the KZG ceremony, but also add that social proof that's very, very important for things like this.
00:03:04.290 - 00:03:52.836, Speaker A: But as I said, you can read Trent's thread here and also the blog post. For more information on this I will link both in the YouTube description below. And just a heads up, there is a deadline of January 31, so you have about six weeks from today to get your applications in here. All right, so Autoscan, a new version has been released, so Autoscan has become a merged explorer. This release introduces the optional beacon chain integration. Now for those of you who don't know, Autoscan is an open source Ethereum block explorer that you can use locally with your own nodes, whether they be execution layer node or a consensus layer node, and also validators. So yeah, this is an alternative to other block explorers like Etherscan with, where essentially you get to use your own data produced by your own node rather than relying on third parties here.
00:03:52.836 - 00:04:51.020, Speaker A: And I believe it also works with archive nodes, not just full nodes as well here. So you can actually get like historical balances and things like that. But this is great. And this is more, this is awesome to say that they are still actively working on Autoscan and it's getting updates because I think that if you want to go like above and beyond being like a fully self sovereign Ethereum user, and I've talked about this a lot, but being a fully self sovereign Ethereum user means running your own full node, right? Connecting your wallet to that, to use it as an RPC, maybe even becoming a validator, it's not strictly necessary to be a validator on the network, but I guess like if you want to go above and beyond, right, and then you can do these other things which may seem like something of a soft I guess, requirement, but like running your own block explorer gives you even better guarantees because you have the data. All that your, all these autoscan is doing is interpreting the data from your full node for you in a human readable format. And then obviously, as I've said before, you can go even further and do run your own front ends, right? Or build your own front. You don't even have to trust someone else's code.
00:04:51.020 - 00:05:32.104, Speaker A: That's the amazing thing about the Ethereum ecosystem is that we you have all the tools available to you if you're willing to put in the work to become a fully self sovereign Ethereum user. And as I said, as I just said, it does require putting in the work. I mean I've been setting up my new solo staking box on Linux recently and I haven't set up solo staking on Linux before. I have been using Windows, funny enough, since Genesis, and I've just been adding validators because that's what I was used to. But I would rather use Linux because it's better for this sort of stuff. So my new staking box for a lot of today I've been setting that up and I've been following different guides online. Shout out to the Eats taker guides written by Remy Roy and Sama Esat for his guide guides on media.
00:05:32.104 - 00:06:16.016, Speaker A: I've been using those just to make sure that I follow the right process with Linux. And there's a lot to learn, don't get me wrong, right? And there are other services you can use like DAP node, but, but me being me, I wanted to use like, I wanted to just do it all on my own, on my own staking box without using a third party service. But there's nothing wrong with DAP node or other services like Sedge from Nethermind that I've talked about before. But yeah, it does require putting in the work. It's not something that the, you know, your mom's going to be able to do or anything like that. I mean maybe if they really wanted to do it, if they really cared about being self sovereign they would, they could learn because all the information is, is out there. But as people listening to the refuel, I would assume a lot of you are definitely more interested in getting into the weeds and becoming as fully self sovereign of an ethereum user as you can be.
00:06:16.016 - 00:07:00.638, Speaker A: Especially in the face of things like censorship happening on front ends. And also I guess like Etherscan being such a central point. I mean Etherscan is amazing but it's such a centralized point in the ethereum ecosystem, everyone uses it as a source of truth, when in reality Etherscan could either get compromised and display the incorrect information, it could go offline, it could the ether scan team themselves. I'm not saying they would do this, but they could show you the wrong information or try and trick you into doing different things or seeing different information. So there is a kind of, I guess, danger there in that. Whereas if you run your own block explorer with autoscan, you only need to, you only need to trust yourself. You don't need to trust anyone else, right? And if you run it with your own full node, of course, then you just trust in yourself, which is the whole point.
00:07:00.638 - 00:07:55.896, Speaker A: I mean, this is why we built Ethereum. This is why Ethereum is so limited as well at layer one, because we want to keep it, uh, to, to a point where people can actually run a full node on consumer grade hardware, even low powered hardware like a raspberry PI. But yeah, I've talked about all that before, but great to see this update from Autoscan here. All right, so a pretty massive update from Coinbase today, and I believe this is the first centralized exchange to do this. So what Coinbase has introduced today is a new ERC 20 self service asset recovery tool, which they're calling a safe, simple and secure way for Coinbase customers to recover almost 4000 unsupported ERC 20 tokens. So you know how you accidentally, sometimes you accidentally send tokens to your Coinbase address and it's not supported on Coinbase or that you have to go through support to get them to actually recover it for you? Well, now you don't need to do that anymore. You can use their self service tool to do this yourself.
00:07:55.896 - 00:08:29.914, Speaker A: Now I think that it, I mean, obviously it only applies to eligible assets here. I don't know if this is available to all customers or just us based customers. I believe that those details are in the blog post here as well as a how to guide. But this is really, really cool because as I said, I believe this is the first time a centralized exchange has done this. Correct me if I'm wrong in the comments, I mean, I don't really use too many centralized exchanges, so I don't really have the lay of land there. But as far as I know, this is definitely, is definitely a first. And it's amazing that Coinbase is, I guess like doubling down on user sovereignty here.
00:08:29.914 - 00:09:16.848, Speaker A: They've been doing a lot of great stuff with their Coinbase wallet. They're now doing this self service thing where you can basically, you know, you don't, if you accidentally send, I guess, like the asset to the wrong address on Coinbase, you can get this back yourself without having to go through support. And it's not just for like self sovereignty, it's more like, the fact of the matter is you'd probably be waiting lots and lots of months to get it back if going through support. And this obviously takes a lot of a load off the support people by having this tool. And the funny thing is, Coinbase wouldn't have developed this tool if they weren't seeing a lot of complaints about this to their support pipeline. Normally with, with customer support, you will look at the amount of tickets coming in and you will correlate it and you'll be like, okay, well, what can we do to actually automate this so that users don't have to ticket us? Because obviously getting a human involved is time consuming. Humans are really expensive support stuff.
00:09:16.848 - 00:09:42.096, Speaker A: You have to hire a lot of them, especially if you have a lot of users. So the scalable approach is to build a tool that users can, can use on their own and make sure that it's easy enough for them to be able to use. So, huge kudos to coinbase for doing this. As I said, this is something that affects a lot of users. I have done this before, like I. Not lately, but I have actually done this before in the earlier days when I was just getting started with crypto. It is an easy mistake to make for people.
00:09:42.096 - 00:10:14.250, Speaker A: I remember the stupidest mistake I made was early 2017. I was participating in my first ICO and I gave them, sorry, I sent ETH to it using my Poloniex address. And then the tokens were sent to Poloniex and they didn't support that token. And then I went through support trying to get them to give me the tokens that I put my ETH into. I put five ETH into this Ico. Back then it was worth, I think the ICO was when ETH was like $50, it was like $250, right? So obviously not a huge, huge thing. But as ETH kept going up in 2017, I was like, ah, I really want these tokens so I can at least get something back.
00:10:14.250 - 00:10:51.606, Speaker A: But I never got them back. Poloniex, as you guys know, kind of went under, sold to Justin sun, and they were inundated with support requests because they were actually the main exchange in 2017 until binance came along to, to trade, I guess, like quote unquote altcoins. So, yeah, I mean, people do this all the time they send it to the wrong address. And having a tool that like what Coinbase is introduced is critically important. And I just wanted to give a huge kiddos to Coinbase here. All right, a couple of optimism updates from today. So they've announced something that is coming soon, which is the optimist NFT, a customizable profile picture that can represent user identity across the optimism ecosystem.
00:10:51.606 - 00:11:47.916, Speaker A: And you can see a few examples here of what this could potentially look like. And they continue by saying, at present, the optimist optimist NFT is in beta, and only people voting in the retro public goods funding round two are eligible to mint, but in Q 120 23, minting will be open to include a much broader set of optimists based on participation in the optimism collective. The optimist NFT is one of the first use cases of the attestation station, a permissionless primitive which anyone is able to read, add to, and build on top of. It provides qualitative attestations about community actors creating invaluable data library for the ecosystem. So basically, what optimism is building here, if you really dig under the surface, which is what flipside did in their thread, and I'll link Flipside's thread as well, is that they're building a on chain reputation system here using nfts, which I've talked about before as being a major use case of nfts. And if anyone's going to execute on it, it's going to be the optimism, optimism ecosystem. Because I believe both optimism and arbitrum have been going, you know, and targeting NFT related stuff.
00:11:47.916 - 00:12:49.598, Speaker A: But at least right now, optimism is definitely trying to integrate nfts into their governance framework and then extending beyond that and making kind of like a social proofs and reputation systems around that as well. I'm sure Arbitrum has plans for this too, but optimism definitely is the leader on that front right now, especially because they also have a DAO in place, they have the op token, they have a whole governance framework already spun up, which I'm sure Arbitrum will have in the future, but they don't have right now. But yeah, I think this is really cool. As I've said before, the one thing I want to see with NFTs and DAos is experimentation. And I want to see experimentation not for the, not just for the sake of experimentation, I want to see it so that people actually discover new and creative ways to use the primitives that we already have, instead of trying to reinvent the wheel, because that's what ends up happening with a lot of these Daos and all these NFT projects, they keep just trying to reinvent the wheel. It's like guys, like we have these tools, let's stick to what we know works and let's experiment with that. Let's not just kind of start from something that we know doesn't work and try to experiment with from the base primitives we have, the primitives we, we know, you know, there's, there's relative best practices here.
00:12:49.598 - 00:13:08.302, Speaker A: So let's work on those. Let's build on those. Let's get pops integrated. Let's get ans integrated. Let's not just recreate everything that we've already got, let's work with what we've got, experiment with it, and hopefully work towards a better solution for everyone. But anyway, you can read optimism's thread to learn more about this. And also flip side crypto's thread, which, which they did as well.
00:13:08.302 - 00:14:02.126, Speaker A: Just a bit more info on the attestation station, which is a mouthful, but this is on the smart contract itself, so you can check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so Liam, who works in community and marketing at scroll, put together a thread today about a list of comprehensive educational resources to help you get up to speed on how scroll will transform into Ethereum's most community centric EVM compatible ZK EVM. And this is basically going through a lot of the resources that I've talked about on the refill before, but in a nice put together thread here, which of course I'll link in the YouTube description below. But I really like how all of these different L2s are taking different approaches to things. So this is the first time I've seen a layer to say they want to be, you know, Ethereum's most community centric ZK EVM, which I think is actually a pretty big, I guess, total addressable market, so to speak. Right? Where you have an existing Ethereum community that has a lot of great values.
00:14:02.126 - 00:14:49.936, Speaker A: They care deeply about Ethereum, they care deeply about scaling Ethereum, and of course all the projects that are building on top as L2s, as roll ups, making sure that they add value to Ethereum. So how do you get them to use your stuff? Like how do you get them to use your ZKVM instead of someone else's? Well, there's obviously, you know, you need to have projects on there, you need to have ease of usability on there, you need to be integrated with all the existing infrastructure like wallets and rpcs and all that sorts of stuff. But you also want to make people feel like they have a home on that ecosystem. I think what arbitrum has actually done really well is make people feel like they have a home on the arbitram network. There's a bunch of projects on there that all work together, shared communities, and everyone's really excited about things happening on there. So they've done a really good job of it. But I think that every single one of these l two s or these, these ecosystems need to do this.
00:14:49.936 - 00:15:18.352, Speaker A: Like, this is the lifeblood of their ecosystem, at least in, in my point of view, because you need those early adopters in order to, I guess, like test your stuff, you know, put up with the pains, the growing pain, so to speak, and make your system better. And I don't think. I mean, I think that the different l two and roll up teams definitely understand this to an extent, but it. There's this understanding and then there's focusing on it. And right now, I would say arbitrary is probably the leader here. Optimism is that is definitely doing a lot of great work. They're doing it in a bit of a different way, but they're definitely doing great work there.
00:15:18.352 - 00:15:47.094, Speaker A: Polygon also has a great kind of ecosystem and community there, too, but they're not allowed to. Obviously, it's the Pos chain. I'm sure that'll translate over to their ZKVM's, but yeah, in terms of like, building that actual core community, average optimism, definitely the leaders here. I mean, they've been live for the longest, Ryan. They have all the projects on there, but it's going to be interesting to see how these other different ecosystems develop over the next. I mean, I would say two, three years to really see them because you want to see them in a bear market. You want to see them in a bull market.
00:15:47.094 - 00:16:28.964, Speaker A: But yeah, we'll see how that plays out. But anyway, I'll link Liam's thread in the YouTube description below for you to check out. All right, Matt Cutler here, CEO and co founder of Block Native, announced that Block Native has raised an additional $15 million financing round to build blocks for Ethereum maintenance. So just to disclose you here, I am an advisor to block native, but yeah, they're doing a lot of great work and have been doing a lot of great work for a long time now in the Ethereum ecosystem. For those of you who don't know what block native is, well, they've traditionally been a kind of real time mempool monitoring platform. For the EVM based ecosystem. So on Ethereum, on polygon, on gnosis chain, and some other chains out there.
00:16:28.964 - 00:17:24.934, Speaker A: And they also run a relayer, the block native relay, which I've talked about before, it is unfortunately a censoring relayer. But like, I mean, I don't expect it not to be, considering that block native is based in the US. And they unfortunately have to follow along with what their lawyers tell them. I'm sure their lawyers have said to them the same thing that flashbots as lawyers said to them, like, you can't, you know, run a non censoring relayer, which is it is what it is. But regardless of that, block native is taking a, I guess, like more involved participation in block building. That seems to be their net, the thing that they're going to be targeting as part of like a core business proposition or core business offering for their business here. And I think the reason why they're doing this is, well, at least from, from what I can tell, the reason why they're doing is because being a relayer is quite profitable, right? Even if you're a censoring relayer right now, I mean, you're not losing, you know, much money, if really anything, by censoring tornado cash transactions, if we're talking about pure economic incentives here.
00:17:24.934 - 00:17:49.306, Speaker A: So you're making, you can make a stand to make a lot of money, uh, from these relayers and block natives. Market share has actually been increasing lately on the relayer front. So I think that makes a lot of sense for them to dive deeper into this and make this more of a core offering here. And it seems that the investors kind of agree with this. That's why they've been able to raise capital in the depths of a bear market as well. Um, but, yeah, so just a big congrats to them for this. Really excited.
00:17:49.306 - 00:18:17.318, Speaker A: I actually was having a really great conversation with, with Matt today about, um, about this sort of stuff and about block building his. He's a really smart guy. He's really switched on. And as I said, block native have been doing this for quite a while. So it's, it's encouraging to see them move more into this market. Now. What does this look long like long term? I have talked about, obviously, how like, Mev boost right now is more of a temporary solution where it's like a sidecar and people use it optionally, and then eventually we will get something like PBS.
00:18:17.318 - 00:18:49.906, Speaker A: But there are no guarantees in this ecosystem. And I think I've said this before, PBS in its current form may not even go to mainnet as it currently is. It may be completely different by the time it gets to mainnet. It may not ever be even be integrated, because there is another path where PBS isn't actually even needed. And that path is essentially the block builder environment, or the relay environment. With MEV boost becoming so distributed, so decentralized, so resilient, that it's actually better than PBS and CR list. And this is something that I was talking to Matt about today, and this actually got me thinking.
00:18:49.906 - 00:19:22.962, Speaker A: I hadn't really thought about this alternative path that I guess like the MEV censorship resistant ecosystem could take. So. And it's actually better like this too, when you think about it, because we don't have to just rely on this holy grail of PBS and CR lists. We also have what we know works right now, which is MEv boost with relayers. And we know it works because even though the there are censoring relays, there are also non censoring ones. And there's been more non censoring ones spun up than censoring ones. Over the last few months, there have been improvements like Min bid that have come along.
00:19:22.962 - 00:20:03.956, Speaker A: There have been improvements like open sourcing, the building infrastructure, the relay infrastructure, so other people can build better relayers and better builders. So it's kind of like this trade off of do we enshrine mev boost into the protocol through PBS and CR lists, or do we let a, I guess, like, ecosystem of diverse, distributed and decentralized relayers develop and just, you know, make just basically rely on that instead of enshrining it in the protocol? I don't know what my answer is to that question right now. Honestly, I really have only been thinking about this today because of my conversation with Matt in this frame of mind. So something to think about, something to keep in mind. But. But yeah, I don't have my answer here about what's better. I don't think anyone knows what's better.
00:20:03.956 - 00:20:28.974, Speaker A: It's more about picking like the least worst solution. Because even with PBS, PBS and CR list, it doesn't eliminate censorship altogether. It still gives the validators, sorry, the block builders, I guess, like a choice to an extent. And even with something like forcing the inclusion of. Of transactions, that can lead to some murky kind of like social things as well. So it's a big discussion. It is not something that's going to get solved overnight.
00:20:28.974 - 00:20:55.104, Speaker A: There is no quick fist fix. There is no silver bullet here. There is just smart people working on these solutions and coming up with different ways to do this. So we'll have to see how that evolves over time. That's a bit of a sidetrack to the main announcement here, which was the financing round. But I think it's very important considering that block native is moving more into block building here. And I'm sure they're going to be, there's going to be a lot more people moving into block building as time goes on, especially l two s, because it can be quite lucrative.
00:20:55.104 - 00:21:36.978, Speaker A: All right, so a second announcement here of a fundraise today comes from Aztec, and they announced a $100 million series B funding round led by a 16 z. Now, I should disclose that I am an existing investor in Aztec here as well. I participated in their series A round. But I mean, this is amazing to see, right? It's awesome to see that Aztec, a privacy preserving L2 on Ethereum or a privacy enabled L2 on Ethereum is able to attract such huge capital injection in the bear market. I'm sure this raise was done quite a while ago. I mean, I know this raise was done quite a while ago, right? But still, I mean, it was done in the bear. And it seems like investors are seeing the value prop here.
00:21:36.978 - 00:22:14.224, Speaker A: Now, what I like about what Aztec has done here, they've done something really smart. They're kind of rebranding themselves from a privacy layer to, to an encrypted L2. So they're calling themselves encrypted Ethereum or an encrypted Ethereum blockchain because they're a L2 chain on top of Ethereum. And the reason why I think this is smart is because the term encryption or encrypted has less baggage associated with it than privacy. And this comes from the web two world, where people understand that encryption and encrypted is needed for the web two world to function. Without encryption, we wouldn't have things like online banking. We wouldn't even have things like logins, right.
00:22:14.224 - 00:22:41.134, Speaker A: Authentication. You and the web just wouldn't work. So people understand that, yes, the term encryption, and it comes with some form of baggage, because sometimes governments and law enforcement will say, oh, well, this thing's encrypted. That means we can't get into it. It means the bad guys are able to evade our, our kind of evade our controls. And there's a lot of this around, like Apple's, I guess, like icloud encryption and the FBI kicking up a fuss and all these sorts of stuff. So it is in the news.
00:22:41.134 - 00:23:02.886, Speaker A: But the thing is about the everyday person is that when you say, encrypted to them, you know, most of the time, they're probably not gonna know what that means, right? Like, and then you explain it to them. Well, encryption is. It works. This isn't this. And. And, you know, your. Your password is and your login details or to the way you authenticate to your, I don't know, whatever it is is using encryption, then they kind of understand that.
00:23:02.886 - 00:23:51.910, Speaker A: But then when you say something like privacy, right, and you kind of argue the point of privacy, it gets a bit murkier because there's this classic saying of, you know, you've got nothing to hide, you got nothing to fear. So why do you need online privacy? Who cares if the government can see what you do, you know, blah, blah? And that's a pretty popular rhetoric, right? So I think just that slight kind of change in rebranding here from a privacy preserving protocol or privacy preserving L2 to an encrypted L2 changes the conversation a bit. Right. And it makes it more palatable for the people that maybe, you know, don't really have much understanding of this sorts of stuff and obviously makes it more palatable because it's more, I guess, socially accepted. Right. So I just really like that. But, but, yeah, that, again, is sidetracking from the main announcement, which is the funding round led by a 16 z, with a bunch of other investors joining the round as well.
00:23:51.910 - 00:24:31.014, Speaker A: But, yeah, this is going to give them a lot of Runway to build out. Aztec. I mean, as you guys know, they have Aztec connect live on mainnet right now, which allows you to basically tap into layer one, Ethereum liquidity deFi liquidity on L2 for supported apps and get full privacy protection there, or full, I guess, like encryption on your transactions. I should start using the new terminology here, which is obviously very, very cool. And, I mean, they've got their new smart contract language that they introduced the other day called noir, which is a language for zero knowledge, and they're building a bunch of other stuff. And I'm sure they're going to be hiring like crazy with this new raise as well. But, yeah, great to see them raise this money, and congrats to them on this.
00:24:31.014 - 00:24:55.942, Speaker A: All right, so how, man, I got. It's funny, I got to disclose again that I'm an investor in this project, and even the next thing I'm going to talk about, I didn't realize. I'm talking about all the projects I'm invested in today, but it's because they all have major announcements. So this project fee announced that they're live on Mainnet today. And as I said, I am an investor in this project. So basically it is live on the Polygon Pos main net. And what is feet? Feet, right.
00:24:55.942 - 00:25:32.586, Speaker A: Basically it is a way to build your own, I guess, on chain world using different, I guess, items you can get for completing different things. So for example, once you load up fee for the first time, it has a bunch of different things you can claim based on what you did. So for example, if you've made a uniswap trade, you can claim the uniswap item, particularly uniswap item. If you own a certain amount of ETH in your wallet, you can claim an item for that. If you own an EnS name, you can, you can get an item for that. You know, you get my gist here. It's basically kind of taking your on chain, I guess, some actions and things you've done on chain and building a world around it, which I think is really cool.
00:25:32.586 - 00:26:05.354, Speaker A: That's why I back this team, because as I've said before, I'm not big on backing or investing in specific nfts, but I am big on, on investing in things that are building infrastructure to enable cool people to do cool things with nfts. And that's exactly what fee is doing here. So if you want to go explore it, you can. As I said, it's live on the Polygon Pos chain. It is not live on Ethereum main net simply because it would be too expensive to be on main net. I'm hoping that they eventually deploy this to L2 as well. Or at least I guess like migrate it to L2s when, when it's ready here.
00:26:05.354 - 00:26:27.706, Speaker A: But for now you can play with it on Polygon. I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to go play around with. I've already played around with it a bit. It's quite fun. I think it's really cool just to see my on chain stuff visualized under sassle ETH. And I did play on some other addresses that I own as well that have, I guess, more actions that I've done. And yeah, it looks cool, right? And I'm sure you saw some people tweeting about their, their kind of what they built as well.
00:26:27.706 - 00:27:06.164, Speaker A: I saw David Hoffman tweeting about this too. But yeah, definitely go check it out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. I finally here we have something from Euler and just a disclosure again, I'm an investor in Euler Labs here who are building Euler finance. But basically what they have released today is an early Christmas present for everyone looking for a comprehensive guide on getting information about Euler. And this is the research guide here. So basically, you can go check this out for yourself, but this will give you a full breakdown of everything Euler finance, how it works, you know, how different interest rates work on the protocol, how you can use the graph with the protocol.
00:27:06.164 - 00:27:34.408, Speaker A: I mean, all sorts of things. I'm just scrolling through it right now. But this is a really great resource for you to be able to, I guess, get information about Euler and basically do research on the protocol yourself. Now, last time, just an aside here, last time I said the word Euler instead of EULA, someone corrected me and said, no, it's Eula. It's like, no, no, no, it is actually Euler. I actually pronounced this one right out of every word that I have pronounced wrong on this podcast, I have actually pronounced this right. So it is Euler.
00:27:34.408 - 00:27:53.692, Speaker A: It's named after a famous mathematician. It's not Eula, which is funny because like, it doesn't read like Euler at all. But that's what it is, right? I'm just. I just wanted to say that because you guys know I'm really bad at pronouncing things. But yeah, you can check out oilers research post. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But yeah, I think that's going to be it for today.
00:27:53.692 - 00:28:02.244, Speaker A: So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel, and I'll catch you all next week. Thanks everyone.
