00:00:01.720 - 00:00:24.990, Speaker A: All right, everyone, we're going to get started. So thank you, everyone, for attending the fourth daily Gwei AMA series. This just a note. This will be recorded and uploaded to YouTube, so if you have to drop out at any point in time, that's okay. It'll all be there, timestamped for you to go watch again. It'll probably be uploaded tomorrow. Please make sure that you're on mute unless you're speaking, just so there's no background noise.
00:00:24.990 - 00:00:56.512, Speaker A: And you can also ask questions in the AMA series channel if you don't want to kind of use the voice function here. So. Yeah. But without further ado, I'm going to get into the first question from the AMA series channel here from vogs. So, vogs asks, are farms that require a 4% deposit fee to enter a Ponzi scheme? I don't think I would use that word or that term, Ponzi scheme. I don't think that deposit fees are a good idea generally. I think that you.
00:00:56.512 - 00:01:28.414, Speaker A: You know, a lot of scams can actually utilize that because of the fact that obviously, you know, if it's a deposit fee, you put in kind of, like, $100, and then you're hit with, like, a 4% fee, like, immediately, and there's nothing you can do to get that back. You're not even getting any value out of it. So I do think that it's just a really bad idea to have a deposit fee, depending on what it is. Say it's like a yield farm. Um, you know, having a 4% deposit fee is definitely not something that's very, very healthy. Right. Um, but in saying that, uh, you know, looking at yearn and how they do their fee structure, I think it's a lot better.
00:01:28.414 - 00:01:55.806, Speaker A: They have, like, a two on 20 fee structure where it's a 2% management fee. So that's on the total, um, assets under management for that strategy. So if a strategy has, like, $10 million under management, then, uh, that 2% is on the 10 million, and then they have a 20% performance fee. So, say the yearn strategy is earning you 10% yield. Well, um, you know, yearn's going to take 20% of that as a performance strategy, but from basically all of the profits made by. By that strategy. So I think that's a better way.
00:01:55.806 - 00:02:36.400, Speaker A: That's the way traditional finance does it. I think it's tried and tested and true, but, yeah, deposit fees generally, I don't think, are very good. I think that they harm users because of the fact that, like, you'll put money in and then, you know, you won't basically have, have anything for it because you've already paid a fee for it. So it's kind of like, well, and that's a bit silly. And then to get that 4% back, I mean, you know, if it's a 4% fee and you're earning 10%, I mean, that's almost half of the yield just going to a deposit fee before you've even earned anything. So yeah, I think that a lot of them probably are Ponzis, but I wouldn't say that the, the fact that there's a deposit fee makes it a ponzi, so to speak. So hopefully that answers that question.
00:02:36.400 - 00:03:36.042, Speaker A: There's two more actually from vogs here that I'll just get through before I take one from the audience. So he asks, or he or she, how do you think Arbitrum's adoption will go when they have no token incentives, which are a big part of Polygon's growth? Will things like yearning Uniswap make up for the lack of arbitrum incentives? So I wouldn't assume that they wouldn't have incentives. I've said it before and I'll say it again, I think every single project in crypto is going to have a token sooner or later. Maybe they don't have a token until next year, or maybe they have a token next month, who knows? But I think that that will come. I think that some of these other projects, as Vogue's mentioned here, yearn or Uniswap, they're going to maybe do kind of liquidity, mining incentives to bootstrap, that liquidity there. But at the same time, I don't necessarily think that these scalability solutions are growing just because of token incentives. I actually think that there's a very big just built in incentive for people to go to these solutions because they're kind of priced out of the Ethereum main chain.
00:03:36.042 - 00:04:08.954, Speaker A: And like even at the current GUI prices at ten, it's still pretty expensive for, for most users. It's still not like what L2s are going to give you, which is like subsent transaction fees a lot of the time, or even, even if it's only a couple cents to do a swap or something like that, that's much, much cheaper than the Ethereum mainnet still. So I think that just the natural incentive for people to move over to get those scaling benefits is there. But I fully expect projects to have token incentives to bootstrap liquidity. There's no doubt in my mind that that's going to happen. I just, I'm not sure exactly how it's going to happen. I'm not sure kind of what the programs will look like.
00:04:08.954 - 00:04:54.552, Speaker A: I think if the market stays bearish, then there's probably going to very conservative liquidity mining programs, because if you do kind of like too much, then you'll just end up dumping your own token price. And, you know, there's all kinds of negative externalities that come from that. So I think that. Yeah, and generally, on this note, I just think that, like, it's funny when you look at how small the industry is and you kind of think to yourself, well, you know, have we already. And people, I don't know, for some reason people like to think that we've already tapped out the growth just because we used liquidity mining incentives. But really it's just naturally over time, more and more people are going to come into this ecosystem and more and more users are going to be onboarded regardless of token incentives or not. I think that that's one way to, a really nice way to bootstrap liquidity, but generally long term, that's not sustainable.
00:04:54.552 - 00:05:36.328, Speaker A: So I think that users will come just because the apps are giving them something that they haven't had in the past here. So, yeah, hopefully that answers that question, oh, someone's not on mute here. Um, maybe I'll just mute them on my end. Um, yeah, so, uh, the last question was, if every USDC is backed by $1, how does the company behind USDC make any profit? Well, I mean, it's. I don't know exactly like, I don't. Obviously they're not going to tell people exactly how they make money, but generally how this works is that they'll just take the US dollars that is in kind of like their bank account and they'll earn a yield on it somewhere, or they do something with those us dollars to and a return on it. And that's generally how it is.
00:05:36.328 - 00:05:56.360, Speaker A: It's basically like, get as many deposits as you can. You know, USDC has, what, over $25 billion market cap. So they have over $25 billion sitting in a bank account or sitting somewhere that they can do whatever they want with. And. Yeah, okay. Obviously they want to keep it in dollars, or at least the majority in dollars because that's backing up USDC. So maybe they go and earn a yield with that somewhere else.
00:05:56.360 - 00:06:28.836, Speaker A: So that's kind of like how they make a profit. I'm not, I mean, I'm sure they're doing a lot of other sophisticated things that I'm not even kind of like thinking of right now. But they haven't revealed publicly because obviously they're a private business. They're not going to reveal their secrets. But you know, the funny thing is, is that the company that's issuing USDC circle is also building other products around that as well. They think last week they released the DeFi API that they're going to be kind of like letting DeFi projects integrate into. They're doing a bunch of different things around, not just their stable coin, but like just apps in general.
00:06:28.836 - 00:07:07.356, Speaker A: And Coinbase is involved. So there's a lot of things going on there. Generally it's just like get those deposits in, get that money in, and then kind of like worry about monetization later. But I think the, the most obvious thing is that they just earning a yield on those us dollars sitting in a bank account because it's billions and billions of dollars, right. It's a lot of money sitting there not doing much. And maybe, I guess people would ask, oh, why wouldn't they just issue USDC themselves and go yield farm with it? It's like, well, I mean, that's riskier for one, right? Like yield farming in DeFi is very different than generating a yield in a traditional system. Uh, in the traditional system, they can get like FDIC insurance on those deposits, uh, and be fully insured for any kind of loss in that system.
00:07:07.356 - 00:07:23.580, Speaker A: Whereas in defi you can get insurance. But I doubt nexus mutual or some other kind of insurance provider is going to cover $25 billion. So. Yeah, um, we're not, we're not there yet on that front. So I guess that's why that they would, uh, they would do that. Uh, so hopefully that answers those questions. I'll take one from the audience.
00:07:23.580 - 00:07:39.054, Speaker A: Wow, we have a lot of people here today. Thank you all for joining. But yeah, I'll take one from the audience if anyone has a question. Otherwise, I have a. A lot to get through in this sheet, sheet here. Just feel free to speak up if you've got a question. No need to ask permission or anything.
00:07:39.054 - 00:08:20.858, Speaker A: And you can, you can ask it in the AMA series channel as well, if you'd like. You don't have to ask it, you know, on voice. That's all good. I'll move on to the next question. I have noted down here from Amal, who says in order to rely less on centralized authorities, what do you think are different, the different ways in which stable coins can be pegged to, for example, gold. So this is the funny thing, right? Because you can have like a hard pegged stable coin and then you can have like a synthetic stable coin that is, that is kind of soft peg. And what I mean by this is like USDC is a hard pegged stable coin because you have us dollars in a bank account backing it up and it's one for one and all that good stuff.
00:08:20.858 - 00:09:13.310, Speaker A: Whereas Dai is a soft pegasus soft pegged stablecoin because it's synthetically minted through the maker system. And Dai obviously because of that, as a consequence, Dai can lose its peg from time to time. Not so much these days because half of Dai is actually backed by USDC, which is a whole nother thing. But I won't get into that. So if we're talking about making a stable coin that relies on something less centralized like something like gold, well, that's not really kind of possible, right? Because with gold to, in order to peg to gold, you would need an oracle. You would need some kind of price feed to do so. And if you were to back, you know, say you create like a makerdao like system where you collateralize a stable coin with like a gold token or whatever, that token is just a representation of gold, it's still going to be like either centralized or have some kind of like trade offs there as well.
00:09:13.310 - 00:09:47.502, Speaker A: Or if you have an oracle that's just providing you a kind of like price feed for gold, well, that's a central point of failure there. So I think the only way to create a truly decentralized stablecoin is to just back it with ETH. That is really the only way you can do it. Um, and I spoke about this on the last ama, uh, that I spoke about rai, which is backed by ETH and it's pegged to itself. Um, you know, single collateral die, uh, used to just be backed by ETH. But the thing is, the maker system had some central points, um, of failure, also had oracles and things like that. So generally it's just very, very hard to do something like this.
00:09:47.502 - 00:10:21.730, Speaker A: And if you're pegging to real world assets, well, there's no way you can do that in a decentralized way because you're either pegging to a price feed or you're using some kind of like tokenized representation of the asset, which is going to be, you know, have a centralized issuer or have like some way that someone is kind of like tracking it in a centralized way. So yeah, hopefully that answers that question. Anyone from the audience got one, feel free to ask it. And if you're not on mute. Please. Please go on mute. If you're not talking.
00:10:21.730 - 00:10:54.642, Speaker A: I hear a little bit of background noise. Cool. All right, onto the next question from Lucas. He, Lucas says, how do the index tokens, the DeFI pulse index, etcetera, from index coupe, work in detail? How is the rebalancing done? So the DeFI pulse index works by, it's basically a collateralized token. So the DPI is an ERC 20 token that's collateralized by its constituent assets. So those are all the DeFi tokens that make up the index. Now, the last time I checked, there were over.
00:10:54.642 - 00:11:38.470, Speaker A: I mean, there was over ten, I think, maybe even 15 assets in there or something like that. I haven't checked it lately, but, you know, those assets are what's backing up the DPI. Now, the way the DPI kind of works is that you have the net asset value, which is the. The value of all the underlying tokens, kind of like, put together, not the total of them, but, like, the share, because each token has, like, a share of the index. So all of that kind of, like, put together makes the DPI price. And then you have the free floating market price, and that's basically, you know, the token can trade on uniswap and can trade on, like, any amm or whatever, and that price can get ahead of the net asset value or can go below net asset value. So what ends up happening is that it gets, it gets arbitraged away.
00:11:38.470 - 00:12:16.516, Speaker A: So there's arbitrage bots set up that say the DPI goes up to $200 or whatever, and the net asset value is like 190. Well, that means that people are incentivized to mint new DPI by bringing all the constituent assets to the smart contracts and saying, okay, I want to create fresh DPI. And then they'll go sell that fresh DPI that they've created at $190 for $200 on, you know, an Amm and kind of like, get that profit of $10. And that works both ways. So that's how the, the value is kept in check there. But that's not the rebalancing. That's just, you know, keeping the value in check with, with the net asset value, which is referred to as nav.
00:12:16.516 - 00:12:52.652, Speaker A: So. And then, you know, Lucas asked, how is the rebalancing done? The rebalancing of the DPI is handled by the DeFI pulse, which is the methodology for this index. So basically, they'll rebalance it once a month, and I'll decide, you know, on the max weight. So this in 25% is the max weight of any asset. So if an asset has gotten ahead and gone to, like 30% or something because it went up a lot in price, well, then they kind of rebalance out of that and bring it back down to 25%. And then, you know, they might add other assets in each month and they do a rebalance, or they might remove assets from the index. I don't think they've removed anything yet except Auger rep, I believe they removed.
00:12:52.652 - 00:13:18.086, Speaker A: Maybe they removed something else, but. Or maybe. Yeah, I'm not. I'm not exactly sure. I haven't kept up with it too closely, but, yeah, they have the power to remove or add assets there, so. And the rebalancing, the way it's technically done is that they do what's called a twap bot or a time weighted average price bot, which basically buys or at least rebalances the index over time. So it doesn't have like, a massive effect on the market, because the defi posting this is quite big.
00:13:18.086 - 00:13:58.524, Speaker A: So you can't just market, you know, sell all the tokens or market buy the tokens you need. You have to do it over time as not to disturb the price too much and to get the best price possible for the index. So that's how the kind of rebalancing works in detail there. There's plenty more information about this on the index co ops medium page, I believe, or you can just join their Discord channel and ask in there as well. There are other products like the flexible leverage index or the fly, which is a bit more complex than this, that's also managed by DeFi Pulse. And there's a blog post about that called volatility drift with the fly or something like that on the index co op medium. So you can go check that out as well for an explanation about how that all works, too.
00:13:58.524 - 00:14:41.276, Speaker A: So, yeah, hopefully that answers your question, Lucas, the next question I'll take from the audience. Otherwise, I am happy to move through my list here. Cool. I got one from avatar here, which is quite long, but I'm just going to go to the meat of it. So they're asking about not something ethereum based. They're asking about anchor protocol, which is based in, I think it's in the terra ecosystem, and they're able to provide a 20% return on your stable coins or on UST, which is their terra stable coin there. Now, I'm not an expert on the terra ecosystem.
00:14:41.276 - 00:15:36.058, Speaker A: I definitely might get something wrong when I answer this, but as far as I know, the way anchor protocol works and the way it generates the yield is that it basically takes the yield from all the different staking protocols in like crypto, you know, all the different kind of blockchains that have proof of stake and pay out a staking kind of yield and they kind of like average that out and pay out that yield in stablecoins in the UST stable coin, I believe if you're basically in this yield farm, that's how I believe it works. So I don't think it's like anything scammy or kind of like dodgy or whatever. It definitely, you know, is based on sound reasoning. But I don't know enough about the terror ecosystem to comment further. Maybe someone in the audience does. But yeah, that's, I mean, terra ecosystem I do find interesting, I just haven't dived too deep into it. And UST is their native stable coin, I believe that is backed up by Luna, I think, which is the native token of the terra ecosystem.
00:15:36.058 - 00:16:05.480, Speaker A: So yeah, hopefully that answers your question. Avatar. I'm sorry, I couldn't go any in depth there. I just don't have enough knowledge about the terra ecosystem at this point in time. I'll take one from the audience, otherwise I'll keep moving through the list. Cool. So an interesting question from crypto Henry here, who says that they read about Taproot, which is a bitcoin kind of like upgrade that went live a couple weeks ago as part of a soft fork.
00:16:05.480 - 00:16:54.596, Speaker A: And it promises to bring three enhancements to BTC, which is improved privacy, reduce data that each transaction needs to have and allow smart contract functionality. And Kernan wants to know if an improvement like this to BTC is if I had heard of this and like what this basically means. Well yes, I've heard of this. I kind of looked into it and I was like, okay, well what is this like? Is it actually, you know, everything that people are kind of like saying it is and stuff like that. And from what I can tell, it's a very basic upgrade. But it's big in bitcoin land. Like if you like, look at bitcoin in a vacuum, this upgrade is pretty big because it does bring, improves privacy in some specific scenarios, reduces data for transactions and I wouldn't call it smart contract functionality, I would call it, call it like additional functionality than what bitcoin can do now, but very, in a very limited way.
00:16:54.596 - 00:17:34.660, Speaker A: So I guess the way, the easy way to think about this is that bitcoin doesn't have a virtual machine whereas ethereum does. So Ethereum has the EVM, the Ethereum virtual machine, and that's how it does the computation on layer one in order to process smart contracts and all things like that. Bitcoin doesn't have that at layer one. It can have that at L2, or it can have that in, you know, side chains or whatever. But side chains aren't bitcoin technically, so even that's a stretch. But at L2, those, those virtual machines or any kind of smart contracting is still going to be very limited because bitcoin's layer one is inherently limited. So this upgrade, as far as I know, doesn't add, like, too much on that front.
00:17:34.660 - 00:17:55.460, Speaker A: I don't think it as. It's basically a huge upgrade. Like, I mean, you know, it's funny. If this, if this upgrade was in Ethereum land, this would be considered something really small, like some small aip that was part of, like a much larger upgrade. So, yeah, that's, that's what I understand about it. But still, it's, it's funny. I think this is the biggest upgrade since segwit, which was done in late 2017 for bitcoin.
00:17:55.460 - 00:18:28.460, Speaker A: So it's just funny to see the pace of developments like, what, three and a half years takes them to do an upgrade, and they call it a soft fork and whatever, but anyway, I just. I don't know, it just didn't seem interesting enough for me to kind of like, dive deeper into. But, yeah, hopefully that kind of. I guess it clears that up and answers that for you there. I'll take one from the audience. Otherwise, happy to move through my list. So another long question here from Avatar.
00:18:28.460 - 00:19:00.230, Speaker A: Actually, two more from Avatar here. I'll go through the first one. Who says, using broad strokes. If one says that bitcoin is a gen one blockchain, ETH is a gen two blockchain, and Algorand Polkadot Solana. At gen three, are there inherent architectural shortcomings? Tech debt, restricted ability to evolve because of backward compatibility that limits Ethereum's ability to respond to tomorrow's need in the marketplace? So I'll answer this part first and then I'll go through the rest of it. So I would push back on people calling these things gen one, gen two, gen three blockchains. I.
00:19:00.230 - 00:19:21.270, Speaker A: I don't know if that really makes a lot of sense. At the end of the day, I think that we. It's funny because when you look at bitcoin versus ethereum, they're very different things. Like you. Bitcoin doesn't do what ethereum does. Ethereum, you know, doesn't do what bitcoin does. For bitcoin, it's like bitcoin is don't want to basically hold ETH instead of BTC, right? Like the maximalist, for example.
00:19:21.270 - 00:19:46.918, Speaker A: They want to hold BTC because they believe it's the best asset in crypto. They believe that it's like, you know, store value, kind of like digital gold, whatever. They're not going to kind of like, I guess, hold instead. Right. So there's kind of like these different use cases for different kinds of people generally. So I don't know if I'd use the generation kind of terminology here. And I also think that a lot of these other layer one chains are very, very far behind Ethereum.
00:19:46.918 - 00:20:21.930, Speaker A: Maybe, you know, maybe their tech is like, quote unquote better, right? It's funny, when you talk about tech, you know, you talk to ten different people, they're not going to tell. They're going to tell you that their tech is the best best. So even from that perspective, I don't know, I don't think it's the right framing. But in terms of, like, shortcomings for Ethereum and tech debt and all those sorts of things, 100% like, there's no hiding it. Ethereum's kind of, I guess, like Ethereum as it exists today. ETH one is, is, you know, you can call it old technology because it was basically created back in like, 2014, 2015, the ETH one chain. And it hasn't really, the virtual machine, like, the EVM, hasn't really changed much since then.
00:20:21.930 - 00:20:49.106, Speaker A: Yes, there's been tweaks and there's been upgrades, but it hasn't been fundamentally rewritten. And EVM has a lot of shortcomings for sure. And so does the Ethereum blockchain, generally. But in the face of all of that, and there is a lot of tech debt, too, because there's a lot of history of Ethereum. But in the face of all of that, Ethereum still chugging along like people are still using Ethereum, the EVM is still the most used. It's a piece of technology in crypto. Regardless if it's on Ethereum or a side chain or whatever other chain, like, you know, Polygon.
00:20:49.106 - 00:21:28.458, Speaker A: This pos chain uses EVM. BSC uses it, Phantom uses it, hobby's eco chain uses it. There's so many out there, and it really just comes down to network effects. So when, when thinking about technology, the best technology isn't the one that's always going to win, it's just going to be the one that gets the adoption the fastest, right, and builds out the network effects. And this has been huge in the web two world where a lot of people will basically say, well, JavaScript is like really crappy and we have so many better languages, why do people still use JavaScript? And. Well, it's because people got that, sorry, JavaScript achieved a network effect with enough people and developers that it just switching costs from going from JavaScript to something else is really high. And if you were to change it would take a long time.
00:21:28.458 - 00:22:33.364, Speaker A: Now, these days I'm sure there's a lot of other languages out there that are popular, but I think JavaScript is still very far ahead of everything else in terms of what people use to build responsive websites with, but there's frameworks built on JavaScript as well that people use and it's still JavaScript under the hood. When you look at all that, I think generally the, the kind of like better tech doesn't always win, it doesn't win most of the time actually, and that, I don't think that's got, that's like a big deal. I think that's actually fine because you, if you kind of think about it, if the best tech, if we needed the best tech to win that, we wouldn't ever build anything because tech is always evolving and it's not just on the hardware side but the software side as well, where tech is always getting better. And if you wait for like the best thing before you actually start adopting anything and building network effect, network effects around something, well then you just keep kind of like falling behind and you know, without picking on any particular project. I do want to say that this is exactly what Cardano has fallen into, in my opinion. Now let's just assume that all the technology that the Cardano ecosystem is building is like revolutionary. It's going to like fix everything, it's going to be amazing.
00:22:33.364 - 00:23:13.034, Speaker A: And you know, everyone agrees that it's, it's amazing. Well where is it? Right, they, they haven't deployed anything yet. Meanwhile the Ethereum ecosystem has been, oops, sorry, there's a bit of spam in the, in the channel here from someone. I'm gonna ban this person from the channel. That's weird. Anyway, what was I saying? Yeah, so on the kind of like the tech side of things like with Cardano, I think that like they've just taken too long to ship anything and meanwhile the Ethereum ecosystem and other ecosystems have just like gone way, way, way further ahead. And I don't think like them or any other kind of, like most of these other projects have really any chance of catching up with those kind of network effects.
00:23:13.034 - 00:24:03.376, Speaker A: And then, you know, avatar talks about backward compile compatibility. Well, the good thing is, is that the Ethereum one chain is, is completely backward compatible. Like when the merge happens and when we go into ETH two, the ETH one chain is going to exist in perpetuity, and it might, you know, there might be fundamental changes to it as time goes on, such as becoming a stateless chain and things like that. But generally it's going to be very, very similar to what it is today, and it's still going to be the EVM and things like that. There might be other virtual machines that people kind of build out on L2 and stuff like that, but I think that on kind of like layer one, it's just going to be evm there. So, yeah, and then, like, Avatar goes on to say, how does Ethereum, I guess, like respond to market demands and what weaknesses? The other in Ethereum, I think I kind of like, I guess, answered that. And yeah, there's a bunch of stuff here.
00:24:03.376 - 00:24:30.144, Speaker A: I'm just fishing through it like it's a big kind of paragraph here. If one word, okay, in this one here, if one were to start with a clean sheet today, how close would the end result be to solidity? Well, it probably wouldn't be solidity, right. The solidity, for those who don't know, is the native programming language of the Ethereum virtual machine. But you don't have to code in solidity. There's other languages too. But if we started clean today, well, you can already see this with all the other ecosystems. Like a lot of them are trying to get off solidity or do things like in rust.
00:24:30.144 - 00:25:02.810, Speaker A: Like, I know the Solana ecosystem is trying to do rust, Cardano is trying to do Haskell. But, like, these things don't have the network effects that solidity has. And solidity is brand new language from 2014 or 15, and people say it was based on JavaScript, but I don't believe it was. So, you know, generally, I just don't think that it's worth it to kind of, I guess, compete with solidity. You can, you can build other things, right? You can build other languages and adopt other languages, but solidity is here to stay. It's not going anywhere. It's got a massive network effect, and people are learning about it every day because it's just what everyone knows.
00:25:02.810 - 00:25:35.044, Speaker A: And there's been so much not just network effect but so much tooling, developer tooling, you know, guides and developer documentation built around this that it'd be very, very hard to kind of like go off this and basically switch to something else. And other things will get adopted over time. But I think solidity is here to stay. I think the EVM is here to stay. And I think basically, you know, all the things that people consider shortcomings of Ethereum are here to stay, and we will just navigate through them as an ecosystem. There's another thing from Avatar here. I'll quickly go into this, and I'll take a question from the audience, if anyone has one.
00:25:35.044 - 00:26:27.088, Speaker A: So Avatar says, the other area of InterEst and concern I have is around Defi. Given how rapidly things can innovate, wide ranging and poorly understood token economics, human psychology, what should a smart investor do? What is the risk based spectrum of investments in crypto look like? Um, it's very hard, very, very hard to invest in, in DeFi, I believe, and I think I've spoken about this maybe on the refuel before. The reason it's so hard is because a lot of these protocols have liquidity mining programs, right? Where they basically issue like a very small amount of their tokens. When they go live as a product. Maybe they have like five or 10% of their tokens on Market. Then they're paying out the rest of these tokens to some LiqUiDITY mining programs, which a lot of the times result in like farm and dumps. And if you look at basically the charts of all these tokens, they look very similar, where there's just mercenary farmers come in, they get the token, they dump it, they don't even care.
00:26:27.088 - 00:26:56.296, Speaker A: They don't care about the long term value, whatever. So from that kind of like, lens, it's very, very hard to invest in a lot of those. But at the same time, you know, DeFi is becoming so competitive now and there are so many products out there that there's so much competition where investing in any kind of one DeFi app is incredibly risky because you don't know which ones are going to win. Like, and, you know, the ones that have been around for a while are already in the billions of dollars of market cap. So it depends how much risk you want to take. You know, if you want to invest in the winners. Like, not the.
00:26:56.296 - 00:27:31.528, Speaker A: Maybe not the winners so far. Like, these things can still fail, mind you. But like, the biggest DeFi apps so far, think about them all. Maker, aave, compound, uni, whatever. Like, most of these tokens are already worth billions of dollars so, you know, what are you looking for when you invest in this? Like, do you just want like, you know, low risk, steady returns over the long term? Well, you know, maybe they will give you that. Do you want like high risk, high return? Well, you're going to have to venture into the smaller market cap things. And the, and the reason why they have like a smaller market cap is because of that incredible risk attached to them that there's no kind of like guarantee that these protocols are going to succeed.
00:27:31.528 - 00:28:26.596, Speaker A: Um, and you have to kind of look at the way their tokens are distributed. You know, is most, are most of the tokens still locked up in investor locking or team locking? Are they being paid out in liquidity mining programs? You know, how, you know, what's the competition for this, this kind of like, this new product? You know, is it an amm? Well, how is it going to compete with uniswap and sushiswap and, you know, I guess curve to a, to a, to a lesser extent there. How's it just going to compete in that arena? There's plenty of amms now. So that's why I guess, like, it's just been very hard to invest in DeFi generally. And it's also very hard to outperform ETH because I don't benchmark ever anything against USD except ETH, obviously, but I benchmark everything else against ETH. So if I'm not outperforming ETH, really no reason for me to hold things. And not only do I have to outperform ETH, I have to outperform ETH by a lot because there's taxes that I have to consider as well because my taxes are denominated in australian dollars, they're not denominated in ETH.
00:28:26.596 - 00:29:16.646, Speaker A: But I also have to consider the additional risks that I'm taking on. For me personally, I think ETH is much lower, much, much lower risk than any, anything in DeFi. I feel much more comfortable holding ETH over the long term. But also, like, if I don't get like much more than a, I mean, I would say I would actually depending on kind of like the Defi thing that I'm investing in, I would want like a five x against ETH to, to make it kind of worth the amount of risk that I'm taking on. And, you know, that, that is actually really, really hard to do because to, to get like, I guess, a five x against ETH over the long term, you would need to invest in these things very early on and you would need to pick a winner very early on. Um, so. And I think there's a lot of recency bias in this area, too, where people say, oh, if only I had invested in Ave when it was, like, a $50 million cap in whatever it was, 2019 or early 2020, you know, I would.
00:29:16.646 - 00:29:28.382, Speaker A: I would have so much money now. I would. I would have so many. So much returns now. I would have beaten ETH, blah, blah, blah. Well, I mean, you'll. You know, that's recency and hindsight bias right there, because, you know, you had no idea that Aave was going to succeed the way it did.
00:29:28.382 - 00:29:44.002, Speaker A: I mean, you know, it's funny because back in 2019, Aave wasn't even live yet. It was still ETH lend. They hadn't even released the v. One of their product yet that came out in January 2020. You are basically taking a massive risk by buying into it. And those who did, you know, did very well, of course. Um, so, yeah, that.
00:29:44.002 - 00:30:22.816, Speaker A: That's kind of like how I think about it and why I think a lot of people in this industry get absolutely obliterated when they try to invest in things because they, you know, I guess, like, there's a lot of narratives that prevail, like Defi season and things like that, and people assume, oh, if it's Defi season, everything's gonna go up. It's like, okay, maybe it goes up in a little bit of a bull mania, but are you gonna sell the top? Are you right? Are you gonna buy the bottom before it goes up, or are you gonna buy into a mania? I. Are you going to outperform ETH? Because ETH usually goes up at that time as well. Are you going to outperform ETH by enough to justify the additional risk you're taking on? So there's all that to consider. And it's the same with, like, traditional investing. I mean, I don't think any of this is really fundamentally different. If you're investing in, like, you know, newer companies on.
00:30:22.816 - 00:30:45.130, Speaker A: On the stock exchange or, like, penny stocks or whatever, they're much riskier than. Than the more traditional ones. Like, if you. If you invest in Apple, it's obviously a lot safer than investing in some brand new kind of, like, company that's just hit the stock exchange. They're trying to do something really wacky, and they wanted to raise money by going public. You know, the risk is much, much, much larger there. So, I mean, I could talk about this for a long time, but I won't get bogged down on this question.
00:30:45.130 - 00:31:23.194, Speaker A: Yeah, but hopefully that answers. Answers that question for you, Avatar. And he also kind of asks here, kind of like, how long of a Runway do projects have generally, you know, in this kind of ecosystem? And I actually wrote about this in the Daily Way newsletter yesterday where I said that a lot of these projects have a massive Runway. Now, they either sold their token and diversified their treasury as a dow into stable coins or something like that, or they raised money recently. A lot of them raised seed rounds and series A rounds recently. You might have seen some of the mega raises from DYDX, who raised like 75 million, sorry, Starkware raised 75 million. Dy DX raised 65 million.
00:31:23.194 - 00:32:05.024, Speaker A: A 16 Z just announced their $2.2 billion fund, which is, that's $2.2 billion, ready to go, ready to be deployed. So I think in general, a lot of the existing projects have a decent Runway, and a lot of new projects are going to keep getting funded. So that's actually one thing that's very, very different this time around as opposed to 2018 and 2019, because, say, we go into a longer, drawn out, bearish kind of period or market here in 2018 and 2019, a lot of teams ran out of money. A lot of funds blew up or kind of like, ran out of money and had to close up shop. And it really felt like, especially in 2019, especially in Ethereum, a lot of people felt like, you know, it was all over, right? This was going nowhere.
00:32:05.024 - 00:32:52.316, Speaker A: We better just pack up. But the true believers that stuck around obviously did very well. But this time around, we have a lot of funds that have raised money recently that are roaring, you know, roaring to deploy it, and they're going to deploy it over the coming months. So I think that in terms of Runway projects and teams have a lot of it, and, you know, if they kind of hit a snag, they'll probably be able to raise money, even if they're, like, early stage, even if they don't have, like, anything that resembles kind of product market fit yet, I think that this sector is still viewed as, like, such high growth that they're not going to have an issue kind of raising money from, from one of these funds because there's not just a 16 z. There's, like, so many other funds that raised kind of money recently. And I would say there's many billions, like probably even up to $10 billion or more that, you know, is ready to go, ready to be deployed in this ecosystem. So hopefully that answers your questions there.
00:32:52.316 - 00:34:21.846, Speaker A: Avatar. I'll take one from the audience if anyone has one. Otherwise, I'll keep moving through the sheet. Awesome. All right, I'll take this one from Mark on the sheet here, who says if ethereum or other others become the main narrative of crypto and topple bitcoin dominance, could this result in bitcoin protocol governance becoming more flexible in adopting changes and effectively altering their thesis is in hopes of proliferation of use? If so, what do you expect would follow? So this was something that has actually been kind of like pushing for a while where he says that he thinks that the flippening, if it was to ever happen, if ETH was to ever flip bitcoin in market cap, would actually be bullish for bitcoin because it would make the bitcoin community more open to changes and have to move faster because they have realized they've actually got competition now, which is weird to say because you, you might be thinking, well, haven't they realized that by, at this point that they have competition? If you speak to some bitcoin maximalist, they just deny it outright. They deny Ethereum's growth, they deny Ethereum's kind of dominance and closing the gap with bitcoin over time, which is whatever, right? So people are basically have this theory that, okay, well, if ethereum flips bitcoin, it's very hard to deny it then. So what's going to happen then? Are these people going to, sorry, is the bitcoin community going to be all more open to changes? Are they going to basically come together and have like a, you know, coming to, coming to a Jesus moment and say, oh wow, we actually have to innovate now.
00:34:21.846 - 00:34:56.516, Speaker A: We actually have to change things? I'm on the fence about what would happen here. I don't think anyone truly knows, but I actually don't think that that would happen. I think that there are, the core bitcoin community is so kind of like, I guess staunch in their ways of like minimal changes at the base layer, not get, I guess like doing anything radical and not kind of like, I guess not. Maybe not innovating is the wrong, wrong term here, but not like making those massive changes. And I actually think that's fine. I think that's what bitcoin is and what it should be. I don't think it should try to be anything else for, just for the sake of it.
00:34:56.516 - 00:35:43.540, Speaker A: But maybe they do move faster on those more conservative upgrades. As I said before, taproots took what, three and a half years to come in since the last upgrade. So maybe all these other upgrades that they have coming like Schnorr and there's a few others out there would come faster because they would, you know, there'd be a fire lit under their ass. Just like in the ethereum ecosystem, there's a bit of a fire lit under asses to get the L2 scaling out there. When we saw other kind of chains, like BSc taking market share away from ethereum. So, you know, I could say that happening, but it's, it's, you know, it. The funny thing is, is that the longer that ethereum doesn't flip bitcoin and the longer that, um, you know, bitcoin go, bitcoin is going to feel like they have no real competition, um, the more entrenched they become in their views and in their ways, and it just becomes much, much harder for them to kind of change that over time.
00:35:43.540 - 00:36:23.266, Speaker A: And, you know, even Taproot was like, it might not have seemed like it, but there was some controversy among, you know, large parts of the community over Taproot and how they want to activate it, and people saying, well, you know, soft fork is just, you know, a stupid term because it's basically a hard fork and it's basically coercive because if. What if we don't want taproot? What? You know, what if we want to kind of like, fork off? Well, you know, because it's not a hard fork. You'd have to, like, fork off and make your own chain. And I know there's always other kind of, like, politics around it, so, yeah, it'd be interesting to see if they actually do respond positively to that. So, yeah, hopefully that answers your question mark. I don't think. I mean, as I said, I don't think anyone has a definitive answer at this point in time.
00:36:23.266 - 00:36:56.306, Speaker A: I think we're all just kind of, like, guessing and assuming, but from what I've seen of the, of the main bitcoin community, they're pretty entrenched in their views. They don't really want to change. And I actually think that's good for bitcoin because bitcoin needs that to be what bitcoin wants to be. I don't think bitcoin should be flexible. Um, I don't think bitcoin should change very often, because then I don't think it actually represents what bitcoin has wanted to represent. I think it just represents something closer to ethereum, which a lot of bitcoiners think is, you know, useless and they don't like it or whatever, and they think it's the wrong approach to things. So, yeah, hopefully that answers your question there.
00:36:56.306 - 00:37:19.362, Speaker A: Um, I think that was it from. From Mark. Uh, he also says, would the bitcoin brand network effects be strong enough to successfully pull this off? Or would violation of core founding principles of bitcoin undermine any attempt to do so? I think it would. I think it would lead to another fork war, if I'm being honest. If there was, like, a massive split in the community where one of them's like, well, we need one part is like, okay, we need to innovate faster. Now we have, like, real competition. You know, this is really bad.
00:37:19.362 - 00:37:47.542, Speaker A: Bitcoin's not number one anymore. And then there's the other side of the community who's like, who cares if bitcoin's not number one market cap doesn't matter. We're building something for, like, the long term, and, you know, this is just temporary, whatever. So I can actually see a schism, kind of like, getting created there between two parts of the community, sort of like what happened with bitcoin and bitcoin cash. So, yeah, we'll have to see what happens over the coming years. I don't think we're going to have, like, any kind of evidence or kind of answers to this for a while, but still something to think about for sure. But, yeah.
00:37:47.542 - 00:38:42.650, Speaker A: Before I move on to the next question here, anyone from the audience, feel free to chime in and. Or you can kind of post your question in AmA series channel as well, if you'd like. Cool. I'll move on to the next question from Andreas, who says, so this is about, I guess, like, liquidity provider pairs, and I'll try and make sure I get this right. So say you have an ETH dai liquidity provider pair. The value of the ETH increases, and third parties arbitrage the value out of the pair, and you end up with, for example, and then it gives an example of, like, a ratio, but then the value of the ETH crashes and you have this ratio, and then the value of ETH returns to the value that you started liquidity providing at. You pull out your pair, presumably having paid a protocol fee, and earn some LP tokens, whereas all the value that has been armed out of the pool come from.
00:38:42.650 - 00:39:45.234, Speaker A: It seems like alchemy money being created out of thin air. So there's a lot of debates that I've seen over time on this, on Twitter, and this is the concept, I believe, of toxic flow. And if you google that, you'll probably be able to find more info that I can give you. But basically it describes the kind of, like, over time, how the fact that there's this arbitrage going on, on these amms, it leads to toxic kind of price movements and toxic kind of returns for liquidity providers where they actually kind of bleed value over time. Now, I don't think there was ever, like, a definitive thing given here or a definitive answer given here that everyone kind of agreed upon. But just to answer the core questions, like, where is this money coming from to do the arbitrage? Well, it comes from the same place that it comes from in centralized exchanges, just like market makers having these kind of like dollars or tokens to do this arbitrage. And, you know, if you ask that, it's always funny whenever someone asks this question about, like, where is this money coming from? Well, if you really want to go, like, to the, I guess, top of the, the pyramid, if you want to call it that, of where the money is coming from.
00:39:45.234 - 00:41:07.608, Speaker A: Well, it's coming from the Federal Reserve or like, federal banks or, like, you know, the money printer. At the end of the day, all the money that's coming in to, I guess, like, society in general is, is coming from the money printer because it gets kind of pushed into commercial banks, and then, you know, it goes out from there, and then, you know, that's why we have inflation and things like that, right? So that's kind of like how, how that works. Um, you know, if we want to go to the highest level and, and the money isn't being created out of thin air, because what ends up happening is that if you're earning fees, uh, as a liquidity provider, and, you know, you come and you basically, uh, add liquidity, uh, when ETH is like $500 right to the ETH die pair, and then you pull liquidity after, say, a few months, and it's gone back to $500, you have all these trading fees that you've earned. So you actually earned a nice return on that without suffering any impermanent loss. Well, that trading, those trading fees have come from the market makers and the people who just want to trade that pair basically coming in with their own funds and paying those fees. And where did their own funds come from? Well, as I said, the same place that all the money in the world comes from is like the central banks printing it. And, you know, you have this kind of thing over time where hard assets against fiat currencies go up because the fact that they're not inflating at, you know, the same rate as a fiat currency is, or they're not inflating at all, you know, you know, and then they're proper scarce assets and things like that.
00:41:07.608 - 00:41:30.776, Speaker A: And they're also not like pegged to and supposed to be stable as well. So they're not, you know, currency of a. Sorry, they're not, they're not made to be a currency. They're made to be a kind of capital asset. So hopefully that kind of answers just that part of the question. If you want to learn more about, like, arbitrages and how, sorry about amms and market making and arbitrages and toxic flow in general, there's plenty of literature out there. You just have to kind of Google for it.
00:41:30.776 - 00:42:35.068, Speaker A: And there's plenty of literature out there based on crypto too, because there's a lot of really interesting stuff happening in the AMM world and a lot of debates around that as well. But, yeah, anyone from the audience, otherwise, I'll just keep moving through the list. All right. One from Patrick here who says, what do you think will happen to the defi ecosystem? If we go into a bear market, for example, the demand for leverage will drop, so the demand for getting a loan will drop, so the yields will drop, so the usage of the defi ecosystem will drop, so the defi ecosystem will slow down, so the need for the ethereum network will drop, so Ethereum will lose its biggest use case and so on. Um, so it's already happened, right? Like the, we don't even have to be in like a quote unquote bear market for this to happen. The market has cooled down considerably. Yields have dropped considerably because the demand for leverage has dropped, which means the demand for borrowing stable coins has dropped and the ethereum network usage had dropped because, I mean, we can see the gas fees are at, you know, 1020 guys or whatever, which is much lower than they were just a couple months ago.
00:42:35.068 - 00:43:15.010, Speaker A: So I guess, like, what I think will happen is, like, it depends on what you're asking there. Do you, do I think that this is like a death knell for, I guess, like a theorem? No. Do I think that this is short term bearish for maybe token prices and ETH? I mean, yes, we've already seen that kind of play out, I guess because there's like less, less demand for, you know, to use these apps, there's generally less demand to buy tokens. And the, we're kind of like a bearish trend. So that's kind of what's happening. But the way I look at it is you look at, looking at the transient stuff, like the short term stuff is not a great way to measure growth and measure the ethereum networks kind of like usage. I look at it as like a long term thing.
00:43:15.010 - 00:43:42.468, Speaker A: So if you look even just over the last year, go and look at DeFi pulse, go look at Doon analytics. There's a bunch of charts on there. Go look at all the metrics. I mean, I've done this in the daily, the data pump videos that I do on the channel, on the YouTube channel where I analyze kind of like the longer term things here. If you, if you kind of look at that, DeFi is still up massively from where it was a year ago. Absolutely massively. A year ago in May, actually a bit over a year ago in May of 2020.
00:43:42.468 - 00:44:28.070, Speaker A: Uniswap, I believe, was only doing like ten or $20 million of 24 hours volume. Today it's still doing, I think, still like almost a billion last time I checked, or maybe over 500 million or something like that. Anything between that, which is still up massively from what it was a year ago, and all these other protocols are still up huge. I mean, rvs still at like over a $10 billion Tvl, I believe that might just be on Ethereum, only they're on Polygon and stuff like that too. But, you know, that's still there. So generally, yes, usage is going to drop when, when the market's quiet because a lot of this is based on speculation and what's happening, you know, in the day to day kind of stuff with the market, but the long term trend is still intact. So, and this is, I've said this on the refill before where I like that the Ethereum ecosystem doesn't build for any specific market.
00:44:28.070 - 00:45:03.784, Speaker A: It doesn't build for a bull or bear market. It just builds right over time. No matter what the market's doing, we just build. And, you know, I actually think it's bearish when projects target specific times in the market to do things. For example, a lot of projects try to time their token release when the market's hot because obviously they want a really great token price and they really, you know, they obviously want to, you know, get speculation around it so they can get a high valuation. The perfect example of this is dfinity or the Internet, computer, whatever they're calling it these days. They launched in what I think it was last month or a few weeks ago, whatever, when people were still kind of feeling a little bit bullish.
00:45:03.784 - 00:45:46.828, Speaker A: And, you know, they launched then, and then since then their token price has gotten obliterated because it started very, very, very high. I think it started at like a $200 billion fully diluted market cap or something like that, it's come down to like a $12 billion fully dilated market cap now. But generally, you know, targeting these kind of things is just not the great, a great approach to it. Because I believe now that dfinity's, you know, community and anyone who bought tokens is absolutely, like, just obliterated. Right? Like, I strongly believe that a good community comes in over time, during, like, the quieter periods of time. They're able to buy tokens cheaply and kind of like, get exposure to that upside. But when a project like that does that and kind of, like, destroys their early community, it just becomes very bearish.
00:45:46.828 - 00:46:22.086, Speaker A: So from that perspective, I just look back at what Ethereum did and what all the top Ethereum apps did and when they were deployed. Uniswap was deployed in the heart of the bear market maker was deployed in December of 2017. And back then, no one had any idea what the hell maker was, right? We were still obsessing about icos in 2017, even at, even in December. And, you know, it had, it grew through the bear market. And then you look at everything pretty much like, grew through the bear market. All the top Defi apps, I think, yearn and is one of the ones that was born during the bull market. That's up there if you look at the Defi pulse list.
00:46:22.086 - 00:47:34.656, Speaker A: But a lot of the top apps were in the bear market now. I expect the same thing to happen going forward. If we do go into a longer term bear market, I expect a lot more teams to kind of like, deploy things and build things through. And the usage of these protocols may be very low for a time, but then if they're actually good products and they've actually got product market fit, that will come to light as the market heats up again. So generally, I think it's not kind of like, useful to look at the day to day or month to month movements of things on Ethereum, I think just looking at the holistic approach and looking at, you know, year to year and year on year growth for each of these things is a much better approach because that has just been going up and to the right. If you zoom out, like, yes, there's going to be dips and there's going to be things that look like crashes, and yes, there are a lot of protocols that aren't going to survive. They're just going to die out because they were just like bull market protocols, because they were only getting usage because people were speculating or farming tokens and earning all this free money and whatever, right? So I think just pay attention to the proper kind of like, I guess proper is not the right way, but like the, the fundamental value in, I guess, in these defi apps in the ethereum ecosystem and the ones that keep building through the bearish periods and keep deploying things regardless of market conditions.
00:47:34.656 - 00:48:16.370, Speaker A: Because at the end of the day, if a team is more concerned with what the market's doing and when they can launch their token to maximize, you know, the pump on their token, well, then that's not really a team that I want to back or be involved in at the end of the day. So hopefully that answers your question. Patrick. I'm going to keep moving through the list unless someone has one from the audience. Cool. The next one comes in from Nextalpha, who says, what are the top three most innovative projects applications on Ethereum, layer one on L2 that have pushed the space forward during 2021, in your opinion? This is a hard one, actually. I think there's a lot of innovations that have, that have kind of come out.
00:48:16.370 - 00:48:51.442, Speaker A: I think Alchemyx with their self paying loans was something that really shook up the kind of ecosystem. And I opened their ideas to a lot of different kind of things that can happen with that. I think something like element finance splitting up the yield into different tokens. So basically taking the yield bearing token, splitting it up into the principal and the yield, uh, to get to do like fixed rate kind of different things is, is very innovative. I think, uh, the L2 stuff, like L2 technology has come a very long way. Roll ups in general, um, have come a very long way. I think that that is very, very exciting.
00:48:51.442 - 00:49:35.716, Speaker A: Um, so, yeah, those are probably the things I would, I would pick the most that I can think of just right now. Um, but generally, um, there's just so much innovation happening in, in a lot of different areas, you know, not even in defi, if you kind of look at, uh, I guess like, um, nfts and what people are doing there and, and the Dow space and, you know, social tokens and stuff like that, they may be very small today, but there's still a lot of innovation happening in that space. There's people doing a lot of cool things, coming up with new ideas to get people more involved or generate real, fundamental, lasting value. So those are kind of like the three that I, the few that I think that have pushed the space forward during 2021. So far, we're only in June, right, or almost at the end of June. So almost halfway through the year. Um, so yeah, hopefully that answers that one.
00:49:35.716 - 00:50:17.030, Speaker A: There's two other questions here from next. Alpha says, what are the space waiting for in terms of breakthrough innovations? I think we're waiting for more kind of like, I guess, research and development on starks and snarks, which is the, uh, I guess like voodoo magic cryptography that only a few people understand. There's a lot of work going into that, and I think that's what the space is, is waiting for. And I actually think the space is waiting for more kind of like tools to combat MeV. Actually, I think that's another thing that I should mention. Another innovative project around MeV is flashbots. I think that has been pushed a lot of people, a lot of the space forward in 2021 and gotten a lot more people thinking about MeV and how we can combat it.
00:50:17.030 - 00:50:55.846, Speaker A: So, yeah, I would say that that was, that's what we're waiting for in terms of breakthrough innovations as well, is more stuff around Mev, more stuff around snarks and snarks to come to light. You know, statelessness for Ethereum is also an open research question right now. Things like that, I think the space is definitely waiting for, and also truly decentralized EVM compatible ZK roll ups. I know there are teams working on this. They're not live, you know, in a public mainnet capacity yet, and, you know that they hopefully will be over the coming months. But if that actually happens, that's going to be a huge breakthrough as well. And then the last question from next alpha, actually, no, I think that was just the two questions.
00:50:55.846 - 00:51:23.064, Speaker A: The other thing was just the comment. So, yeah, hopefully that answers your questions. I mean, I could go on forever about, like, all the innovative stuff happening, and, you know, what I think is pushing the space forward, but just on the top of my head, that's what I, what I think is doing it there. But anyway, I'll take one from the audience if not moving through the list. Cool. I think I'm just going to keep moving through the list. If you do want to answer a question, just interrupt me before I move on to the next one.
00:51:23.064 - 00:52:21.060, Speaker A: So one from Mister Hoddle here, who says, what ETH price would you shave your mustache at? So, I'm not going to shave my mustache no matter what the ETH price is at. It takes a very long time for my mustache to grow, believe it or not, like, the rest of my beard grows faster. But anyway, I'm not going to shave it. I know I said that I may shave it if we went under two k, but I did say may on purpose because I didn't want to promise anything and I've already made too many silly promises around each price in the past. So I'm just going to not kind of like make any more, I think, going forward. So another question here from Jin, Bill Lilly, who says, what is the future of L2s and side chains? And how can the problem of fragmented liquidity be solved? Will bridges be used to provide instant access to pooled liquidity across these chains? Well, yeah, I think you kind of answered your own question here a little bit, where basically bridges are going to be used to solve all of this. Connects network, anyswap, hot protocol seller network, I think, is working on this.
00:52:21.060 - 00:53:06.064, Speaker A: There's a lot of teams working on this kind of bridging now, and not just bridging between, I guess, like the different changes, different L2s, but also bridging liquidity from layer one to L2, which is what starkware is working on as well. And I've seen some posts about this where they basically are working on a way to pull liquidity from a layer one amm and kind of like pull it into L2 and do trustless swaps between them and things like that. So there's a lot of innovation happening there, actually. So I think that the fragmented liquidity thing is just like a concern troll, so to speak. I think it's just something that the other layer one blockchains like to push to kind of, I guess maybe, you know, detract from ethereum. I know that in particular, the Solana kind of thesis is that we can just scale at layer one. We don't need L2.
00:53:06.064 - 00:53:54.904, Speaker A: And, you know, that's better because it doesn't fragment liquidity. I don't think that that's true. And because the fact if you're just scaling at layer one, then you're giving up on decentralization basically, in my eyes. And I think Solana has already given up on it because they just, and I'm not just picking on Solana, but a lot of these other chains, they just have like a very small validated validator set that controls the network. To run a node, you know, to run a fully verifying node is very expensive, all this other stuff that comes into it. So from that perspective, yeah, I mean, I just, I believe that the future is like layer one for settlement, L2 for scalability, and sidechains, I mean, sidechains, I believe, do have their purpose. I think that sidechains have their purpose for things like gaming and maybe like nfts and stuff like that, where the lower value things can be done on.
00:53:54.904 - 00:54:30.046, Speaker A: But at the same time, I much more interested in L2s, and I believe that those things can actually be done on L2s as well. So hopefully that answers your question. I guess like TLDR, we're going to solve it with bridges. And you know, I'm bullish on the l one l two kind of landscape going forward. Forward. So next question here from Hubba kook, who says, what are the current decentralized stable coins for automating recurring transactions, say, for the DCA into the stablecoin ETH, or even from an on ramp into fiat ETH? Diversify with the integrated ramp networks look interesting in that context. So yeah, I think there's a few out there that have fiat on ramps.
00:54:30.046 - 00:55:04.540, Speaker A: I know argent has an inbuilt fiat on ramp into their mobile wallet. I know some of the decentralized exchanges, I mean, a lot of them have this, but you're asking for decentralized solutions. Inverse finance is one that I know about that basically allows you to deposit kind of like money, and that'll DCA kind of like, I guess, your yields into these things. So you'll generate a yield, and then that yield will be kind of like used to buy ETH or something like that. But there's, I think there's maybe other projects out there that are kind of like doing this. Maybe super flawed finance is doing this. I haven't really kind of looked too deeply there, but I'm sure there's a bunch of them out there.
00:55:04.540 - 00:55:39.144, Speaker A: And if not, they're kind of coming. Um, because I know this is definitely a product that people are interested in, right? Like a fully decentralized, smart contract, automated kind of, uh, DCA kind of strategy, where basically it just, you know, you set like, okay, I want to buy ETH at this, this, and this price point. Here's my, like, stable coins. You put it into the smart contract and then that'll execute it on your behalf. Um, you know, there has, there's not actually many of those projects from, from kind of memory, but I'm sure there's going to be more, maybe as the bear market progresses, because people will be like, well, I want to DCA in, but I don't want to do it through a centralized exchange. I want to do it on Defi. So maybe we'll see more of that going forward.
00:55:39.144 - 00:56:33.602, Speaker A: So user, user asks, what is the most exciting project or idea to you right now? I mean, it has to go to MeV and everything surrounding that flashbots and just everything got to do with MeV is just super exciting right now. It's something that I think the smartest people in this industry are working on. And I would actually say it is probably in terms of, like, the being a hard research problem to solve, it's probably harder than something like the L2 ecosystem is working on because MEV is or can be an existential threat to ethereum or to expressive blockchains if it's not minimized, if it's not basically kind of like, I guess, helped along to become, like, non toxic to the rest of the ecosystem. So I think generally you can kind of look at that as probably the most exciting thing. But also on top of that, obviously the L2 ecosystem is super exciting. Everything happening there. I talk about it all the time, but I just can't get enough.
00:56:33.602 - 00:56:55.562, Speaker A: And I just can't wait to be able to use more and more of these L2s on Mainnet. I mean, I tweeted out the other day that the ZK sync experience was absolutely phenomenal with gitcoin. I love doing the checkout experience on that. I already had funds on my Zk sync wallet, so it was really easy. I just checked out, you know, clicked, you know, yes, and signed a transaction, and away you go. Right. My donation was done.
00:56:55.562 - 00:57:12.162, Speaker A: So I really, really loved that aspect. So those two things are the most exciting to me right now. But there are so, I mean, it's hard to pick, right? There's so many, so much going on. I mean, I'm really excited about the merge. I'm really excited about seeing 1559 go live. I'm really excited about stateless ethereum and how that's coming along. Sharding, of course.
00:57:12.162 - 00:57:46.436, Speaker A: I mean, and like, even on the app layer with, like, defi, I'm just, I'm so excited for basically everything happening in this ecosystem. It's just hard to pin down one thing. But definitely what's capturing the most attention these days for me is the L2 ecosystem and mev. So a question here from a grac attack. Who says, can you talk about how you see the crypto space in Australia? I'd be curious to understand if you see any potential for a country that does nothing but sell houses to each other and dig up dirt to sell overseas. So for those who don't know, this is what Australia's economy is run on. We basically speculate on property.
00:57:46.436 - 00:58:15.042, Speaker A: We dig up minerals and we sell them to, you know, we export them to countries overseas. If you look at kind of like our GDP. A lot of that is that. And we also kind of, like, have a big services industry. So we basically buy and sell stuff from each other. We go to restaurants, blah, blah, all that sort of stuff. And I think we have a decently sized tourism industry, but maybe not lately because of COVID But, um, so in terms of, like, crypto in Australia, I think it's actually pretty good considering that the government hasn't really invested much money into it.
00:58:15.042 - 00:58:30.150, Speaker A: And we don't have. Have very friendly kind of, like, tax laws or regulations around crypto. So, you know, everyone will know. Synthetics, they're up in Sydney. The immutable team behind gods unchained are up in Sydney. There's maple that was born out of Australia. M stable D hedge.
00:58:30.150 - 00:58:55.284, Speaker A: There's a lot of, I'm forgetting projects. Like, I think thought chain as well is another project that's in Australia. There's a lot of projects coming out of here that are well known within the industry. And, you know, I was asked this question a few weeks ago on Twitter, like, what would I chalk it up to? I actually think that a lot of it's got to do with our gambling mentality. So in Australia, for those who don't know, we have, like, a massive gambling culture. For better or worse, sports gambling is everywhere. Like, if you.
00:58:55.284 - 00:59:22.100, Speaker A: If you watch a sports sporting match and you kind of, like, watch it on tv, every single ad break has gambling ads in it, no matter what. Like, no matter what. And it's not just during sporting events. It's just during any kind of, like, tv that you watch, whether that be paid to air or free to air tv. There's sports ads everywhere. We have pokies at every single restaurant, basically, you know, every single pub, I should say not every single restaurant. And, you know, just generally, we have a very kind of, like, I guess, gambling culture.
00:59:22.100 - 00:59:48.404, Speaker A: And this isn't just for, like, the older folk who do love to gamble, but also the younger people. And I think that's what attracts a lot of people to crypto is like that. That kind of, like, speculate, speculation side of things, and, you know, for better or worse. Right. I don't have any opinions on gambling there, but I think that's one aspect of it. And a second aspect of it is maybe that we have something to prove, because Australia really is like a very small country. At the end of the day, we have a population of 25 million people.
00:59:48.404 - 01:00:02.836, Speaker A: We're detached from the rest of the world. Yes. The land mass that we have is absolutely massive. But the things that we are known for are like the, the animals, like, and the spiders and the kangaroos. Right. So I think generally we just have something to prove in Australia as well. So.
01:00:02.836 - 01:00:25.214, Speaker A: And there are a lot of very smart people here, despite everything else. So I think I am bullish on the future of crypto in Australia. I'm hoping that there are better regulations and kind of like tax policies coming for crypto in Australia. I don't plan to move out of here. Like, I'm down in Melbourne in Australia. For those who don't know, it's, it's the south of, south of Australia. I love it here.
01:00:25.214 - 01:00:42.838, Speaker A: I think it's like an amazing place to live. But it does suck for different things. Like, our crypto taxes are not very fun. They're very similar to the US. So for anyone in the US, you'll know that they're not very fun. And the government doesn't generally invest much money in crypto and let alone the technology sector here as well. So hopefully that answers your question.
01:00:42.838 - 01:01:32.648, Speaker A: Grec attack there. So slay or KTC asks post merge, will clients support Mev? So clients such as Prism Lighthouse, and will they each have different strategies for MEV, or is this a separate piece of software that will run alongside our validators? I fully expect these clients to either build MeV features into themselves, or for there to be something like a flashbots that is like a fork of a client that basically enables people to extract Mev and stuff like that. That's definitely going to happen. I don't even think it has to wait till post merge. I think people will have these tools ready for before the merge goes through, and then MeV will start getting extracted there. But I like to think that by the time the merge comes around, we have a much better kind of grasp on MeV. We have a much healthier way of kind of, I guess, like distributing it or at least managing it within ETH two.
01:01:32.648 - 01:02:27.194, Speaker A: But at the same time, ETH two introduces other problems with, with Mev, where, um, you know, a block proposer is known, I think like two epochs in advanced, uh, to epic. So I should say in advance, um, I might be getting that wrong, maybe misremembering there, but generally it means that like if you know that you're, you're going to propose a block, then you can do some fancy stuff with MeV. So open questions, a lot of smart people thinking about it, but I do think that clients will support it, or there will be forks like flashbots that support it. Uh, so yeah, it'll be the same as what it's like on ETH one, I believe. So Frey dens asks, where do baby ETH come from after the POS update. So after the merge, and I assume that they're asking like, how is ETH issued to the network? So basically ETH is issued as it's issued now, where the protocol itself issuers new ETH. And this ETH, instead of going to miners, it is going to block proposers and people that attest to blocks.
01:02:27.194 - 01:03:00.954, Speaker A: So generally, I believe like one 8th of the revenue comes from proposing a block, because you won't propose a block very often, and the rest of it comes from attesting to blocks. So you're set. You're basically chosen as a validator to attest to blocks every, I guess, you know, I think it's like every six minutes or something like that. I believe you attest the blocks every six minutes and, you know, you get a reward for doing that. And you get a reward for doing that well and on time and things like that. And then obviously you get a reward paid in ETH for proposing a block too. Now, the block reward is much higher, but the frequency of the blocks that you'll be proposing is much lower.
01:03:00.954 - 01:03:35.522, Speaker A: So as I said, like seven, eight of the revenue is going to come from, sorry, the rewards is going to come from attesting to blocks. And that goes for like every single validator on the network and for pools as well at the end of the day. So, yeah, hopefully that answers and answers that question. So Brian, peace asks, on the last AMA, you said Mainnet would eventually be for whales and roll up proofs. How should I think about my assets currently staked or in vaults on Mainnet? Could it eventually become cost prohibitive for me to withdraw them? So yes is a short answer. Long answer. It's gonna take a long time.
01:03:35.522 - 01:04:25.512, Speaker A: I don't think that we're gonna get to a point where 1000 way transactions on Ethereum layer one is gonna be the norm for a long time. I do think that, you know, maybe in five years or so, like something like that, we will get to that point. Maybe, maybe, maybe it's longer. I don't know. Like timelines are hard to tell here, but I do think that if you have stuff on Mainnet, by the time it gets to that point where I guess like we're at those like super high transaction fees and only whales and roll up transactions can get into a block, you know, can afford to get into a block, I should say you're probably not going to have any assets on layer one anymore. You're probably just going to be living on L2. I know me personally, once the L2 ecosystem is built out more and once I can do everything on L2 that I can do on layer one, I have absolutely no reason to stay on layer one because L2 is giving me the same security guarantees that layer one is, or at least very similar security guarantees and decentralization.
01:04:25.512 - 01:05:02.678, Speaker A: So, you know, I'm just going to move my assets across. So, yes, the TLDR is, by the time this happens, where it becomes, like, very, very expensive to transact on layer one, way more expensive than it's been in the past. And I'm talking about, like, not just during manias, but, like, persistently expensive. You're probably not going to have any assets on layer one anymore. And if you do, well, I mean, it depends, like, maybe you have, like, a $1,000 on there and you can't, and it costs $1,000 to move it. I expect that to happen, like, one day in the future, sometime, not, not anytime soon, one day in the future. And I think that's just what the way it's kind of like, unfortunately going to be.
01:05:02.678 - 01:05:49.630, Speaker A: Or there was kind of like, discussions around doing something where you would basically have the community come together and say, okay, you know, let's rescue all the dust that's in Ethereum. So basically, dust is, refers to assets or ETH, whatever asset it is. ETH or ESC 20 tokens that are stuck because they cost more in gas fees to move them than it does then does the value of that asset. So essentially the proposal would be, let's move all those assets into a L2 system, and then, you know, that saves the assets of the people. But there's a lot of problems with that. Like, you know, which L2 system do you pick? You know, you're paying favorites if you pick one over the other. Doing this is actually kind of like setting a bad precedent because you're essentially, you're not taking custody of users funds, but you're, you're technically moving users funds somewhere without their permission.
01:05:49.630 - 01:06:43.376, Speaker A: So I don't think that would fly with, with the community. So I do believe that that will be, you know, any, any, the amount of dust will keep going up on the chain eventually. Um, but like, as I said, I believe most assets are just going to sit on L2 in the long run. So disco Danson asks. I'm a novice, so my question is a bit jumbled. Is it possible that staking allows other traders to infect, borrow ETH or matic by shorting it to profit on the downside? So could more staking mean more of this type of trading? So if you like Matic, for example, maybe you shouldn't, you shouldn't stake it for a yield or have I misunderstood something? So this is basically one of the attack vectors of proof of stake where you could essentially short ETH, I guess, like or short matic or short any proof of stake token on the open market and then attack the network, for example. And in doing so, you would hope that the price of that asset would fall and you would profit off your short.
01:06:43.376 - 01:07:26.654, Speaker A: In practice, this is a very impractical way to make money, I believe. I think that you're much more likely and you have a much better chance of shorting, you know, an asset or whatever asset it is, whether it's a proof of stake asset or other or otherwise. You have a much better chance of kind of like shorting that based on some technical indicator or some market momentum than you do of being able to attack the network and also having enough confidence to believe that attacking the network would dump the price enough to be worth it for your short. Because if you attack the network in Ethereum, you're getting slashed, which means that the stake that you use to attack the network, the ether you use to attack the network, is going to get burned or deleted. You're going to lose that ETH. You're going to get, as I said, you're going to get slashed. So I don't think it's really worth it.
01:07:26.654 - 01:07:50.178, Speaker A: It's possible, but I don't think it's worth it. So generally I think it's fine to stake your assets and just like follow the rules of the network or whatever and make sure that you're not doing anything wrong so you don't get slashed or not going offline or whatever if you're staking on your own. So yeah, hopefully that answers your question there. Disco Danson. So one here from bay also, that.
01:07:50.226 - 01:08:07.740, Speaker B: Question actually, I read in the chat he was actually referring about lending out your assets on a platform like a centralized exchange like FTX, where you're lending out your assets for a yield, which means somebody else is borrowing them, effectively shorting them. And I believe in that situation.
01:08:07.812 - 01:08:07.996, Speaker A: Yeah.
01:08:08.020 - 01:08:15.264, Speaker B: If you're lending your assets on a centralized exchange for that to be profitable, somebody else is borrowing it because they want to, they want to short it.
01:08:15.644 - 01:08:22.212, Speaker A: Okay. Yeah, yeah. Well that's, that's correct. Then yeah, maybe I copied the question over wrong there. Thanks. Thanks for, for clarifying that there. But, yeah, for sure.
01:08:22.212 - 01:08:42.643, Speaker A: Yeah. Like if you're lending your assets out, someone can, can definitely borrow it to short it. Yeah. All right, on to our disc, not discard Anson base's question. So do you ever dabble in cryptocurrencies that act as a complement to a theory? I'm a chainlink, Polygon, Aave, etc. How to get into yield farming in the safest, easiest way for beginners. So I'll answer the first question.
01:08:42.643 - 01:09:03.064, Speaker A: I do kind of do things, I guess, like trading here and there, right? Like, as I was saying before, it's very hard to do this. I don't regularly trade or anything like that, but. Sorry, guys, one sec. There's, uh, there's some I have to do. I'll be back in a sec. Just take a short two minute break. I heard some noises, so just one sec.
01:09:31.544 - 01:09:35.004, Speaker B: I think the noise you heard was just the ETH price hitting the floor.
01:09:52.764 - 01:10:14.584, Speaker A: Sorry about that, guys. Just the gate outside was for some reason making noises. But anyway, um, yeah, to answer, to answer that question, uh, from, from baze, um, yeah, I do kind of like, dabble in other cryptocurrencies other than ETH. I mean, obviously, ETH is my, you know, long term hold. I don't, I've said multiple times, I don't really plan to ever sell my ETH. Um, but as I said earlier, trading is very, very hard. I'm not a trader.
01:10:14.584 - 01:10:52.700, Speaker A: I have held things like Link and aave in the past polygon. I mean, I'm an advisor to polygon. So I get compensated in advisor tokens there that are vested over time. But generally, when I kind of like, buy into something, it's like buying, as I said, buying it something other than like ETH is just hard because it's very hard to outperform ETH. But my strategy is always to, you know, do my research, look at kind of like, newer protocols and protocols that I believe, like, are undervalued and kind of like, buy them, buy up those assets and you just wait over the long term. Because I'm a long term investor, I'm not a trader. So, yeah, hopefully that kind of, like, answers that.
01:10:52.700 - 01:12:00.524, Speaker A: But I think I answered it a lot earlier about, like, how I view trading and kind of like, trying to outperform ETH with different kind of tokens and stuff like that. And the second question from Baze was how to get into yield farming in the safest, easiest way for beginners. So I guess like all yield farming comes with risks, but the safest yield is probably just like a naked stable coin yield, where you basically just put stable coins into some vault, whether that be like a yearn finance vault or something on like m stable. And there's plenty of stablecoin things out there. And it's just like, you know, farming with just stable coins rather than doing something like a liquidity providing pool. Like, you know, their projects will pay out their tokens to you if you provide liquidity, but you're taking on the risk of impermanent loss, and you're taking on, and you know, if they're providing liquidity, what could end up happening? Sorry, if they're paying out lots of tokens, what can end up happening is that you basically just become the quote unquote exit liquidity for the farm and dumpers, and the token price just goes down a lot and you suffer a lot of impermanent loss because of that. So yeah, I would say that the safest and easiest way for beginners is just to look at the very basic stablecoin yield farms rather than trying to chase anything kind of more complex than that.
01:12:00.524 - 01:12:59.510, Speaker A: So a question here from t one who says with L2s imminent, it's fair to expect a decent chunk of liquidity to move from polygon. Arbitrary optimism shortly after general go live, how will this affect yields on polygon LP pools? And does it make sense to pull out now in anticipation of this? I think it's very hard to say what liquidity is going to do, to be honest. I think that liquidity is going to be absolutely everywhere. I think there's just going to be so much more money coming into this ecosystem, literally hundreds of billions of dollars, that it's going to be spread across these things. And it's really going to depend on token incentives too, in the short term, because, you know, say, on Polygon, Ava doesn't have token incentives, but on arbitram they do. Well, it logically it follows that capital would go from polygon and even Ethereum to arbitram, for example. But at the same time, we saw polygon do liquidity mining for, sorry, for Abe, do liquidity mining on polygon, but on arbitrum, sorry, not arbitrary.
01:12:59.510 - 01:13:27.694, Speaker A: On Ethereum's layer one, the TVL was fine. It kept growing. So I think that it just generally, there's different users on different platforms, there's different people who take different security trade offs. Some people don't want to be on polygon, some people want to just be on Ethereum layer one. Some wouldn't want to move their positions because that would maybe incur taxable events and things like that as well. So there's all those kinds of things to consider. So I think that it's very hard to tell or very hard to say what to expect when, when these other things go live and where liquidity is going to flow to.
01:13:27.694 - 01:13:58.898, Speaker A: And I think it really does in the short term depend heavily on token incentives. And you, and you also asked like would it make sense to pull your liquidity into anticipation of this? I don't, I don't know, it's, I think it, as I said, it's very hard to tell what's going to happen. I don't really have an answer to that question. I think that generally you should probably just wait and see what happens rather than I guess like trying to preempt something. But I don't really give investment advice generally and I consider that to be investment advice. So. Sorry I can't give any more detail there.
01:13:58.898 - 01:15:02.602, Speaker A: Yeah, I'll just leave it at that. So Babs, to the future asked, do you have an opinion or feeling on how much the demand for new validator activations will be leading up to or after the merge? Do you think we'll be looking at a months long queue in 2022? So some background here about what, what Babs is asking is basically there's a validator queue in ETH two, only 900 validators can enter and exit the beacon chain at any given day. Around 900 I think. I believe it is around that number. So what that essentially means is that if there's a kind of like over 900 validators waiting then you, sorry, if there's I guess like more than one validator kind of being put in, then you have to wait in a queue. Now if there's like lots and lots of different validators and you know, thousands of them, then you're going to be in a queue for multiple days. And what Babs is asking is like do I think that is it going to be a queue leading up to and after the merge? I think there will be, because people, people aren't really thinking about the fact that the yield that's currently on ETH two staking is just the block rewards.
01:15:02.602 - 01:15:43.362, Speaker A: So that 6.5% APR that you see is just the block reward, the protocol rewards. So I should say that are being paid out, that does not include the fee revenue. Now people might be wondering, well you know, aren't we going to have 1559? And aren't most of the fees going to be burned? Yes, but there's still going to be a healthy chunk of those fees going to miners and proof of work and then stakers after the merge, which means the APR is going to go up. So I think that we're going to have like, as more people realize this, they're going to keep, they're going to stake and then post merge, I think we're actually going to have a spike in the APR. Kind of like these people really underestimate the fee revenue and especially if it's bullish. I mean, if the market's bullish again and we have like 100 way plus transaction fees.
01:15:43.362 - 01:16:15.054, Speaker A: Sorry, gas prices. Well, yes, the APR is just going to skyrocket. We're going to have people fomoing in and there's going to be a long queue. I don't know if it's going to be months long once the merge goes through, but it might be, there might be a really heavy fomo for that APR, but especially if that API is like over 20% or something. So, yeah, I can see that happening. I think the queue was like, got up to like two weeks at one point. So months long isn't really too far fetched, especially if the a, if the APR is quite, quite juicy there.
01:16:15.054 - 01:17:07.550, Speaker A: But leading up to it, I expect people more and more people to clue into it because more and more people will be talking about it and doing estimates based on, like, current fee revenue and things like that. So that's going to be, that's going to be, I guess, like, interesting to see. And the second question bab said here was, if this is the case, the logic should follow that space and staking pools will become more scarce, too. Yeah, I guess so. Because staking pools are still subject to, I guess, like the queue because they have to go through the same kind of like, lane that all the, every stake has to go. But I, sorry, I heard my echo there for a sec, but I don't think that generally when you kind of like, look at the staking pools, I don't think they would actually just, I guess say, okay, we're not going to accept any more kind of like ETH to stake and we've closed off our staking. I think they're just going to tell users while there's a queue, you know, whether you want to wait in this queue or not is up to you, but just be aware of that.
01:17:07.550 - 01:17:34.174, Speaker A: So, yeah, I think that's how that will eventually play out there. So one from Bran here who says, what are your thoughts on curve as well as CRv rewards. Oh, sorry. Go for it. Yeah, it's just a couple of guys in general. Can you increase the cap for the voice channel or they want to join? Okay, have a look. Settings.
01:17:34.174 - 01:17:48.034, Speaker A: Uh, is it. Does it. I think the cap is because, like, the channel's not boosted or something. That might be. That might be it. Guess it's their bad luck. Yeah, yeah, I can't boost the.
01:17:48.034 - 01:18:02.454, Speaker A: The channel right now, so. Yeah. Um. If they want to, they can boost the channel if they've got, like, discord nitro, if anyone else does. I don't. Yeah, I don't think that I can increase the cap on my end, unfortunately. But, yeah, I mean, if you want to tell them that the.
01:18:02.454 - 01:18:20.734, Speaker A: This thing's being recorded. All good. Cool. I'm just gonna go through the. Before I go down the list, I'm just gonna go through the channel and see what people are asking here. Let me have a look. There's a few more questions here.
01:18:20.734 - 01:19:01.644, Speaker A: One from. From knowledge fire, he says, are there any other ecosystems outside of the ETH ecosystem that you look at to try and see what innovation is happening? Examples include solana, terra, etcetera. Sorry, guys, one sec. I'll be back in one sec. Sorry. Yeah, there are other ecosystems that I kind of pay attention to. Not too deeply into any of them, really.
01:19:01.644 - 01:19:38.244, Speaker A: I am kind of aware of what's happening on them and the traction that they're getting. I do pay attention to some of the metrics and stats. I think that if we want to talk about specific ecosystems, I think that the Solana ecosystem is wholly dependent on FTX's involvement right now. I think FTX and SPF are basically bankrolling the whole thing. And I wouldn't say that's necessarily a bad thing, because Ethereum definitely had a very big benefactor in consensus early on, but generally, that's what I'm seeing there. In terms of innovation, I'm not seeing anything too innovative yet. I'm just seeing apps being.
01:19:38.244 - 01:20:17.126, Speaker A: Existing apps that are on Ethereum just being rebuilt in rust, because it's not EVM, it's not solidity. So they're just rebuilding the apps, which I guess is cool just to see that. But, yeah, I'm not seeing anything too interesting in there, Terra. I mean, I was talking before about how they have, like, anchor protocol, which I actually think is pretty interesting. They have a bunch of other things that they've got, like, mirror protocol, which is like stock trading. Sorry, synthetic stock trading, but, you know, synthetix has that and stuff like that. So, and then, I mean, there are other protocols like Filecoin and Arweave and, and those sorts of things that are doing like something very different to a smart contract blockchain where they're doing centralized data storage.
01:20:17.126 - 01:21:07.258, Speaker A: I think that's pretty cool. Like decentralized file storage and all this sorts of stuff. I think that stuff's really cool because I think that the, the thing that has the most product market fit on the Internet in general is like file sharing. So, and you know, why, if we, if we could, if, and like cloud storage and things like that, so you know, if, if we kind of think about that, then can we decentralize that? Now, I don't know how successful these things are going to be because generally it just like, it's an economy of scale thing where I think that these things are going to centralize around these big kind of data warehouses that kind of, I guess, like serve data to the network and that's just going to repeat what we already have with like AWS. So it remains to be seen how decentralized those are going to be. So, yeah, those are some of the things that I pay attention to, but it's very, very hard to pay attention to anything but a theory. I'm these days, as you know, I'm sure you're all aware, there's just way too much happening in Ethereum.
01:21:07.258 - 01:21:54.386, Speaker A: Even when the market is bearish, there is just too much happening. And like now that the market is bearish, I actually have a lot more time to go over a lot of the old blog post that I put in my reading list and things like that, and that's just taking up so much time and. Yeah, so, yeah, just hopefully that answers your question. Knowledge fight about kind of what other stuff I pay attention to and what other things are interesting, I guess, besides ethereum. And actually I also pay a bit of attention to what's happening in bitcoin just to, just to keep an eye on it, I guess, like just out of curiosity. So there was one from Salvis here, I actually accidentally skipped over who said you mentioned bitcoin. How do you think China banned the bitcoin miner? So I guess, like they're talking about like, what do I think about China banning bitcoin mining? Um, I mean, I think this is, this thing's been talked about to death already, like everywhere.
01:21:54.386 - 01:22:30.200, Speaker A: But generally I can just say that it's very real. They definitely did ban bitcoin mining this time. Um, a lot of the miners are obviously leaving China now. Going to other kind of, like, uh, places in the world, they crack down hard on crypto exchanges, specifically the leverage that's happening in the crypto kind of exchange market there. And, you know, I think exchanges are having to kind of, like, ban people from, from accessing certain products and stuff like that. So it's real. And I think that the market movement is in large part due to that ban and due to the kind of miners having to sell off assets and, and not just like, their hardware, but their bitcoin as well, or their BTC to cover running costs and stuff like that.
01:22:30.200 - 01:22:55.170, Speaker A: So, yeah, it's, it's unfortunate, but I think it's actually long term bullish for the ecosystem that, um, you know, it decentralizes this kind of hash power out of China and things like that. So remains to be seen, like, where all this hash power and mining power goes. Does it just go to the next cheapest country or does it distribute, you know, globally? I don't know. We'll see. We'll see what happens there. So, a few questions here from Meeple dad in the channel. So, first question.
01:22:55.170 - 01:23:29.622, Speaker A: I've noticed lots of miss, miss mud slinging between different communities on CT. I believe this is foolish. It makes the whole space look immature and childish. I mean, yes, if a question is like, asking is like, do I agree or disagree with this? I mean, yes, I think it is immature and childish, but I also think that crypto Twitter is just like one kind of piece to the overall puzzle of the crypto ecosystem. And I think that Twitter in general, it loses a lot of nuance. So you might see something that seems like someone's being toxic or someone's kind of like mudslinging or something. Or something.
01:23:29.622 - 01:23:58.150, Speaker A: But because they're just, like, limited to a certain set of characters because it's Twitter and, and because it's, like, over the Internet, it's over text, you lose a lot of the nuance, you lose a lot of the emotional kind of side of it. You don't know exactly what the person's doing. You don't know if they're kind of, like, saying it in a joking attitude. You don't know if they're saying it like, seriously. But, yeah, I mean, there's a lot of mudslinging, but this just comes back to the incentive. Like, if you're holding a token, you know, say you're holding, like, the Solana token, you know, holding ethereum. Well, you know, of course, you don't really care if Ethereum does well or not because you're holding Solana.
01:23:58.150 - 01:24:20.734, Speaker A: You want Solana to do well, so maybe you're mudsling against Ethereum, and then it works the same way. Right. Works the other way too. But generally, I think that, you know, this stuff's always gonna happen. Not, I mean, humans are tribal at the end of the day, like over anything. Like, look at, it's not, you know, it's funny. It's like, I've once said that, like, I think, I think crypto takes like the worst aspects of three different areas in humanity.
01:24:20.734 - 01:25:01.122, Speaker A: Gambling, because the speculation is really bad, general, like tribalism over like say, sports teams, for example, like sport. Tribalism is pretty, pretty bad in some parts of the world, especially. And then third is like religious or like fanaticism, where people get very fanatical about these things, almost kind of cultish beliefs about things, especially the, I believe the bitcoin is a bitcoin maximalist, a very cultish vibe there. So just generally, I mean, I don't expect that mudslinging and that kind of like tribalism to subside because crypto brings in those, those kind of like things in a really big way. But, but on the other side of things, there's a lot of good stuff that happens within the crypto ecosystem. A lot of positive things. Different communities are more positive than others.
01:25:01.122 - 01:25:39.942, Speaker A: I believe the Ethereum community is still very, very positive, you know, on, on net. And I believe that it's, it doesn't do as much mudslinging, uh, as other communities do. But again, like, that's probably like, not, not a great argument to have, and we should always strive towards, I guess, being nicer to each other, but online isn't representative of real life. Like, as someone who's been to a fair few Ethereum conferences, uh, and, and people were there that, you know, uh, either bitcoin maximalist or, you know, not, you know, uh, I guess, like a totally ethereum aligned and things like that. I would generally say that people are very, very different in those kind of like, things. And you can have better conversations rather than what, what you have on Twitter. So hopefully that kind of like, um, gives some color there.
01:25:39.942 - 01:26:36.466, Speaker A: Your second question, meeple, was, what can we do during this bearish period to help build bridges between the communities? Um, I don't, I actually think that the tribalism gets worse in bear markets, I'm sorry to say, because people, you know, lost money or people didn't take enough profits, so they, they're down a lot on their, you know, imagined gains once upon a time, and then people kind of like, start digging their heels into more of the tokens that they hold, which means they dig their heels into more of the communities that they're involved in. So I actually think that bull or bear market, this tribalism is going to. Going to persist, unfortunately. Um, and then the last question, what problems can different project maxis come together on? I think, and this is a funny thing, I think at the end of the day, most people in this ecosystem are working towards the same goal of decentralization. Right. We want to take power away from centralized entities, and we want to kind of flatten the playing field or level the playing field for all of humanity with these sorts of things. We're just taking different approaches to get there.
01:26:36.466 - 01:27:00.584, Speaker A: We have different beliefs on how to do it. You know, we. Some people want to do it one way, some people want to do it the other way. Like, for example, bitcoin. Maximalist or bitcoin is whatever. They want to do it their specific way, which is move very slowly, only do the changes that are necessary on the base layer and do everything else at, like, higher layers. Whereas Ethereum takes a bit more of, like, a pragmatic approach where we say, okay, let's move slowly still, like, we're not moving, like, super fast.
01:27:00.584 - 01:27:28.052, Speaker A: Let's still be decentralized. But also let's basically make sure that we can kind of get a kind of halfway point here where we don't have this super conservative view. We don't have this, like, super, you know, pragmatic view. We have, like, a balance between the middle and then there's, like, communities that fall kind of, like, in between that as well. So hopefully that answers those. Those questions there. Yeah, I guess, like, man, I should maybe I say sorry to people for not being able to get in because we hit the limit.
01:27:28.052 - 01:27:34.044, Speaker A: We haven't hit the limit before, which is, I guess, bullish for the daily way. That's pretty, pretty cool. Let me just make a note here.
01:27:34.124 - 01:28:06.704, Speaker B: Yeah. That those are great answers to those questions. I really appreciate that this came to light for me because I was listening to the bankless episode where they had Preston the Bitcoiner on, and it was like, they were super cool to each other, and they had really good questions, and it was a really thoughtful discussion. And I was like, yes, we have so much to work together on between all these communities, but you're right, it's way easier to be a dick on Twitter than it is.
01:28:07.414 - 01:28:35.016, Speaker A: Yeah. And I think it's also funny because, like, with Twitter, the goal really, for a lot of people is to just farm engagement, right? Because they want to grow their brand and they want to grow, you know, their following or whatever. And the quickest way to do that is to cause drama. And I know this because I did some of this back in, like, 2019 or whatever. Like, if you want attention on Twitter, you just have to cause drama. That's literally all you have to do. And the quickest way to cause drama is to drive right into that polarization between the different communities.
01:28:35.016 - 01:29:17.706, Speaker A: So, you know, and, like, I think the tweets that go the furthest are the ones that piss off the most community. So if you piss off the bitcoin maximus, you piss off the, if you want to call them ETH maximalist, you know, and then you kind of, like, pit them against each other. And then you get all these replies, and all you have to do is basically mute the thread. You don't even have to listen to anything and just walk away. And then people are just going to fight amongst each other because everyone loves to fight on the Internet. There's this old comic that I saw that said, you know, the wife is kind of saying to the, to the husband, it's like, I'll come to bed, honey. And then he's like, sorry, someone's wrong on the Internet, right? It's like, just a lot of these debates and arguments are so pointless, but because, like, for some reason, like, a lot of, a lot of us, like, we love to get into arguments and debates and we're tribal, and it's very easy to kind of get.
01:29:17.706 - 01:29:38.782, Speaker A: Fall into this trap on Twitter. And I fall into it all the time, like, even to today. But I stopped doing so much of those polarizing tweets because I just felt it was, like, a waste of time. And I actually felt kind of gross doing it. But a lot of people still employ this. So maybe when you see those tweets, just keep in mind that people are just doing it to farm engagement. Most of the time, they're not actually doing it because they maybe don't even believe what they're saying.
01:29:38.782 - 01:29:45.714, Speaker A: They just know that it's going to get, like, a rise out of people. And this just goes back to people on Internet of trolls at the day. It's just always been like that.
01:29:47.734 - 01:29:55.434, Speaker B: Ben Cohen actually blocked me on Twitter because I was trolling him and I had to message him, be like, I was joking. It was just a joke. I'm sorry.
01:29:55.964 - 01:30:29.246, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah, I've done that before, too. With people that have trolled me. You get sensitive after a while because if you have a large following, you have so many people going, talking to you, and you sometimes can't tell the difference between, like, someone who's joking and someone who's serious. So, yeah. All right. Mark asked another question in the channel here. So do you think we could ever see infrastructure such as data centers controlled by daos become normalized, as in decentralized governance, overseeing centralized computational resources? Is this a scenario too far removed from possibility? I mean, I think so.
01:30:29.246 - 01:31:10.506, Speaker A: I guess, like, it's not impossible. I think that if you think about, like, the file sharing protocols like Filecoin and Arweave, and if you hold their token, you have, like, governance over the platform. I guess, like, that could be viewed as something like that, like a data center that is controlled by a DAO. But I think that it's funny because if you, if you kind of, like, it depends, like, where the central point of failure is. For example, if you have, say, like a data center that's controlled by Amazon, right? And you're just renting it from them. Say you're renting, renting some like, massive aws kind of space, and then you have like, a dow built on top of that. Well, it doesn't really matter at the end of the day what your dow does, who the talk on token holders are, whatever.
01:31:10.506 - 01:31:48.606, Speaker A: Jeff Bezos can come along and just shut you down immediately because he owns aws, he owns Amazon, and he can control the whole thing. So I think that from that perspective, the only way to do it in a decentralized way, or at least a more decentralized way, was to maybe do it on something like Filecoin or Arweaver on those platforms there. But, yeah, that's something that I haven't really thought about too much. So interesting. Maybe I'll have to think more about that and maybe have a better answer for you later on. All right, last one here on the channel from Hen F, who says, I haven't really looked into ERp 1559 and Mev too closely. So this may be a bit of a stupid question at the moment.
01:31:48.606 - 01:32:16.026, Speaker A: A lot of Mev goes through flashbots, right, where the MEV transactions pay very little, gas or no gas, to be included into the next block. I wondered if this is almost subsidizing gas fees a little bit by bringing the average gas price down. I get they are still using up block space, which other users have to fight over. But it was just an idea in my head. With EMP 1559, they will have to pay the base fee. I was just wondering if this would lead to a high gas price for everyone, if this is that they are actually subsidizing gas. So I actually do believe that the reason why gas prices are down is actually due to two main reasons.
01:32:16.026 - 01:32:56.764, Speaker A: One, market volatility is down. Markets quiet, less people using the network, gas prices are down. Two is flashbots, for sure, because what flashbots has done is it's taken that MEV, which is usually kind of like arbitrage between amms, which takes up a lot of block space, and taken it out of the public mempool, and put it into this dark pool, as they're known as the flashbots dark pool. So in a pre 1559 world, essentially, you know, the base fee doesn't exist. So no, kind of like ETH is being paid to the network. It's like a zero gray transaction fee. But the miners are still making money through the flashbots kind of bundles, whereas post 1559, they will have to pay the base fee.
01:32:56.764 - 01:33:33.804, Speaker A: But I still think that most of the extra that they pay for Mev is actually going to be part of the tip, which is the fee that's not burned, and that's still going to go to the miners or the stakers through flashbots or other kind of mechanisms like that. So the base fee, I guess, may kind of, like, rise a bit from this, because we're going to get more of those transactions coming back onto the public mempool. So I would expect to see maybe a little bit of a spike. But again, I actually think that the. I actually think that besides flashbots, the number one thing is market volatility. So we'll have to see how the market is going at that point in time. All right, let's keep going down.
01:33:33.804 - 01:33:59.250, Speaker A: I guess my list of questions here, just a few more left. So, one from Bran, what are your thoughts on curve, as well as CRV reward boosting protocols like convex and yearn? I mean, I love curve. You know, I think they have amazing product market fit with the stablecoin swap protocol. I think that they're innovating pretty fast. I think a lot of the stuff they put together is way over my head in terms of, like, the white papers and stuff like that. Um, so. And they.
01:33:59.250 - 01:34:47.862, Speaker A: They're branching out, you know, uh, out from being a stable coin swap protocol now, in response to uniswap v three, they're trying to do, I guess, like, volatile asset swaps now. Um, and in terms of, like, CRV reward boosting protocols like convex and yearn, I think overall, it's. It's bullish over the long term because you basically, you have these protocols, I guess, competing for CRV to lock it up to boost their earnings for their users in the curve protocol or the booster yields. So, yeah, long term, I think it would be, it would be bullish. But I've had this debate with, with someone in, in the, in the general channel, in the discord, a fair, a fair amount. Alunara hopefully I said the name wrong, right, that, that time. But, um, basically I've had this debate where I've said that like CRV has a lot of liquidity mining pressure over time and it also has a lot of investor and team unlocks over time.
01:34:47.862 - 01:35:41.752, Speaker A: So I don't know what's going to happen with the price short term, talk to medium term. I don't know if that, like, these are kind of like battles over the CRv locking is actually going to put sustained upward pressure on the price, especially not during the market that we're in right now. I think it's going to be even harder to do so. But yeah, I don't really have any strong opinions for or against there. But I do think that the CRV token economics design is actually one of the best I've seen because of the, it encourages this kind of like, I guess, battle between these protocols that are built on top, which I think is quite elegant. All right, one here from Shawman who says seeing that Uniswap has elected not to deploy on polygon, and he's held it in the highest regard as staying true to Ethereum values, can you help me better understand how polygon is Ethereum aligned? Is there a roadmap for polygon to switch to using ethos gas? So maybe I should kind of describe or kind of like clarify. So polygon is an ecosystem, or there's a suite of scaling solutions.
01:35:41.752 - 01:36:20.648, Speaker A: So it is not just what they have live today, but they're going to have other solutions going live. But what they have live today is two things, the plasma chain and the PoS chain. The pOs chain is by far the most used, and the pos chain is not what people typically consider a L2 now. And that's what the say it's bad or anything like that, but it's not typically considered a L2 because it doesn't directly inherit its security from Ethereum. So it is called, what some people like to say, outside chain or a commit chain or whatever else you want to call it here. And for that reason, I think maybe that's why Uniswap didn't deploy on there. It's because they want to stay pure or true to Ethereum kind of, I guess, like values, and they only want to deploy to like true L2s.
01:36:20.648 - 01:36:41.104, Speaker A: And I guess that's fine. But to help you better understand how polygon is ethereum aligned? Well, essentially, I mean, as an advisor to Polygon, I know the team very, very well. They are basically ETH maxis, if I'm being honest. Right. They absolutely love Ethereum, adore Ethereum. They want to help Ethereum scale in any way possible. And they actually are working very, very hard on their roll up solutions that are coming soon.
01:36:41.104 - 01:37:26.264, Speaker A: I don't have any dates for you or anything like that, but essentially the pos chain is like a means to an end. It's essentially a stopgap, I believe. And, you know, this is just me saying this is not them saying this, but the way I view it is that the pos chain, the polygon pos chain, basically stopped a lot of users from going to BSc, which I consider BSc to be very parasitic towards a theorem, because it's completely centralized. CZ is very hostile towards Ethereum. He's just in it for himself and in it for binance. So why not get like users onto kind of a polygon pos chain? Let them play around, let them experience defi, you know, Ethereum based defi, and let them experience things in a really, you know, Ethereum way. And then once these kind of like L2s come online and things like that, when they're more mature, like arbitrary optimism, ZK sync, and then polygons roll up solutions as well.
01:37:26.264 - 01:38:00.382, Speaker A: Users will probably, you know, will flock to that. So that's kind of like, I guess what I mean by Ethereum aligned is that they're actually wanting to scale Ethereum in kind of like the L2 way as well. They want to help ethereum scale in any way possible, and they're not hostile towards Ethereum. And, you know, you ask as well, sure, man, if there is a roadmap for polygon to switch to using ethos gas, I know that it is something that I want to do. I just don't know when they're going to do it. And I actually think that using ether as gas on the polygon network makes a lot of sense. On the POS tray makes a lot of sense because of that coherence around ETH as an asset, like everyone has ETH.
01:38:00.382 - 01:38:28.934, Speaker A: You can just port it over. You don't have to acquire another token to do so. And I think Matic just being like a staking token and capturing the fee revenue and capturing kind of like the block rewards is a very bullish thing for Matic generally, and is a fine way for matic to kind of, I guess, accrue value over the long term and things like that. So yeah, he's definitely on the roadmap. I just don't know when. So hopefully that answers your questions there. I'm going to power through these questions here because we've got 20 minutes left before it's 01:00 a.m..
01:38:28.934 - 01:39:10.344, Speaker A: Here. So there's one here from Bug who said, what kind of notes do you work off when you do your podcast? Do you run through before you record? Or are you just really, or are you really just that good at winging it? So this is talking about the refuel. I wing the whole thing. I literally two minutes before I, um, before I start recording, I open all the tabs that I'm going to cover for the day and then I push record and I do it. That's it. I wing the whole thing. The way I view the refuel is like keeping a diary, I guess, of what I've learned during the day about Ethereum or what I've come across and my thoughts and just like putting them all together and kind of like putting them, putting them down or like, I guess recording them and sharing them with, you know, the deli Gwei community, obviously.
01:39:10.344 - 01:39:30.812, Speaker A: And really it's because I really just talk to a lot of people during the day. I do a lot of ethereum based research. I read a lot of blog posts, I read a lot of Twitter. I'm basically living on my pc these days because I can't really do much else. For those who don't know, Australia's borders are still closed. Our vaccine rollout is horrible. I can't even get the vaccine because I'm like 29 and only over 40s can get it.
01:39:30.812 - 01:39:57.516, Speaker A: So I'm just waiting right now and maybe I'd be less active if I could go to Ethereum conferences, but right now I'm just sitting in front of my pc, so my life's just Ethereum. So from, from that perspective, yeah, I just, I just, just wing it. And it's just a good way for me to kind of get my thoughts out there. So, yeah, I'm glad you, you find that impressive. I think it's just me, just like a stream of consciousness in kind of one take. And I think that's just the best way to do it. I don't like jump cuts you see in some, like, youtubers, they'll do a lot of jump cuts.
01:39:57.516 - 01:40:27.308, Speaker A: I hate that. Like, it just. It takes me out of the video, and it just feels like very. I don't know, it feels very like Gen Z, where it's like everyone wants something really fast, right? Everyone wants, like, fast reactions to things, and they want, like, you know, they want to know what's going on in 10 seconds. I feel like, you know, myself and a lot of people who watch the refuel, like, those more longer form kind of, I guess, descriptions of things. So that's why they're like, you know, 30 minutes long and things like that. All right, so one here from anto 20 or a few here, actually.
01:40:27.308 - 01:41:00.514, Speaker A: I think, what are flashbots, and what do they do, and why do we need them? So I could go on about flashbots for a while, but TLDR is, flashbots is basically a service that allows people to, or people who want to extract MeV to post their transactions directly to miners, who basically put those transactions directly into a block. So, a bit of background. Miners have the ability to order transactions in a block in any which way that they see fit. And, you know, they can basically put their transaction at the front, or they can put and. Or they can put, like, the highest bidders transaction at the front. That's usually what happens. The person who.
01:41:00.514 - 01:42:03.388, Speaker A: The people who pay the highest transaction fees on the network get into a block before other people. That's why you see, like, on gas estimator sizes, like, rapid, fast, slow, rapid transactions guarantee, you know, high likelihood you're going to get into the next block fast, maybe a couple blocks, things like that. What flashbots allows people to do is basically go around the public mempool. So when you and I do transactions through something like metamask, where put it posting our transactions into the public mempool, which everyone can see, and, you know, miners are kind of like, building blocks on and things like that, and collecting those transactions together and building blocks with them, whereas flashbots uses their own kind of, like, I guess, pool, which I think they call bundles, as part of, like. And they're referred to as dark pools, where it basically doesn't go into the public mempool. It goes straight to miners, and miners put it into a block. And that's why you see transactions with zero, zero Gwei attached to them, because the transaction fee was actually paid directly to the miner through the flashbots service, instead of paying it to, you know, the public network through the public mempool.
01:42:03.388 - 01:42:42.284, Speaker A: So, hopefully, that answers the question about what a flash, flashbots is at a high level, and why do we need them? Well, we need, I wouldn't say we need them, but what flashbots does and what it hopes to do, is basically democratize MeV, so allow anyone to basically have access to MeV, and do Mev stuff. I have mixed opinions about this. I think that it's MeV, generally, long term, is very toxic. I think that we should be minimizing MEV as much as possible, democratized or not. It's still shitty. So, I don't really think that we need flashbots. I just think that it is probably, you know, a marginal improvement on, you know, on Mev being done by just sophisticated players.
01:42:42.284 - 01:43:18.924, Speaker A: But still, long term, I hope that we don't need flashbots. I hope that we don't need anything like this. I hope that we can solve MeV, or at least minimize it to a point where it's unviable for most people to do. Second question, from my enters, I have heard there may be a cap on ETH, two validator nodes at 1 million, as not to bloat the network with excessive issuance. Just a correction there, it's not because of bloating the network with excessive issuance, it's got to do with stability of the beacon chain. So, past a certain amount of validators or validator nodes, the beacon chain can become unstable, because the networking requirements, or the bandwidth requirements get too high. So we want to keep that kind of like at a safe level.
01:43:18.924 - 01:44:27.846, Speaker A: But anyway, the question is, do you know if existing nodes could be forced out of the network, or simply a queue? As and as e two validator nodes exit, new ones are allowed in. So basically, if there was a cap, how it would work is that say there's like 60 million ETH staked, as an example here, and the cap is 30 million ETH, what would happen is that it would get rotated through, so only 30 million ETH would be staked, and actively getting paid rewards at a time, and then like, and then there'll be 60 million total staked, but then it would rotate through the other 30 million. So technically, all 60 million is being rotated through, but the active set is only 30 million ETH. And this the reason I say ETH is just an easy example, but really it means validators. So there would only be like 50% of the validators that are active, being kind of like, sorry, that are online being active at any given time, but it would still, everyone would still kind of get a turn there to kind of like, validate and you could still exit and enter just as normal here. And the third question, what are some good use cases that nfts built on ETH can, could do in the future? Nfts are a broad category. Lots of people think about them as like collectibles and in game items and stuff like that.
01:44:27.846 - 01:45:00.814, Speaker A: But nfts can represent any unique asset. So you could have an NFT for an insurance plan. So say you have an insurance kind of like product with Nexus mutual, something like that. And it's a unique thing. You can nft that and you can maybe use that as collateral in some kind of money market if someone wants to take that on. So there's those kind of use cases, I think bringing just general more utility to nfts and doing things like being able to hold an NFT and have special access to something or pops pops nfts, right. Being able to vote in governance based on how much pops you have and stuff like that.
01:45:00.814 - 01:45:21.058, Speaker A: So there's a lot more kind of stuff that's coming to nfts. But yeah, just because I'm running out of time here, I just want to leave it at that. But yeah, just don't sleep on the utility of nfts. It's, there's a lot of stuff happening there. So monkey King asks, believe in ETH long term, and sorry, he believes in ETH long term. He doesn't plan on selling. Have a stack just sitting doing nothing.
01:45:21.058 - 01:45:55.030, Speaker A: Been waiting for rocket pool to launch. But at this point, I'm tired of not earning yield on my ETH. Deciding between depositing in alchemyx ETH vault or staking in lido. Could you describe your thought process if you were deciding between these options or if you have a better alternative to passively earn yield on ETH? Again, yield farming generally just about how much risk you want to take. I would consider that the Alchemix ETH vault to be more risky than staking on Lido. I love Alchemyx, but I mean, they vault just had an exploit recently, so yeah, it's obviously more risky. Staking with Lido is definitely not like staking on your own.
01:45:55.030 - 01:46:41.156, Speaker A: It's definitely, I wouldn't call it like, I mean, I would say it's centralized in the fact that like, you're basically doing it through a distributed service where your stake is going to staking providers rather than staking on your own. So yeah, essentially I would say that that would be, I guess like riskier than just staking on your own. So if I was deciding between these, I would stake on my own. Like, that's what I've done, I've staked on my own. But then if I couldn't stake on my own, I probably would go through Lido or some other kind of provider, you know, if a lot of people don't have 32 e, so I understand that you can't stake on your own. Um, but, you know, I know rocket pool is taking forever to kind of launch, and I'm hoping when they do, it's actually decentralized and, you know, it lives up to everyone's kind of, like, hype around it and things like that. Um, but, you know, other ways that I would passively earn yield on my ETH.
01:46:41.156 - 01:47:01.630, Speaker A: I mean, sure, I would use the Alchemix ETH vault when it's more battle tested. Uh, I would put my ETH into something like the. The curve steth pool, which is paying out some yield there. I would use my ETH as collateral to borrow stable coins. That's, again, riskier, um, to go yield farm. So there is a lot of things you can do, but it's all about how much risk you want to take on, just like, anything in Defi, really. And I.
01:47:01.630 - 01:47:47.310, Speaker A: And I really do want to stress that it's just, the risk is just, like, the first thing that comes to my head. It's like, okay, what's the risk? You know, what are the chances I'm going to get rug pulled or I'm going to lose my funds here? Because I spent, like, a lot of time stacking my ETH, and I don't want to be losing it in some kind of thing just for, like, some small amount of yield at the end of the day. All right, so Apollo of the sun asks, what are your thoughts on projects like Litentree that aim at tackling decentralized identity management? Do you think it is possible to manage decentralized identities without requiring large amounts of capital, but to be staked? I haven't heard of this project before, actually. This is a first to me. I haven't haven't heard of a project, so I'll definitely look that up after the AMA. But essentially, decentralized identity is, like, the. One of the holy grails of blockchain technology, and I think that it can be done.
01:47:47.310 - 01:48:22.840, Speaker A: I'm not sure. I'm not an expert on this. There's a lot of projects tackling this right now, like proof of humanity, Idina. I think there's one even built on bitcoin that's tackling this and things like ens, which aren't decentralized identity, but they provide you with like a way to identify your Ethereum address, if you're happy with doing that. So I think that, I think we definitely do need a way to have identity on, I guess, like Ethereum, not in a way that doxes people, but in a way that basically allows people to prove who they are essentially right. So, you know, build an on chain reputation, so to speak. And this would be useful for things like on chain credit scores and all that sort of stuff.
01:48:22.840 - 01:49:32.706, Speaker A: So yeah, generally long term bullish on it, but don't know enough about it to have like a, too, too much of an informed opinion here. So Jan asked, have the recent rug pools with ETH, two staking pools changed people's opinions that decentralization and trust essentials is not essential, but only a nice to have. This is a funny question, because the rug pools, I guess, that you're seeing, or like the hacks or, or whatever generally that you're seeing out there, this is just like the dark side to staking with a provider in that once you kind of stake with them, you're at the mercy of whatever they do. Even if you don't give up your keys, even if you're like just delegating your stake to them, they can do whatever they want with your stake. They can get you slashed, they can go offline, they can do whatever. So from that perspective, I personally, and I'm in the position that I have more than 32 weeks, so I can obviously stake on my own, but I personally wouldn't use any of these staking solutions even if I had less than 32 ETH, because to me the risk isn't worth it. Now, if I was like, if I had to, if I had a gun in my head, I would use a centralized exchange because they are fully insured, right? And I'm talking like Coinbase, I'm not all kraken.
01:49:32.706 - 01:50:20.966, Speaker A: I'm not talking binance. I would never touch binance with my, with my heath, but Coinbase or Kraken, I would kind of like use them if I had to. But, but generally I think that, you know, you know, the, the kind of opinion around decentralization and trustlessness of pools not being essential, but only a nice to have. I mean, sure, centralized kind of staking is just by definition not decentralized in any way or trustless in any way because you're always delegating your stake to a third party or you're giving them your keys or whatever, and I totally understand why people do that. If they have less than 32 ETH, that's fine. But I'm hoping things like rocket pool succeed at what they're trying to do, and I'm hoping more projects kind of, like, pop up around that and, you know, more kind of like trustless staking pools pop up that allow people to do this without having to risk their ETH. So PG fastpants.
01:50:20.966 - 01:51:04.898, Speaker A: That's a funny name. PJ Fastpants asks a question regarding 1559 in sharding. When we get 64 shards that increases capacity by 64 x, does that mean if demand then also increases by 64 x, that 64 x more ETH will be burned? I mean, yes, if demand goes up 64 x, then, I mean, it's probably not gonna be a one to one mapping, but that more ETH is gonna get burned. At the end of the day, I don't think that demand is gonna go up 64 x, though, because, like, I think a lot of the shards at the beginning are gonna be ghost towns because people want to be on the same shard as other people. And L2 is gonna be basically whatever the L2s are gonna be. I guess using the shards focus, shards are just gonna be data availability. Layers is going to be where the fee revenue is generated.
01:51:04.898 - 01:51:41.296, Speaker A: So you might have, like, the majority of these shards being essentially ghost towns where no fees are being generated. Then you're going to have a handful of them where lots of fees are being generated. But, yes, the fact that we have more capacity, and if the, you know, I guess, like transactions, or at least the demand were to 64 x, then, yes, more ETH would be burned. So that's like, I guess, kind of the straightforward answer to that. And the final one from anto 20 again here, once sharding is implemented, will that change anything for validator nodes? Will we need more nodes to handle those extra shards? No, I don't believe so. It will have more. You'll have more load on your validator because you'll now be validating the shards.
01:51:41.296 - 01:52:20.054, Speaker A: But the way it works is that no validator is validating all shards at once. You get randomly shuffled through them, and over time, you just work through them, but you only have to keep, I believe, the state for, like, one of them or parts of the state for one of them. Vitalik's got a few blog posts around this, and I believe he did a podcast, maybe recently on this with someone, or at least there was some kind of sharding podcast. I think epicenter did one from Dan Cradd from the Ethereum foundation, if you want to go listen to that. But, yeah, essentially there will be some extra load on the validator nodes and more than there is with the beacon chain. But we won't need more nodes. I think there's already enough to handle the sharding from what I've seen.
01:52:20.054 - 01:52:49.430, Speaker A: All right, so I think actually, one more here from knowledge fight in the kind of, like, discord channel here. Thoughts on Andre's fud tweet earlier regarding 1559 and ETH? Two. So, yeah, I mean, Andre posted this tweet. If I go to the general channel yards, let me scroll through where he said 1559 and ETH to scare me. I think their impact to the economic policy is understated. Don't know if good or bad, but either way will be a significant change. Tread cautiously.
01:52:49.430 - 01:53:11.364, Speaker A: There's no substance in this tweet. I mean, I love Andre, but he didn't really say anything here. He just basically issued caution, which is fine. You should also always be cautious around new protocol upgrades, especially major ones. And we should obviously, you know, the only way to get, like, the results and to measure their. Their performance and the measure their effectiveness is to get them on main net. So I think that, you know, there's always a risk involved, but I don't think Andre was saying much there.
01:53:11.364 - 01:54:16.262, Speaker A: So I quite literally would love to think that he was spreading a little bit of fud, but I would love to see him actually expand on that tweet and actually say what his concerns are rather than just putting out, like, a tweet with no kind of, I guess, um, I guess, substance there. And then knowledge fight said, as a follow up, what do you see as being our biggest challenges to overcome before the merge? Um, I would say that maybe not before the merge, but leading up to the merge, uh, I think the biggest challenge would be just keeping maybe miners happy enough until the merge happens because there could be some perverse incentives there where miners say, okay, well, I'm about to lose all of my revenue. What can I do to kind of, like, screw with the chain? Or, you know, what can I do to kind of, like, extract the maximum amount of value here? Or what can I do to essentially, I guess, like, fork off the Ethereum network and create, like, a. Another fork of Ethereum where I can earn some free money? So maybe that's something that we have to, I guess, pay attention to. But other than that, I think the merge should be pretty straightforward and things for most people, or the majority of people shouldn't really change. Because the way the merge works is that essentially we're just ripping out proof of work for proof of stake. We're not changing anything on the ETH one network.
01:54:16.262 - 01:54:39.870, Speaker A: Fundamentally, we're just making it so that it's validated by the staking validators rather than the miners. So, yeah, I guess that would be the biggest concern leading up. Leading up to the merge there. But, yeah. Okay, that's everything from my sheet and from the Discord channel. Does anyone have any last questions from the audience? Otherwise, I'm going to wrap it up for this week. All right.
01:54:39.870 - 01:54:50.732, Speaker A: Yeah, I've just got one. Go for it. Go for it. Yeah. When? 1100, mate. Where's Aaron? He said he was gonna be in here. Has he been locked out of the channel? Maybe I.
01:54:50.732 - 01:55:10.514, Speaker A: Maybe I missed that in the. In the Discord channel. Um, I don't know. I'm not gonna say that 1100 is not gonna happen, because then if I'd say that, people are gonna come back to this and say, what do you mean it happened and Aaron was right. You're wrong. For those who don't know, Aaron's this guy in the prices channel who has been calling for 1100 ETH for a couple of weeks. And.
01:55:10.514 - 01:55:26.674, Speaker A: And today he said that, oh, no, I'm actually all in on ETH now. I've turned bullish. I'm like, okay, it's become a bit of a meme, so it's actually pretty funny. But, yeah, I don't know. Maybe we get there, maybe we don't. Who knows? I know if we go to 1100, I'll actually be buying a lot of ETH there. That's for sure.
01:55:26.674 - 01:55:46.916, Speaker A: All right. Well, yes. Thank you, everyone, for listening in on another ama here. And for all of your questions. I really enjoyed it if you just came in late or if. I guess if anyone who's missed it, this will be recorded and uploaded to YouTube tomorrow, and we'll have another one of these in two weeks. I'll make sure that I increase the capacity of the channel as well so people don't get locked out.
01:55:46.916 - 01:55:54.904, Speaker A: That has never happened before. So bullish for the daily way Ama series, for sure. So, yeah, once again, thanks, everyone. I hope you have a good day. Night, morning, wherever you are.
01:55:55.484 - 01:56:00.348, Speaker B: Let's all donate to get coins so there's enough money for premium version of discord.
01:56:00.516 - 01:56:11.944, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah, actually, I should look into buying that, actually. But, yeah, if you haven't donated on Gitco coin, generally go do that yet. Not just to deliwe, but to everyone. Just a reminder there, but, yeah. Thanks, everyone. I'll see you all in the next one.
