00:00:00.160 - 00:00:16.278, Speaker A: Luna and UST. So you're kind of just talking about these systems that have virtuous cycles on the way up, and then maybe the opposite occur on the way down. Can you just walk? Folks who might not be familiar with what exactly is the relation? Like, what is UST, what's the relationship with Luna and what happened right now? Like, why have we seen de pegging?
00:00:16.366 - 00:01:02.754, Speaker B: Yep. So, okay, so it's sort of a complex system, but it's useful to just understand sort of the theory behind different stablecoin mechanisms. There's three, I would say, broad based categories of stablecoins. One is where there's collateral, but the collateral is not on the blockchain. So this is like USDC, this is tether. This is where the collateral is held by some central entity off the system. And then you can redeem the stablecoin that's on the blockchain for cash that's just in a bank account off the blockchain.
00:01:02.754 - 00:01:41.202, Speaker B: So those systems are relatively simple conceptually. The problem is, of course, that there's a central entity that controls all that collateral. The second type is where the collateral is actually held on the blockchain. This is what the maker dao system does. So it's fully collateralized stablecoin, but all the collateral can be visualized and seen on the blockchain, and it's not controlled by a central entity. So it's decentralized in the sense that there's not one single entity that in theory could freeze the collateral or seize the collateral or something like that. But it's a trickier system to reason about.
00:01:41.202 - 00:03:03.110, Speaker B: It's just a little bit more complex, and it's harder to build, it's harder to scale, but it's a lot more resilient than the first type. Then there's kind of a third type that people generally refer to as seniorage or algorithmic stablecoins. And this is where the peg is backed up. So there's the stablecoin itself, and then there's a secondary asset that sort of represents an interest in the stablecoin system, and it kind of acts as collateral of last resort for that stablecoin. It's important for the market cap of that collateral to stay above the market cap of the stablecoin. And the idea here is you can always redeem the stablecoin for $1 worth of the underlying, and you can redeem the underlying for $1 of the stablecoin. And so in that way, if the stablecoin ever goes above a dollar or below a dollar, you have arbitrageurs that do this collateral exchange and can make a profit.
00:03:03.110 - 00:04:11.944, Speaker B: And the further it goes off peg, the larger those arbitrageurs stand to earn. So if it goes off the peg by 1%, an arbitrageur can earn 1%. If it goes off by 99%, an arbitrager, in theory, if it gets back to the peg, stands to make a 100 x return, right? So you kind of increase reward as the peg becomes undone, and you're increasing risk, in a sense, for the arbitrageurs. What's tricky about this system, and in the case of terra luna, is that the collateral is highly correlated with the success of the stablecoin. So in the case of a system like Makerdao, Dai has lots of different collateral assets. They're all crypto, so they're all broadly correlated on some level. But it doesn't have MKR, like the maker token, as the collateral in the system.
00:04:11.944 - 00:05:27.754, Speaker B: So one way to view Terra Luna is it's sort of like the Luna token really only exists in a way to act as collateral or senior edge shares, whatever you want to call it, for that UST stablecoin. So what we found out here is that the problem is that when those two assets are correlated, as the pay gets undone, people lose faith in the system, and so the price of Luna drops. And as the price of luna drops, it becomes harder and harder to use that collateral to restore the peg. And it's like a confidence loop. So because the two assets are correlated, and you really depend on Luna retaining value in order for UST to be sort of backed or collateralized, you just see this feedback loop. Whereas people lose confidence in one, they lose confidence in the other. And so if these two things were sort of uncorrelated, it might have a better chance of working.
00:05:27.754 - 00:06:39.160, Speaker B: In this case, there's not enough Luna, in a sense, to redeem for UST, and then in that case, the UST isn't really backed. Now, on top of all this mechanism I'm talking about, which is sort of the algorithmic stablecoin mechanism, there's also a foundation collecting tens of thousands of bitcoin to back the system. So it's partially algorithmic and partially offline collateralized, sort of in a USDC or tether style capacity. But the problem is that that offline collateral wasn't, I don't think it is significant enough here to backstop the entire system. So you have this kind of partial collateralization, and then you have this algorithmic backing, but neither of them is sort of big enough here. So, I mean, it's. And just to time stamp this, I mean, it's May 11 in the morning, so this is very much, like, happening right now.
00:06:39.160 - 00:06:53.374, Speaker B: I don't want to talk like it's 100% done, but it does feel like these unwind has these kind of irreversible confidence game effects at play.
