00:00:06.250 - 00:00:54.186, Speaker A: So kind of moving on to another topic that I think is really, really interesting. It's been a topic that's been obviously in the news during over the last couple of years as people are kind of adapting to new ways of working. Kind of in parallel to that, I think maybe a little bit quieter has been this kind of innovation of kind of the future of work and people building and doing things in a permissionless fashion on Ethereum. So I wanted to invite Tina from the Station team to come and give a chat about kind of the work that's being done both at Station and just kind of broader in the ecosystem and just sort of like kind of what is happening in the space and how Ethereum is impacting it. So Tina, without further ado, I'd love to kind of welcome you to the stage and feel free to share your video unmute and yeah, it'd be awesome to go from here. There you go. Hey Tina, good to have you here.
00:00:54.368 - 00:00:55.642, Speaker B: Great to see you.
00:00:55.776 - 00:01:03.698, Speaker A: Awesome. So, yeah, feel free to share your screen if you have something to share and I will get out of the way. And I'm excited to hear what you hear your presentation. We're excited about this.
00:01:03.784 - 00:01:10.084, Speaker B: Awesome. Can you see my screen okay?
00:01:10.282 - 00:01:12.310, Speaker A: Yeah, it looks great. Awesome.
00:01:12.760 - 00:02:26.620, Speaker B: Thank you so much for having me. I'm Tina. I'm one of the co founders of Station Labs and we're building a set of decentralized tooling to help contributors and Dow members coordinate and collaborate with each other more permissionlessly. So this is a very broad topic and I kind of put kind of air quotes future of work because we all know that it's been kind of abused as kind of this buzword throwing around both in the VC sphere and also kind of in ethereum and kind of wanting to start off as like what even is the future of work? And we see that definitions have evolved over time. Some people believe that the future of work is remote work, it's distributed work. There's this idea about new models of value attribution distribution, around creator economy, around gig economy, and then we have this open source ecosystem that is super close to kind of Ethereum's foundation and ESOS and generally the larger crypto ecosystem as well. So I think that honestly, it's a combination of a lot of these concepts all in one.
00:02:26.620 - 00:04:07.272, Speaker B: And I think a lot of times when we look at what's happening in ethereum, what's happening with dows, what's happening with this new class of labor, sometimes it's very easy to kind of see things in silos where these are very groundbreaking things are happening in ethereum, which oftentimes are true, but also the same movement is also happening beyond. So I think the goal of the talk is really kind of put things more contextually and really look at the current stack of kind of global distributed work and the kind of existing infrastructure to support that and kind of envision and ideate what the possibilities could be moving forward. So a big move around the future of work is really this idea of in the past we worked in offices and now we're working online, but also this idea of relationships are now becoming much more digitally native where we meet people on Twitter, we meet people on GitHub, we meet people on these digital platforms. And then because of the proof of work, it's both a very crypto native concept but also it's a concept that is prevalent in other digitally native platforms as well. Like GitHub, where you have a provenance of the work that you've done. And because of these relationship you see this kind of reflection of the offline space being reflective of these online relationships that are also very authentically built based on what you've done on the internet. And the reason why we're all here right now at ETH Global is because of this distributed network Ethereum.
00:04:07.272 - 00:05:29.220, Speaker B: And now people are gathering in real life and offline and offline kind of discussing topics that unite us. And really kind of one framework that I really like to think about is actually through the lens of urban design because why we need cities. I really love this book called Order without Design by Elaine Bertold and he kind of talks about how cities are essentially labor markets. And one quote that resonates with both myself and also a lot of other dao leaders and founders in this space are really kind of thinking about the ethereum and also generally dows as a labor market, as a city. So what does a city need? So we have a well functioning labor market, brings together people with varied but complementary knowledge and skills, the preconditions for innovation and a well functioning labor market also makes possible every other urban attraction like orchestra, museums and art galleries. So we are already seeing that kind of the early glimpses of that in crypto and in Ethereum ecosystem we have protocols like yearn and index co op that are very well organized and cooperative dows with a variety of different functions. The same way that in a company we have all these different functions.
00:05:29.220 - 00:07:31.036, Speaker B: But we also kind of see these urban attractions that start to emerge from that central economic activities of people producing valuable protocols, generating economic value for the ethereum ecosystem, which kind of subsequently increases the value or demand of ethereum as a participant. Just like how the value of kind of the US or the value of New York is kind of increasing the demand of people wanting to migrate into that city and ecosystem. So from urban attraction perspective, we see kind of Ethiop, which is a great social dow throwing events in real life in Ottawa, California, which actually completely, I think, changes the town's perception of crypto. And now I am aware that recently they also received like a 13,000 donation to kind of spin up another more ongoing initiative on the local level to have kind of more crypto communities to gather and meet in real life in Idawild, which is kind of a crazy impact on the real world economy if you think about it. And then there's DAOs, like bright moments where they're hosting events, exhibitions, shows inspired by their collections of NFTs. And really, their NFTs are great, and they're beautiful, but it's very clear also that it's much more beyond the artwork itself, where these artworks are just collections of identities, where people who have the same kind of artwork from the same city could find and discover one another and then go to these events and actually see each other in person. So if we look at Ethereum as this new city, then we already kind of saw this kind of early glimpse of we have complementary skill sets and we have some cultural events that are happening as we know.
00:07:31.036 - 00:08:43.252, Speaker B: It's still super early and many people are complaining about how this space is generally inaccessible for most people. And activities and economic kind of engine haven't really been started before. We really can onboard majority of the and more people into the space and benefiting from this ecosystem. Trying to go a little bit more philosophical and look at the dimensionality of work here where what is actually work and what does work consist of. And I will say that there's like a few dimensions that we want to kind of use as a framework to look at where we are in the digital labor space and where we are for specifically Ethereum. So for work we have tasks, we have mobilization which is a group of people completing tasks and doing things towards the same goal. And as you build this meaningful relationship with the people that you work with you're developing this sense of belonging, this sense of identity and as you slowly discover these places of belonging you also actualize and really find out kind of what you are called for.
00:08:43.252 - 00:09:54.220, Speaker B: And these are the concepts that should be familiar with anybody who has studied either urban design or just design in general to understand. These are the different. Some like to use the framework like Marslow hierarchy of needs and others just like to kind of stay a little bit more abstract. But if we actually look at the intersections of a lot of these themes we start to see different shapes of work that is happening both within crypto and outside of it. So we see git economy bounty boards as sitting in the intersection of mobilizing task and gig workers. We see in the intersection between mobilization and belonging as corporations and global corporations startups distributed work and also of course we're very familiar with Dows and in the intersection of belonging and actualization we traditionally have this perception of nation states and churches. But right now we see the rise of maxis and wagme culture and kind of belief systems and almost like close to kind of a religious type of state that is being formed by the formation of also token networks.
00:09:54.220 - 00:11:27.800, Speaker B: And kind of on a spectrum we see kind of on the left side being labor that is much more mercenary like all the way to labor that is much more missionary, that are driven by a shared purpose, a mission and also the value that's being created. And those values are much less monetary but more so around your sense of identity and self and what it kind of means to be a part of the network. And I think in terms of ethereum, this is a more realistic look at where we are right now. We have traders, bounty hunters, AirDrop farmers, one token and axi players kind of representing labor that's more on the opposite. On the left side of spectrum, which are tasks, more fungible tasks and labor. On the right side we have meaningful labor that's being produced which is storytelling and actually creating movement around being a bitcoin maxi or ethereum maxi and LARPing, which is an ultimate form of belief, which is role playing as in a non developer or really kind of finding this new self on the Internet. And then we have everything in between which is kind of the real infrastructure to make this a viable path to connect between the tasks and skills that can be practiced in the ethereum network and also the meaning behind and the vision of decentralization and permissionless.
00:11:27.800 - 00:13:04.392, Speaker B: And right now the reason why I grayed out the two circles in between is like these are still being built and being constructed and they're still super early in their formation. And what are they? They're the hackers, they're the product designers, they're the community stewards, funders, educators, meme perpetuators. They're the people that are actually kind of starting to realize the lack of infrastructure in the space and how it's very difficult to actually sustain their living or actually have a full time job just strictly in this token network and taking a step back to look at how the global digital labor infrastructure kind of functions. This is like super broad strokes, definitely a little bit reductionist, but really there's a few layers here on the foundational layer and the base layer. We need local laws and compliances to ensure that if I'm a worker, I'm compliant of the local labor law and also I'm getting paid in my own currency so that I can consume local goods. And then kind of in the middle there's this network that allow me to find work in the first place. And those are the toolings and marketplaces, for example upwork and recently braintrust that emerge as this flattening of the global labor market where if we analyze cities at labor market, we are now seeing that we don't really have to live in New York anymore to have access to a higher pay job.
00:13:04.392 - 00:15:26.950, Speaker B: And that is the whole idea of strife, increasing the GDP of the internet as a payment rail. And I think a lot of the messages are also true here where with these marketplaces now, if you are someone like anywhere in the world you're able to find opportunities that otherwise you have not found in your local market. And in order to actually coordinate people from different time zones, we're now seeing productivity tools like GitHub notion telegram emails, very standard boilerplate tools now both in crypto and outside of it being that coordination rail. But if we look at a decentralized digital labor infrastructure versus a centralized global digital labor infrastructure, what is different and what are the possibilities here? Which I think is the most fun to think about? Like if now the topic is the future of work on ethereum is that right now in absence of local laws and compliances in the absence of nation state as this enforcer and this forcing function of any type of viability and legitimacy and enforceability of agreements made between individuals in absence of that can smart contracts? Can a lot of these crypto native primitives actually play the role of providing that accountability and trustlessness between individuals nodes, individual nodes and contributors in the network? And kind of looking being a little bit more practical here, I think there's generally two approach when it comes to constructing this base layer, the crypto rails, the payment rails, which is I think the most well understood, which is embedded value distribution when you create some type of work. So that's on a very practical level that is like when you perform a task, when you finish a piece of work or a bounty, you immediately get paid in crypto or when you farm in a polygon based game, you get paid in that token immediately that can be consumed later or be staked in another protocol. These are very familiar primitive for anybody who is here. But then I think the more interesting part is really about how can we actually start to radically think about the compatibility of smart contract and IRL law.
00:15:26.950 - 00:16:49.296, Speaker B: And the other thing that's very interesting but very hard is about the enforceability. Like in absence of legal infrastructure, can we actually enforce some type of outcome and consequences when agreements have been violated? And this is like I think the least talked about. There are a few groups like Lexdow and Workdow that have emerged that are kind of solving that problem. But really, I think we're still super early in that development of finding the right kind of legal frameworks that both work on chain to create that record and trustless feature of law, but also being able to be backward. Compatibility so that it can still remain compliant for local laws, if that's the desired outcome, which I believe it is for many crypto organizations, irregardless of their status around Anonymization and Pseudonymity. And then the more interesting and exciting part really lies in this idea of identity so when you are a labor and you're a contributor on ethereum and within this web3 ecosystem, you have a wallet. What does that even mean as now you have an identity that's completely different from the one that has been defined by traditional nation state and laws that have been constructed in the past.
00:16:49.296 - 00:18:12.460, Speaker B: We don't no longer have a passport, we don't have an ID. So your ID really is kind of the activities that have been associated with the wallet. So there's some ideas here that I think this deck was made in the past 48 hours and really it was like a quick just very early thinking around the ideas, around the possibilities that can enable by Wallace entry future. So we have protocol driven marketplaces here, meaning that with the presence of something like uniswap or pseudoswap, the idea of having a set interface in a centralized platform is less attractive. Like in reality, if you were to think about a more liquid labor marketplace, it could potentially be more decentralized and really be driven and the incentives really be driven by the protocol with kind of players incentivized players helping. Verify the quality of labor and the refers helping curate the network of talent as well, where it's less so about the platform, but more about the individuals that are actually curating a talent marketplace, which is a very exciting future. And then we have the idea of when you participate actively in the protocol and when you actively participate in a Dow, how that onchain action actually broadcasts to the entire network and that becomes your reputation that we've traditionally been outsourced to a lot of web two platforms like LinkedIn or Upwork.
00:18:12.460 - 00:19:39.540, Speaker B: And then the other interesting things are like blurring lines between selves and groups. So as an individual and as an individual who possesses a wallet, you can sometimes also represent a Dow. And the idea of being wallet centric kind of creates a possibility of one person creating six and seven wallets and representing different selves in different groups, group identity if you also have a multi signature wallet. And of course it's this kind of absolute upset kind of ownership over your work history and provenance, which is a lot of times not true right now, but the possibility of it is immense. When what does it mean philosophically when you actually have true ownership of a lot of the things that you've done on chain? And the last piece which is very interesting is like when in a traditional corporation, you get onboarded, you become a worker, an employee of this company and that means that you have the permissions and access to its set of tools, benefits and all the implications of someone becoming an employee. But what does that mean when someone becomes a member of many Dows and many communities? And how does that status translate between tools and tools? As we are moving into this more multi client future with protocol kind of at the center. And then of course with the coordination rails also will look different when the lines between organizations start to blur.
00:19:39.540 - 00:20:40.120, Speaker B: Like, we see pods as a very popular concept, like popularized by orca protocol, now called metropolis, where we see this idea of your self identity being represented by a pod that's registered on chain and that kind of gives you access to a bunch of different again, like, other tools or information that otherwise you do not have access to. So looking at this whole stack, we see actually a lot of fragmentation across the whole stack. So right now we kind of see this fragmentation of identity and reputation and knowledge because a lot of the work is still being performed in web two platforms. So that after you write amazing posts on discourse that post. Would not be associated with your identity when you move to another platform. And the lack of data interoperability is a part of that issue. We see a lack of accountability, meaning that if a bunch of pseudonymous people are working together, there's really no way to enforce that something is going to happen.
00:20:40.120 - 00:21:31.908, Speaker B: And the consequences it's very hard to enforce. And even if we have accountability mechanism when there's dispute, aragon actually did a lot of innovation here where they have a dispute court called Claros. I think actually Claro is another project, but they basically create decentralized dispute resolution kind of channels. But right now those channels are not properly incentivized either. So that there's still, I think, a lot to be done there and we're still super early in this future, but without these very core infrastructure, I think we're still pretty far from kind of entering to this future. But with that said, some teams and some people are already living in the future and then we have some examples here. So on the base layer, these are examples of escrow contract and backward compatible contract that are created by Lexdow.
00:21:31.908 - 00:22:26.780, Speaker B: They're super dope like strongly recommend taking a look. We have identity layer that is being designed by teams like Guild and some other teams being mentioned here. Really the idea is that once you are part of a dao, then that identity of yours can be carried to any other applications that you interact with on the blockchain, on ethereum. And then we have a coordination layer which really is about embedding incentives when you perform a piece of work. And Gitcoin is a great example. There's already a talk on Gitcoin that was amazing, that talked about how the Gitcoin's vision is really building this open grants protocol where the kind of number of reviewers of grants are kind of scale linearly with the people that are applying for grants, that are designing grants. So there's some very exciting feature there.
00:22:26.780 - 00:23:41.168, Speaker B: And then we have tools that are very tactical, like Wonderverse, which is building a bounty board where after you perform a task you automatically get paid as well by the work you do with very granular with the very granular abilities. You get attributed both credit and also rewards and putting a lot of things together and kind of shared a little bit towards the end of what we've been building at Station. Really kind of how we've been. Thinking about this is protocol at the center and really think about what are the universal data structures that can be leveraged both by us but also by others to build different type of creative clients to establish these trustful relationship on chain. And on the client side, we have a very friendly app that allows anybody to propose to another person to work together in web3. So if I know your ENS address, I can send it to you and be like, hey, do you want to work on this together and define the terms of how the payment will be issued? Like milestones splits vice. Versa and then sign it to prove that there's this public verifiable record on IPFS that people can refer to if were a agreement were to be breached.
00:23:41.168 - 00:24:35.168, Speaker B: And then when those activities start to emerge, when people work together in the use cases of, let's say, creator economy, like someone wants to engage a community of fans or in the case of a dow where they're looking to sponsor 100 developers to go on top of their protocol and also involving the community in decision making process. We're seeing this emergent network of projects, protocols, contributors, voters that are all participants of this network that actually built a more decentralized reputation system that ideally in the future can replace KYC, which crypto has a very ambiguous relationship with. So that's the end. Thank you so much for having me. I had a blast just talking through the very philosophical lens of the future of work on Ethereum. We can jump into any questions or ideas.
00:24:35.344 - 00:24:55.388, Speaker A: Yeah, sure. Awesome. Thank you so much tina, I appreciate you jumping through everything with us and yeah, that was awesome. I think you touched on so many of the different, I think, opportunities for where this could be headed. And I think it's still very early. And I think at the end there, you kind of tied it up with what is some of the current work that's being done in the space. And even that work, frankly, is very early.
00:24:55.388 - 00:26:01.388, Speaker A: I think there's a lot of opportunity for new things to happen in this space and yeah, if anybody has any questions, feel free to drop them in the chat. And in the meantime, I'll jump into some of the ones that I had going through this. I guess from my perspective with Dows in particular, one of the main things that I've seen as requests from Dows is basically, for lack of a better way of putting it, like know people that are smart, that are capable joining those DAOs and being able to execute things on behalf of the Dao. I know, you talked a little bit about how we're kind of adding more structure into DAOs which will also kind of help run those more efficiently and I think also Scott mentioned that as well as part of his presentation earlier today. On the public good side, I guess it seems like to me the early experimentation there is more on that. If you had that kind of four Ven diagram image that you had more on the kind of tasks and very early piece, what would you recommend right now to Dows that are kind of like what should they basically change structurally so that they can move up a rank on that list of Ven diagrams?
00:26:01.484 - 00:27:00.096, Speaker B: That's a great question. I also touched very briefly about on this in a talk where we start to see Pots being a very popular structure among DAOs as like a subgroup sub working group. There's different names to it but really it's just a group of people working together within the Dao and kind of give them the autonomy to make decisions kind of in a more centralized way without compromising on the decentralized nature of the entire organization. So it's almost like there's some level of centralization on a local level but keep the global level of the organization more decentralized to ensure that there's diversity of thoughts and opinions and no power is actually being over concentrated on the top. But in terms of day to day operations we all know that if it's truly decentralized nothing gets done and not all decisions need consensus. So it's much more frequent. Now we see very centralized, almost like mini startups that operate within the Dow that kind of resemble this Pot like or working group like structure.
00:27:00.288 - 00:27:28.892, Speaker A: Awesome. Yeah, I definitely noticed that. That's been sort of a pretty consistent theme even just through the work that I was doing as being like an optimism delegate, like moving from just like everybody reviews all proposals to now they have working groups as of this iteration recently. I know Gitcoin's done a lot of work in here. ENS has done a lot of work here too. It's been really exciting to see. I have a bit of a prop but I'm not going to force you to speak on it but I just saw this really interesting tweet this morning.
00:27:28.892 - 00:27:53.476, Speaker A: Not during the presentation, I swear I was paying attention. A tweet from Shreyas who helps run Llama that hundreds of people today, some pseudonymous, are earning a full time income working for open source protocols, getting paid in open source money, often gaining ownership over governance decisions in these protocols. This is actually wild and underrated. I think. This is also very wild and underrated. I agree with him here. I'm not going to ask if you agree or not.
00:27:53.476 - 00:28:29.260, Speaker A: I know I'm putting you on the spot there but I think part of the opportunity is that outcome right for everybody where they're able to kind of participate in such a way and get access to permissionless, money, permissionless work, and just be able to be part of this ecosystem. You could speak to that if you want to speak to it, but if not, then kind of my main question was just sort of like he said, hundreds of people. For that to be thousands of people or tens of thousands of people, they need access to kind of resources and things to kind of understand the space a lot better. What are some of the kind of resources that come to mind and places to start for people who are interested in having that outcome?
00:28:29.420 - 00:29:33.444, Speaker B: Totally. I think back to the city analogy, I feel like we first need companies to be built in the cities, like, create the economic create jobs to actually have kind of people migrating to the city. So I think we're still so early in that process of just not enough protocols that are profitable exist to generate enough value for them to employ kind of new talent. But outside of that, I think a lot of the things that we mentioned in the presentation still hold true, where some of the base layer, like the financial legal infrastructure, the financial is the easiest part in crypto, but the legal also is one of the hardest. It's like, how can we be Batwort compatible at the same time? Leveraging the power of smart contracts to automate a lot of these traditional, very costly processes that are really hindering a lot of these developing markets to tap into what America's legal system, despite having a lot of flaws, still enable, which is a very powerful system for capitalism to shine, to kind of enable those economic opportunities for more countries as well.
00:29:33.642 - 00:29:48.964, Speaker A: Amazing. Very cool. Well, thank you so much for answering my questions there. I didn't see any new questions come in on the chat, but I did see a lot of great presentations. This is interesting. Excited about this. So thank you so much for being a part of this, Tina, and for joining us for this chat.
00:29:48.964 - 00:30:02.864, Speaker A: And, yeah, if anybody else wants to chat with you in a different place, feel free to drop your Twitter handle or give you the shout out so that people know where to find you. Go where? Where do we find you?
00:30:03.062 - 00:30:08.320, Speaker B: You can find me on Twitter. I'm fkpxls fake pixels, but without the vowels.
00:30:09.700 - 00:30:12.944, Speaker A: Awesome. Okay, cool. Thank you so much, Tina. Really appreciate you.
00:30:13.062 - 00:30:13.776, Speaker B: Thank you.
00:30:13.878 - 00:30:15.740, Speaker A: Enjoy the rest of your day. Bye.
