00:00:00.240 - 00:00:24.526, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the deliberate refuel, where we cap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Dan. This is the 10 May 2022. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So I think you all know what I'm going to be talking about for probably the next 1015 minutes. And that is the absolute craziness that went on over the last 24 hours. I guess like not in the Ethereum ecosystem, but like in the crypto ecosystem more broadly.
00:00:24.526 - 00:00:47.532, Speaker A: Now if you've been living under a rock over the last 24 hours, you won't know what I'm talking about. But the TRDR is that the UST stablecoin basically imploded on itself. It went to like sixty cents. I think it, it bottomed out at, I think it's currently $0.90. So it's still off peg. And it imploded exactly the way pretty much everyone said it would. Now the reason why this was crazy is because it took the rest of the market with it.
00:00:47.532 - 00:01:25.556, Speaker A: There was a lot of contagion risk here. Um, the, some of the reserves that were kind of like set up to make sure USD got off peg included bitcoin. So BTC, which was sold, I think there was a billion and a half worth of BTC sold to try and defend the peg. There are a lot of other kind of bigger players buying into it, trying to defend the peg and selling off other assets like the other not over the last 24 hours, but I think a couple of days ago jump, which is a prop trading firm within, within crypto sold like a lot of ETH to try and kind of like keep that peg stable there. And yeah, it just didn't work. There was just too much sell pressure. The Luna token went down over 50%, you know, over the last 24 hours.
00:01:25.556 - 00:01:51.046, Speaker A: Just a crazy kind of like volatility there for that ecosystem. And as I said, it's still not back to peg. Confidence is completely lost in it, in my eyes. Like people are trying to equate us t with USDt saying, oh, USdt. The being tether has lost its peg in the, in the past and it's been fine, but they're two completely different things to me. Right? I mean, UST is what we call an algorithmic stable coin. USDT is just a centralized stable coin with kind of like assets backing it.
00:01:51.046 - 00:02:22.942, Speaker A: Now whether those assets exist or not has always been a debate over the years in crypto, but you know, maybe in USDT's kind of like case, it helps that no one really knows. Right. So, but, but they're just completely different kind of like things there. So what I wanted to kind of like focus on was a few different things got to do with this. Uh, in terms of kind of like being kind of like uh, diving deeper into all the mechanisms behind UST and how it all works and all that sort of stuff. I'm not going to go through that today. I'm going to direct you to this blog post here that you can read from M hon Kald sallow.
00:02:22.942 - 00:02:54.828, Speaker A: I hope, I hope I said that right. Um, it's basically just like a short blog post going through what happened to UST and kind of like how it all works. So definitely recommend giving this a read. I'll link it in YouTube description for you below there. But one thing I really wanted to focus on was this kind of like trend that doesn't just exist within crypto, obviously, but it's pretty pronounced in crypto of these kind of like cults of personality, right. And I think I've spoken about this on the refill before, but crypto loves their cults of personality. They love the, especially the first cyclists, the kind of like noobs.
00:02:54.828 - 00:03:29.902, Speaker A: They love looking for someone that's kind of like promising them all these things usually got to do with making money and just like completely latching onto that. Now a few examples of this. It's like Charles Hodgkinson, right, from, from Cardano. Definitely a massive cult of personality around him. Danielle Sesta, before that kind of whole ecosystem exploded as part of the Frog nation. Andre Cronje with obviously his ecosystem that he was building before that imploded, there's, there's count and I guess recently do Kwon from Terra and he hasn't tweeted over the, you know, in a while now. He used, he was tweeting over the last few days like shitposting basically.
00:03:29.902 - 00:04:12.782, Speaker A: Kind of like calling everyone out, insulting everyone. And now he hasn't tweeted in a while because the thing actually imploded and probably doing damage control and all that sort of stuff there. But the theme is the same, right? There's always this kind of big personality, charismatic, extremely ego driven. That's kind of like the big trend amongst them all that manages to build a following. Maybe that's because the token that they're associated with has gone up in price and the people kind of like holding it, obviously feel richer and they're like attributing that wealth creation to this individual and then they kind of like just follow them right? And it keeps getting bigger and bigger and bigger. But pretty much every time it has ended badly. Like, I don't know of any big cult of personality within crypto that have ended well.
00:04:12.782 - 00:04:37.998, Speaker A: Like, and this isn't just kind of recently, this is like, over the years it has happened and, you know, it just never ends well. And that's why I always kind of, like, have a really big issue with this. And it's kind of hard to fight these kind of like people as well because when everything is going good and people are making money, you know, you can't speak out, they'll just gang up on you. You get, like ratioed, you get kind of less. Like, you get silenced, basically. You get kind of, like pushed down and it just. There's no motivation to speak up in that case.
00:04:37.998 - 00:05:16.024, Speaker A: That's why on Twitter I haven't really been public about my bearishness on something like Ust and how I think the mechanism was fundamentally flawed and that this scenario would exactly play out. But if you've been following what I'd saying on discord or just like privately with some of you, maybe I have been calling this out for a while now. Like, it just was obvious to me that this was going to happen. I mean, Ust is not the first algorithmic stable coin to go, you know, to deep and to go not to zero. I mean, it's not zero yet, but, like, to crash and it won't be the last. I mean, there's plenty of examples, especially from, like, defi summer of this playing out. And we kind of like, learned our lesson back then, at least the kind of like, veterans learned our lessons back then.
00:05:16.024 - 00:05:32.070, Speaker A: But a lot of the newer people, they don't, they don't know those lessons, right. All they see is number go up and they get excited and like, oh, my God, I'm making so much money. This is awesome. And they kind of buy into these narratives. And one of the big narratives around us t was that it was a truly decentralized, stable coin. And I called this out. I was like, no, it's.
00:05:32.070 - 00:05:59.390, Speaker A: It's not right. Like, it is not a truly decentralized, stable coin at all. Like, it. There's so many centralized points of failure within UsT, not just within its mechanism itself. But the terra blockchain is not decentralized like, it is basically depos with a few validators. And these validators aren't even good like I am. I saw some stability statistics around these validators today and they struggled because everyone was trying to obviously go for the exits with, with the, with the stablecoin crashing and with Luna crashing and all that sorts of stuff.
00:05:59.390 - 00:06:40.590, Speaker A: So, like, you're just taking all this together and it's just, it's, it really is crazy. Like, it's, it's crazy how, how fast this thing moved as well and how, I guess, like some entities within this ecosystem, you know, the, like, as I said, like jump and a few others out there are kind of like willing to defend this thing and willing to make sure that it doesn't explode for one reason or another. Uh, but, yeah, it's just been kind of like absolutely crazy. There's some, I mean, there's so much I could, I could talk about here and so many different directions I want to go. I want to go in. But I think the cult of personality thing is key because it happens every time, right? Every, every time one of these things gets popular, inevitably kind of like fails, and you just have to wait. Like, it's kind of like, it's not a matter of like, if it's gonna fail, it's like when.
00:06:40.590 - 00:07:17.008, Speaker A: And I'm sick of kind of like, this stuff happening. I know the ecosystem is a permissionless one and it's permissionless to build in, but, like, frankly, I'm sick of, like, sitting there just trying to build or trying to support builders of sustainable things and just getting called out for it. Like, I mean, you guys know, like, I get called an ETH maxi all the time. Anytime I kind of, like, call it any of the other ecosystems, I get called an ETH maxi. But let's take stock here for a second, right? Solana did exactly what I said it was going to do. Not just me, but like, a lot of the people that get called ETH Maxis did exactly what we said it was going to do. It was going to buckle under the load because they don't have a fee market to regulate demand.
00:07:17.008 - 00:07:37.440, Speaker A: The network's fallen over multiple times. It has stability issues all the time. Avalanche, the sea chain. We said that the fees are going to go up with more usage because it's just a geth fork, right? It's just an EVM fork. What happened? The fees went up. Terra, obviously, we said that it was going to kind of like implode because the US T is going to implode because the mechanism behind that is fundamentally unsound. Again, that played out.
00:07:37.440 - 00:08:03.000, Speaker A: Like, I mean, I could keep going. I'm not trying to inflate my own ego here. And as I said, like, I hate these cults of personality that form around people and the egomaniacs. But like, at some point, I kind of, like, I look at it and I'm just like, like, it's not that we're trying to be right. It's not that we're trying to be like I told you so. It's that a lot of the people in the Ethereum ecosystem have been through this so many times. And we also fundamentally care about building more sustainable long term systems.
00:08:03.000 - 00:08:52.914, Speaker A: And we also realize that the more of these Ponzi's that get built and the more of them that get bigger and implode and hurt more people, the faster the regulators are coming. Guys like this is actually one thing that concerns me a lot in crypto is the kind of like regulators and how, how they'll use this as ammo against us. Like, I mean, Elizabeth Warren has been going on about stable coin risk recently, right? She's not going to differentiate between us. T Dai, USDC, Usdt. No, she's just going to look at them all the same and she's going to use this as a talking point, I would bet, to say, you know, we need to, we need to kind of regulate stable coins could look what happens when we don't. Right? And I've said before that I think that regulators have no power when we build truly decentralized systems. So that's why I'm so harsh on these systems that I consider to be not truly decentralized, because they're not going to survive a concerted regulatory onslaught.
00:08:52.914 - 00:09:22.554, Speaker A: Like, no way they're going to survive that. Because at the end of the day, the governments have a lot of power that just private people and institutions do not. Right? They have the power to do whatever they want, essentially. I know there's checks and balances and things like that. But look, crypto doesn't have a good image to the outside world. We are hated by a lot of the outside world for one reason or another. So it's very easy for these politicians to drum up support for kind of like quote unquote, banning crypto or heavily regulating it or doing any such things like that.
00:09:22.554 - 00:10:12.728, Speaker A: And then they can always just kind of like fit it into their existing regulatory kind of like framework of regulating the financial system, right? And it's gonna happen like, as I've said before, they're gonna go after the choke points, which are the fiat on ramps. They're going to go after the individuals that are doxxed and that aren't a non, like, I don't know how Doe makes it out of this without basically, I don't know, like, I don't know how he makes it out of this. He's already, like, the SEC already went after him, but I think that was more of a kind of, like, frivolous thing. I don't think that kind of, like, had much grounds to stand on, but just generally, I don't know how he kind of, like, survives this, honestly. Like, maybe he will, maybe he's like a cockroach and he'll survive, but I don't know, I kind of, like, look at that and I'm just like, he's going to get targeted now for this. Right? And same is true for pretty much everyone that's doxxed, even if they're not doing anything wrong. Like, obviously, uniswap Labs has come under regulatory scrutiny and they're not doing anything wrong in my eyes.
00:10:12.728 - 00:10:30.736, Speaker A: But this, again, is why I keep promoting truly decentralized systems. We need to build them. We can't rely on this crap anymore, guys. Like, I'm so frustrated. Like, actually, like, I'm not, I'm not angry. I'm disappointed and frustrated because of the fact that, I mean, I obviously saw this coming. And I I also know that this isn't going to be the last of it.
00:10:30.736 - 00:10:52.528, Speaker A: People are going to keep building these systems, especially when the market gets bullish again. We have a flood of new people come in. They gravitate towards these things like flies to dog shit, honestly, like, it's the same thing. They love these things. They love the ponzi's because they go up really quickly. It makes people feel really rich really quickly. And they love formulating cults of personality around the people that are leading these things.
00:10:52.528 - 00:11:25.128, Speaker A: And as I said, cults of personality aren't a, a crypto thing. They're a human thing at the end of the day. And there's plenty of this kind of, like, happening in the real world right now, especially around politicians. But I don't want to get into, like, that part of that part of it. But just generally, that, that trend in crypto is always been something that I've hated. And, you know, when you look at things like, and it's funny because some people say, oh, there's a cult of personality around, around Vitalik, it's like, no, there's not. Like, people respect Vitalik for his work for, on merit, for what he's been able to build for, for his brain, essentially.
00:11:25.128 - 00:11:48.552, Speaker A: And he doesn't, like, I mean, obviously has a coin associated with him, with ETH, but he's not on Twitter shitposting and pumping ETH and telling people to buy ETH and kind of, like, insulting other people. He's not doing any of that. He's probably never done any of that. I don't remember a time when he's kind of, like, done that. But he's taken a lot of shit over the years. But, you know, he has earned respect from pretty much everyone in this ecosystem. Like, it's, the only people who don't like him are bitcoin maximalists.
00:11:48.552 - 00:12:11.732, Speaker A: And, you know, that's for obvious reasons, but I think that there's no cult of personality around him. People just genuinely respect him. But then there's other people who just do not deserve the respect. Like, as I said, Charles Hoskinson is one of them. He, I mean, I'm not going to go on about that again, but, like, that's one there do Kwon. I mean, there's some in the Avax community, too, like Emin from Avax, the same thing and a bunch of others. Daniel Cester, Andrew Cronje.
00:12:11.732 - 00:12:26.046, Speaker A: Whether they deserve the praise or not, I'm not going to debate that. But it's always, it always ends badly. Like, it never ends well. And I think that, as I said, this isn't gonna be the end. We're gonna see more of this go on. But, like, it's just sad. It really is sad and disappointing at the end of the day.
00:12:26.046 - 00:13:01.630, Speaker A: Entertaining. I mean, at least it's entertaining, right? Like, but we're gonna have to see how it, how it kind of, like, shakes out. Because as I said, this was one of the craziest days, craziest last 24 hours that I've had in my time in crypto. I mean, I remember all the craziest days. I think for me, if I had to kind of, like, name my top five today would make it into the top five at this point. I think the other ones would be the March 2020 crash, the yam launch yearn launch, and maybe the sushi launch. Because the way I kind of, like, rank craziness is when something happens that, like, no one knows where it's going to go from here.
00:13:01.630 - 00:13:21.924, Speaker A: Like, no one can predict what's going to happen. It's all happening in real time. Everyone's focused on it. And the five that I just mentioned is what everyone was focused on. And for those of you who weren't around in March 2020, imagine the last 24 hours and what happened to Luna and USD happening to the whole market. That's what March 2020 was. That particular day in March 2020 that we call, I think, black Thursday.
00:13:21.924 - 00:13:47.506, Speaker A: That's what happened back then. It was crazy. If no one knew it was going to happen, people thought that things were literally headed to zero. It was just a crazy time there. And it's always good to kind of like reflect on these things and see what shakes out of it and like, what is actually sustainable and what actually survives. And guys, like I was saying this in the Discord channel before. Over the last twelve months, every popular narrative has basically been gone to shit.
00:13:47.506 - 00:14:08.370, Speaker A: Essentially the Alt L1 trade, completely gone to shit, right? The, oh, Ethereum is going to fail because of high fees, didn't materialize. Or l two suck. Didn't materialize. Altoos are killing it right now. They're doing better than ever. A bunch of other ones, like the algorithmic stable coin stuff, the frog nation, all that sort of stuff, it all went to shit. Whereas Ethereum is constant, Ethereum is fine.
00:14:08.370 - 00:14:50.460, Speaker A: Ethereum is chugging along just like it always has. Ethereum is more bullish than ever. ETH is more bullish than ever. And I have never been more confident in Ethereum's history than I am today. And I think that the fact that all these other things just keep failing just strengthens Ethereum at the end of the day, which is what I really like, because it just shows the ecosystem, it shows the world that Ethereum is being built to be long term sustainable. It's not playing these games. Yes, people can play these games on top of Ethereum, but Ethereum as a network, Ethereum as an ecosystem is, and kind of like the hardcore Ethereum community is focused on the long term, focused on the decades, the centuries, the sustainability into the long term, rather than these short term opportunistic gains.
00:14:50.460 - 00:15:13.210, Speaker A: And the funny thing is, even if those, these games play out on Ethereum, ETH still benefits because of the fee burn, right? We all get together, like benefit from this stuff. As I said, these are permissionless systems. You can build whatever you want on them. And I'm so glad that we have a IB 1559 implemented because of that as well. But anyway, I've been talking for 15 minutes about that. As I said, I could talk about this for a very long time. There's just so much to go through, so much happened.
00:15:13.210 - 00:15:52.838, Speaker A: But I'm going to leave it at that because there's a bunch of other interesting things that I wanted to get through today here. But as I said, if you want to learn more about kind of like what happened with UST and how it all works, definitely give this blog post a read here from, from. I'll link it in the YouTube description for you to do so, but I'm going to move on from that for now. So rule from prior labs, rule. Jordan put out a great tweet today where he, which is kind of related to what I was just saying, where he said, not fully in the loop regarding the markets, but we are heads down working on the Ethereum merge and beyond. This is one of the most exciting years in the Ethereum project's history, and sentiment has not changed for us working on this. This is exactly what I was saying.
00:15:52.838 - 00:16:24.930, Speaker A: The builders in Ethereum, their heads down, they don't give a shit about this, this stuff, right? This is all just kind of like stuff for us who kind of sit on crypto Twitter to pay attention to. It's important to learn from. But at the end of the day, like, the people who are building the future of Ethereum have much better things to focus their attention on, not just at layer one Ethereum, but L2 as well. And I'm glad that they don't get bogged down in this sort of stuff. And it actually takes like a special kind of someone to do this, to focus. Like, I actually respect the builders who can focus in crypto because it's just, there's just so much going on all the time. But their heads down, their building merge is still coming.
00:16:24.930 - 00:16:44.586, Speaker A: There's no news on the merge since I guess, like the last few refuels. But I'm sure we'll see something soon. But yeah, it's still being built out. Still kind of like stuff happening there. But great for all to put a tweet like this out today. I think it was a very timely tweet. All right, so we have another set of data from data always here today.
00:16:44.586 - 00:17:18.369, Speaker A: Who said beacon chain demand just keeps chugging along deposits near all time? High queue size increasing consensus layer is going to tick up again soon. Price is just noise. So you can see here that the validated deposits, I mean, they're still at like, what is it? Let me. It's like 18,000 pending validators right now, guys. Like, that's still crazy, right? It's been like this for, for a while now. You can see here, like how long the validator, like the validated deposits, right, from basically, I guess maybe end of February to now, maybe the beginning of March to now. And this other chart shows beacon chain estimated validator activation time.
00:17:18.369 - 00:17:49.625, Speaker A: The queue has been persistent since, since March here. And then you can see the, the churn limit. As I discussed on the refill the other day, how that churn limit, every time we reach a certain validated threshold we can kind of like get more validators in and that's going to be ticking up soon. So Cl here stands for churn limit, not consensus layer. By the way, guys, like I'm too used to using CL's consensus layer but in this case it stands for churn limit. But yeah, this is, this is really cool. I think that obviously a lot of it's going into Lidar and I've discussed that before, but there's actually some stuff coming for rocket pool that I'm going to discuss soon.
00:17:49.625 - 00:18:17.138, Speaker A: It was mentioned in the Discord Channel by Jasper, but I said to him I'll cover it once there's an official forum post. But they're making some, some moves behind the scenes to make it easier for people to onboard onto, onto rocket pool and to stake with them. So I'm super excited about that. But yeah, there's, the Ethereum staking ecosystem is so healthy right now, it's just crazy. I mean client diversity front is very healthy. Obviously we can do better on the, on the distribution of kind of like stake but we're going to work on that. That's going to come.
00:18:17.138 - 00:18:46.336, Speaker A: But yeah, I just think those is a really cool set of charts that you can check out. It'll be linked in the YouTube description. So thanks to data always for putting this together. Alright, so Starquare's Stargate alpha is now live on Mainnet. This was live on Testnet recently, but basically Stargate Alpha is essentially the quote unquote official bridge for moving assets into and out of Stocknet. So you can go check out the blog post for full details on this. But basically you can kind of check it out at Stargate Starknet IO.
00:18:46.336 - 00:19:21.776, Speaker A: You'll be able to kind of like, I guess like when you accept this, this terms of service thing here, you can kind of like log in with metamask of course, which let me see if I can just run this through for you guys quickly. Yeah, it's sassle ETH there, so metamask, I'll log into sassle ETH here. So connect in and then basically you can log into Stocknet as well by using Argent X and Braavos as well. Bravos, haven't heard of that well before but you can use Argent X to, to kind of like log in and continue with a stocknet wallet as well, which I think is what you will need. I don't have it installed but you will need that instead. Metamask here. So I can't go any further than this, but you can definitely check this out.
00:19:21.776 - 00:19:36.792, Speaker A: But it's cool to see this on, on Mainnet finally. I say finally. I think it was a testnet. When did testnet go live? I think it went live a few weeks ago. So cool to see this. Yeah, already on main net. And as I said, like the l two ecosystem just keeps chugging along, keeps building.
00:19:36.792 - 00:20:02.856, Speaker A: This stuff just keeps kind of like being deployed to, to Mainnet. And the stark ecosystem is, is growing every day. Slow and steady I think, on the l two front, but, but definitely steady. And speaking of l two s, optimism hit a transaction day record. Transactions per day record today, which is very, very cool. You can see it here on the do not analytics dashboard that the optimism network saw their most transactions in a day ever today essentially. Right.
00:20:02.856 - 00:20:28.604, Speaker A: That's an all time high right there. And I've also got the chart up here from ether scan. You can see it's just like completely moon, which is very, very cool to see. This is kind of like, I guess like a harbinger of things to come, guys, like once the, as I've said, been saying for a while now. Once these kind of like tokens get announced, the kind of like incentive programs get started. Incentive programs being liquidity mining, these l two s are really going to take off in a serious way. And it seems optimism is already doing.
00:20:28.604 - 00:20:51.542, Speaker A: So here. You know, you can see in the, in the, both the do nano leaks dashboard and also the ease, the scan kind of like chart here of that happening. And also I guess like transacting addresses per day is not an all time high, but it's holding steady as well. I expect that to go up soon. Contracts deployed per day holding steady. I mean, this is a really cool dashboard, actually. I think this has been updated since the last time I, I looked at it.
00:20:51.542 - 00:21:25.530, Speaker A: But this is a dashboard here basically all about optimism that you can kind of like go, go check out. It's got a bunch of awesome stats on everything happening here. I mean, wow, there's a lot of stats here. Definitely been updated since the last time I checked this. So I'll link this in the YouTube description for you to check out, but obviously great to see optimism growing here and I hope that continues. Alright, so compound announced this yesterday where the compound treasury has received a b credit rating from s and p global ratings. This makes compound treasury the first institutional defi offering to be rated by a credit rating agency.
00:21:25.530 - 00:22:02.110, Speaker A: This is pretty cool. Someone made a joke in the replies here that this rating is junk status. You can see here b minus is a highly speculative, which is considered junk. But I mean, what would you expect from a crypto treasury to be rated, right? Obviously it's going to be rated at a kind of like highly speculative rating. But I don't think that takes away from the point that this is a big step forward. This is the first time that an institutional DeFi offering has been rated by one of these kind of like traditional credit rating agencies. So again, just continuing the trend of defi entering, I guess, like the mainstream consciousness and entering kind of like the tradfi world and like chugging along there, which is very cool to see.
00:22:02.110 - 00:22:28.114, Speaker A: So if you want to see all the details about this, it's in this blog post from compound. I'll link it in the YouTube description. It's very short, so you can go check it out. But yeah, congrats to, I guess, like the compounds ecosystem here for landing this rating. So a walkie put out a tweet today, which I thought was quite timely, where he said, the bull market rewards those who survived through the bear market. But to survive the bear market, you must be a cockroach. Impossible to kill.
00:22:28.114 - 00:22:57.084, Speaker A: This is like a really, really great way of putting this, because as I've mentioned plenty of times before, guys, there were a lot of things that did not survive the 2018 2019 bear market at all. Like, literally, they didn't go to zero market wise, but their communities pretty much went to zero. And a lot of these things in 2017 were incredibly popular. And I've talked about a bunch of them before. EoS is a prime example here. It was very, very popular. Nio was another one that was extremely popular.
00:22:57.084 - 00:23:17.480, Speaker A: These are just layer one chains, but there are a bunch of apps as well that were very popular, a bunch of kind of, like, things that were just getting a lot of attention. And they're basically dead today. Like, their market cap isn't zero, but their communities are completely dead. Right. And that's because they weren't cockroaches. They didn't, they weren't impossible to kill. They didn't have a long lasting community.
00:23:17.480 - 00:23:43.148, Speaker A: They didn't have enough interesting stuff going on to hold that attention. Hold that community. As I've said to you guys before, attention is the most scarce resource in life, not just within crypto. And to hold that attention, you need interesting things to be happening. So this is why something like Ethereum survives through all kinds of markets, because Ethereum always has the attention. I mean, I do a 30 minutes daily show on Ethereum every single weekday. Guys like it has everything happening on it.
00:23:43.148 - 00:24:06.626, Speaker A: There's always something happening. Doesn't even matter if it's like Christmas or New Year's. There is always stuff happening on Ethereum 24 7365 days, days a year. It's never boring. And that's why Ethereum, that's a theorem superpower, I believe. And that's what attracts so many smart people to Ethereum, which basically makes Ethereum the cockroach of the crypto industry. And obviously that, you know, a similar thing is true for bitcoin.
00:24:06.626 - 00:24:27.418, Speaker A: But I think bitcoin and Ethereum are the only two ecosystems that can claim to be cockroaches. Now. There are other ones out there that are cockroaches that have confused me, such as ripple, for example, that has. I don't. I wouldn't say it actually has much of a community. I believe much of the kind of like, posts you see about XRP on Twitter are bots, but it. It just.
00:24:27.418 - 00:24:39.146, Speaker A: It is a cockroach. Like, it somehow survived for a very long time now. Survive. I think it's longer than. Yet survived longer than Ethereum, which just puzzles me. I. I will probably never understand it, but it is what it is.
00:24:39.146 - 00:25:04.990, Speaker A: But in terms of, like, actual organic, kind of like ecosystems that have kept growing, that have done really well over the long term. Bitcoin and Ethereum are the two there. But I actually think bitcoin peaked. I think bitcoin peaked in 2021 in terms of kind of like, relevance and market cap and everything like that. I think it's just going to be declining from now. And I think Ethereum is going to flip bitcoin sooner rather than later, and Ethereum will just continue to survive and thrive. It's.
00:25:04.990 - 00:25:36.690, Speaker A: It. At this point in time, I wouldn't say that ethereum is impossible to kill, but it's getting there, guys. Like, it's getting to the point where it's getting so big, it has so much attention, it's getting so secure that it is going to basically be impossible to kill. And that's the goal, right? Like, we want a theorem to survive everything, like from, you know, the regulators going after it to wars to kind of like centuries worth of just humanity stuff, right? We want a theorem to be able to survive through all of that. That's what we're building towards, to be like a true, true cockroach. So I thought I walk. You put, you know, put it.
00:25:36.690 - 00:26:00.240, Speaker A: Put it great, like, in a tweet here. Because as you said the bull market awards those who survive through a bear market in terms of kind of like people and stuff. But to survive that bear market, you must be a cockroach. So, yeah, great way to put it here from Milwaukee. So just a couple other. Actually, one last update to get through before I just shout out something from immutable Xia. There was this new tool, I can't.
00:26:00.240 - 00:26:29.930, Speaker A: I don't know how to pronounce it here, geyser or Giza or Jiza. Like, I'm so terrible pronouncing words. Sometimes guys, like, correct me if I'm wrong, but like, I'm just going to call it Geyser for now, which they're calling a fully on chain machine learning model inference powered by Starknet. So there's been a bunch of these artificial intelligence projects in crypto before, and a lot of them have been vaporware. But this is building on Starknet and using zero knowledge proofs to achieve what they want to achieve here. So I'm actually quite intrigued by it. Like it could still be vaporware, I don't know.
00:26:29.930 - 00:27:01.110, Speaker A: Right? Like, I'm not promote, I'm not endorsing this project, but I do want to put it on your radar because. Because I think that it's interesting at least, and I always look out for these interesting things happening within the ecosystem. And the fact that it's building on stocknet is really cool as well. So you can go check this out. There's a blog post describing it all here. It'll be linked in the YouTube description for you to do so. All right, last up here, I just wanted to shout out that immutable is hiring 20 business developers in the next twelve weeks to do strategic sales at that for top tech and gaming companies.
00:27:01.110 - 00:27:35.900, Speaker A: So if you know, as Robbie says here, if you know of a recruiting firm who specializes in these hires, DM Robbie, if we end up hiring through them, I'll pay you ten k USD. But also if you know anyone that might be fit for this role, definitely message Robbie about them. Or if you think you may be fit for it, you know, dm him. Maybe you will end a job at immutable, which as you guys know, is one of the kind of like teams scaling NFTs on Ethereum here. So just wanted to give a quick shout out there. Now, I have a couple of minutes left here. Just a final thing about the terra thing in the last 24 hours that I forgot to mention before.
00:27:35.900 - 00:28:04.450, Speaker A: I don't know what's going to happen from here with Terra. This is why it's so exciting and so intriguing. I don't know what's going to, like, I do think that UST will get back to peg eventually, but I don't know if that's going to be enough. Like, to me, confidence has been shattered in that, shattered in that ecosystem. I will never hold us t ever. Even if they change the underlying mechanisms, I feel like the UST stable coin will become much less desirable. Just generally, like, the only way I think that they can kind of like, salvage it at this point is by collateralizing it.
00:28:04.450 - 00:28:24.650, Speaker A: But that just basically makes it closer to die. And they didn't want to be closer to die. I mean, Doe Kwon was on Twitter saying that he was going to kill die, right? So I don't know what's going to happen. I do think the peg, I mean, I'm guessing the peg is going to be restored because people just going to throw money at it, whatever. But yeah, confidence is shattered. Maybe the peg doesn't get restored. Maybe it just kind of like, stays off peg forever.
00:28:24.650 - 00:28:44.410, Speaker A: I don't know. I think it's going to look normalized eventually. But yeah, it's going to be very, very interesting to see what happens from here. And I think this is going to be something that people are going to be talking about for a while. They're going to be referencing in the future when more of these kind of, like, things get spun up because the ponzi stable coins, the algorithmic stable coins, they're not over guys. They're going to keep happening over and over again, especially in bull markets. But just be vigilant.
00:28:44.410 - 00:29:11.814, Speaker A: As I've always said to you guys, like, the worst thing you can do is blow yourself up. And a lot of people blew themselves up today and they're probably gonna be out of position if we, if we kind of like, recover and go into a new bull market eventually. And it, and that's the worst thing that can happen. So just, you know, minimize your risk, know the risks. Listen to people that are telling you, that are honest people that are actually telling you these things. Don't try not to get caught up in, like, the bull market hype because that's how you wreck yourself. That's how you blow yourself up.
00:29:11.814 - 00:29:50.220, Speaker A: And I think at this point, like, you know, I don't know, like, I don't like tooting my own horn and my own ego, but I think at this point, like, I have called out so many of these things that I do hope that you heed my warnings when I talk about these things. I don't give investment advice, but I will always advise you guys, or at least kind of like give you guys a heads up when I'm seeing something that is just kind of like setting off alarm bells in my head because I want you guys to make it. Like that's, that's literally like one of my goals with the Daily Gwei. It's like, as I said, I don't give you a direct investment advice. I'm not going to tell you what to buy. I'm not going to tell you, you know, when to sell, none of that sort of stuff. But I am going to give you the advice, or I kind of guess a pass down the wisdom to you that I've accumulated over my years in crypto.
00:29:50.220 - 00:30:07.564, Speaker A: And I'm going to hope that you kind of like, you know, heed those, got that advice and heed those warnings and make it yourself. But on that note, I think that's going to be it for today's episode. So thank you, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
