00:00:00.280 - 00:00:22.326, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the daily Refuel, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Zosano. And today's the 21 January 2022. Alright, everyone, let's get into it. So another kind of crappy day in the markets, right? I was shitposting all day on Twitter with kind of like bear tweets out there. I'm not kind of like bearish, guys. Like I, as you guys know, like, I'm always bullish.
00:00:22.326 - 00:00:38.680, Speaker A: But, um, yeah, it wasn't a great day, I think. You know what made it worse was that, I guess yesterday before I went to bed, it was like, what, 02:00 a.m. Or something like that. My time and ETH had gone back up to like 32 or 3300. It was, you know, it was going really well. And I went to sleep and I'm like, yeah, okay, cool. Eats gone back up.
00:00:38.680 - 00:01:02.384, Speaker A: That's nice. And then I woke up and I woke up to a message from a friend who said, ETH not looking too hot. And I'm like, what? Like, I went to bed and it was doing really well and I looked at the price and was 2900. And I was like, oh, okay, what happens? And then I saw that basically stocks took another tumble. Apparently Netflix missed their expected earnings. So that meant that ETH would dump or that crypto should dump. I don't know.
00:01:02.384 - 00:01:36.504, Speaker A: Like, apparently, according to one of my friends, Netflix is usually first or one of the first in earnings season to kind of like renounce their earnings. And if they miss the mark, then it's more likely the other tech companies will miss the mark as well on their expected earnings, which means it's kind of like bearish. I don't know. Like, as I've said to you guys before, the macro environment is incredibly hard to read. Right? Like for, especially for, for people like us who just, you know, a lot of us don't come from traditional finance. A lot of us never paid attention to macro. A lot of us didn't even know kind of like what the fed was or who Jerome powwow was before we got into kind of crypto investing.
00:01:36.504 - 00:02:16.696, Speaker A: Right? But now, you know, it's what we kind of like, talk about all the time. But I think when, when you kind of like, think about it and think about it from the perspective of, uh, you know, what is the, okay, the market might maybe be bearish right now. And I mean, it's pretty hard to deny that we're in a bear market. We pretty much are. I mean, the, every single pump just keeps getting sold down. To me, that's a very classic kind of like, sign that, that we're in a bear market. And also, uh, when there's really good news and the price kind of like, does nothing, uh, doesn't react positively and goes down again, that is another telltale sign of a bear market because, you know, I remember the perfect example of going the other way was back in, I think it was 2020 or.
00:02:16.696 - 00:02:27.084, Speaker A: Yeah, I think it was 2020, back in 2020. Bitmex, basically. Or maybe, maybe 2019. I don't know. I can't remember now. But it was one of those years. I'm pretty sure it was 2020.
00:02:27.084 - 00:03:01.260, Speaker A: Bitmex kind of like got the, can't remember what regulator it was, but they went after them. And basically, uh, BitMex was a huge exchange back then. The huge perpetuals exchange was responsible for a lot of volume, uh, especially on the kind of like, leverage side of things, but they got hit with some kind of like, uh, regulatory action. I think the founders got charged with some criminal stuff. Uh, and then the price didn't really go down. It actually, I mean, it went down a little bit, but then it kind of bounced back up straight away. And kind of like, when you see that, you're kind of like, okay, well, this bad news didn't actually make the price go down.
00:03:01.260 - 00:03:27.700, Speaker A: The price is actually going up. So the momentum is there because the market is always about the moment momentum. If there is a strong bearish momentum, it doesn't matter what news comes out or what good news and positive news comes out. The momentum remains bearish. And the same is true for the bullish momentum. Doesn't matter what bad news comes out, you still keep going up. Like, think about all the bad news that came out during basically from March 2020, the bottom, to May 2021, which is the first top that we kind of, like had there.
00:03:27.700 - 00:03:54.604, Speaker A: Think about the amount of bad news that came out. There was so much bad regulatory news that was coming out at the time, but the price kept ignoring that it kept going up. I remember there was some really shitty regulatory out of the US basically saying that they were going to ban people from being able to withdraw from an exchange to their own wallet. So withdraw like ETH to your own kind of ethereum wallet. And this was pretty, this was pretty, a pretty big deal. And there's a lot of fud around this. And then 8th was like five or $600 or something.
00:03:54.604 - 00:04:25.332, Speaker A: And obviously ETH went a lot higher than that after that. Then we had the infrastructure bill stuff that, that kind of like came along, too. But, so we had a lot of bad news but didn't, didn't matter when the momentum was bullish, but now the momentum is, is definitely bearish. Right. Well, we're pretty massively off the all time high now where the autumn was 4900, we're at 2900 at time of recording or even below that, I think last time I checked, at almost 2800 again now. And it doesn't seem like we're going to stop going down. But who knows, right? Who knows in the, in the kind of like short to medium term, obviously still long term bullish.
00:04:25.332 - 00:04:58.794, Speaker A: But I think that you need to kind of realize that at the moment we're pretty much at the mercy of the macro environment, especially at the mercy of stocks and kind of like rates being raised and all that sort of stuff. And the way to navigate that is just to play defensively. So I mean, this is an investment advice. This is just general advice. When you're kind of like, you know, in the, in the kind of, in this ecosystem, don't blow yourself up. Like that's pretty much number one rule. Like don't kind of like leverage up and get yourself blown up on leverage and lose your position because what ends up happening for a lot of the time is people lose their position and then the market goes back up again and they're not in it at all.
00:04:58.794 - 00:05:26.690, Speaker A: So I mean, there's nothing worse than losing your position. So losing money and then the market going back up again and you not being in it and you're not making money again, back the money, the paper gains that you kind of lost. And then if you get some more money, you have to buy back in higher than what you kind of like lost your money at. So I kind of like very, very much stings there. And I've seen a fair few people go through this, so definitely not something fun to experience. So I think that is the golden rule. Just don't blow yourself up.
00:05:26.690 - 00:06:12.686, Speaker A: But the second rule is kind of like if you're going to buy, I mean, dollar cost averaging in workstream, I think like the bet, I think it works during kind of like bear markets in bull markets. I never liked dollar cost averaging in, during bull markets because if you, if you do it like weekly, for example, you could like, because the price can move so quickly, you can end up buying like double what the price was a week prior sometimes or higher. And it's kind of like, eh, I don't know, I like it better on the way down than the way up, but that's another thing you could be doing. I know people kind of, like, look at these prices today, and especially if you're an ETH bull or, or a bull or a crypto bull in general, and you think yourself, wow, this is on sale. I'm gonna buy. Buy. But the thing is, is that it's kind of hard because you could end up catching that falling knife right where it falls a lot lower than you thought it would.
00:06:12.686 - 00:06:30.270, Speaker A: And if you're a long term investor, I mean, it'll be fine because obviously, you believe it's gonna go back up. I mean, I'm. I shouldn't say it's going to be fine. You believe it's going to be fine. Like, obviously nothing is guaranteed when it comes to investing. But, yeah, I mean, I. This is why the momentum can stay bearish, because people get too scared to buy.
00:06:30.270 - 00:06:49.894, Speaker A: But then eventually, you know, enough, people kind of, like, get the confidence again, they're like, okay, well, you know, we've been at this price point for a while. Feels like a bottom. I'm going to buy in here. And then the momentum shifts to bullish, and the sellers are basically exhausted, and we go. We go back up. So I think the longer term, the momentum shifts are much easier to spot. Short term, it's very, very hard.
00:06:49.894 - 00:07:23.806, Speaker A: Like, it takes a while to spot it, honestly. Like, you won't actually know until it's confirmed. Because I think the way what I waited for with ETH in 2020 was when ETH got back above, I think, three or $400, that's when I kind of knew, because it hadn't been back to that price for a very long time. I was kind of, okay, well, the momentum is definitely bullish now. Plus, it was kind of the price was ignoring all the bad news and things like that, and there was a lot of exciting stuff happening within the ETH ecosystem, especially around Defi. So that was obviously adding fuel to the fire. That's when I kind of knew the momentum has shifted.
00:07:23.806 - 00:08:18.240, Speaker A: But the thing is, is that the momentum had already shifted when we hit the bottom in March of 2020 to, I think it even shifted before that. I think the momentum shifted in January of 2020. Then we had that kind of, like, people like to call it like, the scam dump because we dumped because of the COVID stuff, but you didn't know until it was confirmed, until we got over the price that we hadn't been at in quite a while since basically 2018 or 2017, when we were going back up, uh, and then if you had bought at 400 instead of bought at $80, you'd be buying much higher. But it was a much safer bet because you basically had not guarantees but you had relative certainty that the momentum had shifted, whereas buying in at the, at the lows, I mean, if you were doing it for like the longer term, that'd be fine. I mean, buying at those prices just generally would have been fine, but you never know. Right. So short to medium term momentum shifts very, very hard to spot unless you're a really good trader or unless you're kind of like really good at reading the signals.
00:08:18.240 - 00:08:46.775, Speaker A: I'm definitely not. Longer term, much easier to spot. And I can tell you right now, the fact that the two things I look for, good news, doing nothing to the price and every kind of like a positive price movement, getting sold down. Those two are the telltale signs for me for a bear market. Now, could the bear market end now when momentum shift to bullish? I mean, sure it could, but will we know until that's the case and for, you know, immediately we won't. Right. We'll have to wait and see because we could go back up to 4000 but then drop back down.
00:08:46.775 - 00:09:20.356, Speaker A: Right. I think before you can actually say that the momentum has shifted bullish again. I think we would have to get back to almost all time hunt, which is 4900 to say that. I think it's going to be very hard for people to say that even if we go back to 4000, but it also depends on how long we spend around price, price points and stuff like that. But, but yeah, anyway, they're going to end it there with the price talk. I just, I did, I know I've talked about price recently and nothing's changed in terms of kind of like the fundamental reasons to be bullish on Ethereum and ETH. Obviously the merge and stuff still happening this year and ERP 15 nine is still burning ETH and all that other stuff.
00:09:20.356 - 00:09:35.292, Speaker A: Not going to rehash it again. But I think that when it comes to the price action right now it's in the hands of the macro environment. There's nothing that you or I can do. So just don't blow yourself up. Buy more. If you want to buy more, choose the price that you want to buy at. You just have to pull the trigger.
00:09:35.292 - 00:10:10.760, Speaker A: If, you know, if you buy now and it falls another 50%, you got to be comfortable with that. Right. Like I've done that before. I bought, I bought plenty of times where the price has felt falling 50% during, during kind of like 2019 and even 2020. Blaine I think I bought at the beginning of 2020, and then the COVID dump happened, and I'm pretty sure it went down more than 50% from when I bought because I think I bought into the initial rally there in early 2020. So I know the feeling just as well as anyone, but those are the two things that you can do right now anyway. But anyway, onto some more positive news from the last 24 hours.
00:10:10.760 - 00:10:43.492, Speaker A: So Marius, who I talk about a lot with regards to the merge, put together Twitter thread today that they just shadow forked the girly testnet as part of the merge kind of like testing effort here. So what does this mean? Well, basically Marios explains it here. They tested the merge on a real testnet. The DevOps wizards deployed a genesis contract on girly and deposited enough validators to start a chain. It went through all the stages of the merge, although we kinda f'ed up and had to reconfig the nodes at some point. Now, the merge testnet runs in parallel to girlie. Transactions from girlie are also executed on the testnet.
00:10:43.492 - 00:11:09.008, Speaker A: So we finally have a real world loads and the network is finalizing. There are still some issue, there are some issues still persisting and we found loads of pitfalls and issues during deployment. All in all, really great effort and a huge leap forward for merge testing. We will probably leave our shadow fork up and running for a couple of days until the issues affect and we can try again. Big props to a few other people that made this happen. Parathosh, who I've talked about before, and Raphael here as well. So this is really, really cool.
00:11:09.008 - 00:12:02.408, Speaker A: This means that, you know, the girly testnet, which for the developers out there, you know how popular this testnet is. It basically got shadow forked into a kind of like merge testnet and is now proof of stake, right? So that's very, very cool. Like the original girly testnet still exists as a kind of like a proof of work, one that didn't change, but they kind of like forked off of that and it worked. So very, very cool to see this. I mean, honestly, the progress on the merge has been blowing my mind. Like how quickly these guys are doing, are doing this and how much, I guess, enthusiasm there is about the merge, not just from a technical perspective, but from a social one, from kind of like getting us off proof of work finally, because, you know, the proof of work rhetoric or the bad narratives around it are really picking up steam lately. I'm seeing a lot more, I guess people talk about it a lot more governments talk about it, and obviously it's a pretty big deal within kind of like crowds, like the NFT crowd for, for better or worse.
00:12:02.408 - 00:12:37.632, Speaker A: Right. And it doesn't matter if they're misguided or not. So I think that obviously, I've said it plenty of times before, the sooner we get to proof of stake, the better. And I'm actually curious to see how this all affects the price, too. Like, you know, if the merge gets scheduled for June, is ETH price going to run up massively in anticipation of that massive, kind of like 80% to 90% supply shock? I'm still confident it will. I can't imagine a world where there's that strong of a narrative around ETH that the price isn't going to go up leading up to it. I know I just said before that during kind of like bearish momentum shifts, really good news doesn't do anything for the price.
00:12:37.632 - 00:13:03.836, Speaker A: But this is less of a news event and more of a kind of like, anticipated event that has a direct. Has a direct impact on the ETH supply, which then has a direct impact on the ETH market dynamics, which should have a direct impact on the price. But also by June, we could be back to a bull market. Right? We could. We could have shifted momentum by June. I mean, it's still like a few months away. I'm not sure if we will, but I just can't imagine a world where it doesn't do something leading up to it.
00:13:03.836 - 00:13:26.726, Speaker A: And if it doesn't, I mean, that just makes it even more explosive once the momentum shifts. Bullish again, because we're going to have 80% to 90% less sell pressure. Actually, no. For the first six months, we're going to have 100% less sell pressure because there's no withdrawals for six months after the merge. So there can actually be no new ETH entering circulation. And we'll obviously have the burn still going, so we'll be, you know, massively net deflationary. I don't know.
00:13:26.726 - 00:13:43.110, Speaker A: I just can't imagine a world where it doesn't do positively in that environment. But we'll have to see. I think, you know, it's going to be funny. If. If this narrative is so powerful and this kind of like supply shock is so powerful, we could actually flip bitcoin in a, in a bear market. That'd be hilarious. Right.
00:13:43.110 - 00:14:16.174, Speaker A: But we'll have to see. I'm not going to. You know, I think whenever people talk about the flippening too much, uh, it ends up being quite bearish for, for the ETH B BTC ratio, which has obviously come down from the highs due to kind of like the crash and things like that. But anyway, regardless of the price here, I think the progress on the merge has been awesome. And of course, I will keep you guys up to date on any other updates that come out. So another piece of big news today, and again, this is news that came out and didn't and the price did nothing. Twitter announced today that you can now set your NFT as your profile picture.
00:14:16.174 - 00:14:40.728, Speaker A: And it turns your, your, I guess like Twitter profile picture container into a hexagon. So try and scroll down here and see if I can have, if there's any examples of people that here, there's one. You can see it's a hexagon and the normal ones are kind of like circles. And I read through the comments here. There's so many kind of so much hate in these comments. I mean, you can see this, this meme here reminder that this is a thing. Now use it.
00:14:40.728 - 00:14:55.426, Speaker A: You can actually mute accounts who use the NFT avatar integrations. So that's pretty wild. I actually think that that was a, I thought that was a photoshop at first, but apparently it's a real, it's a real thing. Um, wait, no, no. Oh, I. Wait, I don't think it's actually real. You should use tweet.
00:14:55.426 - 00:15:25.606, Speaker A: They've been using it for you and. Okay, apparently it's not real, but like, I, you know what the funny thing is is that it wouldn't be hard to do this. Oh, this is on tweet deck, not on the official Twitter. Okay, so if it's actually real on tweet deck, then, I mean, that makes sense because tweet decks kind of like a third party, um, service there. But this is pretty hilarious, right? Like that, that people are still hating on NFT so much, you know, right now add a listing of the climate impact of each MST on NFT on the details screen too. And this person's like sent from an iPhone. You know, I don't know.
00:15:25.606 - 00:15:49.520, Speaker A: The comments are just stupid. Like, I'm not going to get bogged down in them. But what I find really cool about this is this. NFTs are going so mainstream, guys. It's actually incredible. I mean, this was teased for a while, but the fact that, like Twitter did this really quickly is awesome. And the fact that you can now kind of like essentially verify that you own the NFT without having to kind of go verify it on, on Opensear, on ether scan or anything like that.
00:15:49.520 - 00:16:22.248, Speaker A: You can just verify straight on Twitter and it lets you kind of like differentiate between people who have an NFT profile picture and those who don't. Now I would have liked for it to be kind of like for it to have been like a badge on the Twitter profile picture, like in like a little etherium icon badge instead of a hexagon. But I guess a hexagon visually makes more sense. But you know, if they start supporting more chains than just ethereum, then they may do that, right? They may do the badge as well. So it's going to be interesting to see kind of like how that plays out there. But I thought this video was quite cool as well. I mean you can, you can watch the video.
00:16:22.248 - 00:17:11.336, Speaker A: Usually these videos are cringe, but I actually thought this one was actually really well done. The animations are very high quality and it didn't come across as cringe at all. It just came across as kind of like someone who was native to the web3 NFT ecosystem knew what they were doing and you had to kind of like appeal to appeal to kind of like these people. So I really like the video, but the wallets that are supported a coinbase wallet, Rainbow metamask, trust wallet argent and ledger live, I believe wallet connect is also supported with that, which is really cool as well. But yeah, just another example of NFTs going super mainstream here. Really, really cool to see this. And I guess another NFT related announcement was that Adidas originals have announced that they're teaming up with Prada to do and what they're calling an ambitious first of its kind NFT project featuring user generated and creator owned art in collaboration with digital artist Zach Lieberman here.
00:17:11.336 - 00:17:41.796, Speaker A: So there's more details here. I believe this is on Polygon as well. So if I just click into this website. Let's see. So this is basically the quick intro of it adidas and Prada reward holders of Adidas originals into the metaverse NFTs and bridge the gap for a new community of creators to join the innovative world of web3. So there's more information here. There's like, there's basically an faq, you know, what is the added as Prada resource? I mean, there's lots of different kind of like questions and answers here, right? You can see this.
00:17:41.796 - 00:18:17.450, Speaker A: And as I said, it is on Polygon, which is really cool, which means, I mean polygons a POS network, right? So it means it's kind of like, it's not using lots of energy and it's also very, very cheap being the POS network there. So basically, what do you get if you participate in Adidas for prior to resource? So as a co creator, you mint a tile NFT free of charge. Your tile forms part of a final artwork canvas created by Zack. NFT tile creators receive 3% of secondary market sales in perpetuity of their individual tile after secondary marketplace fees have been deducted. Eg, Opensea. That's wild, seeing kind of like Opensea on adidas's website here. And same with Matic.
00:18:17.450 - 00:18:47.230, Speaker A: Matic and Polygon. And you also receive an equal share among all tile creators at 15% of the final canvas sale at auction. So this is basically, you know, adidas and Prada doing kind of like a collaboration for an art piece where everyone can kind of participate and get rewarded for it. Well, not everyone, but like, you know, the community can participate and get kind of like rewarded for it with royalties and things like that, uniquely enabled by NFTs. This is really cool. Obviously, Adidas is an absolutely massive brand. I think that, you know, Nike acquired RTFKT, which is another NFT brand.
00:18:47.230 - 00:19:29.996, Speaker A: So Adidas definitely needs to be doing things with the NFT stuff and in the, and in the metaverse. And you can see even in their bio, Adidas has into the metaverse here. So I think it's pretty cool how involved these brands are getting. I think they're acutely aware of kind of like these, I guess, like trend shifts and kind of like where the puck is going, not where it's been, and kind of like being counterculture because funny enough, NFTs are still pretty counterculture, especially because of all the hate that they still get. And eventually, as I said, like the other day, I think the hate is inconsequential. It's irrelevant. I think eventually everyone's going to be using NFTs in one way or another and the hate is just going to dissipate away and doesn't really matter for adoption or anything like that.
00:19:29.996 - 00:19:56.118, Speaker A: But still very, very cool to see this. So if you want to learn more information about this, definitely go check out the faq here on the about page. And there's also a discord channel that you can get involved with as well. Another NFT related bit of news here that I forgot that I had lined up for today. So apparently meta, which is Facebook's parent company, is looking to launch an NFT marketplace. Now. I can't remember if there was like news about this already over the last few months, like rumors.
00:19:56.118 - 00:20:34.504, Speaker A: I think there was. I mean, I think people just kind of like drew the lines, while if Facebook's going all in on the metaverse, then they need to have a marketplace now. This is going to be obviously super centralized, even more centralized than Opensea is today. But I think that, look, I think if that, if it's a marketplace where, okay, the marketplace is super centralized, but you can buy and sell nfts that aren't centralized on it. So, like nfts that live on Ethereum or polygon and things like that, I think that is a nice little middle ground. But if it's literally just like Facebook NFT Marketplace with only Facebook nfts and only Instagram nfts and stuff like that, I think that's pretty crappy. And I don't actually think that would go very far.
00:20:34.504 - 00:20:59.076, Speaker A: I think people would actually gravitate towards the more open solutions that they can have all their nfts in, rather than the Facebook approved NFT. So we're gonna have to see kind of like how that, how that plays out there. I don't think there was too much detail in this article from, from the block about, about what they're doing. I think it was just kind of like some, some news they got from a source here. Yeah. So, citing several people familiar with the matter. So there's no official announcement or anything like that.
00:20:59.076 - 00:21:26.230, Speaker A: But the block is usually pretty good with their sources. So I'm curious to see what this looks like. And as I said, I hope that it's not just kind of like Facebook nfts. I hope that it's actually like nfts on all these open blockchains and open platforms, because that would be a lot more interesting to me, at least. So FTX announced yesterday that they now support the polygon main net. So you can withdraw your funds from the FTX exchange if you use FTX to the Polygon Pos chain. This is really cool.
00:21:26.230 - 00:22:07.684, Speaker A: I hope this means that FTX is going to be supporting other kind of like chains like l two s and stuff, like arbitram and optimism and all that good stuff there. I think they will. FTX is one, is one of the more forward looking exchanges, even though they've got like, they're big supporters, obviously, of the Solana ecosystem, because SPF is a big support of the Solana ecosystem. I think, as I've discussed before, because Ethereum and Ethereum scaling solutions are kind of like credibly neutral, it's okay for these exchanges to support them. And as I said, like, as I've been talking about binance supports arbitrary and stuff like that. But that was a surprise to me because I didn't think that that CZ would do that. But I mean, you know, I give credit where it's due, and this just goes back to the credible neutrality thing.
00:22:07.684 - 00:22:29.810, Speaker A: So, you know, it's funny, I don't think FTX would ever support direct withdrawals to BSC. Maybe they already do. Like, see, I don't know, because I don't use these centralized exchanges. Guys, the only one. The only centralized exchanges I use are the ones that I used as a fiat on and off ramp. I don't use them to trade anything else because obviously I use deFi, but I don't know if they actually do that. I wouldn't be surprised if they didn't because as I said, credible neutrality is important.
00:22:29.810 - 00:23:03.768, Speaker A: FTX and binance are direct competitors. So why would FTX enable, make it easy for their users to go to BSC, right. FTX obviously doesn't have its own blockchain, but it does have. It does support Solana, and it obviously kind of like does, does kind of enable withdrawals. And that's a Solana. But the thing is, is that they're also going to support Ethereum and Ethereum scaling solutions because it's a huge market there and it's credibly neutral, meaning they're not kind of like giving power to competitors or anything like that. Ethereum is not a competitor to FTX in the sense that it's a centralized exchange.
00:23:03.768 - 00:24:01.440, Speaker A: Obviously, Ethereum defi is a competitor to FTX, but they're hedging that bet by being kind of like, all in on the Solana ecosystem, and the Solana defi ecosystem, but them have, you know, enabling kind of like withdrawals and deposits for polygon and other kind of like, scaling solutions is not going to hurt their business, actually going to be better for their business. So, yeah, I think that. I thought that was just something interesting to bring up, but really cool to see that they're supporting Polygon now. So, speaking of scaling, Nurex here on Twitter basically has a really great tweet where they said the gas savings and l two, like optimism, can provide exponentially greater for complex, complex transactions. Transferring ETH on l two is only five times cheaper on l one, but minting SUSD with synthetics is 142 times cheaper, and buying and selling options on Lyra is 269 times cheaper. Not to mention perpetual protocol savings coming in, and a whopping 530 x l two is going to open up new possibilities, and optimism is leading the way. This is so this is really cool for two reasons.
00:24:01.440 - 00:24:48.464, Speaker A: The first reason is that a lot of these apps haven't been optimized for optimism yet. I think Lyra has because they're natively deployed there and synthetix probably has to an extent because they kind of migrated there. But like a lot of them still haven't kind of got the, the juice out of optimism. They can get like, for example, Uniswap. There's actually a fork of Uniswap called zip swap that optimize themselves for optimism and have gotten cheaper fees than Uniswap has because of that. Now, obviously, to Nurex's tweet here about kind of complex transaction costs coming down, this is what we want to see. Because transferring ETH and tokens on an l two is all well and good, but the real value prop of the Ethereum network and the real value prop of scaling solutions is, is kind of like defi nfts, the complex stuff.
00:24:48.464 - 00:25:30.050, Speaker A: And if we can't get those costs down, then really, I mean, most people aren't going to care about transfer, just transferring ETH, right? Because like it's, it's just not the use case that most people are using ETH for, whereas they are using DeFi and nfts and stuff like that. So very, very cool to see this. This comes from a, an optimism dashboard on Doon analytics that I don't think Nurex kind of linked that here. No, he has, they haven't linked that here. But uh, I think I've linked this before or talked about this dashboard before, but you could go to Doon analytics website and find this dashboard anyway there. But yeah, very, very cool to see the huge gas savings that can be had here for complex transactions. So speaking of l two again, l two beat now supports stock net.
00:25:30.050 - 00:26:11.104, Speaker A: So you can go to this kind of like page here and see all the information about Stocknet. The TVL is zero right now because there aren't any bridges deployed to starknet yet. So there's actually no kind of like TVL in there yet. But you can still find all the information you need about stocknet. So here, it's a general purpose ZK roll up what, you know, what risks there are with using Stark net right now, what technology that it's using, what the operator is like emergency exit, smart contracts, references, all the usual information that you see for the other projects on l two B is now available here for Stocknet. So very, very cool to see that if you want to learn more about Stocknet or, and get all the resources then you should definitely go check this page out. It'll be linked in the YouTube description.
00:26:11.104 - 00:26:39.830, Speaker A: So the final thing to talk about today was this picture from Jack where he basically said trust versus verify. And it's just like a picture. I mean, for those listening to the podcast, it's just an image with a white background. And on the left side it's a Twitter verification badge. So the little kind of like badge at the tick on it. And on the right side, it's the success prompt that you see on Etherscan when you look at transactions where it's like success in green, which I'm sure we've all seen before. Now on with the Twitter verification badge, you're trusting that.
00:26:39.830 - 00:27:09.028, Speaker A: You're trusting Twitter. In that case, you can't verify Twitter's centralized database. You can't kind of like look at it yourself. You're basically trusting that that Twitter has kind of like verified the right people and that, and that kind of like is the, is the non scam account and that Twitter has kind of like done their proper due diligence to give a verification badge to an account. And then we're on the right, whereas on the right side. Yes. While you may be trusting Etherscan, when you look at that success prompt on Etherscan, the thing is that you can verify that for yourself.
00:27:09.028 - 00:27:50.878, Speaker A: You can run your own full node or you can check another one of the other multiple kind of like sources out there for Ethereum blockchain data and check that that transaction, it was successful and did actually happen. And that is the main difference between trusting and verifying. And obviously there's a hybrid model where you can trust a centralized service like Etherscan, um, as kind of like soft trust, but then verify it later on using your own full note or something like that. Now this is just a simple example where, where it gets really cool is when we think about the things that we can verify using the Ethereum blockchain. Think of defi, for example. Think of maker and think of Dai. All the assets backing Dai are in a smart contract on ethereum that anyone at any time can view and can verify the assets there.
00:27:50.878 - 00:28:11.644, Speaker A: So I can go there right now like obviously using Etherscan, but I could use my own full node if I wanted to, and I could query it myself. But I could basically go to Etherscan. I could go look at the smart contract for all the assets backing Dai and I can see that they're all there. And I can do that within a matter of minutes. I can do that from anywhere in the world. I don't have to ask anyone's permission. It's all, it's all open to me to do that.
00:28:11.644 - 00:28:40.940, Speaker A: Now, if you were to do something like that in a traditional finance system, it's basically impossible. Banks and traditional financial institutions are not going to give you access to their backend. You know, they're not going to let you look at their books. They're not going to let you look and, and see what they've got under the hood. And I mean, for good reason on, on the privacy side. But the thing is, is that that's why we have kind of like financial regulators, right? They're allowed to kind of look at that stuff and that's what keeps them in check. But then we're still trusting the financial regulators or, you know, basically a third party to keep them in check.
00:28:40.940 - 00:29:11.936, Speaker A: And as we all know, a lot of these financial regulators are kind of useless. And, you know, they're, they're fallible as well. Like they're, they're, um, they're subject to bribes, they're subject to political wills and, and all that sorts of stuff there. So that is a stark difference. But obviously there's a trade off with ethereum where there's a privacy trade off that you don't get. But we're working on that with privacy technologies that are coming. So, but back to the main point about how the fact is we can just verify this sort of stuff within, within minutes from anywhere in the world without asking anyone's permission is a killer feature of defi.
00:29:11.936 - 00:29:42.854, Speaker A: And it's not just for things like assets, backing diets, for literally anything. You can even look at the smart contract and look and see if it's actually doing what the developers claim that it's doing. If the smart contract has been verified and if it hasn't, you, you don't, you just simply don't use the kind of like, app because you don't trust it. Are you like, okay, well, I don't know what this smart contract is doing. I'm not going to use this. That is just such a massive difference between, I guess, like the existing traditional system and the new system that we're building. And it is what separates, I guess, like the trust from the verification.
00:29:42.854 - 00:30:03.020, Speaker A: And as I said, there is soft trust in web3 as well, where you basically trust places like Etherscan. But the difference is that you can verify that for yourself. Whereas in Twitter verification badge land, or just like in any centralized kind of, like land, you have to trust. It's a hard trust. You don't have a way to verify yourself. You're not allowed to verify yourself. It's all closed to you.
00:30:03.020 - 00:30:26.846, Speaker A: And if you wanted to go through it, the massive kind of like, process to do it and somehow get access to the information that you're trying to get access to, it would probably cost you a lot of money. It will take a long time, and there's no guarantee of success either. So from that perspective, it's just a night and day difference. And I just, I just wanted to kind of, like, give those examples there. But I think on that note, I'm going to end it there for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel.
00:30:26.846 - 00:30:32.414, Speaker A: If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel, and I'll catch you all next week. Thanks, everyone.
