00:00:25.010 - 00:00:46.358, Speaker A: Day, as you know, we have the one and only Johnny Haxterball from Linkpool. Let's welcome Johnny. Johnny, thank you for coming. So Johnny will present Linkpool. We'll answer your questions. And Johnny, take it.
00:00:46.524 - 00:01:07.234, Speaker B: Sure. Thank you. I'm Johnny. I'm the found founder of Linkpool and been working with Chainlink and on chain link since 2017, really, so can't believe it's nearly been five years, to be honest. But thank you, everyone, for coming out. It's good to do one of these in person again. It's been a very long time.
00:01:07.234 - 00:02:08.114, Speaker B: I think the last time I did one was like 2020. So thanks for turning up on a Friday. So this presentation is one I've been looking forward to doing for a good while. So now what staking is actually being thought about? And on the roadmap for Chainlink, it's a good time to talk around and talk about some of the concepts, how it might work, some concerns from our point of view in terms of the solution, and also self service. So self service is something that has not really been talked about yet, but it's something, especially from a Linkpool point of view, has been thought about for a good amount of time. And I'll sort of go into the details as I'm going through. I'll probably take about like 30, 45 minutes doing this, and I'll stop after for anyone to ask me questions, anything at all.
00:02:08.114 - 00:03:22.990, Speaker B: It doesn't have to be based on this presentation or anything else. And I suppose if you've got any questions when I'm going through it as well, just feel free to shout out. So I thought I'd start off by giving some high level statistics about chain link today, really, since we first started working on this and got involved in chain link shortly after its ICO in 2017, it felt like ages until main net was actually out. Linkpool was one of the first three nodes on main net back then, and since then, really, it's seen exponential growth and has essentially gained overall market share for Oracles within DFI. It was pretty much the trigger to DFI summer and the boom I used to in 2019. The chilling price feeds powered the lending protocols, things like RV and synthetics back in the early days, and really sort of triggered that whole grow, really, within the defi industry. So there's just some very high level stats to put that into context.
00:03:22.990 - 00:04:28.980, Speaker B: I think they're honestly quite impressive, to be honest. Some of them are different from what Chainlink have, I suppose, officially talked about in marketing, but we use our own soon to be released metrics and they're just, I suppose we pick things up in different ways and measure things in different ways. So seeing around fifteen K to twenty five K link rewards a day to the node operators across all networks is mighty impressive. Chain link Donzo node operators in total spend around 100 to 200K USD in gas. So that's gas like Ethereum, Polygon, DMV across all the networks. And if you equate that to the gas units, so the actual gas used, then that's 120,000,000,000 in gas, which is a huge number. So when you see that you can plot it over time and see the growth, it sort of shows the cost of suppose securing DFI and how much work Chainlink dons and the Oracles today have put in.
00:04:28.980 - 00:05:24.014, Speaker B: 285 nodes is a good number as well across eleven networks. Some of them are from the same node operators, but in total there's 285 individual nodes, which is huge step up really, since its release. So to actually get onto the content chain link today is currently missing explicit staking. For anyone who's been following Chainlink for a good amount of time. We've probably seen the thousands and thousands of questions of people saying when staking, when stake, it's been a good amount of time and also self service. So that is something all gone and it will be mostly what this slide is focused on, the presentation, I suppose. Apologies in advance, the slides are quite dry.
00:05:24.014 - 00:06:09.970, Speaker B: There's no graphic, it's not like it's a pitch deck or anything of the sort. It's very much some topics around Chainlink that I wanted to speak about for quite some time, but hopefully I'll go into some quite interesting details. So self service to get onto it. I quite like the top line at a high level. It changes chain link from a product to a protocol. And what I mean by that is, I suppose if you think about how easy it is as a web3 developer these days to deploy smart contracts on any EVM based chain or even non EVM based chains, it's very self service. You've got the developer tooling and everything you need to be able to get on with that.
00:06:09.970 - 00:07:25.050, Speaker B: Currently, the barrier of entry for developers setting up their own dons and new data fees is quite high. There's a couple of reasons for that, we'll go into it, but staking really is sort of the catalyst to make self service a lot easier. And it's something that we're going to be leaning on in the future to make this a reality and self service at a high level is just allowing developers and protocols and users and anyone else to be able to self serve and create doms, create new data feeds, new applications using news protocols like CCIP, VRF or anything else. Why are they important to go back to staking? A little bit staking at the minute. Thank you. Currently, all of the incentives are implicit. What I mean by that is there's no sort of actual financial link tokens put forward at stake.
00:07:25.050 - 00:08:19.900, Speaker B: It's all implicit. Node operators go off building their own brand image reputation being a chain link node operator like we have done since 2017, 2019 when it launched. And since I've shown the rewards being around 15 to day, if you did something malicious on the network, then you're probably going to get booted off the network and then you lose your fees. So everything is implicit. There's no actual explicit link status collateral on the network at the minute, which is what is going to change with explicit staking. One of the big changes there as well is you might have seen the announcement around Chainlink being profitable on certain chains, which is a great announcement. And it sort of proves the staking model working in practice when it actually does go live.
00:08:19.900 - 00:09:26.510, Speaker B: But when staking is actually released, what you'll see is a change in terms of users actually pulling fees and you being able to see that on chain. So in terms of like order villa and transparency, in terms of how much link is actually being paid for by protocols and users who consume chain link data will be very apparent, very easy to see. It'll make it a lot easier for rewards to grow in the future when more people consume chainlink data, which is exciting for a node operator. Without staking, there's no real financial incentive to self serve. There's a couple of examples of different teams that have self served at the minute. What I mean by that is they've created their own dons. An example is tracerdam, and they've created perpetual markets around the NFT price laws, and they created those dons themselves.
00:09:26.510 - 00:10:56.394, Speaker B: So that's an example of self service. They've done a lot of work to get to that point and consulted with different known operators, but it's a lot of heavy lifting, and they've done that out of, I suppose, necessity, or they want it for their protocol and what they're doing in Tracerdao. And since one of their subsidiary teams is also a known operator, it makes sense for them to sort of think of new ways and try and self serve outside of that. If you go to the effort of trying to create a don yourself. Like if anyone in this room sort of saw a demand for data or began to request data on chain, there's no real financial incentive for you to do that at the minute. But that changes with staking, because you've suddenly got the whole model around paying user fees and all of the transparency in terms of how much link is actually being spent to create a dom on chain, which, depending on how it's actually architected and orchestrated in the future, means there might be financial incentive future for you to actually go out and match the data providers, the node operators, to the actual consumers of that data. Another thing that's always been talked about as well in terms of, I suppose self service is what people, let's call neat nodes.
00:10:56.394 - 00:12:06.774, Speaker B: Like anyone being able to spin up a chain link node and be parts and build their own reputation on chain, at the minute, that's not really a reality. But one of the things self service would do is make that a reality. So anyone in this room could spin up a chainlink node and sort of put the effort in and be part of different dons and earn link rewards, which sort of fulfills the end goal and vision of chimag. So to talk about how that will actually sort of work going forward, you might have already seen that the staking release is planned for this year, 2022. But initial staking release, what chainlink have sort of always done in the past and in the present, is done everything in phases. So you can see that with like VRF, like VRF v one, V two, Ocr v one, v two, the flux monitors, and there was Fm, v one, V two. They'll always do everything in phases because ultimately the protocol, security, and the correctness is what's most important.
00:12:06.774 - 00:13:32.270, Speaker B: So they're never going to rush sort of a new iteration and sort of idea to market when it's not being properly researched and developed and rushed, especially as the company's grown, I suppose the amount of detail and planning that goes into building out new ideas and new features like staking is extensive. When staking is released, self service can follow. For me, self service is a thing that's for, I suppose, the community and the end goal, and will be largely built by the community and companies like Linkal. For us, the marketplace, for example, the end vision of that product is to essentially allow people to self serve, to match the people providing data to the operators who can offer that data, and also the consumers of it. So to get on to staking, just come on, start. Very basic, high level overview. I'm sure, a lot of people know about this, but the core premise of staking link is to stake link as collateral across chain link doms, which will provide explicit security to the network.
00:13:32.270 - 00:14:48.646, Speaker B: We've talked about the difference between implicit and explicit sort of staking and reputation, but node operates will front link, and that is used as collateral. There's been some good discussion around this recently in terms of the actual word staking, and with defi and suppose yield farming, and a lot of the liquidity mining incentives and inflation models that happen, the word staking and its meaning has been diluted. Typically in Defi, you don't really stake tokens because you're not really putting them at risk within the protocol, other than obvious things like contract risk and everything else. But in terms of the actual design and mechanics, you're very much putting your tokens in there, and people are creating economic incentives for you to leave your tokens in there. But it's not actually being used as collateral, not like the Ethereum in proof of stake, for example, where if you do something malicious, you can get slashed. Chainlink will actually produce a staking protocol because you're actually putting your link at stake. Chainlink users will pull user fees.
00:14:48.646 - 00:16:05.454, Speaker B: So I touched on this a little bit, but the transparency of how much link is actually generated as user fees and sent to node operators to pulls is going to be very transparent. And one of the biggest shifts that is good as a node operator is currently at the minute, depending on a couple of factors like market volatility and gas prices, your link revenue is fixed. It's largely linearly fixed to the amount of feed you're on and the amount that feed pays. Whereas when staking is a thing, the more users that consume the feed, the more rewards that the people providing the data the node operators get in return, which is a great dynamic because it just means the more growth, the more link that needs to be staked, the more link that is earned in return, the more node operators get and benefit from securing the network, and the more people in pools and also providing collateral will get in terms of yield as well. It's a real supply and demand model. It's not inflationary like you see in typical defi protocols these days, which is good. And like mentioned, it's already profitable.
00:16:05.454 - 00:17:58.760, Speaker B: So it's a system that will work just the high level. One of the questions that I've always thought of for a very, very long time is the question of splashing. So chain link node operators will be slashed if they are whistleblown by over node operators, and the events could be being offline, providing bad data, doing anything malicious, like coordinating with different node operators. And I've seen in the white paper, b, two, there will be sort of a two tier oracle system, an arbitrator, a group of arbitrators, so to speak, that will sort of resolve those events. For me, it's always sort of made me think of the potential of a global insurance pool and how that would work in terms of the link network and chainlink in general, since there's a maximum amount of link that can be staked per node, the amount of link that can be staked before diminishing return is capped. So, for example, this is one of the things that for us, as Linkpool and our token model is always sort of looked at, not fixing, but working around and sort of providing mechanisms to allow people to stake and get a fixed and dedicated position on a node. What this does mean, though, with global insurance, it would allow anyone to put their link forward, to allow them to stake it in a global pool and earn a subset of link in return, which sort of opened the floodgates for more link to be staked in return.
00:17:58.760 - 00:19:10.880, Speaker B: There'd be more link, I suppose, took off the markets for less liquidity, and it would be more used as that actual collateral in the network helps the token dynamic at the end of the day. So I've talked about this a lot already, but let me just pick a good point, the bottom one. I suppose there's been a lot of talk about data, but for me, general computation and CCIP in general is an exciting point. It opens up Chainlink oracles not to just serve data, but also perform general compute. And that is a good application for node operators, because in terms of actual cost and rewards, compute for us is a lot cheaper than paying gas costs, and the potential rewards out of the back of that might be much greater as well. So it's sort of a good idea, sort of a good concept to think about. To give some examples of that.
00:19:10.880 - 00:20:01.718, Speaker B: Mentioned this before a little bit, but like L2 sequences in optimism or arbitrum, for example, one of the core issues with those networks at the minute is that their sequencer is centralized, chilling oracles. Nodes already run on those networks. It makes sense for them to sort of provide that capability when CCIP is a thing, because it unlocks that potential to be able to do that. Also cross chain swaps as well. If you think of protocols like for chain, for example, that do like cross chain swaps and have chain liquidity pools, chainlink would be able to do something similar as well. So people would be able to use a chainlink node to make a cross chain amm, which is also a cool concept. Mention it.
00:20:01.718 - 00:20:38.070, Speaker B: But rewards could be high, whereas the gas costs might be cheaper. So from an od operator point of view, it could be a lucrative thing to get into. CCIP also unlocks the potential for single liquidity pools for staking. So think of like RV three, V three and how they blend and have a single pool of liquidity across different chains by using bridges and contract messaging to make that a reality. I've still got everyone. I've not lost everyone yet. You good? Cool.
00:20:38.070 - 00:21:29.698, Speaker B: Self service. I mean, I've talked about it a lot already, but I'll sort of break it down into three components, DOM creation management and IR or incident response. So Dom creation is creating a decentralized oracle network, management is keeping on top of that, managing it, and incident response is actioning and sort of detecting any potential incidents that occur. So just in general at a high level, there needs to be a mechanism that allows dons, Don proposals to be created. So if you think of like a snapshot vote or like a Dow vote, for example, it could be something similar where someone raises a form of proposal that says I need x data. You get a lot of other protocols and people jumping in saying oh yes, I also need X data. They pull fees together in terms of the link token.
00:21:29.698 - 00:22:41.280, Speaker B: It shows that there's demand for that data and then node operators can also then vest their interest and say that they'll provide that data and specify the data sources. So in that way you've got mentioned market link. But suppose, Pun intended, a marketplace for data proposals which would allow self service and really make the things sort of automated and lower the barrier of, you know, if you create a Dom, you can't just sort of create it, leave it there and think it will work forever. Going forward, everything's very live. You need to monitor everything from the data sources to how the oracles are performing. And with that I can envisage a sort of a manager role. And these essentially are like monitors that will use various forms of onshore metrics to detect any issues, proactively find new data sources and also raise proposals to keep them updated and keep the security of the Dom up to date.
00:22:41.280 - 00:23:33.982, Speaker B: We've got, I suppose internally we dub this metrics V two. But on the marketplace we've been working on an updated form of metrics for a very long time. I was going to demo it, but you can't ever get a working live demo? I can't even do it because laptop is not working. So I can't actually show you that in practice, but also with reputation link there's different sort of community companies that can solve this problem and sort of wrap around and automate it to actually build a solution. And incident response largely ties into the two tier system that you find in staking. So that's actually the arbitration and sort of the management of issues. If they do occur.
00:23:33.982 - 00:24:24.820, Speaker B: Let's say two data providers deviate from the medium by 80% and you've got to manage that. That'll get escalated to the second tier of oracles if there's risk to actually sort of lower the security of the price feed and medium. And an automated system just needs to be built around that to be able to manage it and automatically update the doms to make sure that the security of the Dom isn't actually affected. This really hasn't been built in an automated fashion. There is some process and tooling built around it, but I suppose the end vision hasn't really been realized. I think this is the last side. I have no idea how long I went on for then.
00:24:24.820 - 00:25:07.630, Speaker B: I thought this was 20 minutes. Yeah. I hope I didn't lose everyone, but feel free to literally ask me anything. It can be anything about chain link, loophole, even anything else. So I'll pull up a chair, explain what kind of hardware requirements. So the chain link node itself is very low cost. So you can pretty much get away with a very small server, like one, two CPU, two gig of RAM.
00:25:07.630 - 00:25:43.046, Speaker B: The hardest part about running a chain and coracle is the blockchain connection. To make sure a network is secure you've got to run your own full nodes. So you're on ethereum node, your own polygon node for example, and they are a lot more resource intensive. You're talking like 816 core boxes, 64 gig ram. You might be running four of them in HR fashion. And that's the tough part. And it largely depends on sort of the network that you're running.
00:25:43.046 - 00:26:35.718, Speaker B: Like Ethereum main. Net is a lot easier than ESC and avalanche is easier again. So hope that answers your question. I'll read them, Mike, saying there's no inflation into the rewards. I'm wondering where the 300 million worth of link is going. From the original white paper, I suppose to answer the question, a lot of it will have been used to subsidize the network and sort of bootstrap it in the early phases I can imagine, at least in terms of incentives and grants. In the future, when there's more transparency in terms of the link rewards for dons, you might start actually seeing more of that actually being used on chain in a more transparent fashion.
00:26:35.718 - 00:26:42.240, Speaker B: In terms of overall, I can't see that.
00:26:49.810 - 00:27:08.610, Speaker A: Thanks for sharing. And I'm curious about how this interacts with the chain link price fees. Does that mean that with the self surface, is there room for each protocol, anyone really, to create their own price fees? Or is that something just completely separate or it's part of the roadmap?
00:27:09.210 - 00:27:38.510, Speaker B: Yeah, that is the core principle of self service. Hopefully in the future you'll see an economy of scale where anyone can create their own private feeds really easy with a large amount of oracles. And the security of those price feeds are just as secure as what you see already on different main nets. So really that is the end goal of self service, to allow anyone to create price feeds and dons. That always secures what you see already on the Internet.
00:27:45.650 - 00:27:46.800, Speaker A: Any more questions?
00:28:03.940 - 00:28:30.648, Speaker C: Thank you. I just wanted to understand that normally with other cryptocurrencies, when you staking, you just put your stake towards the validator and then get rewards here. It doesn't sound like that's the same way. I don't really understand how I would be able to obtain without becoming a noble operator or doing self service. So could you just explain that a bit more please?
00:28:30.734 - 00:29:34.810, Speaker B: Sure. One of the core products of Linkpool is to create a polling mechanism. There's a couple of nuances in terms of needing to own some of the tokens to gain access to the node and actually stake on it. But we will be providing pooling contracts and ways for node operators to open up their node to allow people like yourself to be able to stake onto it the slide I had around sort of global insurance. And if that was actually a reality, then it would mean anyone would be able to stake their link onto a mechanism within the chainlink network where you get a slice of the actual rewards. So if something like that is built, then it'd be very easy for you, just like you would do with any other defi app to go in, state your link. It's a potential for you to get slashed, for example, if there was a slashing event, but you would just be earning a slice of the rewards like anyone else would be.
00:29:34.810 - 00:30:03.908, Speaker B: Thank you. Mentioned it was like two tiers of nodes. There were like management nodes or something like that. That was very interesting. Was that part of your actual architectural link pool? Or is that something which is in the pipeline of Chainlink yeah. Thank you. That is in the pipeline of Chainlink.
00:30:03.908 - 00:30:41.970, Speaker B: So that was described in the second white paper that was driven by the research team on sort of the high level designs of the protocol. Supposed to go a bit deeper on that. The articles that would be on the two tier system I can imagine are the ones that either get nominated or it's based on like a reputation factor. So it uses different metrics and things to calculate reputational factor. Well.
00:30:43.720 - 00:31:19.808, Speaker A: I guess we can thank Johnny for the presentation. And now it's time to have some beer and questions in private. And yeah, you can ask other questions. I'm sure they will come up during the rest of this meetup. And make sure you subscribe to Linkpool Telegram channel and Discord and as well as Chainlink Telegram channel and Chainlink discord if you're not there yet. So thank you so much and let's have some fun. Thank you.
00:31:19.894 - 00:31:20.770, Speaker B: Thank you.
