00:00:00.360 - 00:00:43.420, Speaker A: Hello everyone, I am Alim from Clave. I will introduce our proof of concept project called ZKE email Recovery. First of all, why did we build this proof of concept? Because there are various problems with the current recovery options. For example social recovery. You may want to add your parents as your guardians, but you probably cannot do this because they don't have any wallethood. To solve this problem, in this proof of concept, we will only use email which almost everyone has. Before the demo, let's talk about what Dkmail is.
00:00:43.420 - 00:01:40.650, Speaker A: In current email structure, emails are signed by the sender's email provider using a protocol called DKIM. The form, address, subject and hashed body of the email are signed ZKE. Email uses ZK circuit to verify the email signature using the DKIM public key and prove the necessary properties of the email. In short, you can prove you have an email sent from an email address, contains a particular subject or have a specific word in the body. Smart contracts can verify the proof on chain by validating that the DKiM public key and signature. In this demo we will perform the recovery process with my email. First I will create a smart contract wallet managed with a passkey.
00:01:40.650 - 00:02:43.740, Speaker A: Then I will add my email wallet managed by email as a guardian and then I will recover my account with only sending email. Okay, time to demo, we can start. Now I am creating a contact wallet with username zke email recovery and this now yeah register. It's working with Passkey and you can see that Paschi's name CkE email recovery first we are creating a key pair and now I am signing transaction to deploy it and yes it's done. Okay now it's deployed. Okay let's send a basic transaction with this mint button. I clicked that and now I am signing it with my passkey and now that's all we send the transaction.
00:02:43.740 - 00:03:34.990, Speaker A: Okay it's minted. Now we can check the backup part. If you want to add email backup, you need to enter your email. Mine is alim clay theme and now create email wallet by sending email to our relayer, relayer is creating journal which proved to verify its own chain. Now I sent an email to cepholia dot santit.org okay my email vault was created. Now I am signing the transaction to edit as my guardian.
00:03:34.990 - 00:05:53.160, Speaker A: Now it's done. I added my email as my guardian. Now if you lost your account, you can recover anytime with your email. In this example I add my email as my account guardian. So I will recover my account with my email. Okay first I am entering my username and then my email let's create new signer the previous one was only zk email recovery now our current signer is also recovered one I am creating new key pair to change it in my smart account I created that and now I am sending the email to relayer to create New Zealand proof be with this journal which proof I will recover my account I send the email to the layer and after the created journal proof it will it will send a transaction to blockchain and that's all my account recovered also now relayer sent me an email to inform me in this email you can see that which call data you sent to blockchain and your email vault address. Now let's send another basic mint transaction with your new passkey okay I am entering my account with my new pass key and now stand placing transaction mint transaction with my new passkey recovered one and that's all we sent transaction to the blockchain and we minted also another one that's all.
00:05:53.160 - 00:05:53.760, Speaker A: Thanks so much.
