00:00:00.560 - 00:01:26.548, Speaker A: Good morning, everybody. Now please welcome to the stage our host and emcee for today, Alevtina Jakavenko. Good morning. Very excited to see you here on our day two of breakpoint 2022. This is not at last, an interesting day, and we have a bunch of very great talks prepared for you today, as well as I remind you that later in the afternoon we have the community voice sessions going out where you can apply for speaking at this exact stage and present either your product demo or the thoughts on a specific topic that you think is not covered enough during our content, or you just want to contribute with. At Solana, we are true believers that open source building is the right way to approach the industry growth. But is it at the full ethos of the crypto to fork other people's projects? And if it's yes, then how you want to approach this and how to make it successful? In this session that I'm about to present you, CEO and co founder of Selman Nacho Milleo is going to go over all this topic.
00:01:26.548 - 00:01:29.464, Speaker A: Please welcome Nacho Milleo.
00:01:35.364 - 00:02:12.224, Speaker B: Hi everyone. First of all, thanks for having me. I didn't expect that much people on Sunday morning, so hope to make your hangover less painful. Well, just to start a little bit of an intro studied image and sound design. I'm an entrepreneur. I've been ten years working in technology, but in the streaming industry, nothing to do with crypto, but been connected to crypto since 2015. I've been around in Solana for about two years now and co founded Salmon in March this year.
00:02:12.224 - 00:03:12.670, Speaker B: The title of the talk is freedom to folk, and that's exactly how it started. Despite the fact that we live all around the globe, the team is totally from Argentina and we have been working together for seven years. I was born in a hyperinflation context, so it's very natural for us, for Argentinians to be connected to crypto because it's right now one of the only ways of keeping the value of our money and keeping the value of what we earn every day. So let me just see. I lost my mouse here. Sorry, for a second. And for those who aren't familiar with the Coralito thing in Argentina, back when I was twelve, one day in the middle of a crisis, the banks and the government decided that we were not allowed to take our money out from the bank.
00:03:12.670 - 00:03:55.598, Speaker B: So it doesn't matter if you get one hundred k dollars in your account, you were not allowed to take it out. And it was specified by that point. So there's a lot of issues with trust right now. From that point, even after 20 years, everybody doubts about banks in Argentina, and that's really a thing. And the other thing we saw is that crypto is growing, but everybody still puts the money into centralized exchanges mostly. So when we started, there was no solid alternative other than closed source wallets. And I personally couldn't believe that I was ditching banks to put my money in a closed wallet.
00:03:55.598 - 00:04:18.754, Speaker B: That's a personal point of view. So that's what we did. We forked Solet. We learned a lot from it. We are really, really thankful to the team that set it up in first place. Then we added some functionalities, things that were broken because of the lack of maintenance and stuff. But after a while, we dropped the code and started from scratch.
00:04:18.754 - 00:05:14.304, Speaker B: Just checking the time to see if I'm in or not. This is something that we've been reading lately. Only 80 million people or wallets are being used daily in crypto. That's 1% of the web population. It's a very tiny amount of people, if you consider that social media is used by almost 57% of the people in the world. So considering that the most, let's say, subversive form of money these days is cash, it's still cash because it's the one that no one can trace or track. We think that being wallets, the door to web3, you need to give the users the opportunity to own their money or to own their keys.
00:05:14.304 - 00:06:21.382, Speaker B: That has to be on the foundation of every single thing that we do. After this. Twitter and Instagram made announced a couple days ago and yesterday we got a talk from them that they are adding NFT capabilities, that they will integrate all this stuff. The onboarding will be accelerated, we will not be seeing any more. This 1%, this is changing fast. And the thing is, are we going to allow them to be the owners of our money? Are we going to allow them to be the owners of our keys? At the same time, we understand that we need to be better and to have better alternatives when it comes to, you know, I always say this. It's like if you talk to a normal person outside of crypto and say, if you lose these twelve words, you lose all your money.
00:06:21.382 - 00:07:34.270, Speaker B: Or some, if someone sees these twelve words, your money might be gone. It's crazy for them. You know, for us, it might be natural at some point because we've been here and we've been doing this for a while, but we need to find these alternatives because otherwise what will happen is that Google, Facebook and all those big tech will still be owning our stuff. As I said, we believe the future is open source and it's also multi chain. We don't believe that there's only one chain that will rule all of the rest. We strongly believe that someone is going to be, or it has to be multi chain and it has to be easy to use for, not only for hardcore and for people inside the crypto space, but also for people that want to jump in and want to understand quickly what's going on. So what we did, we partner with a couple of good friends to empower the options that the wallet gives you.
00:07:34.270 - 00:08:46.674, Speaker B: And we think there's nothing more powerful than an ecosystem that works cohesively. And we did many, many good things with these folks. And more things are coming into the wallet soon. Considering possibilities with NFTs, with cardinal naming, with Bonfida, NFT stuff with hyperspace security, with blowfish that did an amazing job checking that every transaction right now, if you sign a message, you may lose all your money due to fraud. And blowfish did an incredible work with that. So there's a lot of jobs that been done by this team that are awesome and something we discuss a lot. Are we caught by the semantics? Is the world wallet limiting the way we think? Because, you know, when you think of a wallet, you think of something that fits in your pocket and get, you know, the things that you can put into there, like your credit card, your debit card, your id, but you don't think of it as your, you know, the car keys or your house keys or, you know, a lot of possibilities that will enable us.
00:08:46.674 - 00:09:37.640, Speaker B: You don't, you don't put your collectibles inside your wallet and you do this with digital wallets. So how far are we from seeing these type of things, having memberships, having boarding tickets. There's a company in Argentina right now that's also selling NFT travel tickets and that's unimaginable for all of us, that if you buy a ticket, plane ticket, it's yours right now. You got NFT tickets you can buy and sell. And until you do the check in, you can still play around with it, or even this. How far are we from NFT plus nfcs and using your NFT to open a car, to open a house, to open an Airbnb. So it might be a bit obvious at this point, but it's only going up.
00:09:37.640 - 00:10:41.676, Speaker B: You know, we are 1% and some people, my friends have all the, it's a bit exaggerated to say that 1% of the people is using crypto, it might be so more in our favor. It's only going up. And we need to be the guys that make that people used to home banking and NFC payment with Apple Pay to be used or to be not so difficult for them to jump into crypto. And the thing is, many people still think that even in these spaces, that having a binance account, it's enough to own your money. And the other thing is that they have clearly stated that if bitcoin is going down at some point, you cannot withdraw your bitcoin because it's going down. So it's, as everybody says, not your seed phrase, it's not your money. So what's coming up next? Deeper integrations with actual partners and a few new ones, new blockchains.
00:10:41.676 - 00:11:42.834, Speaker B: Hopefully by the end of the year we will launch one new blockchain and in Q one next year we will be launching two or even three more if we made it in time. A bridge from inside the wallet to jump from Solana to Nier, from Nier to Ethereum, back and forth without any issues. And a concept we are thrilled to announce here, especially because it's a game space, is the concept of was or wallet as a service in which games and metaverses and anybody can use a wallet connected instead of asking the user to send funds to the account. So that's something we are exploring right now and we wanted to test with all the people around here. And finally, I want to introduce something that we've been working lately. We are a self funded team, totally self funded team. And we are launching an NFT collection that will work as a membership.
00:11:42.834 - 00:12:31.078, Speaker B: If you own the NFT, you will not pay for fees inside the wallet. So either you swap or bridge, all those fees are gone if you own the membership NFT. And here's the design. This is totally new, so this is what it will look like. It will be launching in December in one of our favorite marketplaces, that hyperspace again, once you acquire it, we are all discussing utility and stuff these days. From the day you get it, you pay zero fees on the wallet. So I'll be around if you want to chat.
00:12:31.078 - 00:12:44.564, Speaker B: I'll stay a couple hours over here, then you can find me at the other places. There's my telegram handle if you want to reach out. Thanks a lot for having me. It's been a huge pleasure. Thank you.
00:12:46.304 - 00:13:43.554, Speaker A: I hope you liked the presentation. I do think that open source is a great way to contributing to the ecosystem as it encourages community driven growth. And that is what we base our future markets growth strategy. We think about new markets as Solana cities where the economies are driven by the local citizens and we try to support them with the infrastructure and useful tools. One of our Solana Labs employees is here to present a decentralized ecosystem support tool, which is a hub that helps products network be transparently streamed to the communities and used in the most efficient way. Please welcome senior product manager of Solana Labs, Iman Motamedi.
00:13:46.734 - 00:14:00.314, Speaker B: Thank you. Thank you. Hey, everyone. Good morning. It's a pleasure being here. Very excited to share some of the stuff we've been working on within realms. As you can see here, we're working on a new hub for the Solana ecosystem.
00:14:00.314 - 00:14:51.444, Speaker B: But what does that actually mean? Before we dive into that, I'd like to take a little detour to talk about this, which is a broken clicker. There we go. We often say in crypto, we want to onboard the next billion users. Let us go ahead. And this is web3. There's so many new potential new untapped people we can help, but how are we actually going about onboarding the next billion users? When we thought about that question, we tried to think back to other platforms that had helped onboard hundreds of millions, billions of users in a web one, a web two context. And even for yourself, if you think to yourself, hey, what were really the key platforms that did this in the early Internet age? Maybe Facebook comes to mind, maybe Google comes to mind, maybe mobile devices come to mind.
00:14:51.444 - 00:16:15.954, Speaker B: But I'd actually even like to go a little further back to maybe an unexpected one, which is AOL American online, at least in the US context. AWOL was really the portal for folks who weren't familiar with the Internet, maybe didn't even know what a web page was. And this notion of being able to come in, have a CD that you just plug into your computer, log onto this site and have this site distill for you a, all of the websites on the Internet what you should care about and not have to deal with, typing in a web page and figuring out domain names and then b, surfacing the core actions that are really relevant to you from an Internet standpoint, whether that's checking your email, whether that's going to instant messenger, really the core features that are making prominent what is so powerful about the Internet to you and so really great tool to onboard tens of hundreds of millions of users onto the early Internet. And when we compare this to web3 and how users are onboarded introduced to web3 today, the main way, at least that I've seen, maybe same for you guys, is chat. You find out about a community you're interested in, you hear, hey, if you're interested, join our chat. But I would argue that this isn't a great user experience for a brand new user. It might work really well for core contributors of a project.
00:16:15.954 - 00:17:11.084, Speaker B: But if you're someone who's just trying to figure out, is this something interesting? What should I do here? I think these platforms present a number of challenges, both from a user experience perspective and one step deeper than that. So there's awful poor, there's really poor signal to noise in these platforms. You have to actually manually go in and check every single server that you're in to understand what's going on. There's no meaningful web3 actions. You might be in chat, you might get a link to go vote on a proposal, you might get another link to go create a wallet, another link to go purchase an NFT, et cetera, et cetera. I think we all see the challenges here. And so the question that we posed ourselves with was, how do we actually build a meaningful portal to web3? A way to onboard those next billion users and bring them into the crypto context, surface the communities in conversations they really care about.
00:17:11.084 - 00:17:39.422, Speaker B: Sorry, we're jumping ahead. So for us, that web3 native hub combines a number of different things. One, it combines integrations from people building meaningful tooling within the web. Three, construct. Two, it's on chain information, so it's something that's dynamic, not static, constantly evolving, constantly adapting. Three, it brings in actual meaningful web. Three, actions embedded into the platform.
00:17:39.422 - 00:17:57.728, Speaker B: And then four, finally, it brings in the community and conversations that are so relevant to these platforms. And so with that, I'd love to introduce you all to the realms. Orca, thank you. Thank you. Yes, it's okay to be excited. We're excited about it as well. So this right here is our discover page.
00:17:57.728 - 00:18:53.904, Speaker B: This is the showcase of the organizations across Solana. If we dive in here a little bit deeper, we have these nice case studies on organizations across the board. We have this notion of trending orgs as well, just based off of their activity on the platform. Key announcements happening across the ecosystem for folks to stay in touch with, popular projects that users should know about, NFT collections, defi going vertical specific. And then finally, all organizations building on solana, you can easily filter, you can search, and it presents to you a really nice hub of the different communities. And then finally bringing in some of those integrations as well. So you see here on the bottom, I know it's a little bit small, but we're pulling in daily user data through an integration with hello Moon, for instance, to actually surface the analytics on each of these communities and present something that's a little bit more objective versus maybe the subjectivity of a website.
00:18:53.904 - 00:19:24.554, Speaker B: But I'd love to take the journey with all of you as a new user landing on this platform. You don't know much about Solana. You jump on here at the top of the discover page, scroll around, and maybe you find something you're interested in. You find the mix mob page. And what's really nice is each of our organizations on here has a dedicated hub for themselves as well, where they can surface the core information that's relevant to the project. And I'll go through this in a second. But putting ourselves in the hat of that new user, they can now go back.
00:19:24.554 - 00:20:15.524, Speaker B: They can actually follow these organizations. And what's really important here is now that users are able to follow organizations, rather than having to jump into a bunch of different servers to find out what's going on, they can go into their my feed section and get a really nice view of the organizations they care about, the organizations they follow, the core conversations going on in there. And so both this follow and this my feed functionality are probably coming in the next week or two. They're the next feature we're going to launch, so you won't see them on there yet. What you will see, though, is this second feed, which is our really nice Solana ecosystem feed. So this pulls in the key post from across the entire Solana ecosystem for users to get involved, to know what's going on. And these aren't just text posts, necessarily, right? These could be proposals that a user votes on.
00:20:15.524 - 00:20:40.984, Speaker B: We have proposals filling into the feed. It can be a prompt to go purchase an NFT. It can be a prompt. Engage in a staking pool in Defi, really whatever those core actions are that users might care about. And then also, of course, there's a posting flow as well. So if you want to go and share an exciting new announcement, in this case, spaces launching Spacesdao, you can actually post into the community. It'll end up on there.
00:20:40.984 - 00:21:32.410, Speaker B: And one sort of intricacy here that's important to note is if you look at a platform like Twitter, for instance, it's kind of me as the organization speaking to my entire audience, whereas here what we're going for is really a many to many relationship. It's not just the project speaking out to its followers, but the followers can also get involved and chat about the things that they care about in this context. And we'll speak a little bit more about that shortly. I know I promised we would go back to some of those hub pages as well, so let's take a deeper dive into the Mixmod page, for instance. So once again, you'll see this notion of objectivity here as well. So once again through a hello moon integration, highlighting the core statistics, the core analytics that are relevant to that organization. I think we might have missed one here, sorry.
00:21:32.410 - 00:22:19.374, Speaker B: There we go. And for other communities, say you have a public token through our Jupyter integration, you can actually have users purchase the token directly from here, and it doesn't have to be a purchase example. Maybe for you the core action for new users is onboarding. Maybe for you it's something else. You can kind of decide what the core web3 actions are that you want your users to take and embed them into the right flows within your page. Hopefully with all of this, this isn't just a value to the new user. I'm sure all of us struggle with this problem of chat overload of what website do I go to for what? We've even among our teams started using this just to keep track of hey, what are the different projects and what are they doing? So I think all of us in this room, even being a little bit more crypto native, can benefit from something like this.
00:22:19.374 - 00:23:18.974, Speaker B: And then going through the page itself, we have this nice description section for each of these organizations, more resources to link out to, a nice gallery view of the different media or metadata that's relevant to the organization team section. One of the things we want to do here, as well as nfts for previous work experiences, as well as surfacing token balances NFT counts of those team members, just so you know, they actually have skin in the game. They're not rugging you, they've worked on meaningful projects in the past. And then I know we quickly went through the roadmap here and the FAQ as well. But core, once again, I know I've said this a few times, but this is really meant to be dynamic, objective, pulling in on chain data, pulling in integration data versus something like a website where the second you set it up, it starts to get more and more stale over time and you have to continuously think to update it again. A few other things to highlight here, just some more integration. So we're working with super team earn to surface the bounties that are relevant for each of these projects.
00:23:18.974 - 00:24:14.864, Speaker B: And then one other element that we're excited about here you see this point leader section. We have this firm belief that one of the great benefits of web3, of crypto, of tokenomics, is aligned incentives, is being able to have a token there to create network effects among you and your communities. But one of the things we notice is that launching a token is really hard. You have to go through so many steps and make sure you have everything right. And so a lot of projects are reluctant to launch a token until they're sure that the time is right, and they've worked out all of the kinks at the same time. In the process, though, they're missing out on some of those network effects, on some of those aligned incentives. And so what we're introducing is this lightweight tokenomic system that we're calling points that have no monetary value attributed to them, but are an on chain representation of who in your community is accruing the most points.
00:24:14.864 - 00:25:17.194, Speaker B: And the way you can use points is rewarding the behaviors that you care most about in your community. So that might be a user referring another user to your community, that might be a user answering a question in a q and a, or responding to a bug report. This gives you an on chain representation of who's actually contributed to your community, such that down the road you're able to do things like maybe Airdrop an NFT to those users who've done the most, or as some of the games have said, that we're working with giving free digital goods in the game to users who are contributing a lot. So basically giving a way to reap the benefits of tokenomics and align incentives without actually launching a true token or a true NFT. One other thing to highlight here is the fact that all of these organizations have feeds attached to them in the same way that we went through the feed concept for the solana ecosystem. Feed in your own individual feed. Each has its own specific feed as well, and these obviously feed into the aggregate feeds.
00:25:17.194 - 00:26:00.134, Speaker B: But the reason this is relevant is this is really the home of your community, the home of the conversations that are happening, and you can choose to use these feeds the way that are most meaningful for you. And so we have a few examples here that I'll quickly go to that we've been toying with on the realm. So, but really, the opportunity is yours to use this how you want it. So one of the things we toyed with was this notion of doing an AMA post. You might have to take my word for it. Okay, there we go. So an AMA post where people from the community come in and ask questions of the project leadership.
00:26:00.134 - 00:26:54.724, Speaker B: This might be roadmap questions, where do you see it going? It might be more personal questions. One of the questions we got in here was, what city do you see yourself living in long term? So a lot of opportunities there. We've also had, we've been doing this weekend community post, where we post new hubs that have been created each week just to keep our own community updated on what's going on. The other important piece here as well is it's many to many once again. So users can actually come in here and submit bug reports that they're seeing in the ecosystem. Our developers can respond, tell them we're working on it, basically create that more active environment, and then finally requesting feedback from the community. And we'd love all of you as well to come in and post here and let us know what you like in the product, what could be better in the product? And so that's kind of another example of, of a post type.
00:26:54.724 - 00:27:39.250, Speaker B: Importantly here, though, all of this is available on mobile too, so you're able to go check it out today on Realms today. One of the cool aspects here too, we're working with Solana mobile adapters such that on Android you can actually come in natively, sign in with your wallet like posts, comment on posts, make posts. On iOS, you can use the Phantom mobile browser to be able to do the same. But all of this is available on mobile. Would encourage you guys to head over to Realms today, check out the experience, let us know what you think then. One other major thing here is some of you might be familiar with the existing Solana.com ecosystem page that's now becoming this new Realms.org
00:27:39.250 - 00:28:22.894, Speaker B: hub as well. So we're going to be driving a lot more traffic to each of your projects, which is why it's important to make sure your information is up to date. Make sure you're treating this as a nice home for your community, sharing the links out with your community. And then if you haven't had the opportunity to do so yet, make sure to create your own hub to get it on there. We've had about 150 or so orgs already create their own hub, but if you haven't yet, this will link you out to a nice and easy form where you can go ahead and do the same. Sorry, this jumps. This clicker isn't working with me today, but last thing all this is to say is that this isn't a solo effort.
00:28:22.894 - 00:28:50.820, Speaker B: For this to be successful, we're going to need all of us in the ecosystem working together. I hope you've seen that integrations are a big part of this. We have 20 plus integrations so far within the product. And so if you have a product or service that you have out there that you say, hey, I could really see this benefiting the folks on realms. I want to integrate it to allow people to navigate to this more easily and take part in this, in this hub context. Feel free to reach out. We always want to add more.
00:28:50.820 - 00:29:17.964, Speaker B: So we'd love to work with you on that front. And I think all in all, the core message here is that we really do have this unique opportunity to bring on this next set of users into web3 and to work together to do so, to build the right portals and the right onboarding flows. And so by working together, hopefully we have the opportunity to create the best onboarding possible for onboarding process possible for the next billion users in crypto. Thank you very much.
00:29:27.984 - 00:30:39.744, Speaker A: Fantastic. I'm so excited to see products like this pop up. I think it enriches the community opportunities and the ways how you can contribute to the ecosystem. Whether you are a developer or in a non tech profession, having these tools pop up is fascinating to see, but it also brings to the table the choice of what are the right tools to use, from which smart contract to start with, what marketplace to pick, whether you are in an NFT project or bringing the panarial question of the utility of the tokens. How to set up your NFT art and your NFT project to success will be reviewed in the panel that is upcoming and moderated by Mickey Kapwell, the managing partner of Techflower Scum, an independent artist Hyblinks, an artist from Highbling studio and John Ley from JL Studios. Please welcome our wonderful guests.
00:30:41.644 - 00:31:06.944, Speaker B: Hey everyone, before we kick off, for me, it's very interesting. What is the audience here, how many of you guys are artists? Raise your hand, please. Okay. And how many of you are actually developers? Okay. The direction will go there. I'm sorry. We prepared for artists audience, but we will do our best.
00:31:06.944 - 00:31:28.144, Speaker B: So my name is Mickey Koval. I'm managing partner at Techflower. We do web3 development, but more important than that, I'm very addicted to art and I'm super happy to welcome here three amazing artists in Solana NFT space. Maybe you can do intro for yourself, John? Yeah, of course. Thank you. Yeah. Good morning everybody.
00:31:28.144 - 00:32:02.026, Speaker B: Gm. My name is John Ley. I started my journey as an artist on Solani here about a year ago and throughout that time have been able to culminate quite an audience and, you know, very proud to say that I've become the highest grossing one of one artists in this space at this time. Beautiful. I never thought in my life I'd have to follow John Ley. My name is Scum. I also started about a year ago, started heavy in the one of one space and then move pretty quickly into the generative art space.
00:32:02.026 - 00:32:16.894, Speaker B: I worked for the D Gods team as an artist both on the dead gods upgrade and the youths collection. And recently ive struck out on my own to pursue more in the one of one space and build my brand personally.
00:32:22.194 - 00:32:58.766, Speaker A: Hi. Hello everybody. Im Highblinks. Im a one of one digital artist and brand builder on Solana. I came from a past doing branding for Amazon and Oracle and pivoted to do web3 recently, about six months ago. And I've worked for brands across the Solana ecosystem and have recently taken on my own brand where I'm doing one of one art that is about emotions and self discovery. And then I also have a one of one PFP brand that is called the hoodlums.
00:32:58.766 - 00:33:04.714, Speaker A: And we, our mission is to empower children through art and fashion. So.
00:33:07.854 - 00:34:06.564, Speaker B: Beautiful. So, first question on the panel, we all know that you're quite famous right now in this space, but I'm very curious for everyone who is listening to us, how much single pieces, one to one art impacted your journey because you are, all of you in certain extent, doing collections or PFP one to one PFP editions, how your personal one to one art impacted your space of NFTs? Yeah, I could start that one. One of ones was pretty much how I got started. I got started way back in. In, you know, I had collaborated with a project called Skeleton Crew, which they allowed me to do in airdrop to 100 of their 10,000 holders. And directly the next day, I listed my first one of one on Olaplex at that time. And it's been, you know, one of ones has been pretty much the core of what I've built.
00:34:06.564 - 00:34:46.878, Speaker B: And not until the last couple months have I ventured into to editions. And, you know, at some point during there, we had done a one of one PFP collection with Le Dao, which was the first art collecting Dao on Solana. And, you know, I was lucky enough to work with scum for a bit on ute's as well. So, you know, been kind of dabbling all over. But I think one of ones is really very much the core of what I do. Yeah, I also got my start in one of ones in January or February. Before this year, though, I never really posted any of my art publicly.
00:34:46.878 - 00:35:28.966, Speaker B: So it was cool to put myself out there while larping as an animal PFP on the Internet and have people really enjoy it. And it led to me having a pretty like meteoric rise within the one of one space. And I think up to this point, I probably have less than 20 singular pieces in circulation, but it allowed me to put my fingerprint on almost 25,000 pieces of art that are now circulating in the NFT space between dead gods and ute's. So it's cool to think that at the, at the end of last year, I'd hardly posted any art. And now I've been able to sort of affect the culture, I think, within the NFT space. And I'm very, very humbled by it.
00:35:28.990 - 00:36:19.708, Speaker A: But you deserve it. You worked for it. One of one was definitely what drove me to this space. I was an artist on Instagram, like many people, and it just kind of clicked for me to jump in and do derivatives for brands in the Solana ecosystem. And through that I was able to join just ape and I was there launching brand manager and brought brand designer. And then I was able to kind of get inspired to make my own project and kind of hit the stuff that really makes me excited, which is kids and helping kids who kind of started in the same position as me, which is in an orphanage. And yeah, one of ones has allowed me to help people that wouldn't even have access to this technology.
00:36:19.836 - 00:36:56.476, Speaker B: So yeah, awesome, awesome. Now we go back to our developers, because when I started doing NFTs and I was like, I'm a tech guy, I look like art, but I have nothing to do with art except I'm buying it. But my first reaction was, I need to find top artists. I want to work with someone, I want to launch something, but I want to launch with someone who is cool. So I started to approach artists on Twitter. What's your take on that? Because you have a different situation. Maybe we started from scam because he was the one is like a phase of degos.
00:36:56.476 - 00:37:46.334, Speaker B: And I think as a panelist you didn't work before with PFP collection. So maybe it's come, you start, you tell your journey, how did you go into PFP and why did you go that road and would you do it again? So I'm really grateful that I said yes, but I think those questions come more and more often the longer you spend in the space and people realize that you do art, man. I don't want to get spicy. I think it's definitely. It's probably the main way that people get hired is through some kind of quiet Twitter DM. But usually it's not approached with terms or a contract or a very well structured idea necessarily. It's usually like, you make art, I want to make an art collection.
00:37:46.334 - 00:38:21.004, Speaker B: You can probably do it before anything else is really ironed out. And I know we're pretty young in the space, but it's due time for these things to start getting figured out, I think. And everyone's working on this issue in one way or another, but I think we, as artists, have our own responsibility to it, and I think people who want to launch a project have even more of a responsibility to keep artists safe. I think that's really what I'm learning in this whole experience here, is artists must be kept safe or they won't come here and then we lose our entire value proposition. Hybrids.
00:38:21.124 - 00:38:49.712, Speaker A: Yeah, I've been approached a couple times by projects. More than a couple times. I've said no a lot. But I think that what projects need to understand is that artists in this space are their own brand and own company. So when you approach them, you're actually asking them to stop working on what they came to work on. And you need to be prepared to, like, support them through that process, both financially and publicly. So they're taking a massive gamble.
00:38:49.712 - 00:39:02.072, Speaker A: And, yeah, I think that artists in this space, they have one of the rare opportunities to make whatever they want and to stop them is, yeah, it's.
00:39:02.088 - 00:39:09.342, Speaker B: A big ask, but do you take it also as a gamble because you basically show your art, right, your public there?
00:39:09.448 - 00:39:25.414, Speaker A: Yeah, I think it's a gamble that I'm willing to take because I'm betting on myself and I can control what I do and I control how I am perceived, but I can't control how a company that I'm working with is perceived. So is that a gamble that I want to take purely for money?
00:39:26.754 - 00:40:05.074, Speaker B: Makes sense. John, what's your take on that? Can I get the question again? I'm so sorry. Basically, the question is, have you worked before with PFP? Got it. Yes. And if no, why? I'm sure you have so many people approaching you for this question. Yeah, I mean, with scum and hybrinks here, I definitely see the benefits of starting in pfps, or not necessarily starting, but working on pfps. And, you know, with pfps, you're intermingling a lot of different fan bases, and then you kind of kickstart on a major community, which is, you know, at the end of the day, exposure is invaluable for us artists, right.
00:40:05.074 - 00:41:08.696, Speaker B: Especially as we join a new space. For me to kind of echo what Heibling said with the core of my stuff being one of one and me coming in kind of a different angle of wanting to tell stories and comics, for me, it's a, you know, I relate to them a bit in the sense that partnering with anybody in this space as we kind of just got to know each other over the last year, it's kind of a liability, right. And, you know, some is a higher liability, some is a lower liability. But at the end of the day, say you draw a 10,000 collection and then the brand does something that you personally don't align with. So for me, I think it's very important for artists to understand that when we partner with people that we should exercise a bit of a, you know, be a little picky of who you, and I think that goes for anybody, right. A developer should be very picky about what kind of artists they work with. You know, what do you want to represent, what do you want your message to be? And, you know, it's just, I think we're all getting to know each other very quickly and, you know, getting involved in big projects.
00:41:08.696 - 00:41:43.152, Speaker B: So, you know, for me it's just the, you know, I see the benefits of it, but I am very, very picky of who I associate myself with in the space. Wonderful. Next question is going to be about still one to one pieces and additions is something I've been asked quite a lot. Again as a developer. People come and they ask, okay, I want one piece. Why won't I sell 5000, 10,000, 20,000 and just make more money maybe. John, I know you have right now something on sale, right? Yeah, if it's not finished by this time.
00:41:43.152 - 00:42:22.334, Speaker B: Yeah. And I hope I answered this right. But for me, you know, the way I came into the space, I kind of kicked off real fast, right. My first sale, sale was 2.8 sol at all time highs at that time. And, you know, really quickly I began to price a lot of people out, or my community started to price people out where very few people could even afford to invest in my work and what I was doing. So because I was only trickling out a couple pieces a week or monthly or whatever, it's, you know, not the pool in which collectors can afford my work was getting very, very small.
00:42:22.334 - 00:43:07.834, Speaker B: And as I saw that, thankfully, months later, additions started to be celebrated on the platform and additions have been great for me. Right. Additions allow me to create this very accessible entry point. And I think when we throw around that phrase of mass adoption, I think mass adoption is about. I tweeted last night that the future is about access, not exclusion. And I firmly believe that. I firmly believe that if we continue to go down a road in which we just praise instant sellouts and all these kind of things, then we really leave a lot of people that would be genuine, beautiful holders and collectors and maybe even friends if we exclude them because of something like money.
00:43:07.834 - 00:43:50.862, Speaker B: I just think that we're stunting our own market maturity. What I love about additions, in contrast to one of ones, is I've been able to welcome so many people, I'm sorry, I can't speak many more people in and get to know them and welcome them as collectors and kind of let them in on what I'm doing. And I think, you know, year one was very much about me introducing myself to the space, about the work I've done over the last twelve years. However, year two for me is very much about access. How do I welcome people into my process? Give them that story, give them that window into what it is I do, how I go about it, and how meticulous I am about planning it. Wonderful. Hi brinks.
00:43:50.862 - 00:44:03.034, Speaker B: I know you have a collection of one to one PFP, which is right now at what stage it is. Do you have a dev team for that or no? And maybe you can uncover a bit more details on that.
00:44:03.334 - 00:44:47.074, Speaker A: Yeah, the hoodlums is a one of one PFP project and there is no dev team. It's sold weekly, it's auctioned on exchange, art exclusively. And one of the reasons that there's no dev team is because each piece is a one of one. It's personally crafted to a Persona that I'm creating, that fits into a storyline that I'm also creating that is about kids who are basically saving their planet. I specifically didn't go for a dev team because I knew that I wanted the bulk of the funds for hoodlums to go to children. I don't take a salary from hoodlums. The people that help me don't take a salary from hoodlums.
00:44:47.074 - 00:45:22.584, Speaker A: It's all going to create a fashion line that is going to donate clothing to kids. So the dev team felt like it would bloat our team and it didn't seem necessary, but we will be. We work with devs. I personally am married to a dev, so that does help. Sorry. But yeah, we do have light dev support for web. And then we'll also be working with companies like hopefully Helio and some other companies on the blockchain to kind of bring our storefront to life.
00:45:23.944 - 00:45:39.016, Speaker B: Very cool. But if we talk about, let's say, PFP, it's a way faster to generate with dev team and just, you know, raise more money and help more, you know, communities you're looking to. Well, why you still choose a slow mode?
00:45:39.200 - 00:46:21.024, Speaker A: Yeah, I guess to be completely honest, I'm a control freak and I wanted to make the art. The art is really important to me. It's personal to me. Creating a generative project, I've done one, and creating the layers and not really being able to control exactly what would come out of it put me on edge a little bit. And I wanted to be able to make characters that I knew I could make into a series, a comic book. I could make them connect with individual people that I've met in this space and hopefully they will connect with people across the world. I wanted that control and I wanted that connection with the community that I was building.
00:46:22.604 - 00:47:06.484, Speaker B: Wonderful. Thank you. Okay, scum, I saw your tweet and seems like you're also looking into this direction, if I'm not mistaken. Can you elaborate on that? Yeah. Yes, I am. And to follow up on what she was saying, like, if you unleash 5000 pieces right away with no groundwork laid, then essentially everyone you invited to your community is a stranger on the first day. If you slowly leak out very personalized pieces with a story and somebody connects with it and they want to pay whatever the going rate is to join your small community and meet you as an individual, then you have a superfan and you have somebody who is going to be your supporter from that point on.
00:47:06.484 - 00:48:04.414, Speaker B: As much as I want to break away from the PFP medium because I know how it's viewed sometimes, I do think there is beautiful ways to execute on it. And I think that it's one of the ways that you can build a very strong community around your brand and also give you a little bit of Runway to do whatever the next stages are, whatever the next things are for your personal brand. There's obviously much bigger things that I would like to do. I don't want to raise essentially by releasing 4000 pieces and then have those speculated on and then owe my community a pump and then another pump and then driving hype cycles. And suddenly I'm managing a community of coin traders and actually building art and building a community and creating a message that I really align with. Yeah. What about your project? We have some insight.
00:48:04.414 - 00:49:14.898, Speaker B: No, not at the moment. Okay, coming soon. Okay, so regarding tooling, because I know all of you guys, you have something listed on exchange art, if I'm not mistaken. Right, then you are accessible using this platform. Again, as for developers who help to build smart contracts, why specifically this platform? Platform, what is so special about it? Or how did you choose, what's the process of choosing the tools for your artworks? John? Yeah, you know, I have a, I owe a lot to developers, coders and everybody that is so much more, excuse me, intelligent than me on the technical aspect, because I am in no way smart about development or technology. And I've been humbled by very patient people teaching me how things work. And, you know, it's, for me as an artist, it's hard to kind of put shortly, in the words of how effective that is, because this is what I find so beautiful about NFTs is the cross section between technology and art.
00:49:14.898 - 00:50:09.024, Speaker B: And I think that's so important because these tools that developers have, you know, spent so many hours building, they have allowed me to engage with my fans in a way that was never really possible. And if it were possible, it was through some kind of middleman which was a publisher or a studio or things of that nature. So developers, whether they're on exchange or form function, or just all the independent developers, you guys, building tools that allow me to further express myself as well as my vision. Without that, I'd probably be selling editions on Facebook marketplace or something. Cool. So your PFP hibernates is also an exchange art. How did you choose the platform? You have any alternatives where you try to publish?
00:50:09.324 - 00:51:01.308, Speaker A: Yeah. So how I ended up on exchange art and why I chose it is a little, it's pretty personal. I've gone through a lot of work experiences where I felt like I've had to jump through both technical and professional hoops, which I thought were necessary, but also like personal identity hoops, which I felt were really unnecessary and having to prove who I was to the people that I was working with. So I came into this space knowing that I wanted to avoid that feeling ever again. So when you come into this space as an artist, there are specific platforms that you can upload your art to, and they're widely available. And I applied to both platforms and exchange art was the platform that accepted me for what I was giving them immediately. And that felt like home to me.
00:51:01.308 - 00:51:26.044, Speaker A: So I knew that I was going to build on exchange art for pretty much anything that I wanted to make I've been able to connect with the founders and the devs on exchange art and be able to have a great back and forth. So it feels like. It's not like I'm working without devs. I do have dev support and the tools that I think are important, they will try to prioritize because they're really listening to artists.
00:51:27.904 - 00:51:53.464, Speaker B: Come. I have a question for you. Since you work with dev teams and PFP, how much you were interested in what's their writing and coding? Because I know a lot of cases where very good artists partnered with some dev team, and there was, you know, like, the art was amazing, but the tech behind it could fail. So how much you were worried about your reputation? Luckily, I worked with a pretty amazing dev team. They were incredible. Yeah, we can. Till now.
00:51:53.464 - 00:52:15.064, Speaker B: There was also cardinal and even the dev team at. At d gods. They're just. They're wonderful people. I loved working with every single one of them. And if there was ever an issue or an idea, either creatively or technically, they were always there to solve it. I mean, I can't imagine what it's like working totally remote as a project.
00:52:15.064 - 00:52:44.804, Speaker B: Luckily, we were in a case where most everyone was under the same roof or was very easily accessible. I'm not sure if that totally answers your question, but, like, I can't under, under. Is there another. You had a personal trust to the team, right? You didn't have to go into details of their attack, is it? Yes, I had a great relationship with them. I'm sorry, that answers the question. You just had the trust to the team. You didn't go too deep into the tech, you didn't read the smart contract, right? Oh, no.
00:52:44.804 - 00:52:52.824, Speaker B: Oh, sorry. Yeah, but the tech. No, I mean, I watched what they were doing on the screen. It's all witchcraft. I don't know. It's another language to me entirely. It's really cool.
00:52:52.824 - 00:54:10.272, Speaker B: I would love to learn, but there's just. There's only so many more rooms in my head for new information. I think I'll just. I'll go to the professionals for that one. That's what's kind of awesome, though, because getting to watch scum and the rest of the boys at Ute's work on that collection, you know, that was very enlightening experience for me, just because, you know, allowing us to be in a playground where we can just worry about vision and creating art, and whenever we ran into a hiccup where we couldn't figure out of how the layering would work or how rules and exceptions would be made into code to then make sure that the collection could be as beautiful as possible. You had these guys literally right upstairs that would figure out what the solution is and go even further to explain to us how it works. So like, you know, it's, I think it's so rad because I think in the rest of our art careers we don't really get this opportunity to intermix, intermingle with developers so much where they're like educating us on this is how it works, these are the things that are possible and I think that's what's natural, right? We go through this kind of stuff, we make art, but then we're so intermingled with developers that our curiosity, they can kind of educate us through our curiosity of how things work, what is possible with the technology as of today and then tomorrow.
00:54:10.272 - 00:55:03.844, Speaker B: So, you know, it's, you know, I think the harmony was super clear in that house and, you know, everywhere else, especially with exchange and all the other wonderful platforms, you know, it's just very enabling and allows us to stay in our sandbox and our playground to worry about vision. Beautiful. Next question is going to be about utility. I've read your Johnny, I read your recent drop and there was some curated special features for people who buy and there were some more experiences. Utilities. What's your take on that? How much should be in shadow? How much should be uncovered in terms of utility for the collection? Yeah, you know, I'm just starting to explore that facet. Right before, I was very lucky that I had a collector base that asked nothing more of me than to be myself because they knew that being myself would be to fight to be on top and stay on top.
00:55:03.844 - 00:56:11.348, Speaker B: You know, we had an agreement. However, now my curiosity has grown because of the tech available to me and, you know, now I'm starting to see that, you know, just real briefly before I came into nfts, I was in comics. And the general thing that happens with comics is you end up giving a lot of your ip away just to sign a deal. So the way I kind of word it is leveraging an artist's desperation for greed. And so what we had just done is we released a collection called IoTA, which is a collector's past to welcome people into the process of what it takes to make a comic book. And the funds will mostly be used to distribute that book to the first 1500 holders. And, you know, the tech allows that, right? Like the tech really allows me to do that in a very fun way that isn't as what I would say sterile in Kickstarter, right? It's a more engaging process where you not only give a place for everybody to convene and build relationships within your community, much like PFP projects, but in our case, the Keystone is a little more focused on art than the actual utilities.
00:56:11.348 - 00:56:58.566, Speaker B: So, you know, for me personally, it's been. It's been very beautiful for me to start thinking in terms of how do I use this technology that everyone's building to further push my creativity, of how I engage with my fans, how I give access to my fans, and how I can create fun little things. As far as how much is uncovered and how much is hidden, I like messing with people, to be honest. I think we have, with market maturity where it is now, we are starting to succumb to dogma, and I don't believe in dogma. I believe in putting, pushing the needle and trying new things and shaking things up. And, you know, in my position, if that takes a couple punches in the face to learn real lessons, then I'll take those punches. Wonderful.
00:56:58.566 - 00:57:19.334, Speaker B: Heiblings. Question for you. If there are some developers right now here who would want to partner with you in the future? I guess I will ask this question for everyone, right? It's like, what steps, what should they do or not do and how they would approach you and to build trust, maybe just to help each other in the future.
00:57:20.514 - 00:58:17.874, Speaker A: Ooh, that's a good question. That's kind of. I feel like I'm a little trapped here. How should they have to protect audience, right? How should they approach me specifically? Ooh, I like knowing all the information up front, like, how much you're willing to pay me, what your project's about, who's working on it, when you're launching, when you need my artwork, what's the timeline like? Literally give me all the information, flood me with all the information, and then I can actually start the conversation. Because until I know everything, I can't give you an honest answer about whether or not this is something that I'm excited about, something that I know I can give you my best on. I want to give you 100%, 110% of my best if I'm working with you. And I can only do that if I have all of the information.
00:58:18.814 - 00:59:24.212, Speaker B: Awesome scum. Yeah, I completely agree. I mean, I have, like, probably 100 DM's of people saying I'm the number one project on Aptos and would you like to come do some art for us? But no, I think once, once there's like a standard artist brief in general, that is followed up quickly with a contract. I think once we get to that level of professionalism, it's very, very helpful. But yeah, I think just to echo that sentiment, having a very clear brief of what the job entails, if there's not a core concept yet, how you plan to address having a core concept for art direction, or if you need art direction in general and maybe trying to differentiate for yourself what exactly you need going into the project, you can't expect the person you approach to educate you on every aspect of the thing. I think it's important to do a little bit of your own homework, but I would just ask to move with kindness and grace and expect to be humbled, and I would do the same in any interaction. And if you do have a brief, also give me a TLDR so I can know pretty quickly if it's not something I'm interested in.
00:59:24.212 - 00:59:27.428, Speaker B: And also, like, you're going to hear no sometimes, yeah.
00:59:27.516 - 01:00:01.686, Speaker A: I also got to say know who you're contacting. Like, know them. One of the things, if you're, if you're hiring me, like, I have a background in brand design and art direction, so, like, I'm not just an artist. So the price is kind of a little bit more because, like, I will provide you with a lot. Like, I know, go to market strategies for products. Like, I've done things, so know who you're asking and know what you're actually going to be getting out of them or what you need from them. Because if you just need my hands to draw, then that's a completely different price.
01:00:01.870 - 01:00:22.538, Speaker B: Awesome. John? Yeah. For me, it's, you know, echoing what they said, of course. But a level of professionalism is definitely preferred for me. I like to take it to a little more personal level. I want to attract the best people, the people that align with me, people that are willing to go against the grain with me because I'm never going to fit in a meta. I'm going to try to create new metas.
01:00:22.538 - 01:00:43.242, Speaker B: And if you're that type of person, I don't really care what company you work for. I don't care. I want to, like, I've said this to all of you guys, I think where I want to build a roundtable of trust that I can run with for the next decades. And if you want to go against the grain with me, then, you know, I would love to talk. Awesome. Okay, we're on time. Thank you so much, everyone.
01:00:43.242 - 01:00:48.534, Speaker B: Such a pleasure to be on the stage with such creative people. Thank you so much for having us. Thank you very much.
01:00:54.034 - 01:01:49.274, Speaker A: Right now that we are much more educated about potential paths on how to build your NFT collection and NFT project, we have a wonderful and very inspiring example of a successful NFT project. Literally to the stars. While badly cancer artist Eve discovered that she wants to contribute to the nfts and create art, to live an infinite piece of art in this universe that will outlive her. So she will share his story, her story. And I am excited to welcome on this stage the co founder and the CEO of Infinity Labs and Dream Bound Orbital, even finity. Hi, everyone. I'm going to start with this video.
01:01:49.274 - 01:02:15.714, Speaker A: Let me see what spring is like.
01:02:15.794 - 01:02:19.494, Speaker B: On Jupiter and Mars.
01:02:20.034 - 01:03:10.474, Speaker A: In other words, hold my hand. So you're probably asking a lot of questions to yourself right now. What is this? What? To the stars, literally, what does she mean? Who's Infinity Eve? And I'll be answering all of those questions in this presentation. So, one, hi, I'm infinity Eve. I think the beauty about web3 is that we get to rethink the way we do things. We get to rethink systems, processes, and in a lot of ways, rethink ourselves. To me, the metaphor of web3, the metaverse and blockchain, is about rebirth and reinvention.
01:03:10.474 - 01:03:59.310, Speaker A: And my journey into web3 was crystal clear. Last year, I was diagnosed with cancer, and I think everyone in the audience can relate. There's a time before cancer and there's a time after diagnosis, and it shifts your identity completely. I remember being in my doctor's office and sitting me down and telling me, you have cancer. It's aggressive. And in that moment, it felt like a death warrant. But I knew that through my art and through my work, I had to see it as an opportunity.
01:03:59.310 - 01:04:42.352, Speaker A: I couldn't just sit there and look up statistics, which you should never do, by the way. And so in the moments that I really wanted to give up, I started creating. I started making art stories, dreaming about worlds that were outside of my own reality. I was going through chemo and treatments during the pandemic, so couldn't have any visitors, and it was a really lonely experience. This is my first breakpoint. I was actually supposed to go to break point last year. I was selected as a Solana fellow, but couldn't go for various medical reasons.
01:04:42.352 - 01:05:37.930, Speaker A: And this was me last year. And while physically I was here, I was really here. And that art and those stories turned into a collection called Infinity Labs. We launched last year. That video that you saw was actually our one year anniversary video. And it was a collection of 1011 different scenes of creatures, of environments with eight different copies of them, where you can actually merge them together and create more evolved animated pieces. Some of them here, and we're actually coming out with full timeline merging pretty soon where you can merge all eight of your copies up to them and get the final piece with music and full animations.
01:05:37.930 - 01:06:31.924, Speaker A: We actually did over 3000 animations where a thousand of them didn't make the cut for this. So we're really excited to be able to release it. The other component of it is that we really wanted it to be community driven. This world that I had built, I wanted to share it with people and inspire people to also build on top of it. Over the last year, it's been amazing to see the different places that it's been integrated from different metaverse platforms to games, to the creation of our 3d assets and characters, which there's a preview of. One of our characters on the bottom left, we have this huge wiki, something I'm really proud of, of all of our scenes documented in the collection. And people from all over the world contribute their own stories to the different timelines and what happens.
01:06:31.924 - 01:07:40.294, Speaker A: They merge them together, connect storylines, and create more and more things with it. We have over 3000 edits and over 1000 pages in scenes from the soul verse in the Infinity Labs wiki that anyone can contribute to. We were able to participate in an awesome Times Square event where holders in our community were able to send a message in their favorite scene to the iconic screen in Times Square. And one of the cool things that I'm really proud of is that we opened up a microgrants program for people in our community. So what you're hearing is audio of a mini game that Hoon from our community is actually building a mini game on top based on scenes from the soulverse. We have an awesome creator, Atlas Theory, who's making five, which is an audio adventure based on the scenes. And we have another creator in Australia, whose name is Eugene, who's making these amazing led frames that he's putting together his favorite scenes and putting up a gallery in Australia.
01:07:40.294 - 01:08:32.804, Speaker A: And these programs are open to creators and artists in our community and beyond. And so I was thinking about how else can we ignite creators in our community? And oftentimes this collection was very much inspired by space. When I was sitting there in hospital beds and I would close my eyes and think of myself in these otherworldly places. And when I thought about this, I was actually on a stage, stationary bike. I had been using a lot of stationary bikes to work on my mobility. I couldn't walk for a really long time, but now I'm in front of you walking and doing this and that. But I actually imagined myself riding my bike in space.
01:08:32.804 - 01:09:57.158, Speaker A: And I thought, what if we could do that? What if we could bring people's art? And I had been obsessed in general of putting art and stories in the blockchain, because I had this idea that if I put it there, whatever could happen to me or people who created it, that could outlive me, that anyone could scrape the art on the blockchain, build whatever they want on top of it. And one of the biggest things that inspires human creativity is the unknown, the other worlds. What could be about reinvention? And so that's where dream bound orbital came in in launching. We're starting off with launching assets into space. So I actually was able to go to Houston, Texas, the other week, sorting out logistics for a digital payload. There's a video I got to see in a specific area or airlock of a large space entity that you probably all know that will be able to bring the digital payload to, and it's the international space station. So in terms of the logistics, I could probably do a separate talk on this, but for now, it was just like a general screen.
01:09:57.158 - 01:10:34.064, Speaker A: But at Dreamvound, we're putting together a digital payload of art, of stories, all kinds of things. We have a mission control center in Houston, Texas. It's adjacent to the Johnson Space center. And then we'll be sending basically the digital payload to the ISS. It'll orbit around the earth and then eventually come back down. And that same signal will be transmitted to the stars, to other neighboring star systems. And who knows? Maybe aliens might read it or future generations of humans, and they can see how we took the time to create and think about beyond.
01:10:34.064 - 01:11:22.344, Speaker A: But it's not just infinilabs that I want to be a part of this. I want to invite other collections and creators to be a part of our digital payload. So if you are a collection founder or creator, do hit me up and you would like to participate in this event, do let us know if you are a company or someone who would want to help sponsor or support this event in any way. We would love to hear from you as well. And something that is pretty actionable right now that you can really help us with. With. If you whip out your phone and look up dreambound IO on Twitter, I would really appreciate a follow.
01:11:22.344 - 01:12:34.520, Speaker A: I think we have, like, ten followers, so I think there's, there's a good amount, and it would really help a lot. And before I close, I did want to say that, you know, this is one of the first steps of hopefully, many more experiments that we can run. And I think a lot about the metaphor of reinvention, rebirth, and the chance that we have in web3 to do things different and to compound on our contributions. So the last thing that I wanted to show you was this picture again. You know, last year I was here, and now I'm in front of all of you, talking about my dreams and the things that I hope to do and work that can be done. And I really want to speak to every single one of you as if I was just talking to you one on one. And I really mean it when I say this is.
01:12:34.520 - 01:13:10.134, Speaker A: I believe that you are vastly underestimating the capabilities of yourself in every conceivable way. And I'll bet it on a huge margin. And so, with that, I'm really excited to see what you create. Let's go to infinity together. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. Yves.
01:13:10.134 - 01:13:53.224, Speaker A: We are, at this point, at the lunch break, Eve will be available here for any questions that you have for her or for any other panelist or speaker. We'll continue our program at 02:00 p.m. Here with our community voice kind reminder. We have a wonderful rooftop that you can reach through the back doors at the end of the room, as well as there are shuttles in between the venues that are rotating on a frequent basis. Thank you so much for coming today, and see you after lunch at 02:00 p.m. Good afternoon, and welcome back to Teatro Capitolio. Day two.
01:13:53.224 - 01:14:06.946, Speaker A: We are about to resume our programming, so please take your seats. Thank you, everybody. And now, please put your hands together and welcome to the stage our host and emcee for the afternoon, Daniel from the Solana foundation.
01:14:07.130 - 01:14:40.144, Speaker B: Hey, everyone. Yeah, super excited to have you guys here. This afternoon we're going to do, like, kind of a demo day at the hacker houses, where projects can come do a tutorial, show their project, do an interactive kind of demo and presentation. So, really excited to kick this off. For the first one, we have Joel from Ceramic Ceramics, a decentralized network of composable data. And he'll be going over how to do off chain storage for Solana accounts. So let's give it up for Joel.
01:14:40.144 - 01:15:37.654, Speaker B: All right, microphone is on. Hi, everyone. All right, so I'm going to be talking about sort of how to look leverage off chain data as you're building applications. And we recently actually added support for Solana wallets in ceramic. So, I'm going to do a short presentation to explain what ceramic is and why it's necessary in this web3 ecosystem, and then give a short demo of how you can actually use this in your application. So, already mentioned ceramic is this decentralized data network for composable data. And it's really meant for storing things that doesn't really make sense to store in on chain, on sort of layer ones where you store a lot of financial transactions.
01:15:37.654 - 01:16:45.164, Speaker B: And because as we sort of know, there is a limitation, even in the most sophisticated l one designs, we have sort of like a limitation of how much data we can put through the system. And the things that are most useful to put there is more like financial things. So, in ceramic, we want to enable an ecosystem of data where the data is not locked into any one particular application, or any one particular blockchain ecosystem. So, to achieve this, we allow developers to create data models where they define the schema of their data. And any app can plug in to use this data model and bring users along with them. So if there's an app that onboards, let's say 1000 users, you might want to use their data model, because then you already have all those users, and pull over all of the existing, the user can come along and bring their data with them. And I think this becomes especially powerful as we go into the multi chain ecosystem.
01:16:45.164 - 01:17:36.830, Speaker B: So, ceramic is based on event streams. I'm not going to go too much into detail there, but all of the data in ceramics is completely verifiable. It's signed by user keys, and you can sort of synchronize individual pieces of data without having to verify the state of the entire network. And so there's a bunch of different things you can build on this. I think the most exciting things are around. Like, once we have a bunch of applications built on top of this verifiable data web, we can actually sort of look at that data, look at the contributions, and sort of build out the web of trust, and sort of gain insight about how people interacted to distribute reputation. So, I'm not going to go too much into this.
01:17:36.830 - 01:18:08.654, Speaker B: I actually want to jump right into the demo. So let's go here. So, in ceramic, we're using something called did. So that's short for decentralized identifiers. And really what that is, you can think of it as a way to abstract accounts. So you might have like a Solana address, or you might have an ethereum address, or Pokemon address, or whatever, there's a bunch of different blockchains out there. Dids allows us to sort of abstract that in a way in which we can refer to accounts across many different blockchains.
01:18:08.654 - 01:19:13.414, Speaker B: The other really important thing in ceramic is the use of session keys. And so session keys is essentially what allows you to give the user a really great user experience. Because if you ever used adapt, where you go there and you take some action and you have to sign something with your wallet, and then you do something else and you have to sign it with your wallet, it's sort of like very cumbersome, and you don't really want to do that, but you also don't want to be in the web two world, where all the actions you take are stored on Facebook server or whatever, where essentially you have no control and no authenticity of that data. So what we do in ceramics is really simple. We delegate access to a session key that lives inside of the user's browser, and then the user can use this, or the application can use this to write data on the user's behalf. So this is pretty straightforward. This is sort of like a demo we have of this piece.
01:19:13.414 - 01:19:52.026, Speaker B: You can learn more about what kakaos are. It's short for chain agnostic object capabilities and sessions. So let me just demo how this looks like this is not going to be a password. Interesting. So some of you might be familiar with signing raw messages. Usually you sign sort of like blockchain transactions, but here we're actually signing a raw message. Here we can say that this website Shainagnostic GitHub IO wants to sign in with your Solana account.
01:19:52.026 - 01:20:28.804, Speaker B: So this is sort of, we ported the sign in with Ethereum system over to Solana so we can have sort of like the same way of interacting. And then there's a session key that's generated client side in this application. And so here you can see sort of like a public key of that. And then there is some extra information about like this is the sort of chain id mainnet version of Solana. There's nonce here, there's issued at and expired time. So this object capability that we're granting to the session key is only valid for a short amount of time. Once that time has passed, that session key can no longer write to your data on your behalf.
01:20:28.804 - 01:20:53.984, Speaker B: And finally we specify the resources. And so here we have, it's like test resource. This doesn't really mean anything here. We're going to prove it and we can log this object capability. So as long as the public key that's in. The app has access to this data. It can write, and it's within the sort of expiry time it can write on behalf of the user.
01:20:53.984 - 01:21:31.314, Speaker B: This session can be serialized and we can, of course, sign any much more like other messages. You can sign sort of like arbitrary data here. And you see, you don't get this new wallet pop up every time. So sort of to demonstrate how this looks like in a real application, there's this app called Orbis, and this is a decentralized social network built on top of ceramic. And right in the beginning it only supported Ethereum, but actually they've expanded now to Solana. And so what this looks like is I click connect. You can see there's already a bunch of people interacting.
01:21:31.314 - 01:22:05.894, Speaker B: I connect with Fantom, and now it says, Orbits club wants to sign in with your account. And at the bottom here, it says, same thing here with the session key at the bottom, we can see that it's requesting access to ceramic resources. So this is sort of like a very permissive request. It wants access to all of your data. You can also specify like more specific subsets of data that you give apps write access to. So you approve this. And.
01:22:05.894 - 01:22:45.244, Speaker B: All right, we are signed in, so we can now make a post, we can share this. And it's posted by, by this account, which should be the same account as we have in here. ACFJ. ACFJ is the same one. And now the cool thing is this thing here that we posted, we can actually verify that and look at what it looks like on ceramic. So this is sort of like a data explorer of ceramic, also built by, or bisteam, by the way. Super cool.
01:22:45.244 - 01:23:42.044, Speaker B: Yeah. You can essentially look at the data, you can see how this post was structured, and you can see that was signed by my Solana account here, which ACFJ is the same one as I have over here. So we can see how we have this authenticity flowing through the system. Even though now I'm not actually no longer having to sign everything with my wallet, it's just like this session key that's signing on my behalf. And of course, I can take any actions like liking this and posting more comments. All right, and of course, one important piece here is that now this is social network that's built on ceramic. Anyone can sort of, the data's not really locked in to, to the Orbis application.
01:23:42.044 - 01:24:39.304, Speaker B: You can actually spin up your own ceramic node and synchronize this data and sort of connect to sort of the existing ecosystem of this social application or other applications and pull that into your application and just build something else. And so I think this sort of can really enable a lot more interoperability between the tools we use. Because, like, really, when we're building issue tracking or project management tools for a DaO or something like that, we don't really want that to be locked into one particular DaO framework, or even daos. Only in Solana. It would be awesome if we could have tools that worked across Ethereum, Solana and other blockchain ecosystems. And I don't really have to think about sort of building out new toolings for all these different ecosystem. And so that's really what ceramic can enable.
01:24:39.304 - 01:24:47.824, Speaker B: Let's see, how are we doing on time? We're all right, I think. Let's see if there's anything more in the slides.
01:24:49.964 - 01:24:50.228, Speaker A: And.
01:24:50.236 - 01:25:28.814, Speaker B: Yeah, so one thing worth highlighting is that ceramics build in this sort of local first design. So you, as a user, you write to your own event stream. So data is segmented by user. So in theory, this network can actually spin up a node and only replicate the data of one individual user or a lot of users. So you have the ability to dynamically shard this system in a way which you can't really do with any sort of blockchain system, where you need to put everything through this expensive consensus. And I think ids. I already touched upon.
01:25:28.814 - 01:26:13.992, Speaker B: One thing that's worth noting with the data written into ceramic is that it's actually time stamped into the blockchain. So we have sort of tamper proof timestamps. So when you verify the integrity of this event stream, you actually know what happened at what point in time. So just like, basically, we were aiming to limit the ways in which this system is possible for individuals or others to change what happened over time. Yeah, I think that's mainly it. Since we have a few minutes left, I'd love to take questions, if there are any. All right, if not, well, thank you very much.
01:26:13.992 - 01:26:26.526, Speaker B: All right. For our next guest, Daniel from heavy duty builders is going to come on stage. They built a really cool bounty program at Solana U. So let's give it up for Daniel.
01:26:26.670 - 01:26:52.236, Speaker C: Can you hear me? Can you hear me now? Okay, cool. How are you doing? Oh, I see a bunch of familiar faces. This is awesome. Well, I'm Daniel. I'm part of heavy duty builders. So we're trying to create a community of developers that speak Spanish so we can learn from each other, so we. We can form teams and help each other out.
01:26:52.236 - 01:27:24.218, Speaker C: And I've been working with Solana since June last year. And I'm telling you, back then it was really, really hard to learn. We had to, what they say, choose some glass in order to get stuff working. So back then, the reason for that was that there wasn't enough content to learn from. There wasn't a Solana cookbook, there was an assault dev. There was almost nothing. So we created a group anchor story group, because that was the only way.
01:27:24.218 - 01:27:46.566, Speaker C: We were tired of being scrapping discord. So we wanted to make a place for us, meant for us and by us. So right now there's a lot of content. So luckily now there's a lot. But as everything, now that we have a lot of content, we have new problems. How do you find the content that you're looking for? Right. It's not that easy.
01:27:46.566 - 01:28:46.922, Speaker C: So if you have to go through the whole documentation site on Solana, you're going to have not such a good time. So what we're trying to do is to, we are creating heavy duty challenges and the idea is to make it easy for developers to actually get to the content that they need. So we want to make challenges, fame and part of the hacker house experience. So when you go to a hacker house, you're not just hacking or working your 95 or in a co working space, but rather you're part of a competition. You're competing with each other, you're meeting other people, you're making teams. So we're making these challenges to basically get the information that's already there in documentation, get the best tutorials, get the best information and turn them into challenges. So we can basically challenge people to do stuff with the ultimate goal of learning and learning the new concepts.
01:28:46.922 - 01:29:45.652, Speaker C: So we've been doing this for a month now. We've been, right now we're doing this in breakpoint. So if you're interested, there's 3000 USDC in prices for everyone that participates in the breakpoint chat challenge. But we're also doing this in India right now, in the India tour that AyusH is doing. We were in Bogota a month ago and we also were in the Cal hacks versus hacktx event. So right now at this moment, it's been only a month and we've been in four different countries and yeah, so we want basically to turn learning into something fun, something cool, something that people enjoy rather than just reading a huge wall of text. And if you're in Solana for over a year, Sayan, you do know how much you have to read and how many times you have to keep going.
01:29:45.652 - 01:30:26.266, Speaker C: To GitHub and seeing other projects and try to get inspired from there, but you don't really know if what they're doing is right. You're just basically copy pasting what others do. We want to make it more interesting and fun, especially fun because reading documentation sucks. I hate it. So I want people to be able to just go to a place, find challenges, have fun, crack a beer, meet another fella, get made teams. So we're working on a ton of new features for the challenges. So in this instance we have like time based challenges, bonus points and for future we were working on teams.
01:30:26.266 - 01:30:58.244, Speaker C: So you can make teams on site, you can get actually to meet people. So you can make a balanced team of developers and marketers and stuff like that and you know, learn together, have fun and hack together. That's what we really want. We want people to have fun while they hack. We want to turn hacker houses more into a code. From my coworking space into an entire full experience on hacking and getting to meet people. So I just wanted to talk about what we're doing with the challenges.
01:30:58.244 - 01:31:27.550, Speaker C: I think I said my name maybe. Anyway, I'm Daniel and if you want to participate in the breakpoint challenge and you would like to participate and try, if you can get some of those 3000 USDC prize, I'm going to be around here for a little bit and then I'm going to be in Covento do beat. I'm also going to post on our social heavy duty, build all the information about the breakthrough challenge so you can participate and see if you get to the top challenges. And thank you.
01:31:27.702 - 01:31:42.084, Speaker B: Awesome. Thank you, Daniel. Heavy duty is really cool. The bounty program, if you haven't participated already, definitely go check it out. We're going to take a 1015 minutes break. We're just waiting on a couple people and then we'll be back real soon. Thank you.
01:31:42.084 - 01:32:10.570, Speaker B: All right, everyone, we're going to get ready for the next one here. Mike from portal is going to come on stage. Portal is an instant global payment system and he's going to be talking about user experience on web3. So let's give it up for Mike. Thanks, Mike. Hey everyone, I've been told this is valuable so you should listen up. Portal does instant global payments for less than a penny.
01:32:10.570 - 01:33:11.564, Speaker B: But what I'm actually going to talk about today is a cryptographically secure, bounty tested, rotatable hazily remembered, standalone alternative to mnemonic passphrases. In other words, fixing the first major hurdle that every human being comes when they use any existing wallet on any blockchain. My background is I built a cryptographic product used by every fintech in Europe that you've heard of, from Monzo to cover to brands like Buzzfeed and Hype and Superdry, etcetera. My co founder is a design thinking expert at Microsoft, so he gives me really challenging things and I build those things using cryptography. And also like Solana Spl, metaplex, etcetera. My co founder and I originally wanted to build a web3 app, something like GM, but that was not just for nerds. And so we wanted to find out if regular people could use web3.
01:33:11.564 - 01:33:46.734, Speaker B: It turns out that regular people cannot use web3. We watched about 50 people install Metaplex, Phantom, glow, ultimate, and every other wallet we could get our hands on. And there are at least three major blockers that stopped anybody from being able to use any of those products as a wallet. So yeah, Solana wallets don't work as wallets. It's not chain specific. ETH wallets don't really work as wallets either. 100% of users did not understand mnemonic passphrases.
01:33:46.734 - 01:34:24.644, Speaker B: People actually don't really care about non stable tokens. And the lack of any verification inside the payment flow means that no one will ever complete a payment sending to a base 58 walleted address. This is what I'm going to talk about in the next few minutes. Fixing this. Other people have tried, and there's a few things that we've done, which I think means that this is probably going to be the future of how this is handled going forward. So this is the vibe I get from a mnemonic passphrase. It's basically forcing something that's arbitrary, complex upon people.
01:34:24.644 - 01:35:07.088, Speaker B: That is, oddly enough, a mnemonic is supposed to help people remember something. It's failed to the point where you have to record it. There's lots of people who talk about web3, usability, and they talk about things like access to new financial products and amazing creative experiences inside wallets and aesthetic tastes. And those are all good things. We need beautiful interfaces, but those things aren't usability. So we try to make wallet recovery usable by regular people. I am so quickly running out of time, but essentially we came up with this box, and it's completely uninteresting box.
01:35:07.088 - 01:35:35.814, Speaker B: It's just a text box, and I'll talk about some of the logic behind it. Usability goes deep. So behind that box, we're going all the way down to cryptographic fundamentals. The iPhone isn't the iPhone because it looks pretty. If you ever try an iPhone skin on an Android operating system, it feels like trash. And that's because the iPhone is the iPhone. Because of the way the scheduler works, because of the way the GPU works.
01:35:35.814 - 01:36:27.548, Speaker B: The responsiveness of an iPhone is due to full stack hardware, kernel user mode and everything on top of that. So I want to talk about things that are not bit 39 mnemonic pass phrases. In the early 2010s, you had a bunch of bitcoin people using something called brain wallets. That was kind of the first iteration of the idea of letting users use a passphrase they could use to recover a wallet. Users pick their own phrases and obvious if you're an infosec person, you make a rainbow table. You take every publicly printed set of words, you pre calculate the outputs for all of that, and then you steal the contents of all the wallets. And this is what happened to people who use brain wallets in the mid to late two thousand ten s.
01:36:27.548 - 01:37:11.286, Speaker B: The guys who made keybase and a bunch of other bits and pieces who are now, I think he's the head of chief. The chief of security at Zoom created something called Warp wallet, which was a second generation brain wallet. It wasn't a product, it was more a proof of concept. But he puts I think it's now the equivalent of $800,000 in wallets that were secured with warp wallet. Warp wallet fixed some really crypto basic fundamentals. If you log into windows, Mac or Linux, if two users have the same password, we don't store the same hash. You salt the password, the hash, I should say you salt the hash with some thing that's unique to the user.
01:37:11.286 - 01:37:57.114, Speaker B: So two different users with the same password get two different hashes. That's just crypto basics like nobody should have not used salting in the first place. The other thing is they used scrypt, which dramatically slows down the amount the time taken to produce a hash which stops brute force attacks, or at least slows them down exponentially. Warfall one and two were still unsolved to this day. And as I mentioned earlier, there's $850,000 that were given as bug bounties to people who could crack those wallets. There was also hints about what the salt was and also what the passphrase was. There's a few problems with warp wallet as well.
01:37:57.114 - 01:38:29.684, Speaker B: Firstly, credentials should actually be easily rotated. That's another infosec basic without modifying the wallet address. So it probably makes sense to separate recovery from the concept of the actual wallet address where people are sending you money. Also, users may not remember the exact phrase. You don't want things like punctuation or casing to matter either. We want to be compatible with bit 39 mnemonic passphrases. Obviously we don't want to make a roach motel.
01:38:29.684 - 01:39:03.804, Speaker B: If you want to use this, you should be able to take your password to some other wallet. We're doing this to make the world a better place, not to seize control of people's online identity. It needs to live entirely on chain. And unlike a lot of the oh wow, we have a web3 wallet for everyone. We're not relying on web two accounts to make this happen. So you'll see a lot of people at breakpoint who are securing your web3 wallet with your Twitter account or with your Google account. Google ban people arbitrarily all the time.
01:39:03.804 - 01:39:45.744, Speaker B: Twitter, hopefully that will stop now, but historically has a reputation for doing the same thing. You don't want to tie something which we're all web3 people. We think web3 should be part of finance. You don't want to tie a financial product to a third party company that has no interest in ensuring your ongoing access to their product. Web three should not rely on web two to make that happen. And yet every other person who says they've fixed mnemonic passphrases with a good alternative is just encrypting something with an Oauth token against web two. So this is the portal recovery token.
01:39:45.744 - 01:40:33.930, Speaker B: It's essentially a product that is really built upon warp wallet and scrypt. We have a seed that's generated by the normal means, a personal phrase that's normalized to ignore case and punctuation. Anything else, and we take that seed. We actually use the unlock phrase of the wallet to generate some output with script. Again, that takes like hundreds of milliseconds, but it's significantly slower than not using scrypt, and it means it slows down potential attackers, even if they know one or part of the recovery phrase or the wallet unlock phrase. The results of the script are used to encrypt the key, and the key is actually stored on chain. The results of that are stored on chain in Arweave.
01:40:33.930 - 01:41:14.080, Speaker B: So it's a recovery token that is completely independent of the wallet address and does actually work for real people. Wallet users are occasionally challenged as well. We simply tell them, you'll need to remember this phrase if you lose your devices. The language is relatively clear. And if they can't remember the phrase, it's fine, their wallet's still working because this is not in an emergency scenario. We can simply ask them to set a new phrase and do that the same way that we allow rotating credentials in any normal user facing app. So yeah, pretty simple box.
01:41:14.080 - 01:41:49.144, Speaker B: But there's a lot of thinking behind that. And the point of this is that usability goes deep. Fixing web3 requires a lot more than aesthetic sense. Portal does a bunch of other things as well. We have normal bank like transfers with inflow verification of recipients. I can send money to someone with 100% certainty that that is them in the same flow that I'm actually sending it. That required changes to how we do transactions, the creation of identity token, writing more data to Arweave, and a bunch of other low level things.
01:41:49.144 - 01:42:19.194, Speaker B: If you're interested in this kind of thing, we're launching an alpha in the next couple of weeks. Get portal app. I'm really into technology, crypto fundamentals, etcetera. Chat to me if you're into the tech side of things, like we're raising a round soon as well. We honestly think we're the only people who are capable of taking web3 to the mainstream. My co founder has done more than 200 hours of user interviews. We're really, really good at this.
01:42:19.194 - 01:42:44.150, Speaker B: And yeah, hopefully I'll speak to you soon. Thank you. Awesome. Thanks, Mike. So next up we have Ryan Kim from Montley Labs. Motley Labs is a DaO that coordinates open source technology to build the future in a decentralized fashion. Next, he's going to talk about metadata standards for NFTs and really go deep into why these are important.
01:42:44.150 - 01:43:15.016, Speaker B: So let's give it up for Ryan. Hello. Hey everyone. My name is Ryan Kim. As Metisilo said, I'm the founder of a dao called Motley Labs. And so what Motley Labs is attempting to do is bring together amazing open source protocols calls on Solana, and we're trying to build NFT applications and super apps that really compose and drive adoption of web3 through delightful experiences. And so why I think this is important is our first product is an NFT marketplace called Knight Market.
01:43:15.016 - 01:43:59.126, Speaker B: And so Knight market is meant to be a community owned, decentralized, permissionless and open source NFT marketplace where 100% of the ownership is, is given to the people who own and use the marketplace. And so when I say I'm building an NFT marketplace, what does that mean? Right? There's two words. There's NFT and there's marketplace. We know what a marketplace is. But I think the thing that's been kind of a concern and something that's been raised in the ecosystem recently that I do want to call attention to is that I think we as a community, have not really decided the definition of what an NFT is. Right. There was multiple different, there are currently multiple different NFT standards right now.
01:43:59.126 - 01:44:35.598, Speaker B: And it's like, it's almost like we recognize that Solana is electricity, and we recognize that the way to get electricity is by recognizing what Solana can do through NFT standards. Right. We as a community, recognize that this is an NFT. It's kind of like an electrical outlet. And the problem is, everyone in Portugal agreed that a two prong electrical outlet was super important to the ecosystem. And what's happening now is someone introduced a three prong and a four prong. And so people like me, who are just trying to build cool things with cool people, we don't even know which plug to use anymore.
01:44:35.598 - 01:45:28.170, Speaker B: And so rather than Rdao making a decision, what I'm really calling to action for the community is the, the only thing that really matters with electricity is what it does for people, end users. Right? If all the lights turned off, because it gives us light here, everyone realizes how important electricity is. And so it's not really about what outlets we're using, it's about the result for end users. And so I really hope that we can kind of just switch the light on and focus on the things that really matter, right. And we can come to a standard together. And so my call to action is I want to just set up a platform for anyone who has any interest in the growth of the long tail ecosystem of Solana to give your opinion. That's kind of the whole point of decentralization, permissionless behavior, access and sovereign rights over your assets.
01:45:28.170 - 01:46:15.414, Speaker B: So if you have a vested interest in Solana, your voice should be heard. And so that's why I'm here. That's why I believe in Solana, and why I believe that this ecosystem can grow for mass adoption. But I would like my voice to be heard just as much as I would like to know people who have differing opinions from me and other people who think differently and are smarter than me, what their opinions are. And that makes, at the end of the day, decisions that RDAO makes that much better and that much in tune with the growth of the Solana ecosystem. And so, really, all I can say is, if you want to give your opinion and have your voice heard on Solana, I created five minutes ago a dispatch forum that's completely permissionless. We hopefully can publicize the link somehow, and anyone is welcome to post.
01:46:15.414 - 01:46:49.354, Speaker B: Share your opinion on kind of what community governance on Solana looks like for some of the most important decisions that are made in the ecosystem. And if you have an opinion, share it and see what happens. Right. Because that's how open source and that's how Solana grows to mass adoption, I would say. And so I'll share the dispatch forum. I'll stay down if any of you guys have any questions. But as always, I'm really, I think I resonate with a lot of people in the room when I say that all we're trying to do is just build cool stuff with cool people and really see what this ecosystem and this technology can evolve to.
01:46:49.354 - 01:47:17.104, Speaker B: And I think that collaboration, transparency and open source communication is really going to guide that in the long run. So it's really not about the outlet or how all these things work right now. It's how we can get the community to work together. And so, yeah, I really hope this resonates with just even one person in the room right now. And I encourage you guys to all talk to me about it. And, yeah, I appreciate everyone taking the time to listen. Take care.
01:47:17.104 - 01:47:57.148, Speaker B: All right, thanks, Ryan. Next up, we have another Ryan from Solowind program protocol Solomon's built in really easy way to create raffles to raffle your favorite nfts and do some really cool stuff with your community. So let's give it up for Ryan. Hi, how's it going, everybody? My name is Ryan. I'm here representing Solo and protocol with my co founder, Boris. So me and myself and my co founder are data scientists. And when we were first exploring Solana blockchain and we found Solana do not support random function and we were so pleased at that.
01:47:57.148 - 01:48:55.714, Speaker B: So we build a random function by ourselves and there's actually another company called Switchboard. They have random function API, but they charge like six cents per request and we think that's too expensive. So we did this random function by ourselves, and based on that, we created this raffle platform in the last half years and we did our beta testing for the past three weeks. We got about 100K website hits and about 2000 participants and 100 raffle. And we're just live a few days ago. So now I'm just going to do a demo on how to create a raffle. So Solvane protocol has the function for anyone to create a raffle using NFT or any tokens.
01:48:55.714 - 01:49:57.734, Speaker B: And you might have heard famous Fox, they do a NFT raffle and we're trying to compete with them, but we have one more function which is token raffle. And I'm going to show you here where you can set up your own raffle with ticket price and, you know, participant that you're looking for. So here when you click create a raffle, you can set up a number of parameters here. For example, max participants say you want 100 people in your raffle and you're setting up a ticket price like one sold or one USDC. And when it's all done, you can go back to your raffle here and you can promote your own raffle on Twitter. So everybody who can click the link and go to raffle and participate. And the point for you to create a raffle here is you can earn up to 3% of the management fee from the final price and you can also take 0% if you want.
01:49:57.734 - 01:50:55.192, Speaker B: Another function is the NFT ruffle where you can sell your NFT. So I'm going to do a live demo here. I'm already connected to my wallet and I'm trying to sell this here. I can select one of the tokens. I take a price for five USDC, I'm looking for 1000 participants and now I'm selling this yacht for 5000 USDC. I'm setting up deadline for more than a week and there's extra, a few hours where the deadline is due and you want to give the, you know, the buyers a bit of extra hour to go over the minimum price and then it's just like that easy to create a raffle here. It might take a few seconds and then just click approve and then your raffle is set up.
01:50:55.192 - 01:51:44.662, Speaker B: But I'm not selling this today. And so we're actually live right now and we're looking for NFT projects and NFT owners for a cold marketing campaign. We have already onboard a few blue chip owners like yachts, like OK Bears, and we are talking to a few NFT projects to talk with them to giving us maybe five to ten nfts of their collection to create a raffle campaign. And if you are interested in collaborating with us, you can follow us on Twitter. We are solvent protocols. Yeah, just shoot us a DM on Twitter and yeah. Thank you for your time.
01:51:44.662 - 01:52:08.350, Speaker B: Great. Thank you, Ryan. Up next, one of my good friends, Shiman from Ratio Finance. Ratio Finance is a risk assessment protocol using DeFi and they're going to be demoing their new first RISC, Oracle powered by wormhole. I'm really excited for this, so let's give a round of applause for Shiman. Wow, crazy crowd. What's up everybody.
01:52:08.350 - 01:52:53.440, Speaker B: Okay, everyone, hi. I am Shimon. I am one of the co founders of Ratio Finance. And today we will be telling you a little bit about a new product we are building called the risk oracle, as well as exploring a little bit of what are the risks that are most prevalent for the DeFi industry and how you can work with ratio to protect yourselves from them. So, as many of you are probably aware, hackers have already stolen nearly, actually over $2 billion this year, mostly from DeFi protocols and bridges. And what's kind of crazy about this is that these exploits are no longer smart. Contract related hackers are now taking advantage of poorly designed risk parameters for immense profit.
01:52:53.440 - 01:53:30.276, Speaker B: And some really prominent examples, of course, are, unfortunately, mango markets one of the most OG Daos on solana, and one of the biggest contributors to things like SPL governance and on other chains like Beanstalk, which was actually a governance attack. So those two alone, over close to $200 million lost. Yeah. And so current risk management solutions are both too expensive and too slow to help de risk the industry. So our mission is to de risk Defi. We're doing this in two ways. One is through our risk oracles, and the other is through our risk audits.
01:53:30.276 - 01:54:07.296, Speaker B: And what the risk Oracle is is controlled by our Dow on ratio finance. Maybe some of you know us because of USDR, which is our over collateralized debt position. So what makes USDR really unique is a couple of things. One is that all the assets you give to us continue to gain yield, and we accept at primarily stable assets. And the other is our risk engine, which is working very well. We've been live for almost seven months with no liquidations. So ratio finance is controlled by our existing risk oracle.
01:54:07.296 - 01:54:54.850, Speaker B: And we have decided to help offer this to other platforms, DeFi platforms on Solana and beyond. So key parameters such as collateralization ratios, liquidation ratios, oracle abnormalities, and asset risk scores can easily be streamed to protocols on any chain via wormhole. In terms of our risk audits, we conduct financial risk audits of DeFi platforms. So we're looking at governance risk Oracle manipulation, risk protocol design and architecture, collateral risk and asset liquidation impact. And if you look on the screen, you'll see concrete examples of how these financial risks have already affected existing and sometimes no longer existing daos. Yeah. So we are really experienced in risk design.
01:54:54.850 - 01:55:10.494, Speaker B: Got a cool team full of risk experts. And that's it. Thank you so much. Right on, everyone. Up next, we have max from ultimate money. Ultimate money makes a really cool defi app. Yeah, let's give it up.
01:55:10.494 - 01:55:20.414, Speaker B: Ultimate money makes a really cool defi app. They just launched a couple days ago. Super stoked. We're gonna get a really cool demo. All yours, man. Cheers. Hi, everyone.
01:55:20.414 - 01:55:38.796, Speaker B: How's it going? We're gonna give a demo today of our wallet. It's available since two days, actually three days now. It's been a pretty crazy couple of days, so, yeah, I'm just gonna walk you through what we're doing. And so let's go. So we're ultimate. So you can find us on ultimate money. You can check us out.
01:55:38.796 - 01:56:08.564, Speaker B: I'm going to share QR code so you can download the app. We're available on iOS, Android very soon. And cool. So we're focused on providing a really easy experience to use defi and pretty much anything that you want from Solana. So this is the home screen where you can just kind of see what assets you hold. We support a really cool feature which is tracking other wallets. So, for example, we go for watch here at the bottom.
01:56:08.564 - 01:56:47.694, Speaker B: Anyone have a good sol? I should start tracking anyone? Yeah, no, I'm going to go with Raj Soul. Type it in here, picks it up, go. Next, you change the emoji here, pick this one, and you hit watch. And there it is. And you can see how fast it is. So we indexed a large part of the wallet universe in Solana. So everything you can see, you can actually track portfolio history here at the top, right, which is also something no other Solana wallet does.
01:56:47.694 - 01:57:38.552, Speaker B: And you can obviously check out nfts, view other people's collection, and, you know, go actually through like the entire process of following people and then also, also sending money back and forth. Let's check out some other wallets. For example, one of our showcase wallets here, you can obviously import keys and then start using that wallet itself. So that's a really cool process where we really want to build also on top of the open Solana ecosystem where you can follow anyone and create your own wallet. So let's go through a process to create your own wallet. You hit create, you know, pick an emoji, or you can also, like, you know, make an NFT or your what, your wallet emoji and you go, obviously, no assets yet. Click add funds.
01:57:38.552 - 01:58:12.244, Speaker B: Currently we have added Moonpay as a provider. So click here. And bit of news, we are going to be one of the first wallets to add stripe as an on ramp partner for the US, which is actually very cool. We're going to launch that very soon and that's going to be really, really exciting to be one of their launch partners on fiat on ramp. Let's do a transaction. So we go to one of my wallets. I have here, for example, and obviously very easy to do a swap.
01:58:12.244 - 01:58:38.824, Speaker B: You can swap into all the major Solana tokens. For example, let's do USDC, type in the quantity at the top, hit. Next we all show you. It's a bit weird here with the coloring. We'll show you notes exactly what you will receive in terms of slippage. You can change your price tolerance, like how much you want to accept in terms of price movement. You hit swap.
01:58:38.824 - 01:59:08.134, Speaker B: And then we have something which is a live transaction counter, like a block confirmation counter. You can see that the top where the transaction is actually filling up in real time. Up to 32 confirmations. And we do this also for incoming we have push notifications which will pop up. Now I'm on silent mode, so you can't see them. So that's sort of the real time nature. We also have something called earn, where we basically do deep integrations of protocols.
01:59:08.134 - 01:59:49.438, Speaker B: We have two protocols added, which is friction, our friends from friction. They're doing decentralized option vaults where you can earn anywhere from currently 27.2% apy on Sol. And you can with a couple of clicks, interact and invest into their protocol. So you click, for example, Solana, say small amount, hit invest. Next you see that your investment will start earning in four days. So they have weekly investment epochs, which means you have to wait a couple of days and then it starts, you hit invest and bam, you're invested in the protocol.
01:59:49.438 - 02:00:12.708, Speaker B: Again with the live confirmation counter here you can see and that what we think how DeFI should be used. All mobile, all native, no dapper browser required. And just very intuitive for people. Like when they use a normal stock broker to buy an ETF, it should be that easy to invest in protocols. Same thing with staking. Let's try that. Click on Lido, which we have integrated.
02:00:12.708 - 02:00:33.004, Speaker B: Invest, hit Max. Now I don't have any. I need to switch to another wallet. Let me do that. Yeah, in any case, you get the drift. So we're going to integrate more protocols. So Lido and friction are the first one.
02:00:33.004 - 02:00:55.596, Speaker B: We're going to have multiple strategies on option investing, on staking, stablecoin, yield, etcetera. And all of it deeply and natively integrated in the wallet. And yeah, check it out. Ultimate money. I'm going to bring up the QR code so you can download it. Give me a second. Yeah, just scan that and try out the app.
02:00:55.596 - 02:01:24.194, Speaker B: For yourself. And also we have some merch at the entrance. You get like our really cool exploding you logo. And if you come to our co working space, which is Debrew, and wear one of these shirts, free beer and free bottle beer. So go for it, download it, check out the wallet and join us. And follow us on Twitter as well. Always some of the new early releases we're teasing there, too.
02:01:24.194 - 02:01:50.894, Speaker B: Thanks. All right, before we get to helio, we're actually going to go to demos from droplinks. Drop links does distributed NFTs and tokens claimable with links and QR codes. And at the end, there's also going to be an NFT giveaway. So let's give it up for demos. Hi, guys. Okay, so basically what we do is we help you get your assets, and these are NFTs or tokens in links and QR codes.
02:01:50.894 - 02:02:32.104, Speaker B: And for those of you that have seen us present before, you probably know this is going to be a very interactive presentation. So have your phones and your cameras ready because we're going to do a big NFT giveaway at the end. But we have some issues with the monitor, so give it some more time. But why this is important is you can basically create marketing campaigns or giveaways or treasure hunts or any other activity you can think of when you can get your assets in a link or a QR code. Because normally I would have to know your public address for me to send you an asset. Right. But now I don't need to know that.
02:02:32.104 - 02:03:01.844, Speaker B: You might have interacted with our QR codes already during breakpoint. We've got a few guys like Hubble protocol, a few games that did stuff with us. So you might have done that. For example, Hubble. Did. They have their own stablecoin, which is called USD eight, so they printed their. This is hard for you to see, but it's a $1 note, and if you scan it, you get to get the USDA from it.
02:03:01.844 - 02:03:41.208, Speaker B: And I'm running out of stuff to say while waiting for the monitor. Does it all make sense? Anybody has any questions while we're waiting? So if I want my collection as a drop link, how would I go with it? Yeah, good question. I was going to show that, but let's describe it. You'd go to droplinks IO. Droplinks IO, and it should be quite easy and straightforward. But you'll see your NFTs in the dashboard and you can select the ones you want to make into drop links. And then you just make the drop links.
02:03:41.208 - 02:04:01.954, Speaker B: Awesome. Sounds really good. It works with NFTs and also tokens like a stable coin or Sol or USDC. Ok, this worked. Ok. So I'm in droplinks IO and that's the first thing you'd see. So you have the number of campaigns that you're running.
02:04:01.954 - 02:04:33.726, Speaker B: So we're running campaign on breakpoint. You can see the number of claims per day or like a treasure hunt and still the number of claims per day. And you can also get the addresses that claimed through this function as well. But I want to show you how we can create drop links for NFTs and then we can use those to do the giveaway. So let's go to the NFTs tab and we're going to see the NFTs on my wallet. So let's go ahead and select some. We're going to take this guy, this guy.
02:04:33.726 - 02:04:54.740, Speaker B: Hey, we've got a beaver here. Let's put the beaver in there as well, the two gorillas. So you can create up to 100 nfts at the same time. So these are 100 transactions at the same time. We're going to do like ten. That sounds like a reasonable number. So we can create ten separate links.
02:04:54.740 - 02:05:39.924, Speaker B: These are ten separate QR codes or one link with all the assets inside. So we're going to do one link because that's going to be the giveaway. So if you try to create a link without creating a campaign, we're going to give you a prompt saying, are you sure? Because campaigns help you track the progress of your drop links. So in this case we're going to say that we do want the campaign. So let's go ahead and create, skip the campaign name, breakpoint giveaway. Okay. So we're going to create those links.
02:05:39.924 - 02:06:12.806, Speaker B: So the first transaction should pop up and now it asks me for the first five nfts. I'm going to approve this one and the second one for the second five. So I'm going to prove this one as well. So now you can see we're creating two different drop links. And actually we should be creating one drop link, but that's something to check. Once those go through, we should have the link. We can do the same for any coin, any SPL token.
02:06:12.806 - 02:06:57.874, Speaker B: So for example, say we want to create ten different drop links and each one will have, say zero, zero, one ladder and we want to create ten different links. So approve that. And now these are ten different transactions going through. Once those go through, we're going to have ten different drop links. So going back to our links, this is the breakpoint giveaway campaign we just created. And you see here we have a link and it's got claimed zero out of ten because we put ten nfts in here. So I'm going to copy paste that, but I'm not going to show it to you yet because we're going to do the giveaway soon.
02:06:57.874 - 02:07:21.342, Speaker B: There's going to be a QR code. You can scan it and you can claim the nfts, but just really quickly so I can show you what people have done with it during breakpoint. I'm going to go to Twitter. If you haven't followed us already and you're curious, please do. But for example, this person just claimed one USDA from Hubble. This person claimed an NFT. Alpha league racing is a cool game.
02:07:21.342 - 02:07:42.814, Speaker B: They're doing drop links during breakpoint. And this is what Hubble did, which is quite cool. They've printed 3000 of these nodes and they put their own stablecoin in there. So you can do stuff like that, like marketing campaigns like these. And a few days ago we did a big giveaway with the exo here on stage and they gave away ute's. Okay. Bursts and some other bluetip nfts.
02:07:42.814 - 02:08:24.208, Speaker B: Okay, we're running out of time, so let's go to check out those links if they're created. Okay, so the ten links we created earlier with Lada are all created and those are ten different drop links. Right? So you can take one of them, you can come here. So that's now a URL with the asset and I can claim it using fandom or my sole domain. And I just got zero, zero, one ladder and I can save that on Twitter later. Okay, but now time for the giveaway. If you guys want to participate, just get out your cameras.
02:08:24.208 - 02:08:51.624, Speaker B: This is a QR code. You can scan this and you can claim the NFT that's inside. I can make it bigger. Okay, so all you need to do is go to your camera and scan. So these are the nfts we just created and put them into a drop link. So hit claim. Now you can use your sole domain or fandom.
02:08:51.624 - 02:09:22.734, Speaker B: I'm using fandom here, but claim. Okay, I just claimed one of them. I think everybody got the QR code by now. So I'm gonna go check who claimed. How's it misclick? So if we go back to overview. There we go. That's the new campaign we just created.
02:09:22.734 - 02:09:56.834, Speaker B: And we got already six claims out of ten. So that's six different wallets from this room. That just claimed six nfts. That's basically it. So if you are a protocol that has a stablecoin or any other asset or an NFT collection with nfts, and you want to do these campaigns in real life, like in breakpoint, just give us a shout or a DM on Twitter, we'd be happy to support you with that and enjoy the NFTs. Thank you. Actually, we still have a few seconds.
02:09:56.834 - 02:10:14.294, Speaker B: Anybody has any questions? Okay, so everything was very clear. Thank you, guys. Awesome. Thanks, demos. That's it for the community. Open mic for today. We're going to have happy hour starting at four up on the roof deck.
02:10:14.294 - 02:10:24.754, Speaker B: So hang tight here, grab some drinks at four, check out the other venues. I hope you guys are having a great time, and we'll see you tomorrow.
