00:00:13.280 - 00:00:36.764, Speaker A: Welcome to Unlayered, the show where we explore next generation blockchains. I'm your host, Dave, and just me today as Sal is a bit under the weather, but today should be a fun episode as we're joined by Ray Jacobson, CTO at Audius. Audius, of course, came to prominence during the previous spool market as a project looking to combine crypto and music. So super excited to find out more about the project today. But first, Ray, how are you doing?
00:00:37.104 - 00:00:47.632, Speaker B: Hey, Dave, thank you so much for having me on the show. Doing great here. So sorry to hear that Sal's under the weather, but we'll miss him this time. And huge fan of the show in general, so really excited to be here.
00:00:47.768 - 00:01:01.512, Speaker A: I'm sure. I'm sure he'll muscle through. So I think, first question, how did you get into crypto? Is it from the sort of the crypto side of things, the music side of things? Yeah. What's been your journey to Audius?
00:01:01.648 - 00:01:32.768, Speaker B: Great. Great question. Yeah, so I've been in crypto for a while. I started working on Audius back in 2019, and really what's interesting is my journey with crypto is from the outside. I mean, I guess if we're talking 2019, there are not a ton of people in the space yet. But I was previously working on machine learning projects. I was more of a ML engineer myself, and really through that process discovered that I was really keen on building interfaces much more than I was building models behind them.
00:01:32.768 - 00:02:35.014, Speaker B: And I think that had connections with the early founders at Audius and really the way that they described the idea, and this is before we had a product or a protocol, was trying to build something atop a blockchain where blockchain wasn't the product itself. And that really captivated me because I'm pretty technology agnostic and I think that audius as a whole is. But for me, I care a lot about what the end result is that is being delivered to users or what is the application, or what is the user experience on that leaving the ML space, I really saw this awesome opportunity building on a blockchain related project. I think it's potentially beyond even just crypto, but blockchain technology in general, and thinking about what that unlocks for the industry as a whole, I was really excited to. I'm a huge music fan myself. I would consider myself no more than a hobbyist, but I got involved in Audius, really because of this potential for technology to change, an industry that really deserves change and do it in a way where it doesn't. Almost matter what the technology is behind the scenes to the average end user.
00:02:36.314 - 00:02:54.312, Speaker A: I'd love just to take a step back and look at really what the problem is that audius is trying to solve. So if you could just give us an idea of that and specifically with reference to how the music industry currently deals with these particular issues. So presumably between artists and fans.
00:02:54.498 - 00:03:42.236, Speaker B: Yeah, absolutely. So what audius is, and kind of the pithy one liner phrase, is a decentralized music marketplace. And of course, in that it's built on chain with decentralization principles first and foremost. And what that does is it allows us to create, really an economically incentivized environment for music to thrive. And in that process, we hope to bring fans and artists closer together. We hope to be able to leverage the fact that all the technology and the data is open to build amazing experiences ourselves, but also empower other developers out there to build experiences atop a common music language that just frankly doesn't exist within the music space right now. And when Audius was started in the era of the late two thousand ten s, eighteen, twenty, nineteen, a lot of Soundcloud API keys were getting revoked.
00:03:42.236 - 00:04:56.952, Speaker B: A lot of things were sort of falling by the wayside for this predominant model that exists today, where it's very much spoon fed content to users through the means of Spotify, Apple Music and so on and so forth. What we think blockchain tech really empowers here is the ability to build an open platform, really an unprecedented level of openness for people to connect around music and for there to be really awesome, interesting monetary incentive layers. And we can get more into that, I think, as we continue to talk on the call. But the long term vision and plan for what audius becomes for the music industry as a whole is really this open book kind of clearing house model of what music could be on the Internet. The Internet is a free and open protocol, and we really believe that there's so much that has been done in music to create black boxes of knowledge between both artists, fans and then other stakeholders in the industry that the technology really can suitably solve. Maybe to give a more precise example of this, you can think about what happens when you go listen to something on Spotify today, or the other majority dsps, meaning digital service providers. If you go to Spotify and you listen to something at the end of the month, Spotify is summing up all the plays.
00:04:56.952 - 00:05:45.534, Speaker B: They're working with a lot of different labels and rights holders, and everything is handled behind closed doors as to how people get paid, who gets paid. Where this happens, there's a lot of complexity that exists there. We think we can do this in a totally open way where if you're a developer and you want to build an app on top of music, you can just do that and it will all get handled by the protocol itself. If you're us and you're building this sort of first party app experience, there's really cool ways that we can empower an enfranchise artist to take control of Destiny and monetize however they would like. Whether that's a single release that they decide to charge a specific price point for, or whether that's a subscription model, or whether that's any other complicated. Hey, I want to hold this NFT, and if you hold the NFT, you can unlock this track. There's all sorts of stuff there that really just becomes unlocked and really the sky is the limit by being able to build these things in the open.
00:05:45.964 - 00:06:09.540, Speaker A: And would you say that maybe the bread and butter of audius is the streaming service? So in a way, it's trying to compete with something like Spotify. And if you agree with that, what exactly do you think are, like, the major benefits? Is it the cost reduction because we are replacing middlemen with code, or is there something else more subtle going on?
00:06:09.692 - 00:07:27.504, Speaker B: Yeah, I think it's more the sort of unlock that you get from having this stuff be freely interoperable with the rest of the Internet. I think that the model that has dominated how people consume music these days is pretty finite and pretty constrained. People are paying a platform level subscription rather than interfacing with artists directly, and they're kind of locked into what that platform is able to provide them in this very kind of constrained model. And what we think we can really do is, is open that up and allow people to build really anything on top of it, and do so in a way where it enfranchises artists because it puts them in control of actually how they monetize. And that's why we call ourselves a music marketplace, because people on audience today sell beats, they sell competitions, they sell a lot of things beyond just like, hey, this is my subscription, where money is kind of falling into a black box and then somehow ending up in the hands, much smaller than when it entered the black box, in the hands of artists and other partners in the industry. We think that there is some economic efficiency to gain by having this be a totally openly operated network. What's really interesting today is you can almost think of audius as both an app that we've built but also layer one for music protocol where anyone can build any kind of experience on top of it.
00:07:27.844 - 00:07:52.738, Speaker A: I love that framing music l one. I think that's great. It seems to me it's almost like a social platform for music. Maybe harking back to the early days of these music platforms where Spotify, you just don't really have that sense of community anymore. So. Yeah. Are you almost trying to tap into something like that? Almost like a Twitter or Facebook for music?
00:07:52.906 - 00:08:38.834, Speaker B: Totally, yeah. Social has been part of the DNA of sort of our first party client or application that's built atop the protocol, but it's also something that's baked into the protocol itself. Audience actually supports end to end, encrypted, fully decentralized DM's today, and that's built into the platform. It's not like Spotify has a direct chat feature where you can talk to the artists who you're buying things from and so on and so forth. So we care a lot about social and I think and audiences whole things that social is necessary in this kind of next evolution of music. We're seeing the increased ease to create music, especially with AI and the new tools that are available for someone in their bedroom with a laptop to produce, you know, Grammy quality sound recordings. And in that, what is most important really becomes the relationship that a fan has with an artist.
00:08:38.834 - 00:09:16.924, Speaker B: And, you know, we see this through, you know, the fact that, like, lots of AI music exists today, but, like, it doesn't get the attention that some of the other artists that are really focused on, like, fan relationship and development get. And I think that's. That's really where we take our product and where we want to build that, you know, the strongest features we can. We care a lot about the user experience and we care about it in such a way where relation matters to the end user. What this is built on, whether it's blockchain, whether it's crypto, it's a music experience. And really social is paramount to the success of that. There's a whole lot of really interesting ways this continues to develop with more monetization atop the protocol.
00:09:16.924 - 00:10:05.394, Speaker B: We want to see people build applications that tap into both the monetary and social aspect, where it's like, hey, there's DM's that are built natively into the audience protocol. Musician I want to release a single on some page and then immediately gain access to fans who have purchased that or have interacted with that and be able to chat with them and build tools that empower people to engage socially without a ton of work, and that be kind of the way that people are able to have breakout careers in music. It's very hard these days on the likes of Spotify and whatnot. It's a very sterile experience where there's a lot of distance between the creator and the consumer. And of course, that's why we've seen the rise of TikTok, and TikTok's been a hugely valuable platform to a lot of creators. That's, I think, necessary, especially in this age.
00:10:07.534 - 00:10:30.390, Speaker A: You mentioned AI music, and maybe that could be sort of a linchpin, something you could really hang off and make it your own. How do you go about that? Because obviously you could release AI music on something like Spotify. Have you got any thoughts on how you could introduce that and make it maybe more palatable to the regular music listener?
00:10:30.542 - 00:11:27.168, Speaker B: Yeah, absolutely. So AI music's a really complicated topic, and I'll definitely leave some of this for the discussion amongst the legal cohort in music, rather than myself, I'm much more concerned about the technology. But what I will say is that audius tries not to take an active stance on whether this should, should be allowed or should not be allowed. But we do want to embrace people who want it, and that's something we saw really early. If you're familiar with the artist Grimes, I think most people are these days. She was a big proponent of AI music early, and she released some sample packs and some models essentially trained on her voice that she told other artists to feel free to engage with as long as she was cut into the revenue share. And that's where something really powerful like blockchain tech can help in that process, because we recognize that, and we launched a feature within audius that allows you, as a profile owner on Audius, through your account, to just go to your settings page and configure your profile to allow derivative works that are AI generated.
00:11:27.168 - 00:12:05.122, Speaker B: And there's a bunch of explainer text explaining what that is when you do that in nap. But what's really cool is that you now have an open, to use the phrase block book before you have this open ontological history of what has happened in music. You have the entire kind of genesis of a profile. You have the authorization for other people that use it to train things, and then you have every transaction going forward that ever happens with that music publicly accessible to anyone. So that the whole rights dispute rights question actually has some physical evidence on chain. And that's really powerful. That obviously extends way beyond just AI music in general.
00:12:05.122 - 00:12:59.026, Speaker B: Then I mentioned the terminal clearing house before for music. And really, if you think about the comparison between what DeFi is to the traditional finance space, you can kind of almost think about audius to the trad music space, if you want to call it that, where it's kind of like there are all of these things going on behind the scenes in traditional finance that become transparent, and there's so many things you can do with them. And Defi, it's kind of the same thing for music. If you're able to take that level of openness and that level of cross border, basically communication, and put that first and foremost built into a protocol, you can start to do all these really interesting things with the likes of AI derived work. So remix, competition, samples, beat challenges, all of that kind of stuff. So it's really fascinating area, and we're really, really excited to continue to explore this and see where AI music in particular goes. So there's no looking back.
00:12:59.026 - 00:13:11.044, Speaker B: The tools that exist today, if you were to give them to someone in the 1980s, it would dramatically transform how music works. It's just insane how much you can do for $1,000 on a MacBook in your bedroom.
00:13:11.864 - 00:13:20.960, Speaker A: Just to confirm, I think you were talking about the royalties earlier, is the idea you're using smart contracts to track those royalties and then pay it in crypto?
00:13:21.152 - 00:13:47.232, Speaker B: Yeah, that's right. Monetization on audius today is primarily done in USDC. On Solana, we, as Audius, I mentioned before, we act as this music layer one speak. We're obviously not a layer one blockchain ourselves. We build the top other projects. We don't really want to get into that business. There are way smarter people on the infra side working on it, but we really aim to be a killer application layer, so to speak, on top of blockchains, plural.
00:13:47.232 - 00:14:44.066, Speaker B: And so we've built stuff both on Ethereum and Solana, as well as some of our own decentralized, off chain stuff that acts, as you could say, a roll up or an l two or l three, or whichever one of those phrases you want to use today. But payments going back to that, we support primarily through USDC on Solana today. And we have a smart contract program that is quite simple. And actually, we had this program audited by neodymium, and I think the first thing they said to us was, are you sure this needs to be a program? Solana offers a lot of things in terms of being able to just pay a bunch of wallets and have that be recorded on chain. But really, we built this program that we call the payment router to act as the. The conduit between the on chain and the off chain of what's going on in music. And so every time a payment happens across audius, it can be expressed as some number of splits in the, you know, the ratio that people get paid at and that gets written on chain and codified and then off chain validation to give access to content.
00:14:44.066 - 00:15:32.882, Speaker B: All happens based on whether splits fulfill the criteria that were codified on chain for a given piece of content. So imagine a simple case, hey, I want to sell a track for a dollar and I want fifty cents to go to me and go to Dave. I specify that on chain in the metadata for the track, and then every payment basically gets confirmed against that. We have this quite robust, really awesome storage network that lives off chain, similar in some ways to ipfs, similar in some ways to Arweave, but it has its own special features that are really geared towards music streaming. And those machines that are run by third parties are held to a really high standard and make sure that, yes, x person has fulfilled y criteria in order to access some piece of z content. And that's really like, where we think this is really powerful because royalties in music are really complicated. Payments in music are really complicated.
00:15:32.882 - 00:15:55.864, Speaker B: Audius on the parallel for all this is working with a lot of industry partners to become the first fully licensed crypto music project that ever exists. That's very difficult thing, working with publishers and performance rights organizations and so on and so forth. There is so much complexity in the music industry that we really hope to kind of crack and make solvable to anyone who wants to participate in music through it.
00:16:01.084 - 00:16:22.510, Speaker A: You've given me flashbacks to my early career when I was working in finance. And yeah, for a time I was working for a music company. And I remember the pain of royalties and how the lag as well between receiving them and actually paying them. And. And then sometimes you read stories, don't you, about someone never got paid for 20 years. Finally, the check came through in the post. So I think.
00:16:22.510 - 00:16:38.342, Speaker A: I think it's definitely a massive, massive issue in the music industry, for sure. So I think smart contracts and on chain verifiability, it makes complete sense. Yeah, just. It's a really great. Go on.
00:16:38.518 - 00:17:01.314, Speaker B: So it's a really, really great point that you brought up, too, about the sort of like lag and settlement time, so to speak, of these things. And that's something that we get on blockchains for free, even if you're talking about like a twelve second block on Eth. That beats two years trying to figure out what those sort of like international rules are between Spain and the United States or something like that. Right. And that's really where this technology really can shine.
00:17:03.254 - 00:17:09.742, Speaker A: Yeah. Again, you're giving me flashbacks that you used to have to look through the contracts and things like that with all the different countries and work out.
00:17:09.798 - 00:17:10.347, Speaker B: Yeah.
00:17:10.485 - 00:17:38.527, Speaker A: How you're supposed to be splitting this up. So for sure, there is definitely a huge solution here to a big problem. Yeah. You were mentioning on Solana and that, so you were definitely a very prominent project during the previous bull market. And I want to say you're maybe like the first almost that came over to Solana from Ethereum. I don't know if that's accurate. And it was early and it seemed to be quite a bold move.
00:17:38.527 - 00:17:45.888, Speaker A: So were you working? You were, I think, working there at the time. How was that move? And do you know what motivated it?
00:17:46.056 - 00:18:47.810, Speaker B: Yeah, such a great question and I'm glad you asked and happy, really happy to talk about this because I think it presents rather a really interesting model for just applications in general in the web, three blockchain and crypto space. We at Audius are extremely ux focused. We're really, really focused on what the end users experience is from the moment they hear about Audius until they've made their first sale or purchased their first track, or interacted with their first artist. And in that, we almost don't really care what it's built on behind the scenes, so long as it's able to satisfy the criteria of being open and decentralized and really work towards this long term vision that we have about being this clearinghouse or music. When we started Audius, we were really looking for what blockchain was going to be the home of this indefinitely. And I think the long lesson that we learned along the way was there are different pros and cons to every blockchain. Every l one, l two, roll up.
00:18:47.810 - 00:19:18.810, Speaker B: There's just different things going on where people are working on different trade offs. And we recognized pretty early on that building on Ethereum only wasn't going to cut it. The consumer experience of music today has gotten so unbelievably good. You know, I spent a few minutes at the beginning of this show talking about, you know, complaints I have with Spotify. Like to praise Spotify, like, what an incredible experience to have access to anything you want to listen to whenever you want in your phone, instantly, like, holy cow, that's crazy. If you gave that to someone in the 1980s, they'd also freak out. Like, it's, it's really incredible.
00:19:18.810 - 00:20:35.400, Speaker B: So our mission is like, you know, how do we, how do we figure out, like, what tech to build on to make this happen? And Solana came on the scene, we were, you know, close with the, the early operation there, and really trying to figure out, okay, if Ethereum isn't going to scale to the level that it will be able to track every single time someone plays a track on Audius. We're north of 300, 400,000 of these a day. There's no way you could push that to a theorem. Who's even going to pay for the gas for that? Solana had some really awesome, really cool, unique framing in the early days, of course, obviously around the performance in the network, but beyond that, the ability for native fee payer support for someone else to pay fees. There's a lot of really cool ux focused primitives that are built in Susana and we were really interested in figuring out what could happen there. And then with this robust bridging network that exists through wormhole and whatnot, across chains, we recognize, hey, there's a world where some of the Audi's protocol lives on Ethereum, the staking system, some of the governance stuff, because someone wants to run a new service to serve two terabytes of audio data to fans on Audius. That's an operation that happens once every few weeks, and that can take $25 to have that transaction confirm.
00:20:35.400 - 00:21:35.008, Speaker B: That's not the same compromise that someone could make on the UX side if they're, hey, I'm going to go sign up for an account and go listen to one track. They're not going to wait 12 seconds for that to happen, and they're certainly not going to pay $24 for that to happen. So we decided, hey, we can leave some of the core functionality protocol on Ethereum that doesn't need the speed, it doesn't need the throughput, it doesn't need these UX guarantees that Sonnet can give us, but let's also figure out how to bridge it. So, went through a pretty, pretty interesting operation to get there, technically, where every Audi's account is actually behind the scenes, represented as an ETH public private key pair. When they sign up for Audius, they're just thinking about username and password. They don't actually have to worry about any of that. And then behind the scenes, we actually use that ETH wallet to derive several different Solana wallets, several different token accounts that hold USDC, that hold our native token audio and so on and so forth, just so that the user can have a really clean experience and not worry about, oh, is this happening on Solana? Oh, is this happening on Ethereum? And for the user's sake, it's just whatever chain is fastest for whatever they're trying to do, or whichever one gives the right guarantees is what happens.
00:21:35.008 - 00:22:11.060, Speaker B: So payments today are all settled and handled on Solana. The plays that I was talking about before, 300 400,000 a day, those all get rent into Solana. There's a program address that you can go look up and you'll see multiple times every second there's stuff going on there. Ultimately, as long as there is a provable place and there's really good SDKs to stitch this data together, it doesn't really matter to the end user where it is really chain agnostic. And we really think that it's a good lesson for other application developers. Really focus on your users and focus on the experience you want them to have and then figure out how to match the tech with that.
00:22:11.252 - 00:22:50.216, Speaker A: Yeah, I think for sure UX is going to be super important because music lovers are used to incredible UX, as you say, and the draw of crypto, it needs to be ten x better if you're going to have like a large UX hurdle basically to get over. So either it is this amazing burgeoning ecosystem, like you're talking about, all these sociable apps and various applications built on top of it, or it just has to be completely seamless and you don't even know that you're using crypto underneath. Can they make payments in us dollars, for example? Do they have to hold and use crypto?
00:22:50.400 - 00:23:27.564, Speaker B: Yeah, great question. So the answer is yes, they can use the us dollar. They could use the great british pound if they'd like as well. We really have focused a lot on what the story is for the normal user on audience that knows nothing about crypto, because we tout north of 4 million monthlies on a regular basis and most of those have no idea what is going on behind the scenes. Would they know what a program derived address on Solana is? Would they know what a token account is? No, absolutely not. Do they even know what USDC is? Maybe at the Thanksgiving dinner table. But they might not actually have any experience holding or interacting with these things.
00:23:27.564 - 00:24:10.314, Speaker B: We work with a couple on and off ramp providers, namely coinflow and stripe these days, both to provide a really seamless, fiat experience. And when we show balances, we try to make them as obvious users. What's going on we support very simple withdrawal process where you can go directly to your bank account. And it's a really intentional strategy that we're focused on making audius feel as much like a web two project as possible, where you're interacting credit card to bank account as you would on Patreon or any other UGC platform. And what the advantage of that is too, is that crypto often has really strong emotional ties. Sometimes that's really positive, sometimes it's really negative. The markets do crazy things.
00:24:10.314 - 00:24:25.014, Speaker B: And that's ultimately also why we decided to make USDC the common denomination of payment within audience. But it's done in a way where it almost doesn't matter. And the king Ux in crypto is the Ux that has nothing to do with crypto. And that's what we're here to build.
00:24:26.174 - 00:25:00.202, Speaker A: It seems to me with something like a streaming platform, the biggest moat, the biggest barrier to entry is always going to be getting the rights to the music. I think Steve Jobs managed to do it with itunes and it wasn't easy. There's that documentary about Spotify on Netflix at the moment, and you can see this is always the problem because all the rights are spread out between all the different record companies, all the different artists, and you having to agree huge numbers of deals. How do you think about that problem? And can you compete with the likes of Spotify who have 95% plus of the music in the world?
00:25:00.378 - 00:25:46.804, Speaker B: Yeah, great question. The answer is yes. We've thought about this a lot, and we continue to think about it. And we are actively working with a lot of partners in industry, and we've kind of, through the last era of building audius and the blockchain crypto industry as a whole, gotten to a place of beginning to have a lot more conversations with the folks in the industry that represent where a lot of the catalog is today. Our bread and butter has historically been user generated content, which is small compared to the volume of content that Spotify pulls in, which is somewhere around 100,000 tracks a day or something like that. The good news with that is we are actively working with partners and we're looking to get in a lot of content that is owned by labels. There's some already on platform, and there's going to be a lot more.
00:25:46.804 - 00:26:50.166, Speaker B: But what's really cool, too, is that with Audius as this open source project, we've built really cool tooling to handle what's called the DDEX standard. And listeners of the show might not know what that is, but it's a basically common XML file type format that a lot of music uses to distribute and receive content. Basically you can imagine this big XML document that has the name of the track, the genre, the track, who the artist is, and it points to some resource that lives somewhere on some Aws s, three blob storage or some SFTP folder, something like that. And we've built open source tooling, which is pretty much unprecedented. No one who handles this stuff has open source D DEx ingestion tooling. But because Audius is built in the open and it's all public on chain to some degree, that is something we can do that's really unique. If you're your own indie record label and you distribute content right now to Spotify using this DDEx standard, you could actually spin up your own audius D Dex ingestion service and just talk to the protocol and not even talk to us at all.
00:26:50.166 - 00:27:39.676, Speaker B: And at the same time, we have a very similar business structure to a lot of crypto projects in that we have a labs group, and the labs group is really existing in the near term as kind of a conduit between the music industry as a whole and the platform as it stands today. You can imagine exceedingly difficult to get someone who has been distributing music the same way for ten years to distribute it in this radically new format and run their own node. That's of course not going to happen. Talking about the UX compromises, but in the near term, we are offering this opportunity as a white glove service to help partners get content on audius that seems to be going quite well so far. We have a lot of developer documentation for DDX itself and the audience flavor of DDEx, which everyone has their own flavor of. And that's all publicly documented at Docs dot audios.org comma, which is pretty awesome.
00:27:39.676 - 00:27:51.544, Speaker B: And I'm really excited about this. I think it's really phenomenal to be here in the crypto space and be able to have these conversations with the likes of the major parties that have represented music for decades.
00:27:56.844 - 00:28:21.194, Speaker A: And I suppose the other piece is encouraging the artists to come over to the platform and giving them reasons to want to put their music onto the platform, which probably leads into my next area, which is around monetization, how it happens in the traditional world, and then how it's happening on your platform and how you'd like it maybe to evolve going forward.
00:28:21.614 - 00:29:24.112, Speaker B: Yeah, totally. So I think one thing we've observed about the music industry is that increasingly over time, people have needed to find other ways to monetize their careers. If you think about. A lot of people talk about this all the time, but merchandising and live performances have become the bulk share of income for a lot of musicians. And I think what's cool in the last five or six years, probably, is that we've seen a lot of rise of this kind of merged physical digital world where people are starting to merchandise themselves digitally in addition to physically. I think that's nfts is obviously a part of that, but I don't think it's the whole story. Various other fan clubs and digital merchandise, and even physical merchandise that's based on digital things that we've seen take off in the last few years, really where the monetary future of audience is going, really hopes to blend all of this together and give a lot of compelling opportunities and avenues for musicians to determine how they monetize, or for the teams that represent musicians to determine how to monetize.
00:29:24.112 - 00:30:01.066, Speaker B: And I think more often than not, that isn't going to look like a $10 a month subscription that you pay to the platform, but it's going to look like some tailored experience that is based on the relationship between the artist and the fan. The other side of that coin that is worth talking about is that there is a lot of fatigue just because of the number of platforms that exist today. There's obviously a lot of things happening in music all at once. There's new platforms coming up probably every week. The most recent one that got a lot of attention was the James Blake Vault platform. And there's a lot of different venues. And of course, there is some amount of fatigue that comes with it.
00:30:01.066 - 00:31:31.984, Speaker B: And really, why we talk so much about UX is because on the monetization front, we really want Audius to not make this hard for artists or for teams. And if there are models that they know work, that they found to work, other places like Audius, should seamlessly interop with everything else to just add, you know, help grow the pie for that artist. Or, you know, if you are someone who is, you know, ready to, like, invest in yourself on a new platform, there's like, really unique ways that you could build things on top of audience, either just directly through our Audi stack of first party client or through any other apps out there that allow you to do crazy things like, hey, I'm going to drop this signal at midnight and only allow it to be streamed for 30 minutes, and then afterwards charge x amount for something else to happen and really be creative with it, because I think that need is absolutely there and the fact that people have to spend a lot of physical time and energy to monetize really means that there should be more space digitally for them to be able to think about monetization. And so let's talk a little bit on the other side of this question about what the technology is that empowers it. It's really like instant payments, where you can go wallet to wallet and you can get as much out of what you put in as possible as an artist because a fan is giving you as much of that money directly as possible. And of course, there's lots of things that, there's publishing deals and there's content ownership things, and there's a lot of things to sort out in the music industry. And, like, we really want to just try to make this machine as efficient as it can be to allow people to capture the most out of what revenue comes in.
00:31:33.004 - 00:31:52.958, Speaker A: So just going through the revenue type. So streaming, obviously on Spotify, as you say, you pay like $10 a month or whatever it may be, do you think that that is sustainable? Do you get people to pay for streaming at all? Or is it completely free on Audius? Or is it, as you were saying, it can be free for a little bit of time and then you pay afterwards. How does that work?
00:31:53.116 - 00:32:25.532, Speaker B: Yeah. So today, as far as monetary incentives go, Audius supports direct payment to stream to unlock the ability to stream something. There's also payment support to download something. So stream for free and download. There's also stuff like NFT, I mentioned this before, but like NFT gated content where you can say, hey, everyone holding this collection gets access to XYZ. There's also tip gated things where you can gate based on tips. And then I think one of the areas that we're actively investing in and exploring more, we support a very simple version of this, which is kind of just like follow to get access to content.
00:32:25.532 - 00:33:19.772, Speaker B: It's like your poor man's fan club, if you will. But you can imagine that this sort of, like, fan club model can have a whole lot of bells and whistles to it with different tiers, with a lot of different ways that you can choose to monetize based on either recurring subscriptions or collection of one time payments and things like that. So to answer your question, like, very directly, like, I don't believe, and we certainly don't believe that this sort of $10 a month in a giant pool that gets collected and summed up and tallied up across all the play counts is the sort of be all end all model for music. Music is inherently very social, and it's a very high engagement thing when there's money in it. There's five or six artists that every single person could probably name that they would go through extra hoops to have an interaction with versus the 90% of what they listen to. Might be in the long tail, where, yeah, maybe the $10 a month kind of subscription fee is sufficient, because I.
00:33:19.788 - 00:34:23.740, Speaker A: Think I've heard maybe on podcasts, maybe you guys, or maybe some of the other music guys involved in crypto saying that their view is that basically streaming should be free. These are digital files. It's easy enough to just pirate it if you really want to, and streaming should just be free, and then you should rely on, as you say, these sort of digital merchandising and really leaning into this idea of the thousand true fans where you don't need to get a million listens to earn a $1,000. Instead, you can just have a thousand true fans who each give you $50 because, as you say, they want to have the NFT, which is going to give them access to all of the hidden backstage stuff. So, yeah, it sounds like you're taking more of, like, a generalist view of, yes, you can get people to pay for the streams, or you can do all of these other stuff. But presumably the overarching thesis is that the thousand true fans model is the one which can actually get the artist's most amount of money. And the Spotify model is a bit broken.
00:34:23.932 - 00:35:01.936, Speaker B: Yeah, I think it's really, like, it's a yes and kind of situation of the whole thing. There's a really great book that we actually make everyone who works at Audius read before they start, called how music became free. It's this book by Stephen Witt, and I think streaming, even though we pay $10 a month on Spotify, it is free today. The amount of money that is in that for the artist who's not making major playlists and is not getting streamed in the top five to 10%, it's negligible. I think that it's not going away. We're so used to this. It's not.
00:35:01.936 - 00:35:45.800, Speaker B: Someone would be like, hey, you can't use any of these apps anymore and listen to music. You would be okay with that? Of course you wouldn't, because you like your music and you have access to it. I don't think that's going to change, but I do think that there is opportunity to grow the pie in other areas that will, especially in this world where so much content is becoming easier to create. There's going to be just so much of it. It's much more about the relationship. And I think that's really audius position in this whole thing is we want to build channels that support relationships between live actors at music, people who are creating and actively consuming. And a lot of what we've seen in the last couple years, especially with TikTok, is that the Persona of people in music is often both a creator consumer.
00:35:45.800 - 00:36:08.244, Speaker B: It's someone who's consuming content, who's listening to other producers, who's making music based on that, who's inspired by other people. And it's this much more fluid environment where yes, there's space for streaming, streaming isn't going away, but there's so much more that can be tapped into there. And we can't wait to see other people build the top on top of audience, like what we can't even think of today that uses all these tools too.
00:36:10.184 - 00:36:44.934, Speaker A: We're talking obviously we've mentioned music NFTs playing devil's advocate. Is it fair to say that music NFTs haven't taken off in a huge way? A lot of people were talking about it, certainly during the last bull market. NFTs obviously were a huge thing and yet music NFTs seem to sort of pass it by. They were definitely getting some hype, but it never really reached front stage within the crypto scene. Do you think thats a fair characterization? Do you think maybe the crypto market as it currently is, isnt the ideal target market for such things? What are your views?
00:36:45.394 - 00:37:21.094, Speaker B: Yeah, its a really great question. Theres a lot to unpack there. And Audius product position on NFTs has always been to call them collectibles because thats what they are. Theyre digital collectibles. I think that this tends to happen in crypto a lot, and I think its why we tend to take a little bit more of a backseat on some of the hot topic trends and really focus on building long term value in music. With the NFT boom, there was this insanely technical. At its core it's not that technical, but the description of non fungible token becoming the buzzword that we tried to get people outside of crypto to understand.
00:37:21.094 - 00:37:58.844, Speaker B: There's something missing in that. And I think that's why ultimately we've seen it not gain the crazy amount of success it has. But that doesn't mean there isn't room for collectibles and for there to be future iterations on what this sort of like concept of an NFT is. And for people to have some amount of, like, provability in a public, you know, on a public bulletin board, basically, you know, forget about saying it's like on chain or, you know, whatever, just like imagining like a public, public bulletin board showing who owns what. Like, that is an enticing thing. Like, people love collecting things. And I think actually in the last year we've seen a rise in cd sales of all things.
00:37:58.844 - 00:38:08.796, Speaker B: Of course, people know vinyl is a thing. People love collecting vinyl. It's a collector's item. But cds too, that's also going up. So there's clearly an interest in music. It's crazy, right? I heard that. Sad.
00:38:08.796 - 00:38:55.504, Speaker B: And I was mind kind of blown. But there's definitely this thirst for a deep interaction with music that's beyond what streaming is providing today. And I think that collectibles in the digital sense are absolutely going to be a part of that, and they will continue to be a part of that. I just don't think that in their current forum, this concept of like an audio non fungible token is necessarily the answer to that. But if it starts to give you all sorts of additional off chain experiences where all of a sudden you're holding this collectible and you're part of this fan club and that grants you tickets to be able to go see, or you get early access to tickets, I think it was Billie Eilish's most recent tour sale. All of that stuff opened up to American Express holders first or something like that. And that was a unique experience.
00:38:55.504 - 00:39:48.000, Speaker B: My fiance is really into Billie Eilish and she saw that and she was like, oh, that's really cool. I don't really know exactly why I got this, but yes, lo and behold, she is an Amex card holder. And I think that is a really, really phenomenally interesting area to explore. And that is what I think a lot of. Of blockchain and crypto are really primed to start to tackle, and I think it just needs more iteration and more thoroughness on, like, what is the user experience side for this to really stick beyond the kind of like cat memey side of NFTs that I think has reached the market it's going to reach. I think people have heard enough about NFTs and cat memes that's kind of saturated. But I think there's so much more rich stuff to explore in this sort of five digital world between, you know, what a collectible is, what it means to have some sort of authenticity and public bulletin board, so to speak, I'm really excited for that.
00:39:48.000 - 00:39:55.724, Speaker B: I think it's like we can only build so much as our small team, but because these tools exist, anyone can build any sort of custom experience on it.
00:39:58.464 - 00:40:50.136, Speaker A: Yeah, I have to say I'm super bullish on the idea of these digital collectibles and in NFT form as well. And I think it's quite subtle because obviously right now you can pay premium subscriptions. I mean, these artists could say, pay me $100 and you can get access to my fan club and then I'll give you all of these things. But if you put it into NFT form, you really do build a better relationship between the artists and the, and the fans. And it can be like a bi directional relationship as well, where sort of both sets can send things, you know, USDC to the artist or, or various nfts and whatnot to the fans. Is that how you see it? Do you see any other advantages? Because the obvious retort from probably non crypto people is, why an NFT? Why can't I just pay $100 to their fan club and get access to these things?
00:40:50.320 - 00:41:32.720, Speaker B: Yeah, it's a really good point to bring up. And I think that one of the problems is that a lot of the promises of what the NFT could get, you didn't always come through in a lot of projects, and there was a lot of noise with it. And during the hype cycle, things tend to get a lot of hype. And sometimes that hype is overstated and that ends up hurting in the long run. But I mean, I will say the first time I bought a NFT in general, that was the closest experience I've ever had to something physical that happened on the Internet. The fact that you have to actually look at where the thing is that you're buying it from and you're actually see this transfer and it actually feels to some degree like you are mining, literally mining, physically digging for gold to some degree. And this is a very compelling experience.
00:41:32.720 - 00:42:26.564, Speaker B: And I think that really what's missing is that the provability of what these things can continue to do for you after you've gotten it once, to make people continue to feel like the experience is enriched. That's why at audience, our stance on this has been like, hey, we're not a minting platform. You're not coming to audience mint things. That's not what our primary focus is. But this is a platform like a hub and spoke model, where you can bring your wallets and you could bring your NFTs, and if you're really into figuring out these things and being a sort of DIY person through it all on the Internet. This is a platform where you can showcase them and you can interact with other people around them and you can demonstrate them and you can embed them on Twitter and link out your audience profile to capture that there's, I think, a lot more enriched experience that we need to continue to build. And that's what will ultimately make these things successful, rather than necessarily the.
00:42:26.564 - 00:42:30.004, Speaker B: The framing and terminology of it itself being an NFT.
00:42:30.864 - 00:42:55.278, Speaker A: And yeah, you say that you're not a minting service, which, yeah, looking at your website, it seems to be more on the streaming side, plus maybe payments for other digital experiences if you like, on the side. But obviously, as you've said, you're effectively like a music l one, if you like. And so presumably applications can be built on top which could incorporate things like nfts.
00:42:55.416 - 00:42:56.362, Speaker B: Oh, absolutely.
00:42:56.458 - 00:43:06.854, Speaker A: So firstly, are there applications which have been built at the moment, and are there ones going forwards which you're excited about being built on the platform?
00:43:07.354 - 00:43:37.946, Speaker B: Yeah, great question. So we have a number of applications today that draw a decent number of eyeballs to audius that exist. Everything from, if you go to the app store on your phone and you go to the music category and look at anything after number, know, 30 or 40. Like a lot of apps are aggregators, they offer unique experiences atop other catalogs. There are a few of them. One of my favorites was one of the early builders on audience is this app called Bass Booster, which just like cranks up the base on anything you're listening to. And that, you know, that is an app that was streaming on Audius early.
00:43:37.946 - 00:44:13.006, Speaker B: We've seen a lot of games that's been pretty cool. Even some Xbox games where they have like background music and like use Audius catalog to power some of that. But I think, you know, what we're really, like looking for, and if I'm to leave the listeners with anything, is like, please build monetary experiences on audience because we have a lot of these tools figured out so you don't have to go through that trouble. But you can actually have payment splits and monetization stuff really at your fingertips with anything in the catalog today. And there's a bunch of stuff that is payment gated. So if you integrate into your app, it's not like every user is going to be able to stream it unless they purchase it. So that is really exciting for us.
00:44:13.006 - 00:44:53.494, Speaker B: And we also recently just launched with some. It was a community project, actually, this unreal engine plugin that seems to be getting a decent amount of traction because people want to have these sort of intimate experiences with music, and that's really what we want to see happen on the collectibles front. We've partnered with some projects, we've worked with the drip house folks too, on some music releases that are gated by holding some of the collectibles that exist there. But I would love to see more here too. I would love to see people really dig at what are the fundamentally new experiences that people can have on top of collector items on the Internet and build that natively with music.
00:44:55.034 - 00:45:24.630, Speaker A: If you like unlaid, check out the Solfate podcast with Nick and James. They talk shop with the builders and founders in crypto, focusing primarily on the Solana ecosystem. Sulfate episodes dig deep into both the technical and personal aspects of what it's like to build new tools, protocols, and businesses in crypto. Search Solana Solfate in your podcast app or go to solfate.com podcast. Now back to the show. Yeah, I think that's an awesome, awesome way to put it.
00:45:24.630 - 00:45:47.236, Speaker A: And in a way, a lot of the strategy that we're talking about at the moment is trying to draw people to the audius website. I'm just wondering, a bit like YouTube in the early days, how you could put in YouTube videos onto other people's websites, onto blogs, things like that. Are you thinking of ways to get audios out there onto other platforms so far? Caster things like or web two platforms?
00:45:47.300 - 00:46:12.596, Speaker B: Yeah, actually that's great, weed. It's good you mentioned Farcaster because we have an active proposal out with them to add frame support for audio playback. We're super excited about that. We're going back and forth in that discussion, too. We do support a rich embedded experience right now. There are quite a number of blogs that actually embed Audius, especially a fair amount of crypto podcasts too. Actually, we should talk about what that looks like after the show.
00:46:12.596 - 00:47:32.740, Speaker B: But the exciting thing about that is really where this goes in terms of payments. Right now, it's pretty easy to embed an audius link on your blog or WordPress site or something like that, to just include a little HTML tag that renders out an audience track and pushes people to our application to purchase things. Really, what is killer for us that we want to make happen is almost what some of the goals of Solana Pay were and or continue to be, rather, and some of the other on and off ramp systems is to provide a as good as shopify like experience to build a store on audius like that, we talk about being a music marketplace that is a killer feature of a decentralized music marketplace. If you can empower people to basically have whatever flavored storefront they want to have on top of music or merchandise that's physical and digital, that's tied to music, it's like you mentioned YouTube. It's really early Internet day stuff that we want to empower here, almost the MySpace experience. For people to be able to use this in whatever way they want, you know, that of course needs to be like, compared against like what we're trying to do with our first party client, which is really to just bring people onto the platform. Like, you know, this, none of these problems, like, they're all made up problems, like, how are people going to use it if there's no one there to use it in the first place? And, you know, we care a lot about that experience as well.
00:47:32.740 - 00:47:40.716, Speaker B: So it's, it's kind of like, you know, working on all of these things in parallel that we really think will make this whole effort succeed, I think.
00:47:40.740 - 00:48:22.594, Speaker A: That'S really interesting direction to take it because maybe a problem with things like Spotify is it's so homogenous. And if you're starting to allow bands to have their own sort of website integrated maybe onto your platform, yeah, you allow for the opportunity for more personalization and that's got to be a good thing. So, yeah, I think that sounds like a really interesting way to go about it. And I mean, looking forward into the future, if we're going to see music and crypto growing, if we're going to see audience growing, how do you think we get there? What needs to happen over the next 510 years to start really being able to compete with the likes of Spotify?
00:48:23.134 - 00:49:24.838, Speaker B: Yeah, that's really good question. And I can't pretend that we have every single answer here. I think that it really is going to take all of us in this industry to work on to try to build both the best tech that we can, the fastest, easiest, most fraud proof tech that exists, and then for us and the other application builders and people who are focused outside of the infrastructure layer to really build the best experience as we can that compete as apples to apples, or at least better apples to existing apples with the web two space. And I think that's often not what we've figured out yet. There's obviously a lot of talk in crypto in general about killer Ux and what are the things that we're working on. I think it's really digging deep and working on all of that and pairing it with infrastructure that really will work all of the time and figure out what the playbook is for people building on top of it to pick the right infrastructure for their needs. I think that too often than not, in this space, a lot of people end up seeing technology as kind of like the product itself.
00:49:24.838 - 00:50:28.894, Speaker B: And I think that is often what is missing and where we can stand to improve ourselves is really focus on what is the technology supposed to do and doing that really well, and then really focus on what are the needs of people who need a new product and really focus on those users and then figure out what technology it is rather than being like, okay, yeah, this whole concept of, I don't know, let's use a different example than nfts, but just thinking about maybe the concept of restaking or something like that, that obviously has its place within the infrastructure world and defi and whatnot, but for a traditional Internet user, these things might not mean a whole lot. And rather than thinking about those things as being a solution for them, really thinking about what are those problems, and then looking at this huge catalog of technology that we've already built that can make it happen. So, yes, I think it's going to take us all, and I think it's going to take time to use the pithy phrase, we're still early. I think we are. But we also have to be really serious with that, and we really need to focus on what is the user story. And how's that user story. Excellent.
00:50:28.934 - 00:50:55.304, Speaker A: Every single time, something like YouTube obviously got big, largely off the backs of YouTube specific stars. It wasn't really film stars, tv stars coming over, it was the people who were already on YouTube, and then they become really big themselves. Do you think maybe something like that also needs to happen, that you start building up large music groups or even AI music native almost to the platform?
00:50:55.684 - 00:51:34.454, Speaker B: Yeah, totally. I think we're seeing some of this already. There are a fair amount of audius users that I think because we've been around for a few years, had the starts of their careers, almost exist on Audius, and have grown beyond audience even since then, which is really awesome to see, and we love it. And you know, that that model is not unique to us. Like, SoundCloud made this happen for a lot of hip hop. Like, Chance, the rapper's whole rise, like, was really due to him releasing on SoundCloud. And that being like a whole new generation of musician, we feel similarly, this is kind of like the kind of age of community powered tech powered people to create creative content that's really new and it's very different.
00:51:34.454 - 00:52:20.824, Speaker B: And we're seeing some of this now. We're seeing over time, artists who got started on Audius or used Audius early as a toolkit to really propel their career and then take it a step further. And when we launched our platform and our governance system and our native protocol token, a decent amount of users who held that token early on really were rewarded for that. And that is awesome to see. Growing with the platform is kind of, I think the mission in general with crypto is be a part of this thing that is growing and derive benefit from it yourself. Yes, to all of these things. We're really excited to see new talent emerge on audience and new interesting ways of creating talent and people doing things like derivative AI works.
00:52:20.824 - 00:53:16.982, Speaker B: At the same time, we're also really interested in serving the existing industry, both independents and those scient labels to really bolster their careers with new tools that exist. And for them to, even if it's not creating new content, it's creating different experiences on those con, you know, those pieces of content. Like one of the most successful features that we've had on audience for the longest time is the ability to host remix competitions. And that's really interesting because you can take a track that's been out for ages and re release the stems for it and call to arms all the content creators that exist now because the Internet has made so many people producer literate to go take those stems and remix them and create new tracks. And I mean, we even saw like Daft Punk recently released this drumless version of their random Access Memories album. And like, I mean, they haven't put an album out for a decade now, but that still has value. People are really interested in it because the average consumer is much more empowered today to actually do something with it, which is really cool.
00:53:16.982 - 00:53:41.684, Speaker B: So I think embracing change and really like becoming part of where music goes is necessary for us and it's necessary for any project in music, even outside of crypto. I think music is inherently different today than it was ten years ago, and ten years from now is going to be radically different from the way it is today. Some people would say, oh, it's a bad thing, but I think it's really just time changes things and embracing that opportunity is really exciting to us.
00:53:42.784 - 00:54:17.084, Speaker A: Yeah. While you were answering that as well, I was thinking during the last bull market, I remember someone called notorious NFT on audius platform and he used to do raps about the various NFT projects on Solana and they were great. They were great. So for sure, I can definitely see that. Yeah, it is a way to build up someone's fame, if you like, to a crypto native audience potentially, and something which maybe wouldn't be quite as accepted or wouldn't get quite so far outside of a platform like Audius.
00:54:18.064 - 00:55:07.290, Speaker B: Yeah, it's really cool to see there's all sorts of new interesting, you know, media types that are getting created and, you know, I think that, like, what genre even means today is radically different from what it meant ten years ago and from 20 years ago, certainly. And, you know, I think we're going to see all sorts of, you know, new genres, new types of music, new ways of reaching fans. And maybe it's not even, you know, music. Like, I think that, you know, one of the interesting things that has changed recently that you probably are aware of is like, you know, Spotify decided to like, not monetize non music things like white noise and stuff like that. And it's really interesting to think about like, in this kind of, you know, modern day society, what even like, constitute, constitutes music and like, does that even matter? Like, you know, we, we really care about just serving like, audio back to people. You know, when people upload audio that audio can come back. But we really don't take a stance on like, what is fair game.
00:55:07.290 - 00:55:31.904, Speaker B: And, you know, maybe a white noise track is actually like really interesting because it helps people sleep and they're going to actually like pay dollar 50 a month for it. Like, you know, who knows? And I think that's really like, what is cool about the space that we're in and the era that we're in and the time we're in, things are definitely changing and it's like this early YouTube era of content creators. I think it's really on steroids right now. It's really exploding.
00:55:32.404 - 00:55:59.224, Speaker A: Yeah, I think AI is almost leading the music industry to have an identity crisis in the same way that art went through with all the contemporary modernist art and performance artists and all that sort of stuff. I think music is also struggling to, yeah, make amends if you like, with this new world of what actually constitutes music. You don't even need to be a group, you don't need to be a human being to even make music people want to listen to. So it's super interesting period of time.
00:55:59.644 - 00:56:02.740, Speaker B: Yeah, definitely. I would absolutely agree with that.
00:56:02.932 - 00:56:10.788, Speaker A: And maybe final question before we sign off, but favorite music artist of all time. Nice easy question to say.
00:56:10.876 - 00:56:16.984, Speaker B: Oh, that is not an easy question. That's unfair. Dave, how about you answer this question first and I'll think about what my answer is.
00:56:17.434 - 00:56:38.814, Speaker A: Well, I think like I'm not really up. I'm like thirties. So I think after the age about 25, most men just revert back to what they used to listen to when they're at university and at school. But I was growing up in the nineties, two thousands, all of that sort of like blink one a two era. But I think the one that I continue to listen to is Bob Dylan, actually.
00:56:39.314 - 00:56:40.146, Speaker B: Oh, that's awesome.
00:56:40.210 - 00:56:50.554, Speaker A: Got into him during university and yeah, it's also I play a bit of guitar and it's like it's the only artist I can play any of his guitar songs because they're super simple.
00:56:50.894 - 00:57:03.782, Speaker B: Yeah, totally. Well, I don't know if I have a like ultimate finite answer for you, but it's such a good question. I really should have prepared that one for this interview. But, you know, I'll say. Cause I mentioned them already. I will say daft Bunk. Like, I mean, I love the duo.
00:57:03.782 - 00:57:14.114, Speaker B: I had a birthday party fairly recently where we played the entire discography on vinyl. So I'm definitely a collector myself and I think that that's not going anywhere in this modern era.
00:57:14.694 - 00:57:31.686, Speaker A: Awesome. Well, it's been a great episode. Really interesting to just delve into a different area of crypto and love what Audius is doing and look forward to seeing you guys churn out more stuff as the music l one of the future. So good luck with all ray and I'm sure we'll get you back on again sometime soon.
00:57:31.870 - 00:57:32.894, Speaker B: Thank you so much, David.
