00:00:00.240 - 00:00:27.662, Speaker A: By now, Zero XV two is live and brand new routing engine is available through Matcha XYZ. Go and give it a look. Search for different long tail tokens. Look at blue chips. Experiment with getting quotes for different trade sizes. Look at the different routing diagrams. You can get a sense of what type of pricing and experience you can potentially offer through your own product using Xerox API.
00:00:27.662 - 00:00:42.820, Speaker A: And yeah, as a whale, you might want to check out matcha as well because you're going to be able to get absolutely top tier world class pricing, tapping into all the hundreds of on chain liquidity sources as well as Xerox RFQ.
00:00:45.280 - 00:01:44.052, Speaker B: Welcome to the Edge podcast. I'm Defi dad here with nomatic from four rc. Today's show spotlights the release of Zero X V two and its flagship Dex aggregator Matcha XYZ. In this episode, the legendary Defi founder will Warren gives us a first look at Zero X V two's brand new routing engine, which enables them to win 90% of trades versus the competition for any trade size, from small DGen swaps up to multi million dollar whale trades. But before we do, just a quick word from our sponsors who make the edge podcast possible. Introducing flat money, the first decentralized delta neutral flatcoin built on base with sustainable yield that's completely untethered from legacy finance. Because Defi needs an uncensorable base unit of currency, you can mint unit with Reth, which is held in the protocol's shared liquidity pool, where it's borrowed by leveraged traders.
00:01:44.052 - 00:03:00.434, Speaker B: As a leveraged trader, you can deposit your margin collateral and go long on reinfor. If you're trading in the perpetual futures market, you'll pay unitholders to open leveraged positions. If you're holding unit, you'll earn yield from liquidations, borrow rate and trading fees preserve your purchasing power and offset your exposure to crypto market volatility. Learn more at flat money power up your portfolio by borrowing, lending, and multiplying your favorite assets, made safe and easy by the industry. Leading automation tools at summer Fi summer Fi offers a curated DeFi experience to access the highest quality protocols and strategies, discover new earn strategies for your portfolio, and a user friendly app designed to filter based on the tokens you hold, the networks you transact on, the protocols you trust, and the highest available yields. Learn more today at summer Fi the best place to borrow and earn in DeFi catch the tide of the mainnet launch of puffer finance whether you're an Ethereum staker or an aspiring node operator, puffer delivers the decentralization revolution with its cutting edge technology. Start with just two eth to unlock the potential of native liquid restaking and maximize your earnings.
00:03:00.434 - 00:03:12.906, Speaker B: Join the movement now and anchor your stake at puffer Fi. All right, let's introduce Will Warren, the co founder of Xerox. Will, welcome to the Edge podcast. How are you doing?
00:03:13.058 - 00:03:16.142, Speaker A: Good. Happy to be chatting with you guys. Thanks for having me.
00:03:16.246 - 00:04:00.960, Speaker B: So we're recording this in advance of the release of Zero XB two. So if you're listening to this, you can go to Matcha XYz to start to enjoy the benefits of Zero X v two through the front end. That is Matcha XYZ. So Matcha, for me is a Dex aggregator that I've been using for several years. When it came out, it was a trailblazer because we didn't have Dex aggregators that had grown popular. There was a time in Defi where we would trade on the front end of a uniswap or curve or whatever Dex amm that existed. Thankfully, with a tool like Matcha, we're able to get all of the best prices in one place.
00:04:00.960 - 00:04:32.542, Speaker B: Will, why don't we start with a little bit more about your background? Funny enough, I will point out I was at UCSD. I think at some point when you were there, we were both in like a grad program. I wish I had met you as you were dabbling in crypto. I think my life would have turned out a little bit differently. But anyways, yeah, tell us about what got you into crypto and ultimately about the founding of Xerox and Matcha.
00:04:32.646 - 00:05:54.300, Speaker A: Yeah, well, so I read about bitcoin back in probably 2013, somewhere around there, and seemed like a very interesting piece of technology and kind of kept an eye on it, thought it was, yeah, kind of more of like a novelty, but had powerful potential. And at the time, yeah, I was at UC San Diego, I was studying mechanical engineering in undergrad, and I was planning to go down more of like a research path. And I spent a couple of years working at Los Alamos National Laboratory in New Mexico before starting PhD program back at UCSD. And while, yeah, during that time, Ethereum emerged. And I learned about it through my wife, Linda Shea, who was working at Coinbase at that time. And as I learned more and more about Ethereum, it kind of became clear to me that this was going to be one of the most important pieces of technology that would emerge during my lifetime. And so I very quickly kind of lost interest in everything else besides hacking on smart contracts and learning more about the EVM.
00:05:54.300 - 00:07:10.640, Speaker A: And so eventually I decided to drop out of the PhD program, moved to San Francisco, and focus on learning about and kind of becoming involved in the Ethereum ecosystem full time. And yeah, not too long after I met my co founder Amir and SF, he similarly got bit by the Ethereum bug, kind of left everything behind. Previously he'd been a trader at DRW in Chicago, and we met and we have this shared vision for what Ethereum would enable, kind of a core thesis, and that was that all forms of value would eventually become tokenized on public blockchains like Ethereum. So billions of different tokenized assets, ranging from traditional securities, stocks, bonds, startup equity, all the way to fiat currencies and video game items. Even at the time, it seemed kind of crazy. There were probably around like ten ERC 20 tokens on Ethereum that had any usage. The ERC 20 token standard had just been invented.
00:07:10.640 - 00:08:15.928, Speaker A: And so, yeah, late 2016, Amir and I, kind of following this thesis of the tokenization of everything, we felt that it would become really important to have infrastructure to be able to swap these tokens. And this infrastructure should be standardized, should be open source, and it should also be publicly accessible. We set out to build the first decentralized exchange protocol on top of Ethereum. Zero protocol. And zero protocol is. Yeah, it's an off chain order relay with on chain settlement Dex, where you cryptographically sign messages off chain and then they're injected into a smart contract on the blockchain to actually settle the trade, move tokens between wallets. Yeah, you could use these different messages in a variety of ways.
00:08:15.928 - 00:08:54.584, Speaker A: You could kind of collect a bunch of different messages and arrange them into the form of an order book. You could create a RFQ system where someone asks for a specific quote and you turn around and provide them with this signed quote just in time. And you could also use these, these messages to trade peer to peer privately with your friends. This set us down the path of building infrastructure for swapping tokenized assets. And that continues to be what we focus on today.
00:08:54.712 - 00:09:47.520, Speaker B: Will, when you were building zero X protocol, Dexs were not popular. And it was something that even those that were deep into crypto, it was a rarity that you were trading on dexs, and most, I think, were still on centralized exchanges. I wonder, how has the challenge of building evolved for you, given that theres just been so many innovations, DeFi has grown up so much like the fact that we have l two s that are thriving now, and that you can trade for very small fees at fast transaction times, it's unlocked a lot, and I think it's hopefully made your job a little bit easier. But just curious about the challenge of building as a legacy builder.
00:09:47.680 - 00:10:59.590, Speaker A: Yeah, it's been challenging, very exciting and stimulating, and I wouldn't change a thing if I could go back in time. In the early days, yeah, the entire ethereum community was a tight knit group of nerds that just were thinking about all the cool stuff you could build with smart contracts. And most of the things that people were building were more like hobby projects. That being said, the one thing all of these different Ethereum projects had in common in the early days is that they all required exchange functionality in order to work. In 2016, in San Francisco, we met a bunch of different builders like Makerdao, creating stablecoin, auger and gnosis, creating prediction markets in mellow court, creating tokenized funds. They all required exchange functionality, but it really wasn't their target use case. It was more of a building block that was necessary to unlock the real use case they were going after.
00:10:59.590 - 00:12:13.452, Speaker A: Every single team was approaching the problem of creating a decentralized exchange differently. There wasn't really any standardization. All the different implementations behaved differently, different security assumptions, and most importantly, fragmented liquidity across all of these different one off Dexs. And so we really wanted to be the team to come in and establish a standard for swapping tokenized assets. It was very early, there were no companies that were crypto native on chain and earning revenue. Most of the things that people were building were, yeah, like kind of grassroots, maybe a couple dozen people interacting with these different consumer products a day. And I would say that it was really fun because there was tons of experimentation.
00:12:13.452 - 00:13:15.170, Speaker A: It was also very unfocused at that time because there weren't paying customers. And as time has gone on, especially so in like the last four years, yeah, there are real companies and real customers that have problems that need to be solved, and they're willing to pay to solve those problems. And it really, really brings priorities into focus and ensures that, yeah, if you're building something, it really needs to solve a problem for a customer. I would say that's been one of the biggest cultural changes that we've observed in the ethereum ecosystem over the last eight years or so. Started out really grassroots people building cool stuff for the fun of it. A lot of passion projects over time, trying to establish more community standards, more building blocks. Yeah, like Uniswap emerging in 2018 or 2019.
00:13:15.170 - 00:14:42.296, Speaker A: That really changed the Dex ecosystem. So, yeah, Uniswap completely opened up tokenization by making it possible for anyone to very easily create an ERC 20 token and spin up a liquidity pool for trading without having to go to a centralized exchange. And this was common practice at the time. It doesnt happen anymore. But back in 2018 2019, if you created this hogan, a lot of projects needed to go to a centralized exchange, like a binance or some of the other players back then that maybe arent used as commonly anymore, and try and get your token to be accessible to a bunch of people with a liquid market. With Uniswap, it became possible for you to within ten minutes create that ERC 20 token, spin up a liquidity pool, and create a community very quickly. At the same time, the introduction of Uniswap really introduced tons of innovation, tons of people taking what Uniswap built and evolving it in different ways, and it created intense competitive pressure.
00:14:42.296 - 00:15:38.942, Speaker A: Over the following years, as more teams started building different decentralized exchanges, different types of amms, different types of order books, RFQ systems, people started thinking about things like Mev. At the time, there were probably a small handful of folks that were thinking about mev, and it took years for mev to become a common knowledge within the ecosystem. During that period of time, Dex space became ultra competitive, and now wallet space, creating l two s or alternative layer ones, super duper competitive. Anything that you're trying to build that solves a genuine user need. Today in crypto, it's going to be a crowded space, and you're going to have to build something really good.
00:15:39.046 - 00:16:32.950, Speaker C: Well, I think that was a great speedrun mini history of what a lot of us have been through the last few years, and I actually forget how far we've come and how infantile the space was at certain points in time. I think it's really easy to forget that. And I've seen this kind of nihilism creep into crypto Twitter these days and just hearing what you said, and again, seeing where we came from, where we are now, things aren't perfect. There's still a lot of stuff broken that needs to be fixed. But man, is it so much different than it was. It's to people like you, too, building the core infrastructure in the space that we need. I want to get into zero X V two in a bit, but I think it's important to talk a bit about matcha, because that is going to be the vessel where zero xv two will first be shown through.
00:16:32.950 - 00:16:49.024, Speaker C: So maybe even before we dive into the big v two thing that you've been working on behind the scenes, let's again set the table with how do you define matcha in your own words? How do you see it and how does it fit into the ecosystem?
00:16:49.112 - 00:17:34.690, Speaker A: Yeah, thank you for the question. Yeah. So Matcha is a Dex aggregator. It is a consumer product you can go and visit, it can search for any token that exists on the different evm networks we support. If the ERC 20 token has been deployed, we will pick it up and it will be indexed and searchable on matcha within 15 minutes. And you can go and get a quote and can tap into hundreds of different decentralized exchanges and matcha will automatically do all the hard work of finding you the best possible price, no matter the size of the trade. And yeah, the purpose of matcha is really to provide a.
00:17:34.690 - 00:18:35.526, Speaker A: A consumer product that eliminates the complexity of accessing tokens and liquidity. This is like another area where things have really changed over the years. The user experience for web3 products. Yeah, four plus years ago, it was really not something that was accessible to a mainstream audience. And really we're just like the enthusiasts that we're interacting with, with these web3 apps. We set out in 2020 to further our mission of tokenization of all value, making it all accessible to a mainstream audience by building matcha to be a simple, friendly, accessible product that's extremely powerful under the hood of. And so that's what matcha continues to offer today, and it's just gotten more and more powerful over time.
00:18:35.638 - 00:19:03.950, Speaker C: Will, you kind of alluded to this, the simple interface, and I think everybody's familiar with the actions that you can do. You can do a market swap, a limit swap and then cross chain. Maybe just give us a quick eye level. I'm kind of curious too, if you know what is used more between market and limit. I'm assuming crypto degens are just smashing market swaps, but yeah, maybe you can give us some color on that a little bit too.
00:19:04.030 - 00:20:17.210, Speaker A: Yeah, happily, yeah. So Macha, as you said, it's like your all in one toolbox for trading in web3. If you want to go in and buy a token right now, in this very moment, get at the very best possible price, you can do a market trade. And this is what is aggregating liquidity from hundreds of different decentralized exchanges in order to put together a quote that has the best average price. Yeah, a few billion dollars of trading volume are going through this swap functionality every single month. And if you really want to buy or sell a token at a specific price, could be like a token that's a bit more long tail, maybe it's not super liquid and you want to sell a big old block of tokens at a price that you have to, you know, you have set, you can go in and can create a limit order. This occurs off chain and yeah, when the market moves other counterparties will come in and they'll fill your limit order and the tokens will appear in your wallet.
00:20:17.210 - 00:20:53.296, Speaker A: We also recently added support for cross chain swaps. This allows you to very easily access up and coming ecosystems like base and optimism, arbitrum, many others, all of our favorites. Makes it super easy for you to take your tokens on one chain and get tokens on whichever chain you want. It's very quick so it really provides all the different tools that you need to go in and navigate web3.
00:20:53.408 - 00:21:30.018, Speaker B: Will when I think about the competition within the DeX aggregator space, it's a group of longtime builders like Macha and Xerox. I'm wondering, how do you think about differentiating matcha from the competitors out there? I think most top of mind names for me are one inch and a cow swap. I'm curious, maybe this will actually lead us into zero xb two being one of those differentiators. But anything else you can flesh out for us?
00:21:30.114 - 00:22:43.262, Speaker A: Yeah, definitely. Yeah, there are a number of really solid DeX aggregation products out there, including the ones you named and yeah, what differentiates matcha from some of these other products that are out here first? Yeah, trust and user experience is top of mind for us. We always want to put users first. We want to make sure that they can have a trustworthy, reliable experience that's hopefully pleasant, delightful, while also kind of getting the super competitive pricing that is needed for the advanced users that are out there. Another thing that's really important to us as we approach building Mancha is having the widest breadth of coverage. Some of the Dex aggregation solutions out there, they offer really solid pricing on say for example on Ethereum and maybe a couple other networks. But yeah, matcha supports again any token, if it has been deployed by anyone in the world, it gets indexed and is searchable and tradable within minutes on matcha.
00:22:43.262 - 00:23:25.870, Speaker A: And we offer this across a number of different blockchains. Yeah. Third, I think there are differences in how much people kind of prioritize speed. So that's another thing that we think is important with matcha. You shouldn't have to sacrifice speed in a snappy user experience in order to get world class pricing. So you can come to matcha today, you can go and complete a trade and have it land on chain in a matter of seconds. And there isn't necessarily the need to wait for like an auction to complete.
00:23:25.870 - 00:23:50.544, Speaker A: Some folks totally fine. Waiting for something like a batch auction can take 30 seconds or minute. Other folks markets move quickly and they want their chain to land now. Excuse me, they want their trade to land and be confirmed on chain right now. And so those are just a few of the things that we're really proud of with Matcha.
00:23:50.682 - 00:24:20.014, Speaker B: One feature that I enjoy within Matcha, and you sort of alluded to this earlier, as one of the legacy problems in Defi, is with MeV. So can you talk us through will or dumb down when we're trading? Let's say I'm going to do a market swap through matcha. What does it mean for that trade to be MeV protected? Like, what are you protecting me from? How does that actually work?
00:24:20.142 - 00:25:41.780, Speaker A: Yeah, good question. Well, so MeV basically means that the price that you see in the user interface when you click confirm ends up being different than the price that you actually see when the tokens land in your wallet. So you end up getting less tokens than the user interface displayed. The reason why this happens is because as a transaction is broadcast to the blockchain network, that transaction is public and anyone can see it, and it lands in what's called the public mempool, which is just a big old pool of transactions that are waiting to get packaged up and included into the next block. And what's interesting is that there's no rules around how those transactions sitting in the mempool are sequenced within a block. And so sophisticated actors that are running arbitrage bots or sandwich attack bots, essentially what they can do is they can go in and they can pick out specific transactions from the mempool, and they can sequence them in a way where your trade ends up executing at a worse price in order for them to extract an arbitrage. And they can do this risk free.
00:25:41.780 - 00:26:32.710, Speaker A: It's really toxic and extractive for end users. Over the last years, over a billion dollars has been extracted from traders like uni due to mev extraction. And matcha does protect against mev, we have a couple of different powerful technologies. First, we have zero x RFQ. So this is a request for quote system. It plugs into a variety of professional market makers who give you a quote at a specific price, and you cannot get any price other than what is quoted. So there is no potential for slippage or for modifying the execution price by sequencing transactions in a malicious way.
00:26:32.710 - 00:27:23.990, Speaker A: And RFQ is really powerful. These market makers essentially compete with on chain liquidity sources in order to provide you a better price than what you could have gotten otherwise. And RFQ is Mev proof. Another way that we protect users from mev extraction is through matcha auto. So matcha auto is a fully gasless experience. So you can trade without having any native tokens or gas money in your wallet. And instead you sign a transaction and macho will go and take that and make sure it lands on the blockchain without anyone being able to see it or sequence it in a way that is malicious and extractive.
00:27:23.990 - 00:28:12.490, Speaker A: And another benefit of Masha Auto is that the workers, the macho workers that will ensure that this trade lands on chain, they have a dynamic gas price policy. So they will ratchet up the gas price very, very quickly depending upon congestion in the network. And this increases the probability of your trade landing on chain and being confirmed in the next block drastically. So you get faster trade confirmation. Your transaction is protected from mev bots and you also don't have to pay for gas. So yeah, that is RFQ and matcha auto. Those are two technologies that protect you from MeV with Matcha.
00:28:14.910 - 00:29:03.360, Speaker B: Before we get back to the show, just a quick thanks to our sponsor at Mantle network, the L2 that pioneered the fifth largest LST with 1.6 billion tvl called Mat. Since July 1, Mantle is running a 100 day airdrop campaign called Metamorphosis to distribute a new governance token for the mantle liquid staking protocol called Cook. The community can earn points for cook called powder by holding meth in metamorphosis and simultaneously enjoying other yield and reward opportunities in the mantle ecosystem. Users can also earn powder by staking MNT in the Mantle rewards station. For more details, go to the Mantle blog at Mantle XYz blog and follow the Zero X mantle handle on Twitter for more updates.
00:29:06.340 - 00:29:40.858, Speaker C: It's actually crazy what goes on under the hood that I'm typically blissfully aware of as I'm, you know, just clicking around on my little protocols that I don't fully understand and doing my swaps. Pretty amazing, I think, on that, let's get into v two because you're making things even more improved, I guess, through v two, and it sounds like you've been working on it for a while. So maybe just fill us in high level to start. What are you working on with Zero xv two? How long you been working on it? Yeah, just give us the high level notes.
00:29:40.994 - 00:30:43.742, Speaker A: Yeah. So Zero xv two represents a complete overhaul of our routing engine and technology stack. There are a variety of benefits that are coming with V two, but I think the one that most people will care about the most is that zero x pricing, both through our developer APIs and through matcha, are going to be incredibly competitive and top tier. And the reason is because we have rebuilt this routing engine in a way that allows us to fully utilize on chain liquidity and fully utilize RFQ liquidity in ways that were not feasible in our prior version. And I think probably the best way to demonstrate the power of the new routing engine is to just show it.
00:30:43.766 - 00:31:00.222, Speaker B: To you for any of our listeners. Just a reminder, you can go to our link tree at Edge pod and that's where you can find our YouTube. So if you're listening, go to the YouTube version of the episode and you can watch the demo we're about to walk through.
00:31:00.366 - 00:31:32.300, Speaker A: Yeah, so this is Matcha. For those who haven't checked it out before, this is the homepage again. Matcha is able to find you the very best price for over 5 million tokens on a number of different blockchains. And there's a number of tokens here, the popular ones. There's also a list of trending tokens as well as recent trades that have occurred on Matcha. But if we go in, let's see if we want to do a large trade. This is an area where Masha really shines.
00:31:32.300 - 00:32:25.442, Speaker A: This new routing engine is able to achieve extremely competitive pricing for large trades. So for the whales out there, institutional traders who need to move size, Matcha is the place to be. And so if you enter in and request a quote on matcha, what you'll see here is we have this little popover where you can click to see the route. So if we click on it here, we can pull up the route that is been produced in order to achieve the quote that is shown here. A couple of things that are worth noting. So if you look here, this is a $1 million die trade to wrapped bitcoin. And the price impact is, yeah, less than ten basis points.
00:32:25.442 - 00:32:57.824, Speaker A: Yeah, it's almost zero. And yeah, it's pretty crazy. Opening up the route again. You can see that we're tapping into a variety of different liquidity sources. So first we have the maker PSM, which allows you to move between different stablecoins and dai very efficiently. Next we have a professional market maker that's quoting through our RFQ system. We have, let's see, 12345 different market makers.
00:32:57.824 - 00:33:37.390, Speaker A: These are all different professional market makers that are all providing quotes and each one of these RFQ quotes is providing a better price than what would have alternatively been available if we just relied on on chain liquidity like an amm. And then we of course have everyone's favorite amms. We have uniswap v three in a variety of different pools here. It looks like we also have dodo here. You can also see that this route is updating as the blocks tick on the best price also updates as well.
00:33:37.890 - 00:34:03.222, Speaker B: This is one thing I've never been totally clear on when I'm trading on matcha. I am not just benefiting from, let's say, the liquidity on chain, because some of these market maker partners, you know, long story short, like obviously they've, they've got money spread across lots of centralized exchanges and so they're able to, what, offer more competitive pricing at times on chain.
00:34:03.406 - 00:35:06.790, Speaker A: Yeah, that's right. So these are professional market makers that are tapped into a variety of different venues, centralized exchanges all geographically distributed around the globe. And yeah, they are able to quote really competitively by having algorithms that allow them to put out pricing that is hard to match on chain. The fact that RFQ is not able to be attacked, it isn't possible to do any sort of mev extraction with RFQ. It means it reduces the risk of providing a quote. And market makers are therefore able to quote much more competitively because they know exactly what's going to happen when that trade hits the chain. Just increase the size of the trade to 10 million daiden to wrapped bitcoin.
00:35:06.790 - 00:35:43.096, Speaker A: As you can see, as the size of the trade increases, the amount of liquidity pools that are being utilized also increases in order to accommodate that trade size. And yeah, as the number of liquidity pools increases, so does the gas cost. And so you can see here that in order to do this $10 million die draft bitcoin trade, tapping into, I dont know, it must be like 20 plus different liquidity pools. And it costs $240 in gas fees on Ethereum mainnet.
00:35:43.128 - 00:35:51.344, Speaker B: Right now, what are some of the largest trades youve ever seen go through zero x protocol or matcha?
00:35:51.472 - 00:36:36.000, Speaker A: Yeah, there have been some pretty massive ones. It depends on the trading pair for folks that are moving in and out of liquid staked tokens. Say for example, they have lido staked ETH or some kind of flavor of staked ETH. We'll often see people coming in and moving really, really large size, like tens of millions of dollars in a single trade. And yeah, I think now that with zero, xv, two, since we're going, we have top tier pricing. It's going to be hard for anything else out there to beat this. We expect to see some of the large whales coming in and taking advantage of this better pricing.
00:36:36.460 - 00:37:25.066, Speaker B: Will, could you also just dumb down for us as users? I look at this and I'm like, okay, and this isn't the average user, but a $10 million trade here, they're paying $250 in gas. And right now, actually the gas price is around 25, 20 gwei today. So it's a little bit higher than it's been recently on ETH mainnet. What's the catch here in terms of how are you able to provide these sorts of trades? Basically, who's ultimately paying the fees to do a swap like this? Again, if you can just dumb it down for us, as the average user, how are you able to offer such competitive trades?
00:37:25.228 - 00:38:39.910, Speaker A: So, yeah, as you noted, matcha offers the ability to trade with absolutely zero fees. And so yeah, this trade right here, we do not earn any swap fees from this. And yeah, one of the ways that we are able to earn revenue and sustain our team and our company is by offering a more reliable and consistent trading experience for folks that aren't necessarily like the super advanced traders that are using a custom RPC endpoint and know the intricacies of sandwich attacks. And so, yeah, folks that want to not have to think about failed trades, fluctuating network prices and congestion, not having to think about how their slip bid should be set or, yeah, not having to worry about Mev, we have matcha auto. And yeah, again, this is like a gasless experience. Trades are free, so you don't pay any network fees. And in this trade you're paying 25 basis point fee.
00:38:39.910 - 00:39:15.278, Speaker A: Your trade is going to utilize the same exact sources of liquidity and it's going to be protected from mev, it's going to be landing on chain and confirming more rapidly. On average. Oftentimes it will land in the very next block. And yeah, you don't have to worry about slippage or reverted transactions. Everything will just work for you. You can trade, you don't have to worry about the market moving against you. It's just a very smooth experience.
00:39:15.278 - 00:39:47.770, Speaker A: This is something that some folks prefer and they're willing to pay a small fee in order to get a really reliable and easy experience without sacrificing price competitiveness. And so yeah, some of the matcha users out there, they prefer to use matcha auto because they would prefer to have MEB protection and a more reliable experience. And other folks feel comfortable going and navigating the mempool on their own, and they can do that through matcha for zero fees.
00:39:49.390 - 00:40:12.150, Speaker B: Teller is a decentralized protocol that enables anyone to borrow or lend using any ethereum asset. You can think of a teller loan as a defi cash advance, one where you can use any of your favorite ERC 20 tokens as collateral to get an instant USDC loan. Discover the power of a Defi cash advance today@teller.org dot.
00:40:16.370 - 00:41:01.010, Speaker D: At Moonbeam, we're building a world where the wonders of decentralized technology are accessible to everyone. We're advancing web3 integration through product enhancements, funding for innovation and investment in our partner ecosystem. Our product roadmap includes ZK initiatives, tokenomics updates, and eight x throughput. Our $10 million innovation fund invests in staff that deliver cutting edge solutions for RWA and web3 gaming, and our partner ecosystem continues to grow through grants and incentives. Moonbeams is delivering frictionless user and builder experiences to create the future of the Internet on chain. Join us by participating in the Moonrise campaign today.
00:41:02.070 - 00:41:24.838, Speaker C: Will I'm curious, like, I feel like we've kind of gone over maybe like the retail user journey and how whales kind of interact with this. But I know you've got integrations with, uh, partners with the likes of Coinbase, a metamask, a Robin Hood. How do those kind of bigger players interact with Zero X or matcha?
00:41:24.974 - 00:43:17.320, Speaker A: Yeah, so as you mentioned, uh, there are a number of big players out there that, uh, offer swapping functionality either in their wallet experience or in different type of consumer product, including metamask, Robinhood, Coinbase and many, many others. If you have swapped on a Dex through a wallet, you've probably used Zero X without knowing it. And the way that these integrators rely on Zero X is the same way that Mancha does. So Zero X offers a suite of developer APIs, including our swap API, which it provides this powerful routing engine and taps into all these different sources of liquidity and serves up a super competitive quote through a familiar API endpoint that anyone can plug into and quite straightforward integration. We've been fortunate to have the privilege to work with some of these massive names in the space and yeah, we really enjoy working with different teams out there that are looking to make accessing tokens through their application simple and easy, and also to help different web3 builders out there figure out how to create a business and start getting onto the path of sustainability by integrating swaps and earning revenue through those swaps. Now, swaps have kind of become like the de facto business model in web3. So I think Metamask is probably the first crypto native product that really demonstrated strong product market fit and a strong, sustainable business with their swaps.
00:43:17.320 - 00:43:50.640, Speaker A: And I think Metamask offers a swaps with like an 87.5 bip fee added on top. And yeah, some folks in DeFi are really sensitive to pricing and fees, and that's not something that is attractive to them. But other folks, they're looking to get that token and they want it to be simple and easy. They don't want to have to go to a sketchy website. They just want to get it done. And paying a small fee to, you know, their wallet provider isn't really a big deal.
00:43:50.640 - 00:44:03.876, Speaker A: I think it makes a lot of sense. These web3 products provide a lot of value to their users, and I think swaps are a natural way for them to monetize and create a really viable business.
00:44:04.068 - 00:44:52.512, Speaker B: Just the last few years, I personally graduated to a milestone in my own crypto journey where I'm like, I don't want to connect my wallet to something that I'm not like 99.9% certain of who they are, the team, the background, the reputation. And it's part of the reason I use matcha. I know what I'm connecting to. I know how long you guys have been in the game building, and while I welcome new builders, it means something. And I think metamask swap is a great example of that. There's a lot of folks, no matter whether you're trading in smaller size or larger size, where you just, you know what you're getting.
00:44:52.512 - 00:45:13.374, Speaker B: And like, it's crazy because as you pointed out, they're charging a pretty hefty fee. And I've seen the volume that they're punching through the zero x API at times. And I mean, it's just so impressive, but it's a testament to, like, the product market fit they've established and again, the good reputation they've built over the years.
00:45:13.502 - 00:45:21.926, Speaker C: Will, is there anything else in v two that you think you should call attention to or that's top of mind that I think users should know about?
00:45:22.038 - 00:46:45.620, Speaker A: Yeah, there are a number of things that we're really excited about coming with v two, but I think one of the really important pieces relates to user security. And with the new Zero X V two API, you are going to be, as a user, relying on permit to permit to allows you to no longer set unlimited allowances on a bunch of different smart contracts. Most of the hacks that have occurred in the space occur because users come in, they set an unlimited allowance, they forget about the fact they might have even used that product, and maybe weeks or months later, that smart contract gets hacked and ends up affecting many, many users. Everyone that has ever interacted with that smart contract can be impacted. One of the massive benefits of permit two is that it allows you to set permissions for each trade and only provide access to the amount that is being traded. And you can do this very efficiently, so there isn't a significant amount of gas overhead, and in return, you get much, much, much better user security. You don't have to worry about any smart contracts getting hacked and finding that your wallet doesn't have the tokens that you thought it had in it.
00:46:45.620 - 00:47:34.240, Speaker A: And this is overall like a much better and more hygienic pattern for the web. Three, space permit two is introduced by the Uniswap team. It's a really well vetted and useful piece of infrastructure. It's relied upon by a lot of projects, including the Uniswap team, and we think that this is a good path forward. And yeah, it's also something that we've also been thinking about for a while. The predecessor to permit two was developed by one of our alumni, Lawrence Formanous, who created a kind of a permit everywhere smart contract that allowed for a similar pattern. But we think with permit two, it's great to have a standard that a bunch of different teams rely on.
00:47:34.240 - 00:47:40.228, Speaker A: That's one of the ways that Xerox V two is looking out for user security.
00:47:40.404 - 00:48:05.842, Speaker B: Guys, I think this is probably a great place for us to start to wrap up. I want to remind our listeners that they can learn more by going to matcha XYz. They should follow Macha Xyz, the Twitter handle. They should follow Will's Twitter handle at will. Warren, all of that's in our show notes, so you can easily reference it. And then will, thanks so much for coming on. It's a real privilege just to, you know, get to talk with you.
00:48:05.842 - 00:48:50.202, Speaker B: Nomadic and I tend to go back and forth during the podcast, you know, in like a Google sheet, just about like, which questions we might be asking next. And we've just been going back and forth saying, like, this is just such like a quality conversation. And like I said, it's a privilege when we get to learn from folks like you that have been building since the beginning of time in Defi and Ethereum. That said, can you close us out with any just final recommended steps to get started with matcha? Anything to call out for builders too, like if someone's looking to integrate the Zero X V two API. Yeah. Any words of advice there?
00:48:50.346 - 00:49:45.760, Speaker A: Yeah, absolutely. So by now, Zero XV two is live and brand new routing engine is available through Matcha XYZ. Go and give it a look. Search for different long tail tokens, look at blue chips, experiment with getting quotes for different trade sizes, look at the different routing diagrams, and yep, you can get a sense of what type of pricing and experience you can potentially offer through your own product using Xerox API. And yeah, as a whale, you might want to check out matcha as well because you're going to be able to get absolutely top tier world class pricing, tapping into all the hundreds of on chain liquidity sources as well as Xerox RFQ. So give it a shot, you won't be disappointed. And yeah, appreciate it.
00:49:45.920 - 00:50:09.500, Speaker B: Thanks everyone for tuning in. If you're a talented founder or developer, please consider reaching out to our team at Fourthrevolution Capital. And for future episodes of the Edge podcast, please check out our link tree at Edge podesthe.
