00:00:02.730 - 00:00:48.620, Speaker A: Thanks for tuning in to this week's news. Recap new FTX leadership is considering reviving the exchange. According to the Wall Street Journal, the new leader of the failed cryptocurrency exchange, FTX John Ray II, announced that he has established a task force to investigate possibly restarting the platform. In an interview for Unchained Premium two weeks ago, Sunil Kavuri and Ft Creditor claimed most of the creditors were in favor. The idea was also mentioned in an unchained episode with Thomas Brazil and Wasi lawyer. Ray said everything is on the table as FTX explores the options for reviving the exchange. This includes examining whether relaunching FTX's International exchange could potentially provide greater recovery for customers than liquidating assets or selling the platform.
00:00:48.620 - 00:01:20.242, Speaker A: Currently, the market for bankruptcy claims on FTX's crypto deposits is not optimistic about their value. Data from Xclaim shows that FTX claims are selling for 15.5% of the face value of account balances. However, this week, the FTX debtors group, represented by law firm Sullivan and Cromwell revealed that it has identified $5.5 billion worth of assets, which includes $1.7 billion of cash, $3.5 billion of crypto assets and $300 million of securities.
00:01:20.242 - 00:02:29.420, Speaker A: It is worth noting, however, that the firm is counting FTT FTX's exchange token as a liquid asset, which is somewhat questionable. Moreover, in order to repay creditors, the company has been granted permission to sell some of its assets, including its subsidiaries LedgerX Embed Technologies, FTX Japan and FTX Europe. Sam Binkman Fried reiterates FTX US is solvent as SEC charges him with fraud. Former FTX CEO Sam Bankman Fried is disputing claims made by Sullivan and Cromwell that the exchange has a substantial shortfall. In a post on his recently launched substack newsletter, Bankman Fried asserted again that FTX US is solvent and that the numbers presented by Sullivan and Cromwell do not accurately reflect the exchange's financial status. He provided an Excel spreadsheet that he created as evidence, which he claims shows that customer balances, bank balances and net asset value have been understated by the litigation firm. On Thursday morning, the securities and Exchange Commission filed charges against Bankman Fried for allegedly defrauding equity investors in the platform.
00:02:29.420 - 00:03:37.140, Speaker A: The SEC's complaint alleges that SBF orchestrated a years long fraud to conceal from FTX's investors the undisclosed aversion of customer funds to his privately held crypto hedge fund Alameda Research, as well as the special treatment afforded to Alameda on FTX. The complaint seeks injunctions against future securities law violations, discouragement of vilgotten gains, a civil penalty, and an officer and director bar. The SEC's ongoing investigation is being conducted in conjunction with the US. Attorney's office and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. In other FTX news, a week after the new management of FTX requested all political donations to be returned, CoinDesk reported that 196 members of the new Congress, roughly one third of the total, took cash from the former FTX CEO and other senior executives. Only 27% responded to queries about what they planned to do with the money. In a Twitter thread, former president of FTX US Bret Harrison claimed that Bankman Freed showed emotionally volatile behavior and avoided conflict, ultimately leading Harrison to leave the company.
00:03:37.140 - 00:04:34.514, Speaker A: A coalition of major news outlets submitted a petition to the court handling the FTX case requesting the release of the identities of the individuals besides his parents, who signed Bankman Fried's $250,000,000 bail bond. The media outlets include the Associated Press, Bloomberg, The Financial Times, CNBC, Reuters Insider, and the Washington Post publisher who argue that it is in the public interest to know who is financially backing Bankman freed. Genesis may soon file for bankruptcy. Major crypto lender Genesis Global Capital, part of the Digital Currency Group conglomerate, is expected to file for Chapter Eleven bankruptcy as soon as this week. According to Bloomberg. Sources familiar with the situation say that creditors of Genesis are currently in negotiations regarding a potential bankruptcy filing. The negotiations involve a pre packaged bankruptcy plan in which creditors agree to a forbearance period of one to two years.
00:04:34.514 - 00:06:02.510, Speaker A: In exchange for this agreement, creditors would receive cash payments and equity in DCG. Scott Johnson, a finance lawyer, said prepackaged bankruptcy would almost certainly mean little to no market impact and a very quick process about as good a resolution as one would hope for. The company froze customer redemptions on November 16, following the downfall of FDX, and this week it informed its shareholders that it will be suspending its quarterly dividend payments until further notice. As the crisis has come to a head, a lawsuit seeking class action status was filed against Tyler and Cameron Winklevoss and their exchange Gemini for allegedly defrauding investors by falsely advertising unregistered securities. This lawsuit comes after the SEC charged Gemini and Genesis with offering unregistered securities last week, meanwhile popping up as he has want to do in situations like this, tron CEO Justin Sun revealed in an interview with Reuters that he is open to investing up to $1 billion in the acquisition of certain assets of DCG. CoinDesk Explores Potential Sale The Wall Street Journal reported that CoinDesk, the media company owned by DCG, enlisted the help of investment bank Lazard to explore potential options for the company, including a full or partial sale. In a statement, CEO Kevin Worth revealed that the company has received many inquiries and expressions of interest in recent months, leading to the engagement with Lazard and the exploration of a potential transaction.
00:06:02.510 - 00:07:07.694, Speaker A: Silvergate Reports Significant Losses Silvergate, the crypto focused bank that has been under the spotlight for its involvement with FTX, reported a net loss of $1 billion in the fourth quarter of 2022. The dire earnings report shows the extent of the impact on the digital asset industry from the downfall of FTX, which spurred Silvergate customers to withdraw $8 billion from the bank in Q Four. The bank also said it would take an impairment charge of $196,000,000 in assets. Silvergate CEO Alan Lane stated that the bank was in the process of evaluating its product portfolio and customer relationships with a focus on profitability. Three AC founders plan to build new exchange for crypto bankruptcy claims the former founders of the now defunct Three Arrows Capital, Kyle, Davies and Suzhou are trying to make a comeback. The duo is looking to raise $25 million in seed funding for a new crypto bankruptcy claims exchange that they initially proposed be called GTX. The name, as per the leaked pitch deck, was chosen because G comes after F, though after the name was ridiculed, they backtracked.
00:07:07.694 - 00:08:01.266, Speaker A: The exchange aims to fill the power vacuum left by FTX and aims to dominate the market within two to three months of going live. The platform plans to offer a solution for trading claims for users who have funds stuck on FTX, Celsius, Blockfly and even Mount Gox. The team estimates a claims market size of $20 billion based on FTX users caught in bankruptcy proceedings. The fact that the founders of Three AC, which also filed for bankruptcy, are now looking to raise funds for a new venture has been met with mixed reactions, with some in the crypto community questioning the ethics of the move. Winter Mute CEO Evgenny Guyvoy warned that anyone investing in this new venture would find it hard to work with his company in the future. Crypto markets recover post FTX losses the markets are experiencing a much needed relief rally. Bitcoin is trading at around $21,000, a price point even higher than before the collapse of FTX.
00:08:01.266 - 00:09:24.958, Speaker A: In the last 30 days, Bitcoin's up 25% and meanwhile, ETH, the second largest cryptocurrency by market cap, has risen 30% in the same period and is trading above one $500. Metaverse related tokens outperformed the markets last month, with Gala and Mana jumping over 100%. Moreover, as the Ethereum Shanghai upgrade comes closer, liquid staking derivative tokens are benefiting, with Lido's, LDO and Rocket Pool's RPL increasing by 107% and 75% respectively. The SEC sets a new record of enforcement actions according to a new report from consulting firm Cornerstone Research, in 2022, the SEC initiated a record number of 30 enforcement actions related to crypto, a 50% increase from the previous year. However, the entity, led by Gary Gensler, is getting some backlash, grayscale the issuer of GBTC, whose parent company is DCG, submitted a new court filing criticizing the SEC for denying its application for a spot Bitcoin ETF, calling the regulator's central premise unreasonable. What's more, the American crypto Fed Dow, which the SEC is trying to prevent from registering and selling tokens, stated that the regulator has not been responsive to its complaints. The Dao claims to have attempted to engage in dialogue with the SEC regarding the November stop order, but it says its inquiries have not been addressed.
00:09:24.958 - 00:10:23.486, Speaker A: Nexo denies accusations of money laundering Cryptocurrency lender Nexo Disclosure A former sponsor of Unchained denied the accusations against it by the Bulgarian prosecutor's office following the arrest of four individuals last week as part of an ongoing investigation into the company. According to the prosecutor's office, the suspects are believed to have laundered money through nexo and concealed it from Bulgarian authorities. They are also suspected of tax crimes, computer fraud, and providing unlicensed banking services through the platform. Time for fun. Bits DOJ's major action Falls Flat on Wednesday, the department of justice had the crypto community on the edge of its seat with an announcement of a major international crypto enforcement action. The community was buzzing with speculation, but drumroll, please. They took down Bits Lotto, a relatively unknown crypto exchange that was processing $700 million in illicit funds.
00:10:23.486 - 00:11:02.170, Speaker A: The founder, Anatoli Leg Kodamov, was arrested in Miami, Florida. Now, before you start stocking up on canned goods and preparing for the apocalypse, let me tell you, this is not the end of days. The crypto community was getting ready for a major showdown, and what they got was a tiny little exchange that most had never even heard of. All right, thanks so much for joining us today. To learn more about Maria and Electric capital's developer report, check out the show notes for this episode. Unchained is produced by me, Laura Shin with help from Anthony Yoon, Mark Murdoch, Matt Pilchard, Zach Seward, Vonda Ranovich, Sam Shri, Ram Pama, Jimdar Shashank and Clkane Transcription thanks for listening.
