00:00:00.520 - 00:00:38.446, Speaker A: Hey there, my name is tarkines and welcome to the fourth episode of the scalability series. Today, well explore Starknet, a permissionless ck rollup based on starkproofs. Ethereum is by far the most popular base layer because of its decentralized and secure stack, its vibrant community, and the overall number of Defi, NFT and gaming projects on the network. But although secure and decentralized, Ethereum cant scale due to its design and infrastructure limitations. To solve this, increasing the block space to speed up the network is technically possible, but this would go against Ethereums core principles. Hypothetically, if Ethereum does this, fees would get lower and the network would run smoother. But more block space means more work for Ethereum nodes.
00:00:38.446 - 00:01:18.496, Speaker A: This causes node runners who have standard computers to be unable to run the network. And unless you have a supercomputer then youre excluded from the network. And what happens to a network that excludes many of its nodes? It becomes progressively centralized. So if computation keeps us from scaling the network, what if we moved this computation off chain and provided Ethereum with a secure and efficient validity proof of of this off chain process? This is where Starknet steps in. Starknet is a zero knowledge validity rollup that scales Ethereum through starkproofs. It takes care of transaction processing off chain and provides Ethereum with a batch of transactions. The nodes on the mainnet then validate this batch and the starknet transactions inherit the security and decentralization principles of Ethereum.
00:01:18.496 - 00:02:14.116, Speaker A: Youll experience lower fees and a faster throughput on stock. So how does your transaction go from your click of a button over to Ethereum? When you submit a transaction on stocknet, this triggers a change in the state and this change has to be validated by Ethereum. So we pass the transactions through the sequencer which is essentially the engine of the network, and transactions get processed and batched into a block. At this point your transaction is protected by l two consensus and considered valid. Finally, the stark proof is sent over to Ethereum so that we can prove to the mainnet that what happened on Starknet is valid. Ethereum roll ups are trending and its hard to keep up with which one to build on, and Starknet is especially well suited for running user friendly applications that need high throughput and a lot of computational power. This is because Starknet has a own programming language, Cairo, which is optimized for performance and provability solving for the computational limitations of the EVM we still use Ethereum as a settlement layer, but we dont use the EVM to process the transactions.
00:02:14.116 - 00:02:56.268, Speaker A: Instead we use the Cairo VM which specializes in processing transactions that are stark proven. Its this unique approach that allows for powerful applications to run on chain such as games, autonomous worlds, generative art, or even verifiable neural networks. What's more is that these applications all benefit from an improved user experience because Starknet has native account abstraction. In other words, every account on the network is a smart contract whose code you can customize to run any specific logic like multicalls, multi signatures, a social recovery or a hardware signer. And honestly anything that you can think about. So the Starknet tech stack is cool, but what's even cooler is the culture. It's the people behind the end user platforms to the infrastructure to the hardcore believers that push the boundaries of the system.
00:02:56.268 - 00:03:33.164, Speaker A: And you know what's even cooler is that you can still have a big impact on this culture. Whether youre looking for your first web3 job, youre a designer, a web3 hardcore developer or a content creator, theres a place for everybody in this ecosystem. So to get started look at its target documentation, the Cairo and the Starknet book and then you want to practice with stark links and node guardians. Finally, to build your web3 career, go to onlydust and send out a message to the community. These are all resources that will get you up and running in this ecosystem and thats it. Starknet is a vibrant zero knowledge, validity rollup with unique capabilities that brings Ethereum to the masses. I hope you enjoyed this episode on Starknet and I'll see you in the next one.
