00:00:00.090 - 00:00:27.750, Speaker A: You. All right, this talk is called doing decentralized identity. Right? A guide for turning into the hive mind or whatever. And of course, by right, I mean whatever I think personally, because whatever I think is the right thing. Sorry, I'm going to kind of complain about a bunch of things in this talk. What are you going to do? All right, so Sybils are the worst, right? So this is you. You're in a field, you're happy, and what is that? Oh, my God.
00:00:27.750 - 00:01:01.120, Speaker A: Oh, it's the Sybils, right? It's terrible. This is what happens to everybody. This is just how life happens in crypto. And Sybils are fundamental to the story of crypto. Right? So we have, like, money, and then we want to cut it up and make it into decentralized money or whatever. So how do we do this? So we have different nodes, and they kind of interact with one another, and they have to agree, right? Because they have this decentralized view of the state of the system. So how do they agree? Well, every blockchain system just uses voting at the end of the day.
00:01:01.120 - 00:01:50.650, Speaker A: So how do we vote? Right? So let's give each person one vote just for being a node in the network, and then we want to add permissionlessness into this system. And now we have a problem, right? Oh, no, the Sybils are back, right? Because if we just give each person one node, one vote, then people just make a whole bunch of nodes, and then the voting doesn't work. So that doesn't work. So what do we do? Do we solve the identity problem? No, of course we don't solve the identity problem. We just make it all plutocratic. Because that's the easiest thing. Because what says decentralized non nation state money, like government enforced private property laws, that seems like the perfect way to run our decentralized systems.
00:01:50.650 - 00:02:18.358, Speaker A: That's what we have. So plutocracy is bad, right? That's the slide. I don't have to explain why we want identity. And maybe more clearly, we want decentralized identity, and we want that. So we can take the Sybils and we can take them out back and bam, you know what I mean? And get rid of the sybils. And of course, the optimism collective. Sorry, I forgot to introduce myself because I don't have a lot of time here, but whatever.
00:02:18.358 - 00:02:51.746, Speaker A: The optimism collective needs decentralized id because the whole collective is designed to not be purely pollutocratic. So we need it. Here's the collective, and we split it in half. And so we have these two houses, the token house and the citizens house. And the citizens house is supposed to be a one person, one vote system, so we really need it. And then there's how people currently do this, right? So you got things like proof of humanity. You sit there and you submit a video of yourself saying a thing and then people can challenge you.
00:02:51.746 - 00:03:20.154, Speaker A: And there's like bright id. You sit on a call with a whole bunch of other people and we use our faces as id, whatever. And then it's like 1000 other things. And then there's stuff like verifiable credentials and dids and all these things that I don't understand. And honestly, people have been working on this for like five years and no one's using it. I don't understand why. Who validated any of this? And there's entire blockchains dedicated to it.
00:03:20.154 - 00:03:38.850, Speaker A: I don't know. Whatever. Sorry, I'm making people mad right now. But that's the reality of. So, you know, I think it's pretty obvious that we can't rely on individual protocols for establishing identity. Stuff like record a video of yourself. Like the ais are just going to cheat that immediately.
00:03:38.850 - 00:04:27.906, Speaker A: Have you seen the deepfakes of Donald Trump and Joe Biden playing Minecraft? It's pretty good. So it's easy to cheat and it's hard to update too. If we say our identity protocol is that you sit on a call with a bunch of people and then it's like, okay, so now the AI is one. So what do we do next? We need to figure out a new thing and it's really hard to replace it. So I don't like protocols that just rely on these single signals. And this kind of goes into what identity is, right? Like, who am I? I'm sort of the sum of my friends and my work and my government and my partying activity and all thousands of different things that form who I am. This is what identity is.
00:04:27.906 - 00:04:55.130, Speaker A: It's not did I show up to a video call? It's the relationships that I have with the world. And so that's why we want many signals. And I think currently gitcoin does this pretty well. Checkmark to gitcoin for the gitcoin passport system, you have many different signals, but at the same time, x mark to gitcoin because I don't think it's enough. I don't think it goes nearly enough. How much time do I have? 8 minutes. Let's go.
00:04:55.130 - 00:05:20.434, Speaker A: Okay. I say we need to go deeper. Attestations. That's right. I actually forgot to make this slide so I was sitting there 10 minutes ago, and I decided to put clip art in it because that's all I had going for me. Attestation, simple system, an address, talking about another address, about a subject. That's the bytes 32, and then there's some value that explains what the actual attestation is.
00:05:20.434 - 00:05:57.166, Speaker A: So instead of all this crazy stuff with all these off chain things, just, like, put it all on chain. We have layer twos now. It's cheap. You can do whatever you want. So we just throw everything on chain, and then things get very interesting, right? So what sort of attestations can we do? We can do, like, the events that we go to and the friendships that we have and the jobs and experiences and skills and hackathons and events again and trips and meetings and what I eat on a daily basis. And if we focus on this at the base layer, we just focus on attestations. None of the identity stuff.
00:05:57.166 - 00:06:32.102, Speaker A: None of the identity stuff. I don't want to focus on identity at the base layer. I don't think it makes any sense. Then I think we can get interesting properties that emerge, right? So if we have a graph of attestations, a graph of things that addresses are saying about other addresses, you can suddenly derive interesting information from that graph, and that's the real value of it, right? So here's an example. Let's say there's attestations about me in this system. I work for the optimism collective. I go to hackathons.
00:06:32.102 - 00:07:22.262, Speaker A: I'm the deployer of a bunch of different smart contracts. I'm probably an engineer within the collective, right? This is a very simple example, but let's say we have more complex properties, right? What sort of stuff, what can we derive? You can really derive whatever you want. And the argument is that you can actually form models for identity by just deriving information from this graph of relationships that we put on chain. Obviously, that's, like, way more complicated than figuring out that I'm an engineer. But I think if you can pull enough signals out of this system, you can form an identity. When you see this bundle of arrows here. When I say a bundle of arrows, what I really mean is concrete algorithms.
00:07:22.262 - 00:08:07.494, Speaker A: Concrete algorithms that look at the graph of attestations and make decisions, right? And come up with results, conclusions. And the beauty of algorithms is that algorithms can change. We can take one algorithm and we can say, this year, this is the collective's identity algorithm. But next year we can say, okay, actually, these signals were not so good at establishing identity, and we can just switch it like that, it's much, much easier for the collective to just decide, this is a much better model for identity. And these signals didn't really work out. The other amazing thing about algorithms is that algorithms can be proven, which means that we can actually. Where is the slide? We can use this on chain, right? Algorithms, we're in the world now.
00:08:07.494 - 00:09:04.214, Speaker A: And if you work on layer twos, this becomes very clear to you that you can prove execution traces of algorithms. You can take some program and you can chunk it up into bits, and then you can just prove every step of the way, and you can prove the result of the algorithm, and you can usually prove that much more efficiently than actually running the algorithm. That's the whole point of ZK systems. So you could take an arbitrarily complex algorithm over the graph of attestations that comes up with this amazing result of looking at thousands and thousands of signals, that comes up with a value that says, with 99% confidence, I think this address is a real person. And then you can prove that result to a smart contract on chain. And now a smart contract can also have access to that result, and it can also make decisions, and it can say, I want to give you access to under collateralized loans. Because this algorithm thinks that you're a human, obviously we need consent and privacy.
00:09:04.214 - 00:09:28.674, Speaker A: Whenever you're talking about putting a bunch of stuff on chain, you have to have this. Certain things are not just inherently not private. I think that's okay. Like, what I look like on this stage, I mean, unless I'm trying to be anon, is not a private thing. And so there are certain attestations that I think are okay to just be public. If you're going to make public interactions on chain, you're making public interactions on chain. I can use that data.
00:09:28.674 - 00:10:01.382, Speaker A: I can do whatever I want. Some things require consent. I think it's completely reasonable to create a social norm. There we go. That if I come up to you at a conference and I say, hey, can I create an attestation saying that we met each other at this conference that seems like an acceptable social norm, and you don't want a situation where I'm just saying, like, that person was at the conference, and that's weird and creepy and just, like, things we should probably avoid. And then obviously, many other things need to be private. Things like my medical history should probably be private.
00:10:01.382 - 00:10:51.034, Speaker A: But maybe we want to figure out how to use, well, maybe not my medical history, but other things on chain. And here's where I'm going to do the cop out and say, solve it with ZK. This is kind of a joke answer, but it's also kind of the real answer whenever you're looking at how do you want to tie different addresses and attestations together without revealing which address owns the different attestations? The reality is you need some form of zero knowledge system. Whether it looks like a zero knowledge system that you're familiar with or not is TBD. But this is the gist of it is you can tie information together between different addresses without revealing which addresses you actually own, which allows you to just sort of dump information into these dummy addresses where no one knows what the addresses are. Where are we? Okay, we're running. Okay.
00:10:51.034 - 00:11:04.634, Speaker A: Yeah. 2 minutes. So decent time. All right. Optimism. The optimism collective is here. We really care about all of this, and we're hacking on it at the hackathon this weekend.
00:11:04.634 - 00:11:25.880, Speaker A: We have this thing called the attestation station, which is just like a really simple place to just make attestations. And you can read attestations from it, and you can derive all sorts of information about interesting facts about the attestations that have gone on chain. It's live. We're giving hella bounties. We're giving hella advice. That's right. Have fun.
00:11:25.880 - 00:11:59.294, Speaker A: If you scan this QR code, you can go to our web page. That will give you much more information about the bounties and how the attestation station works and how to use it and how to do all sorts of stuff with it. And if you want to talk to me later about things you can do with attestations, let me know. But I really think that this is the right way to do identity in the decentralized context because it's very, very flexible and it can change over time. I kind of sped through that, but. All right, 1 minute left. We did it.
00:11:59.294 - 00:12:13.650, Speaker A: We made it. Thank you so much. This is a little chaotic, but we made it to the end, the slides, so I appreciate it. Thank you for sticking in. It's.
