00:00:03.720 - 00:00:39.904, Speaker A: I am so excited to chat with you. Today I'm going to be talking about what it's like to be a creator in web two from my experience, to be a creator in web3 and to build the next platform for creators that brings blockchain to everybody. So this is some of my most recent work. I am an artist. These are some of my drips. And I'm also the founder of Three Lands, which is a creator first ecosystem on Solana. We build tools for creators and their communities.
00:00:39.904 - 00:01:27.614, Speaker A: And my artistic journey started off in web two. Right? I got this iPad way back to take notes on in university, and it quickly became a drawing tablet. And I got into making digital art. And so I had grown up with social media, so I'd always kind of looked at influencers and been like, wow, you have all these followers. All you do is post. That kind of seems like a cool thing, right? So I got into social media marketing, and I grew my Instagram page to over 200,000 followers over the course of this three year journey. And every single day, I woke up thinking the same thing.
00:01:27.614 - 00:02:10.274, Speaker A: What am I going to post on Instagram today? Which kind of became tiring. But why did I do that? It's addicting, right? These social metrics, like likes, comments, followers, they kind of give you the illusion of success. I think some people think that that really matters. And they would look at me and be like, wow, you get so many likes, all of this. But I sort of realized these metrics don't actually translate to what really matters for a business like revenue. Right? Instagram didn't pay me at all. They didn't pay me.
00:02:10.274 - 00:02:53.480, Speaker A: And I found out a kind of upsetting statistic that Instagram makes dollar 300 a year off of every us user, and they don't share that with creators. And so I kind of realized being a creator is actually not as glamorous as I thought it would be because you're kind of fighting against the platforms that you're building on. So I had to do other things to monetize. Right. Instagram wasn't paying me, so I made, one of the things I did was an e commerce brand. So I made pretty weird apparel, among other products, and I started an AR marketing agency. I built a subscription platform into my website to establish some recurring revenue.
00:02:53.480 - 00:03:38.112, Speaker A: And I worked with brands. I had to get creative because I had to monetize. But the thing that really upset me, especially with selling shirts to my audience, that's how I was monetizing my audience directly, was the algorithm, because I would post these pictures of these cool clothes that I had made, and Instagram would just hide it because it wasn't highly engaging content. So it would get, like, 3% of the normal engagement I was getting, and my audience wouldn't see it, right? Because the algorithm is what determines what you see. It's not just because you follow someone. You're going to see their content. Instagram is trying to keep you on their app, show you some engaging stuff, keep you scrolling.
00:03:38.112 - 00:04:03.588, Speaker A: That's what they want to do. So that was really frustrating. Another thing, censorship. So frustrating. I had my post deleted by Instagram a lot. And it's scary, right? Like, I was doing cartoons, okay? I'm, like, barely breaking their rules. I'm posting these cartoons and getting my accounts deleted, right? Like, creators get their accounts deleted.
00:04:03.588 - 00:04:59.190, Speaker A: I had my posts deleted, but I was literally in fear, right? This was the thing that was kind of hanging over me. I was like, they could delete my account at any time, and I sort of had to adjust my content and kind of, you know, put myself in this box, right? In web two, I had to pretty much create my art for this platform and be within their rules and all of that. So I wasn't really. I didn't really have full artistic expression on Instagram. Yeah, there was a bit of a box situation, but I heard about nfts, and so I started to explore. I started to explore Solana, and I learned about this concept of, like, decentralization, content ownership, and sort of had this, like, light bulb moment. Like this.
00:04:59.190 - 00:05:27.424, Speaker A: This is what can solve these problems for creators, right? I didn't own my audience on Instagram. I didn't own my content. And I kind of realized that I had this lightbulb moment where I was like, I am not doing that anymore. We're done. We're done with it. So I pivoted. I said, no more Instagram, and I moved into building in web3.
00:05:27.424 - 00:06:20.456, Speaker A: So I switched to being a creator in web3 on Twitter, and I switched to building the platform that I wanted for myself that I thought, let's bring this to the creators that were in my community in Instagram, because I don't like web two. I really don't. And super over it. But we are still so early. Just because Web three has these features that web two doesn't, that can solve these problems doesn't mean that web3 right now is a utopia for creators, right? We still have to build it. We still have to build the platforms that are going to perpetuate this digital renaissance to all these creators to everybody, bring it to the people, the consumers. So we're rebuilding the Internet.
00:06:20.456 - 00:07:40.694, Speaker A: We can do it. And I think we have to really reimagine it from the perspective of building something that's better than web two, right? Cause web two is still pretty cool. The Internet is kind of like the best thing to ever happen ever. So if we're gonna build better platforms, what do we have to do? How are we gonna get the next billion users? Where are they gonna come from? And so I think really, especially for creators, like the financialization and the hyper fixation on finance and selling and flipping, it doesn't work for every single person, because for some chads to sell the top, some bozo needs to be the exit liquidity. And I think this is especially something for creators because I tried to onboard my audience from Instagram, and the public sentiment towards crypto is that it's scammy, right? They don't call it a rug, they just call it a scam. And there is definitely a stigma towards it, especially because this happens. People leave the space feeling upset because they lost money and they don't come back.
00:07:40.694 - 00:08:38.814, Speaker A: So what do we do? What is the value proposition that works for every single person, especially for creators? So for me, my perspective from the tech is the interoperability and the ownership, right? I was in this box on Instagram, and I couldn't go to a platform like TikTok or YouTube and reach the same audience that I was reaching on Instagram. So essentially I was kind of trapped. And I think this totally makes sense for creators, but I don't think it's what we should be onboarding creators with. I don't think we need to go up to creators and say, you need to put your art on the blockchain because you own it, right? That's what happened to me, and that's how people tried to onboard me. I didn't really get it. I started to get it when I started to collect and meet the people and have community. While this is a great value proposition, I don't think it's going to be the main thing that gets people in the door.
00:08:38.814 - 00:09:28.998, Speaker A: I think it's going to be the fun and the community, right? What we have together, we speculated on some animal jpegs, and we became friends and we met some really amazing people. And that is something I did not have in web two. Like, I had this large audience, and of course, like, I did meet great people through the platform, but it wasn't like there was this group of amazing artists that can work together, that can collaborate. And I think that's such kind of a breakthrough for this space is that web3 does enable creators to collaborate on art so seamlessly, right through smart contracts. And there's this amazing community of people that support the arts. So I feel like this is really what we should be getting people in the door with. Right? It's fun.
00:09:28.998 - 00:09:57.778, Speaker A: And they're going to want to stay because they meet their absolute BFF's in the space. So looking into the future, this is what I'm trying to do. I want to onboard these creators, get them into web3. And, you know, I want to ruin Instagram, right. I am so over Instagram. So we are. We are launching three tv on both App Stores soon.
00:09:57.778 - 00:10:22.946, Speaker A: And three tv is a live streaming platform for creators and communities. That's me and my co founder in our booth. But it's kind of just a little screen grab of the app. So you can chat and you can also use your NFTs, right. So there's side chat where you can actually use your digital assets. You can do more. I think we need to be doing more with nfts than just buying and selling them.
00:10:22.946 - 00:10:47.214, Speaker A: So part of what we're doing with three tv and with three lans is adding utility, right? Giving people the ability to experience using their digital assets so they can understand why ownership is important. So, yeah, that's my time, guys. Thank you so much. You're a great audience. Bye.
