00:00:00.970 - 00:00:17.438, Speaker A: First part. We have our first speaker, Charlie Doy from Paradigm, giving us a talk on WTF is MEB. Charlie, feel free to directly share screen now. Perfect.
00:00:17.604 - 00:00:27.126, Speaker B: All right. Hell yeah. Here we go. All right. Minor technical difficulties aside. Tina, thank you so much. Hello.
00:00:27.126 - 00:01:33.930, Speaker B: My name is Charlie Noyes. I'm an investment partner at Paradigm crypto focused investment firm. I have been interested in Mev for a long time, and I have had the opportunity and pleasure of getting to work with Tina and the rest of the Flashpots team for the last six or eight months or so now. So my talk is on WTF as MEB. I'm not sure how much more I will have to say about MEB or how interesting this will be relative to the rest of the agenda, but we will try to give the intro. Mev is present in any system which cannot demonstrate its own consistency. It is a theoretical quantity which we can only approach asymptotically fundamentalist of permissionless blockchains and a measure of the profit a Miner or validator sequencer, et cetera, can make through their ability to arbitrarily include, exclude or reorder transactions within the blocks they produce.
00:01:33.930 - 00:03:38.020, Speaker B: Realistically, I would suggest reading these descriptions of mev or explanations of mev, like, given the depth of the conference track today, the first of which here I'd written and the second filled more recently. But yeah, if you want to understand what these profit opportunities generally look like and where they're actually generated, I would suggest going to read some of this stuff and the conference track will probably make a lot more sense. That being said, a brief history I actually didn't know this, but up McGuin sorry if I mispronounced your name back in 2014, saw pretty far into the future and asked a very interesting question on reddit what is to stop front running biominer in any marketplace implementation by Ethereum? This was really quite ahead of its time here, so we asked the question and we didn't see much more of it for a while. Flash forward to 2019 and Phil published the foundational Mev paper Flash Voice 2.0, showing that specifically in the context of DEXes high fees paid for priority transaction ordering poses a systemic risk to consensus layer security synonymous with there was a lot of front running happening and priority gas auctions were starting to heat up. And they also said that such fees are just one form of a general phenomenon indexes and beyond what we call minor extractable value and what we would now define as the profit opportunities, the general profit opportunities that a block producer has access to by virtue of their ability to arbitrarily order transactions within the blocks they produce. Well, this was the paper.
00:03:38.020 - 00:04:41.206, Speaker B: Flash forward to 2020, and Flashbots was formed a research and development organization formed to mitigate the negative externalities and risks posed by MAV to smart contract blockchains by Phil, Tina, Alex and a number of other folks and in 2021. Plus I would say that we are now in the era of mev. It's getting quite exciting. We have mev geth, we have private transaction relays, we have poison sandwiches and a lot of other stuff. So what do we mean by the era of mev? Earlier this year I had said that I thought that dam is probably burst on mev, that miners will venture further into the frontier exploring more exotic forms of mev and collusion. And I would say that this has happened empirically. The percent of ethereum blocks with flashbodge bundles included has increased from near rounding to zero to more than half in just that period of time.
00:04:41.206 - 00:05:24.558, Speaker B: And mev revenue relative to transaction fees on an average basis looks pretty similar. So the short version is this is real and it's actually happening. But what is the Arab mev? I have a couple of hypotheses. The first is that miners will collude to their heart's content and really that the hypothesis that they will run stock gas out of altruism is false. I think that we've just come to accept that now. I think that there are a lot of good guesses that can be made about what this period of time will look like. Applications will start to design around MEB, like as a core design principle.
00:05:24.558 - 00:06:11.006, Speaker B: A lot of systems will fail, hopefully not too catastrophically. Anime icons on Twitter will make a lot of money, a lot of thought experiments will not stay theoretical. And the last bullet point here is the only prediction I will be making in this talk. So I think the best way actually to think about where we are with mev is just with a couple of anecdotes. The first is from Mev intern in the flashbots discord. We have observed front running bots keeping bids down by naming and shaming those that bid above them. So for those who have heard of like the grim trigger strategy game, theoretically in practice what we are seeing is that every day or two they post some address like zero X, dead beef.
00:06:11.006 - 00:06:32.220, Speaker B: We are all bidding 70%. You are bidding 95%, you moron. And this actually works. It's honestly really funny. Everyone should go check it out. Otherwise we will simply outbid you until you make nothing. Some other anecdotes sort of like exotic forms of mev that we've seen.
00:06:32.220 - 00:07:19.740, Speaker B: One of my favorites is a heist that took place across blocks, across multiple blocks. I think this was the first that was really documented. And what's interesting about this is that most MEB is intrablock, especially given sort of that began with PGAs and we didn't have access to flashbox bundles. It's a big deal because when you submit a bundle to flashbots, you need it to be private. You don't want a minor to be able to steal the profit opportunities that you've identified or for other search groups to be able to. So it needs to remain private. And it appeared that someone had managed to break that model.
00:07:19.740 - 00:08:34.350, Speaker B: That's not actually what happened, though. What happened is that there was like a two block reorg and a searcher was smart enough to essentially pull the profit opportunity out of the block that was uncled and take advantage of it in the newly canonical main chain. So for those of you who have heard of time bandit attacks, the idea that you could reorg intentionally to extract mev, although we cannot say or we can say that this one does not appear to be intentional, I would say that it is definitionally a time bandit. And the distraught searcher who was certain that their bundle had been leaked, realized that, in fact, yes, it was included in an uncle blocked in an envelope block and someone else was smart enough to selectively extract it. That would be the one prediction I will make. Short term, one to four block reorg frequency may increase over the next year, but that's pretty much all I have to say for now. I think most importantly, being in the era of mev means that a large group of very, very smart people cares about understanding the nature of mev, minimizing its social harm and helping us to design better systems.
00:08:34.350 - 00:08:44.400, Speaker B: I would not bet against them, and I was going to include all of their profile pictures, but we didn't have time. So instead, here's Phil, who I will now turn it over to. Thank you very much.
00:08:59.050 - 00:09:13.930, Speaker A: All right, thank you, everyone. Thank you, Charlie, for the concise presentation. Next up we have Phil. Please feel free to share screen and we'll take questions because we're running a bit late at the end of before the panel.
