00:00:06.480 - 00:00:44.611, Speaker A: Okay. Hello everyone, my name is Adrian. I've been working around eight years in crypto. I started as a smart contract analysis auditor and I was working for a Web2 security company and then I worked for Consensys. I worked on Metamask and infura for around four years. And about two years ago I joined Google as a Web3 principal architect. So today I'm going to talk about briefly what you know, Google is doing in the Web3 space.
00:00:44.611 - 00:01:31.967, Speaker A: Then I'll talk about the intersection of Web3 and AI and then explain a little bit what the AI stack is at Google and then show you some of the demos that we have depending on the time we have. So when you hear about Web3 and Google generally you not necessarily think about Google, but we actually do a lot of things in crypto and there are different entities within Alphabet that are actually working in crypto. It's really Google Cloud that's beheading the kind of like crypto strategy. At Alphabet we have around 100 full time employees working on web 3. We have dedicated experts coming from industry knowledge like myself. But we also have researchers and sales and so on. We also accept crypto payments.
00:01:31.967 - 00:01:50.799, Speaker A: We have a lot of products as well. We have an rpc, we have a validator as a service for Ethereum staking. We have blockchain analytics. We have a lot of things. We also have Google Labs, which is formerly Google X that is working on blockchain research. Right. Like researchers and also ZK research.
00:01:50.799 - 00:02:28.217, Speaker A: We had ZK Summit last summer about zk. I think very importantly Google has crypto and is running a lot of validators in a lot of networks. So we're running validators on Ethereum, Ronin, Polygon, Aptos. More recently again Layer, we run a bunch of avses and that's really important and sends a strong senior as well for the community we. Google Play is also experimenting with NFTs and crypto. So maybe you've seen that now you can have NFT based applications on Google Play. You still can't buy them with ERC 20s.
00:02:28.217 - 00:03:15.919, Speaker A: You have to use credit cards. But it's going there is a good step in the right direction. And then also Google has invested in web3 companies such as Vioblocks and Google Apps. Okay, so I'm so that was a quick introduction of what Google is doing in the Web three space and of course you know that there is Google is really focusing on AI. So when you think about Web3 and AI, I think there are two ways to think about it. The first one is how can Web3 help AI? And the second one is how can AI help Web3? And so the first slide here is Web3 for AI. So how can Web3 help AI? And it's not, I think it's something that is a bit further down the line.
00:03:15.919 - 00:03:52.809, Speaker A: But still, I'm going to start with that, even if it's not really what we focus on necessarily. So I think there are three main topics where Web3 can help AI. The first one is decentralized AI. What I mean by that is proving that, for example, when you call an AI model, proving that it's using the right model, it's using the right data. Because when you call it, then the answer you have could be anything. And so having some kind of decentralized network or you know, like ZK proofs or stuff like that to prove that it's using this model, this data could be very valuable. The second thing is around fakes, you have a lot of AI content nowadays.
00:03:52.809 - 00:04:43.035, Speaker A: So having some kind of notarization on the blockchain, digital signature notarization, traceability of whether it's an article, whether it's an image, making sure that, okay, it's coming, it's coming from this, you know, news outlet or it's coming from this famous author, stuff like that is very important. And we're probably going to see more and more of that kind of things happening. And the last thing, incentivize data and training. So basically using Web3 tokens on the marketplace that we know of already, for example, eigen layer Marketplace is a good example of how you can incentivize people to run AVs and stuff like that. Similarly, we could have using Web3 to incentivize people to give GPU or hardware to do some data training or even inference. Right. But that is a bit in the future, right? I don't think we have this kind of stuff ready to use.
00:04:43.035 - 00:05:21.157, Speaker A: And the flip side of the coin, right, is how can AI help Web3? And I think most of the use cases that we're seeing nowadays is really around that. And here is a snapshot of all of the kind of use cases that we are seeing at Google with the different customers that we are working with. So those are in production or being researched heavily. And most of them we have products or demos working behind. So we've classified them into the three categories. Complex data, intuitively accessible. So how can you do like market research? Sentiment analysis.
00:05:21.157 - 00:06:01.145, Speaker A: I can show you a quick slide on. We have a product that is doing sentiment analysis for Web3Company to see what's happening on Twitter. What's being said, is the sentiment positive or negative? Customer support analysis to evaluate if an agent or a bot are doing the job correctly, is a specific model working properly and stuff like that. AI Explorer, I think we are going to see more and more of that and the demo that I'm going to show is going to show that exactly. AI interface. We see more and more wallets showing exactly what the transaction is going to do. And that's very important for user experience, but also security.
00:06:01.145 - 00:06:45.395, Speaker A: Chatbots. We talk a lot about AI agents. Even if it's a bit risky still to give your private key to an agent. I think it's going to be very interesting to be able to do some complex exit and entry strategies, for example, very easily and have the agent handing your private key. Developer productivity and something in Content Generations, content generation, something we don't really talk about a lot is translation. Translation is we see a lot of our customers using this translation, whether it's, you know, by training, also using their own style of writing, they can fine tune their models to have some good translations. So these are kind of like the different use cases that we're seeing very quickly.
00:06:45.395 - 00:07:57.145, Speaker A: The AI stack, I think Google is probably one of the only actors with the whole stack that owns from the TPU and GPUs to the hardware, to the governance layer and then to the database BI tools and then the whole AI ML platform that I'm going to deep dive a little bit on and then a bunch of solution and services that we own that are using these kind of tools. So when we talk about AI and ML at Google Cloud we have Vertex AI and we have three main components there. We have Model Garden, Model Builder and Agent Builder. And I know that I have to go quite fast, but the first one is Model Garden. It's a marketplace where you can basically in a few clicks install, deploy and use any of one of the 150 plus models that we have. These models are not just Google models, right? Mainly they are open source models and third party models. So you see for example any model that you have on Hugging Face or Kaggle, you can select them and you can deploy them in a few clicks and experiment with them.
00:07:57.145 - 00:08:54.411, Speaker A: We have agreements with Mistral, with Llama, with Claude, for example, and you can deploy them very easily. We also have first party models as well as you might know, Gemini Imagen and also we have now open source first party models that are the Gemma game models that you see here. So that's what model garden is basically about. And then when you have deployed these models, then you have a model builder that are a set of tools to make your models fine tuned and more useful. Basically you can evaluate them, you can improve the prompt. So you have a lot of evaluation tools and managing tools and pipelines and so on that are very easy to use for you to make the models more useful. And on top of that, then how do you include these models into an agentic workflow? Right? So you want to make sure that it's grounded with some real data.
00:08:54.411 - 00:09:52.065, Speaker A: So like for example, recently an airline had to refund a ticket because the bot said that it could be refunded. So this kind of stuff, when you say, when your bot says something or your agent says something, you have to make sure that it's really the case, right? So grounding the data is very important. Making sure that you can orchestrate and do some rag and stuff like that is basically what the agent builder is about. So those set of tools, I recommend that you take a look. Okay, so very quickly here as a demo, what we did in collaboration with Berachain is actually some kind of like transaction analyzer. So what you on the top here, what you have is you have Google Doc and you can see that you have Gemini pop up to say like, hey, what can I do? I can summarize this document, I can help you do some stuff with this document. Similarly, you can imagine in an explorer having some kind of things that says, hey, we can summarize this transaction for you.
00:09:52.065 - 00:11:41.459, Speaker A: And so the way it works is basically you have this tool where you can input some kind of transaction hash or it could be directly included in the blockchain explorer and then it will take the information from the blockchain explorer, like the source code, it will take information like the transaction details, it will take all of these, give it to Gemini Flash in that case. But you can use any model and then you have an example of the prompts we're using and then it will return some explanation of what the transaction is doing. And so as an example, so that's where I don't know what to do. Okay, I think I can't. Okay, so as an example here, when you input the transaction hash of the, of a barrel chain transaction, it's going to take all of this information like the source code and the transaction details and it's going to give it to the, to the agent. And what you're going to be displayed here is basically business analysis and parameters analysis, technical analysis, and what you see that's interesting is that the parameters here are a rate and I can't see from here, but yeah, it's like setting some commission rate, right? And the rate parameter here is 500. If you don't read the source code, you don't know what 500 means.
00:11:41.459 - 00:12:24.807, Speaker A: But if you read the source code, you know that this 500 corresponds to 5% because the denominator is 10,000. So this kind of stuff, if you're not a developer and you don't know what is the function that is called and stuff like that, then you will not be able to do these kind of things. So having an AI explorer showing that is quite interesting. And the other thing that it does as well, it explains all of this of course, but then it extracts the snippet of the source code where that is the trace basically that the transaction is calling. So if you're a developer, sometimes you want to debug some stuff and you go on Etherscan on whatever blockchain explorer. Sometimes it's quite difficult to find the actual source code that you care about here. It could be doing it automatically.
00:12:24.807 - 00:13:37.611, Speaker A: You're like, okay, I care about this transaction. Here is the source code that you care about among, I don't know, 5,000 lines of code, right? So this kind of stuff quite easy, but could be quite interesting for, for Explorers to integrate. So I had a bunch of other stuff, but I think I don't have time. I just wanted to quickly have a word on real time Reputation Defender, which is basically a tool that will scrape data and maybe I'll show the architecture here. Scrape data from YouTube, Discord, Twitter, all of the kind of source that you care about. And then it will use some rag services to kind of like and Google search implementation to understand if the sentiment of the, of what people are talking about, about your project or any incident or events that you want to configure is positive or negative. And then it will show you some kind of like trend about the sentiment score, right? And so this product is actually being built and we are deploying it with a few customers already.
00:13:37.611 - 00:14:39.375, Speaker A: So if you're interested about these kind of topics, please feel free to reach out. I have a screenshot here of what it looks like. You can basically create a new incident, a new event. So for example, I don't know the Bingx hack, right? Like for example, or any incident or your company name for example. And then it will automatically you give some context about what it is that you care about and some examples and then it will automatically go through the different sources and then create a dashboard for you with the sentiment analysis trend. And also it will tell you how to remediate. It will give you some action plan on how using AI to tell you, hey, if you want, like you just had a hack and the sentiment score is plummeting, maybe you want to, you know, communicate with the community how to remediate, how to tell what you're going to do, who you're going to reimburse, make the timelines quite clear and so on, by looking at what worked for other companies on the similar topics and so on.
00:14:39.375 - 00:14:47.175, Speaker A: So these kind of tools are quite interesting as well. And I think my time is up by five minutes. Sorry. Thank you. Thank you so much.
