00:00:18.240 - 00:00:32.000, Speaker A: All right, kicking things off on the last day of modular summit. I'm Zaki Munyin, and first up we have Jim from Catalyst talking about sort of modular amms.
00:00:38.740 - 00:01:02.264, Speaker B: Thank you, Zucky, for the kind introduction. Good morning, everyone. Last day of modular summit. Last day of ECC in Brussels, 2024. Hope everyone is still lively and pepped up. I'm excited to get the morning slide and get everyone energized to talk about modular liquidity today. So today we're going to talk about the bridge endgame.
00:01:02.264 - 00:01:54.910, Speaker B: I think everyone is kind of working towards the same kind of outcome in terms of a mechanism design perspective from a liquidity perspective, and we're going to see what that end game looks like when we're building for the scale that we're going to see in the future, which I think is infinite chains or millions of chains. But quickly, just a quick intro. I'm Jim. I'm the co founder of Catalyst, which is a cross chain liquidity protocol. I've been a pm in crypto for about seven years now in various organizations, and I'm also a really big bridge enthusiast, which means I read all the bridge articles, I talk to all the bridge people, I live it, I love it, and I breathe it. And then Catalyst is effectively a liquidity engine for all chains. It's purpose built such that we can expand to any execution environment and connect them together and eventually share all the liquidity between them.
00:01:54.910 - 00:02:44.290, Speaker B: So the future, like I said, is infinite chains, right? Millions of chains. And this is something that I've talked about on Twitter for several years now. And then other folks like Nick on the Slesia team and now the axilar team and other interoperability teams are starting to feel the same way. And so I think we're going to see a paradigm shift or a mental shift where we think of rollups and we think of chains as equivalent to apps. App teams are going to be launching their own roll ups and chains because it's just so easy to do. Basically, a one click simple and as easy as deploying a smart contract as enabled by something like Celestia as an underlying DA layer. With this upcoming future, we basically have a choice.
00:02:44.290 - 00:04:06.788, Speaker B: A fork down the road where we can enter utopia, which is modular enlightenment, ample block space, and a perfect user experience built to onboard billions of users, and all the transaction flow that's going to come with it, or we're going to go down kind of a very, very terrible route, which is modular dystopia, effectively chaos that ensues when you have all these millions of chains all fragmented in terms of liquidity, in terms of Ux, and in terms of social alignment. And really, the only thing that's actually keeping us on the left hand path as opposed to the right hand path is interoperability. And that will bring us towards this modular alignment path, which is why I personally feel like it's so important to be building interoperability in order to ensure that we stay on that road. However, it's really, really easy if interoperability is kind of faltered in a certain piece for this modular chaos to kind of unfold. And so this is kind of the thanos that we're kind of facing in this modular endgame that's blocking our way towards this modular alignment future that we're seeing. And so, to quote my favorite person, Steve Rogers, Captain America, this is the fight of our lives, and we are going to win whatever it takes. And so the good thing about modular chaos versus modular alignment is that we're assembling the Avengers team.
00:04:06.788 - 00:05:04.026, Speaker B: We're working together collaboratively with a lot of different folks in the team. We're not doing this alone in order to ensure that we're taking down modular chaos and that we're building towards the route of modular enlightenment that we're kind of seeing in the future of millions of chains. And so, just to quote John Char a few weeks ago, we're all building the same thing. And what that looks like in terms of modular enlightenment is basically what we call the modular mullet. And so we have chain abstraction in front, which is a way in which we can basically abstract away all of the blockchain complexity for app developers and for users. And in the backend, we leverage the millions of chains or the infinite chains they're going to see in order to have all that ample block space and all that customization that chain developers really want and desire. And so what that looks like from a more kind of technical lens is basically cake.
00:05:04.026 - 00:05:47.762, Speaker B: It's basically the chain abstraction framework that frontier research pioneered, where we have all these different pieces coming together. These are the Avengers coming together in order to ensure that we're fighting thanos and moving towards modular alignment. And so what does that look like from a bridge endgame perspective? And so, like with anything with modular blockchains, we go modular. Right. And so across, we kind of pioneered this idea of what the endgame bridge looks like with their v three announcement. And so with that is intents. We have kind of intents that are flowing through all these user intents and all this order flow that's happening off chain.
00:05:47.762 - 00:06:27.358, Speaker B: We have solvers, effectively, these middlemen or middle organizations that are fulfilling these intents. They are off chain agents that are able to bundle these intents together and actually form transactions to execute on chain. And then we have settlement. Right. Settlement is basically a way in which these intents become a reality on various blockchains. And also the solvers are able to repay in order to continue executing intents for these users. And so what that looks like is that we're assembling the Avengers, right? From a modular blockchain.
00:06:27.358 - 00:07:07.688, Speaker B: Sorry. From a modular bridge perspective, effectively, we have all these different, all these different organizations that are effectively filling in these different pieces of the modular bridge stack. And so we have the permission layer, or said differently, we have the intents layer of all these organizations that are building off chain intents and off chain permissions. We have the solver layer where across also fits in, but effectively, a way in which we can onboard more solvers and also decentralize more solvers such that there are more of these off chain agents that are able to participate in this end game. Stack. Stack. And then lastly, we have the settlement layer as well, which is where catalyst fits in.
00:07:07.688 - 00:08:09.600, Speaker B: Actually, it's a way in which solvers can be repaid and then the actual transactions can be fit into the necessary blockchains. And so that's all great and dandy, right? Thinking about all these different frameworks and all these different ways in which existing players are fit into it. But what does that mean when you actually take all these frameworks and push it toward the limit, push it towards what it looks like to scale to a million chains? And so what I'm going to do is I'm going to walk through kind of what a flow looks like of onboarding a new chain. And then what we can do is take that n equals one example and scale it to a million and see how much it can actually hold up. And so let's take the perspective of a new chain launching. Mind the analogy, it's basically like the big bang, right? It's an explosion. It's something that's created from nothing, and it's kind of the start of the new chain lifecycle.
00:08:09.600 - 00:09:05.536, Speaker B: But the issue about this is that there's no life, right? When you create a new chain, there's nothing really there. And that's kind of what we see as an issue with founders right now that are building new roll ups and chains is that they make it. They're really excited. They can use all these different modular frameworks like Opstack, like arbitrum orbit, but then what? It's kind of in its own planet, and there's not a lot of life really breathed into it. And so what they can do is effectively two options, right? The first option is injecting resources into the chain. And so what you can do is if you are a new chain or you are a new roll up and you need to inject resources into it, this is where the modular bridge becomes really helpful. You can take the intent of onboarding these new assets into this new chain, and there's effectively these solvers that are able to bring these assets onto there.
00:09:05.536 - 00:09:55.590, Speaker B: And it's analogous to importing goods in this picture, you can see that there's two projects that are working towards this. There's hyperlane and there's Stargate. And so what hyperlane does is they have something called warp route, where you can effectively wrap assets on any chain and permissionlessly bring that to a new chain. So you can bring things like ETH and USDC if you want that to be injected into this new chain's economy. And the second thing is Stargate, which is conceptually similar. And so Stargate is a cross chain amm, where you can effectively wrap the assets that are in these different chains that Stargate is deployed on, like optimism and arbitrum, and you can bring it onto a new chain using their omni chain standard that they call oft. So, again, this is analogous to effectively importing goods into a new planet.
00:09:55.590 - 00:10:52.398, Speaker B: And so what if you are a new chain and you don't have necessarily the business relationships or the liquidity or the financial ability to actually import all these goods, right? It's not like people are doing this out of the goodness of their hearts. You have to set up business deals in order to inject these chains. And so you can do something else, which we call basically forming a trade deal. If you have something that's desirable, if you have a natural resource, for example, for a planet. But in this case, let's say you're a gaming chain, and you have access to all these new users that are pretty adjacent to crypto, that's something that's desirable for other chains, and they want to access that. Right? And so what you can do is effectively form a bilateral agreement in which you're working with those chains. And so that's effectively the mindset that catalyst takes when we think about new chains.
00:10:52.398 - 00:11:40.352, Speaker B: And so what catalysts can do for these new chains is effectively form ways in which there is an equal kind of agreement of moving value between two different chains. And so let's say that this gaming chain has a native token, and this is something that powers the entire gaming economy, and that's something that another chain wants to get access to for their users. And so there's effectively an amm that's spun up for the native token on the gaming chain. And then, let's say for ETh or USDC or what have you, on another chain, and they're able to actually perform cross chain swaps together. And so the interesting about this is that it's actually an equal agreement of value transferred. And so at no point is there kind of an imbalance in which more value is being injected to one chain or another. It is two native asset pools.
00:11:40.352 - 00:12:26.070, Speaker B: They're able to swap against each other. So that's really powerful for a chain that might not want to have a trade deficit. Basically, there's equal exchange of value, which we think is really important and what we try to enable for these new chains. And so behind all this is basically solvers expediting the whole process. They're the kind of the space suits wearing spaceship crusaders that are able to actually transfer all this communication between all these chains as they coordinate their economies, as they inject or export different resources. And so that's kind of what it looks like on an n equals one example. And we can actually do this at scale, right? As we add more chains, we can inject more resources, or more chains can form different trade deals with one another.
00:12:26.070 - 00:13:18.200, Speaker B: And so it really doesn't break. And so this is how modular bridges are really able to scale into the world of millions of chains that I think is about to happen really soon. And so with that, we achieve modular alignment. Sorry, modular enlightenment. Right. It's a way for us to ensure that all these millions of chains are connected to one another, feel like they're one chain, and abstract that experience using all the permission projects that I was talking about in order to ensure that app developers and users are able to use them at scale without any sort of added complexity. And so that's all good and dandy, but even as we achieve modular alignment, there's a bit of a bottleneck that we need to address, and that's the solvers.
00:13:18.200 - 00:14:00.040, Speaker B: And so, like I said, in this process of coordinating between millions of chains, we have solvers expediting the whole process. Unfortunately, and this is a research paper that I cited previously this week from the Lifi team. Arjun Chan, the researcher at LiFi, said that a few solvers win nearly all of the order flow. Right. A significant percentage of auctions involve only one bidder. And so what that looks like is, even though we think of this huge ecosystem of solvers that are actually fulfilling these intents across all these different chains, it looks more like wintermute doing it. And so it's not solvers expediting the process.
00:14:00.040 - 00:14:49.510, Speaker B: It's wintermute or other large market makers that have the financial resources in order to actually move these communication methods. And so with that, we kind of have a fork in the road where a second dystopia emerges. Right. On the right hand side, we still have thanos, we still have modular chaos that happens when we don't have strong interoperability primitives. But on the second hand, we have strong interoperability primitives, but they're ruled by our solver overlords who are puppeteering everything. And so is that worse than thanos? Up for debate, but definitely something that I personally don't want and that we're working really hard with catalysts in order to ensure that that doesn't happen either. And so we need to break this hegemony.
00:14:49.510 - 00:16:00.500, Speaker B: We need to find a way in which it becomes easier to be a solver such that it's not wintermute that's coordinating all of the cross chain activity in the future, but it's actually a decentralized, open ecosystem of solvers that can do so. And so how we do that is going back to first principles, looking at the solver flow and looking where the bottlenecks are and seeing how we can help with that. These graphics are actually from the Everclear team, but I think they're incredibly helpful in showing what happens in the current solver state. But we can basically see, well, not basically, but bit complicated. I can say it at a high level is that solvers need to have cross chain inventory in order to enable solving to happen. And so on the left hand side, you could see that users intents are being fulfilled cross chain, but it's actually the solver that is holding different assets on different chains in order to facilitate that. And so what needs to happen is that even though the user is moving funds to different chains, the solver needs to hold these assets on different chains and then eventually rebalance back to the origin chain based on the flow they're seeing.
00:16:00.500 - 00:16:29.442, Speaker B: And so you could see that this is quite arduous, requiring a lot of different chains that need to be managed. And of course, there's latency required to rebalancing. And so from a research paper that came out earlier, this year by Chithra et al. You could see that it's actually really difficult to become a solver. You have multi chain rebalancing, you have congestion costs, you have to pay more if different chains are more expensive. You have cost to source liquidity from centralized exchanges. And of course, you have the always looming legal considerations.
00:16:29.442 - 00:17:22.442, Speaker B: Right? And so the quote argent again, but sometimes, this time more simply, running an agent, a solver, is not easy. And so the question becomes, how do we make it easier? And so the solution that the everclear team is talking about is lowering the barrier by netting. And so instead of having all this rebalancing happen on chain and happen n number of times, that becomes quite inefficient at scale. They basically have a netting method in order to streamline that. Is there a way in which solvers can be repaid using the net balances of another solver? And this is conceptually really similar to what transferwise does for cross border remittances. And so that's a way in which we can streamline the inventory needed from solvers. The second approach that catalyst takes is let's not do netting.
00:17:22.442 - 00:18:26.958, Speaker B: Let's just ensure that there's a way in which solvers can always access assets on different chains such that there's no arduous need to rebalance between chains. Our hope is that solvers don't need a whole cross chain inventory because there's an underlying liquidity layer that they can always access assets towards. If they're moving assets from ethereum to various l two s, or from ethereum to the cosmos space, is there a way such that solvers can always just access the assets on the destination chain such that they don't need a whole cross chain inventory? And if that doesn't make sense, I'm sorry, I'm abstracting away a lot of details. Feel free. Ask me after the talk, and I'm happy to explain that more in detail. But basically, what I'm trying to say is there are various ways that we're thinking about, thinking about ensuring that we go down the path of modular alignment. There are various ways that we think about breaking down the barriers to become a solver, such that we're not beholden to wintermute and the other solver overlords.
00:18:26.958 - 00:18:59.710, Speaker B: And that's the beauty of crypto, is that we're all building towards the same thing. We all want to achieve modular alignment. And in the interoperability space, there are a number of teams, like catalyst, like Everclear, like across Hyper Lane, Lifi and Stargate and a bunch of our logos that I didn't add because they didn't fit into this Avengers picture that I found on the Internet that are working towards this. And as a result, it becomes a beautiful canvas of perfection. And so that's the beauty of working in crypto and interoperability. Thank you, guys.
00:19:12.180 - 00:19:23.920, Speaker A: All right, next up on this chain abstraction tack is Arjun from Everclear. We heard a little bit about Everclear from Jim's talk, and now we'll go deeper.
00:19:26.020 - 00:19:40.010, Speaker C: Thanks so much, Saki. And, yeah, thanks, Jim, for the plug there. I really appreciate it. I'm Arjun. I'm one of the founders of Everclear. We were previously known as Connexthe. Everclear is what we call the first clearing layer.
00:19:40.010 - 00:20:19.484, Speaker C: Over the course of this talk, I'll be kind of explaining what that is and how it fits into the modular space. So fragmentation. Fragmentation is the big, scary boogeyman for modular today. And it makes sense, right? Like, over the course of history, we've just seen this acceleration of TvL moving to other chains aside from Ethereum, except for that kind of minor blip over there in 2022, which was terra rip. And this problem isn't really getting any better. There are 61 ethereum based roll ups live today. That kind of blew my mind, by the way, I had no idea that that number had already gotten so high.
00:20:19.484 - 00:21:25.084, Speaker C: And then there's 79 on the way, according to l two beat. But I actually went and I talked to a bunch of rollup as a service projects and a few other ecosystems, that number is way, way higher. There are multiple roll up as a service projects claiming to have hundreds in the pipeline by the end of the year, which is kind of insane, right? Like, we are really, really accelerating logitech expansion. And of course, that means that this fragmentation problem is about to get so, so much worse for this entire ecosystem. So what do? Last year, Connext started talking about this idea of chain abstraction, and it's something that's been kind of really picked up by the broader community, which are really, really excited about chain abstraction is this vision for the future where users never really need to care what chain they're on. And from our viewpoint, we think that we can achieve this using a technology called intents. Intents have obviously been a super, super hot topic at HCC, so I won't dive into them once again, but a really, really awesome breakdown of how intense work is.
00:21:25.084 - 00:22:03.078, Speaker C: To look at this really fantastic diagram that was built by one of the most popular intent protocols out there today, Uber. So when you use Uber, you're effectively expressing your desire to get from point a to point b, and Uber fulfills that desire. And you kind of see this mirrored in the way that chain abstraction works, right? You have at the very top of the stack, you have your permissioning layer. That's not the laser. You have your permissioning layer. This is where you tell Uber, hey, I need to get to ethcc on time. And then Uber auctions that off, that intent off to find you a driver that can get you there.
00:22:03.078 - 00:22:57.690, Speaker C: It quotes you five minutes, though, of course, because it's Brussels, that is actually 25 minutes. Then you finally get a ride, a driver that takes you to ECC, and then at the end of your ride, you settle with the driver, which means you pay them. This flow obviously makes a lot of sense. It has analogies both all over web two and tradfi. And in this space, it makes sense to kind of separate out actions that you're doing on chain and delegate that complexity to third parties that can specialize in doing that for you on your behalf. But there are challenges. Jim started to touch on this, which I really, this really, really big challenge, which I think everybody's starting to think about today, which is solving for chain abstraction, solving for intent protocols is just a really, really highly centralized activity today.
00:22:57.690 - 00:23:53.792, Speaker C: And until we can fix this, you kind of have this paradigm where if you are a solver with a large amount of inventory and sophisticated actor like Wintermute, you are really making the vast majority of volume revenue in this space. And if you're an individual solver, you are, unfortunately, all the way out here. Until we fix this, we really can't scale solving this should be a straight line. Your returns should scale proportional to the amount of liquidity that you have, not multiplicatively proportional to the amount of liquidity you have. So a couple of years ago, we started to encounter this problem, and we encountered it because we were building an intent based bridge, working with a bunch of solvers, though we didn't really call them solvers at the time, that were largely passive actors. They were like staking service providers. And those staking service providers, despite having lots and lots of liquidity in the system, were not actually routing transfers.
00:23:53.792 - 00:24:37.016, Speaker C: So when we dug into why, we realized that there's this weird paradigm that exists today, we talked about the first couple of steps of the intent. So user says they want to do something on arbitrum, solver goes and fulfills that request on arbitrum instantly. So from the user perspective. This is a fantastic experience, but it's what comes afterwards that is still unsolved, really the third step, which is how do you do settlement? And most importantly, when you do settlement, solvers go and unlock funds on the source chain. And so this creates a need for solvers to rebalance. Rebalancing is actually one of the most challenging parts of solving today. This is like inventory management is kind of what this is called in financial or market making terms.
00:24:37.016 - 00:25:15.466, Speaker C: And solvers don't want to be market makers. If you make solvers market makers, then the only people that can be good solvers are market makers. And the reality is every single solver has to deal with this today. Every single solver has to spend lots and lots of time and energy building an operational team and paying money to go and bridge their funds back to where it needs to go in order to be able to continue solving transactions. We went and we talked to a bunch of solvers in the space about this, and the solvers said, hey, we use these bridges to rebalance. We use market makers to rebalance. And we went and we talked to the market makers, and the market maker said, oh yeah, we use centralized exchanges or canonical bridges to rebalance.
00:25:15.466 - 00:25:56.850, Speaker C: And we went and we talked to centralized exchanges, and they said, oh yeah, we're hiring a team of 20 people that just go hit the button on the arbitrary bridge. And they just do this all the time. Everybody is dealing with this problem. It's just not going away. It's a fundamental issue with the fact that we live in a world where it just takes time to get between chains. The minting rights of these bridges are consolidated in these extremely, extremely secure bridges, relatively speaking, which is fantastic, but they take a long time. So how can we fix this? A really interesting breakthrough for us came when we realized that 80% of the volume that actually moves between chains today is nettable.
00:25:56.850 - 00:26:40.338, Speaker C: What this basically means is that for every, I guess for binance chain, for instance, for every $1 that you send into binance chain per day, $0.85 moves out. So this kind of brings up an interesting question, which is, why are we sending $0.85 into, or $1 into binance chain to begin with? Why not just send $0.15? This insight is at the core of what we call netting. Netting is something that is quite established in traditional financial systems, where you take a bunch of obligations that people have, financial obligations people have to each other and reduce them down to one final sum obligation. So for those of you that are from North America and use splitwise.
00:26:40.338 - 00:27:54.328, Speaker C: The splitwise is effectively a netting application. You pay your friends when you go on a trip, you kind of have IoU's to your friends because they're fronting to buy plane tickets or to pay for food or whatever. And rather than having to pay each other each time and spending additional money to actually do that, you can just register your obligations and split wise, and then splitwise at the end of your trip, gives you a final amount of funds that you actually need to sell. So you're basically turning $420 worth of transactions, by the way, not at all intentional, down to $10 worth of finals, like just a final $10 transfer. To harness this insight, we want to introduce this concept of clearing to the space and really everclear as the first clearing layer. Everclear is a system that negotiates the relationship, basically negotiates the global funds movement of funds between different bridges that are moving funds between chains. So, for example, if I have funds on Polygon, I'm a solver, and I have funds on Polygon because I've just filled a transaction going from Polygon to somewhere else, and Jim is a solver on arbitrum who has filled a transaction going from arbitrum to somewhere else.
00:27:54.328 - 00:28:23.550, Speaker C: But we actually want to end up, I want to end up with funds on arbitrum, and Jim wants to end up with funds on Polygon. Instead of both of us having to bridge, we can just atomic swap with one another. This is a coincidence of wants effectively like a cow swap. And instead of creating yet another system which, yet another bridge which has liquidity within it, we can create this different sort of system that actually allows bridges to negotiate with one another. It sort of removes this perennial.
