00:00:06.730 - 00:00:46.266, Speaker A: Hi, everyone. So before we get started, sorry about that delay earlier. I'm not sure why my computer wasn't playing nice with everything, but we're ready to get started and hopefully we don't run over time. So what I'm going to be doing during this little workshop is a high level overview of the Bitdao performance bonds, which is like a sort of subset of Dow tooling that we came up with in order to sort of improve the proposal process to reduce counterparty risk for DAOs. So, yeah, let's talk Dow tooling. Like, how familiar are people in here with DAOs? Who's heard of a Dao interacted with one? So a Dao is a decentralized autonomous organization. There's like many levels of it.
00:00:46.266 - 00:02:20.870, Speaker A: It could be a bunch of people in our group chat who's just decided that they want to share control of a multisig to multi thousand user organizations that have token staked voting where they make decisions over treasuries that are worth hundreds or even billions of dollars. Before we get started over here, if you guys want to pull out your laptops and just open up this repo, we're going to be doing a little code walkthrough of what we've got over there later on. But yeah, before we get started, if does anyone not familiar with what a Dow is? Anyone have any additional questions on what exactly a Dow is? Yeah, basically it's like a co op, but we've brought it on chain. It's like fully transparent, like who's voted for what and so on and so forth and why things have or have not passed. I'm going to leave this up for like 30 more seconds and that should be good. Okay, if you guys are already familiar with Dows and you're probably familiar with what the voting process sort of looks like for the majority of Dows these days. So typically you'll have like an initial proposal thing on a forum, like Discourse, right? And then they'll use some sort of combination of the nosis safe, like Safe, Snap, Plugin, and Snapshot in order to sort of push proposals in, in order to move funds on chain, interact with contracts on chain with the Dow multisig.
00:02:20.870 - 00:03:30.878, Speaker A: Are any of you unfamiliar with any of these platforms? So our existing process is sort of like, people can go and propose something on our Discourse forum, write up a proposal, being like, oh, hey, I want X Bit in return for these deliverables, right? If it receives enough interest on it, we then take it to a vote on our Snapshot forum, if that makes sense. And if it passes the vote on our Snapshot forum, what ends up happening is we then allow execution via Ergnosis safe to transfer funds over. So basically, what's the problem with this process? So basically at BITDA, we want to fund projects and associated entities to grow sort of the Bit ecosystem, but you sort of face counterparty risk when doing so, right? So let's say that someone puts a proposal in and they're like, I'm going to build a house, I want 10,000 bit, or something like that. It's going to be like a charity or something like that. Once you release the funds to them, there is no way to sort of guarantee these funds. They can rug pull you fairly easily, right. They can just simply be like, oh, screw you, I'm not going to build this, I'm just going to take the funds and run.
00:03:30.878 - 00:04:03.782, Speaker A: And we've seen cases of this before through malicious proposals on other Dows. Yeah. The solution that we sort of came up to this was performance bonds. So basically we're trying to implement a performance bond process wherein folks are required to stake some sort of collateral into our proposal process. This sort of helps solve this problem by providing an economic guarantee for the Dao itself. We're locking this collateral into an intermediary contract that can be slashed if certain goals are not met. So we're going to come up with a cute example.
00:04:03.782 - 00:04:42.760, Speaker A: Here we have Blimp Dao. Let's say there's only like seven Blimps in the world. So this is kind of a high risk venture. Let's say that this Dow comes to us and they're like, we want to buy one of those seven Blimps and we want 100K bit to buy one of these Blimps with a performance bond in place. What we'd effectively do, the Bitdao community members can request that the Blimpdow community members post about 100 ETH in collateral before releasing the funds if the proposal passes. And then there's two possible outcomes to this. Either Blimpdow would buy a Blimp and the 100 ETH in collateral is returned, or Blimpdow fails to buy the Blimp and 100 ETH is about recouped by the Dow itself.
00:04:42.760 - 00:05:42.950, Speaker A: Do you have a question? Yeah. If they don't do it, then so for Blimpdow, because their initial condition for success was wanting to buy a Blimp, there are only two states for this. Either you successfully have bought a Blimp or you have not successfully bought a Blimp. Obviously there can be like multiple tiers to this. Yeah. Oh, so collateral can be staked. So the contracts that I'm going to be walking through later, they're effectively like middleman contracts that you're able to post collateral into that can be slashed by guarantors or individuals from the Dow if certain criteria are not met.
00:05:42.950 - 00:06:13.150, Speaker A: But we're going to be walking through the contract for that shortly. Yeah. So why did we choose performance bonds in this particular context? Basically, it's because it increases community engagement and proposals. It's forcing the other entity's community to participate within it. Because obviously, who else is going to be posting the collateral for this? Right? It sort of formalizes on versus off chain interactions. It imposes basically consequences, like I mentioned before, on rug pull like behavior. And it's a good vehicle for Dow co investments, basically.
00:06:13.150 - 00:07:27.494, Speaker A: So let's say that one Dow wants to invest in another Dow who's building some sort of tooling. The other Dao can fund the performance bond completely from their own treasury to sort of formalize the agreement together. Right so I'm going to be doing like a really quick code walkthrough as well of the contracts themselves if you were able to pull that Wind Ranger Treasury thing. This is where we keep most of our Dow tooling and treasury related tooling code and so on and so forth. So I'm going to be walking you guys through a pretty simple single collateral multi reward bond, right so this is a bond where you can stake in some sort of ERC 20 collateral and then receive some arbitrary set of ERC 20 tokens or something as rewards or redeem from that particular bond itself. So everything is fairly permissioned by sort of like other members of our Dow itself. You can see that we have obviously a deposit function over here where people are able to stake sort of a claim within this Dow, within this reward bond itself.
00:07:27.494 - 00:08:20.102, Speaker A: There is a sort of particular lockup period that they have to deposit their funds to this bond during or else they won't be able to meet the rewards. Yeah which is all sort of set during the initialization. So we pass in sort of metadata like describing the bond that's sort on chain we're passing in settings to sort of govern the parameters of the Dow on the initialization oh is it hard to read? I'm really sorry. Is this better? Yeah. And we're basically able to init this right that's just like the basic deposit contract. We also have a time lock multi reward one. So this is what we know.
00:08:20.102 - 00:09:30.478, Speaker A: Pictures, please. Thank you. It's not great, sorry. We also have a reward contract that people will be able to have their rewards deposited into and redeemed afterwards if the bond actually does succeed in this particular context that maps and is tied to a particular bond deposit contract. Right so basically it's pretty simple. So we have mapping of the claimant itself so the person who deposited or the guarantor who deposited funds into the original bond contract to their reward pool debt ratio which is just an integer representing the amount or the ratio of the tokens that they had within the initial pool. And we have individual reward pools so the tokens that they will be eligible to with sort of withdraw from and a redemption timestamp over here which is like the point at which we know that if the bond has not been slashed they should be able to redeem sort of all other collateral basically once funds are available.
00:09:30.478 - 00:10:23.550, Speaker A: So when the redemption timestamp sort of is set and it has passed you're sort of able to iterate over and collect any of the arbitrary ERC 20 token rewards or like initial seek that you've deposited within these and the time lock has sort of expired and so on. And so forth. It's like a pretty simple single pool style solution for these things. It's pretty similar. I would even call it like staking reward management. It's just allowing for a one to many sort of redemption pool that we have over here. Yeah, so you can see how we sort of calculate the reward debt over here as well after the redemption and the corresponding lockup period.
00:10:23.550 - 00:11:37.506, Speaker A: So you can have your claimant the debt tokens that they were issued upon them staking within our bond and the total supply of it. It's just basically a very simple they're owned like a portion of the rewards pool depending on how much they deposited originally. And it's pretty standard over here. Yeah, something that I do find a bit more interesting within this is the permissioning system that we have in place. So if we step out a little bit, we also have pretty cool role access control on a Dow level for who is able to sort of control each of these pools and so on and so forth because we're basically deploying these pools on sort of like a per Dow basis. So I'm actually going to go into one of the contracts where we store all of these roles which is in the roles contract over here. So we have the Dao admin and the Dow creators who are able to be deploying these bonds and manage the admin functions such as setting timestamps and so on and so forth.
00:11:37.506 - 00:13:03.054, Speaker A: Within them we have Dow meeple which is like typical Dow users who are then able to interact and maybe stake and claim guarantors. We have the super user which obviously has sort of all permissions within it and then we have a system admin who is sort of able to set pause and unpause contracts and sort of in case of emergency. I can sort of show you guys how that ties into our bond contracts over here. If we take a look at the not the bond creator contract, it is in the sort of like bond factory and bond mediator contracts. So effectively these all inherit from the role access control document over here and what ends up happening is that you're unable to create bonds for particular Dows unless you have the role for a particular Dow. So we have a cool encoding system where you might have like a unique Dow ID linked to a particular address and roles for those particular addresses unique to that particular Dow. And because we might have multiple entities or multiple other Dows as sort of counterparties to our on chain investments and so on and so forth, we want to make sure that only those counterparties sort of have access to creating these bond and staking sort of contracts.
00:13:03.054 - 00:14:03.768, Speaker A: Right, so we basically have independent factories for each of these individual things and only the admin folks from each of these Dows are able to deploy both the rewards and fund the rewards and create individual bonds sort of for each of them. I guess that's sort of a high level overview of what the bond sort of does and what it is. And I'm curious if people sort of have questions about a little bit like a few more questions about what exactly their use case is or like the implementation details themselves. Yeah, okay. Yeah. We also have interfaces for what a typical single collateral bond would look like, where you're just depositing like some arbitrary ERC 20 as collateral. Again, the functions are fairly standard when it comes to things like this.
00:14:03.768 - 00:15:13.372, Speaker A: You're able to deposit a certain amount of collateral, redeem a certain amount of collateral. An interesting parameter of ethereum is that there's no floating point math. Right? So when you are redeeming your collateral based on the ratio of what you deposited in, there always be like trace amounts of dust tokens left within it. So we also have like a sweep ERC 20 thing to remove all the remaining tokens into it and back into the original Dow treasury so that we're not leaving dust tokens on contracts all over the chain. Yeah, I guess I can also talk about sort of the slashing mechanism over here. Remember what I mentioned in the Blimpdow example? If they don't meet their particular goal, like being able to buy a Blimp versus not being able to buy a Blimp. We have, like, an implementation of a slash function where you're able to enact a penalty for the individuals who stake their funds within that bond collateral contract, which just allows for a super user or a Dow admin to basically call out the amount that they're slashing from it and having to put in like a string for the reason and do it on chain, if that makes sense.
00:15:13.372 - 00:16:30.220, Speaker A: And this would just sweep the amount of tokens or like the collateral from that particular bond back into the Dow who's put up the collateral's treasury, if that makes sense. Yeah, I guess. Do people have any other questions about how this improves the proposal flow or I guess sort of other tooling within our ecosystem? Yeah, high risk of regulation for this system, the bond sort of payment system. So I like to sort of think of them as like a formalization of a contract on chain. So basically this is just sort of a method of posting up some sort of collateral. This often happens, like off chain, right, where you might be trusting some sort of middleman otherwise it's just that this is sort of happening in a much more transparent and regulated sort of way. I think maybe in the States, the Dao bond tokens or like the debt tokens that you receive as a part of the bond because it can be redeemed for things that might cause some issues.
00:16:30.220 - 00:17:18.888, Speaker A: But I think that in more Dao friendly jurisdictions that it shouldn't be too much of an issue. But we all know that the States is not particularly friendly for tokens or anything regarding Dows or what might potentially be securities. Yeah. Yeah. So this is usually what the majority of Dow proposal processes sort of look like. Like I mentioned before, many of them use Discourse, which is sort of like a forum plugin, if you're familiar with BB forums. Discourse is just sort of like an alternate newer version of that.
00:17:18.888 - 00:18:06.488, Speaker A: People are able to sort of post up ideas or things that they want funding for proposals. They have to have big formal write ups. Oftentimes people aren't looking at it too closely. I know some folks are probably familiar with the uniswap proposal that just sort of proposed that they paid schools like a bunch of money for very ill defined returns. Usually the initial things that are put to vote on a snapshot have to reach consensus or interest on the Discourse forum first. Yeah. So it's a website and if you're interested in proposing something in the bitdao discourse, you can just go to our website and we have a link to our discourse, like in the top bar.
00:18:06.488 - 00:18:59.968, Speaker A: Yeah, but I think that this might not be like the best solution for the problem at hand right. Because you're effectively shorting whatever token that you've put into the bond in which return for the rewards token. But it's a step towards sort of improving what is sort of a very uninvolved proposal process, right. An issue that we've seen facing us the majority of the time is that proposals are sort of pushed through by insiders. I don't know if you guys are familiar with the sole end drama that's going on right now, where initially the vote was like 94%. We don't want to take this liquidation and do it OTC. Right? And then some folks stepped in with a lot of insider tokens and one guy voted and it suddenly got pushed to, oh, hey, we're actually going to be liquidating it.
00:18:59.968 - 00:19:56.516, Speaker A: OTC we think that putting up things like this sort of incentivizes the community to come together and vote more and it has them put more stake in the game and it allows them to be on a more equal footing as folks are sort of able to post n collateral sort of all by themselves. We're sort of also looking for more tooling along those lines that sort of makes the proposal process more engaging and more accessible to community members, sort of overall. We actually do have a prize available, sort of today I'm going to pull it up in our medium oh my God. Where we're looking for more ideas for how we can improve our proposal process from what we have today. So we're offering about like $10,000 in prizes. We have sort of two tracks with this. We have dow treasury deployment.
00:19:56.516 - 00:20:44.536, Speaker A: So basically we found that large Dow treasuries have to be managed really conservatively to avoid principal loss through systemic failure. For example, you put all your money into some yield farm and that yield farm gets hacked right. Or like Oracle Misfires or other mechanical exploits. Right. And we're basically looking for solutions which can be tooling visualization dashboards, operating structures and so on and so forth, that would help allow Dows to help deploy their treasuries at size for yield. For example, something that you could build could be like a Gnosis safe module that allows sort of like whitelisting and passive deployment of treasury assets to blue chip yield farms or like collateralized or margin loans that people could take out from the Dow Treasury for some sort of interest track. Two, which sort of fits more into line with the little presentation that we had today, is trying to improve the Dow proposal process.
00:20:44.536 - 00:21:16.500, Speaker A: Like I mentioned before, again, the majority of Dow proposals are created in private. Right. And the initial version that's been proposed on the forum itself has already been reviewed by core stakeholders and insiders. And generally we already know it's going to be pushed through the moment it's been posted on the forum. Yeah, it's not great. This process can take many, many months, and it's usually unpaid. And so people aren't really incentivized to do this unless they already have a large stake within the Dow itself, leading to sort of like insider conclusion on these Dow proposals.
00:21:16.500 - 00:22:16.260, Speaker A: We want to be able to find a way to leverage a wider range of community contributions for ideas and development without them having to go through this process. And that's just not something that's happening with the current Dow status quo. And we're just looking for solutions to try to incentivize the construction of Dow proposals in a public way. Right. Whether it be through community participation in bonds, whether it be through community participation in open ideation on what exactly the proposal contents are and with Dow members being able to signal that they're opposed to certain parts of it in a very explicit and formalized way. Yeah. So it is definitely beneficial this could be definitely beneficial to the ideation process in terms of Dow rebrandings, in terms of protocol functionality upgrades, protocol parameter changes and sort of many other aspects that many Dows have their users sort of vote on on chain on a day to day basis.
00:22:16.260 - 00:22:34.510, Speaker A: Yeah. So if you're interested or you have any ideas for what you could sort of build for either of these tracks, happy to meet you at the Bitdao booth and chat a little bit more and yeah. Thank you, I guess, for coming to the talk today. It's 530 exactly. Yeah.
