00:00:00.330 - 00:00:20.080, Speaker A: Welcome back to the future of Defi Fireside chat series. The following is a conversation with Aviju Garg, co founder and managing partner at Electric Capital, one of the leading venture firms in blockchain and cryptocurrencies, investing in companies and protocols built on top of programmable money.
00:00:20.530 - 00:00:41.350, Speaker B: In this conversation, Avishal shares his thoughts on the inevitability of Defi, his experience in developing a fund for builders first and foremost, as well as his personal experience in the space, along with valuable insights for entrepreneurs. Here is our conversation with Avishal Gark.
00:00:41.870 - 00:00:56.302, Speaker A: So with years of experience at Google and Facebook on products, you know, what worked well there. So which things that worked well there you think translates successfully to the crypto world and which ones did not?
00:00:56.436 - 00:01:45.360, Speaker C: Maybe I can pick like two or three things that I think worked really well and then some things that I think won't translate as well. So I think, first and foremost, just hiring really good people and being around the best people. And I think that so much value creation just starts with really smart, talented, hardworking, well intentioned people. So that's number one. Number two, I think both those companies, they have very different approaches to building product, but at their core, they are trying to solve user problems. They're trying to figure out there's a meaningful problem in the world, how do we solve it? And they have very different approaches to doing that. But fundamentally, I think that user focus is why the biggest major tech companies that won, ultimately the reason they won is they were better at solving people's problems than everybody else.
00:01:45.360 - 00:02:45.710, Speaker C: The third is they both, to different degrees, are very, very good at understanding the metrics of a product in a business and then running by those metrics. And that's important because especially as things start to scale, it can get really hard to get your head around what's working and what's not working and why, and your intuition starts to break a little bit. And a lot of times, even if you have intuitions, keeping yourself honest about what's happening requires understanding the metrics. And so that's everything from where are our users coming from and what are they doing to how do we make the product better, right? So there's a whole spectrum of things, and if you can actually measure them and make progress, you have a really big advantage over everybody else who just operates sort of on intuition. So those are three things I think will carry over well. I think probably the biggest thing that won't carry over well, that's most obvious is just sort of how value is captured in the traditional C Corp formation. The idea is you have shareholders and you're trying to capture value for the company and then distribute that to your shareholders.
00:02:45.710 - 00:03:21.934, Speaker C: And I think in crypto, the reason it's so interesting is a lot of what you're doing is sort of inverting that model. What you're saying is actually, how do I give away as much of the value as I can? Because if I don't, the code will get forked or the community will get forked or there will be a vampire attack. Right. The incentive structures are set up a little bit differently. And so the balance, I think, of how much value you can capture is going to be very different, and the ways that you capture value is going to be very different. And I think that won't translate well for many of the tech companies. And so I think this is why I think many of the tech companies are not going to be the big winners in crypto, which is why it's such an awesome area.
00:03:21.934 - 00:04:02.294, Speaker C: I think for young entrepreneurs, your competition here really is, know, Sundar and Zuck and Bezos, like that's not who you're competing against here. It's much more greenfield because a lot of what those companies are good at in terms of how they capture value is not going to translate to this world at all. And in some sense, you might sort of like using MBA terminology. It's almost a business model change. And when you have business model changes, it's very, very hard for incumbents to come in and compete because their businesses are not set up for these new business models. Right. It's like Microsoft really struggled to get into the Internet because the business model is fundamentally different, or newspapers struggled with the Internet because the business model was different.
00:04:02.294 - 00:04:30.926, Speaker C: Right. So in some sense here, the business model being different with tokens and networks and value capture being different, actually, I think means that tech companies won't be able to translate over that well. It's actually an opportunity to disrupt them. And also for its worth, I think the banks and much of the financial sector because their business model is also a sort of very high value capture middleman sort of a model. And I think these sort of crypto networks and marketplaces upend that and invert that model in a way that actually, I think the legacy financial institutions are going to have a very tough time competing.
00:04:31.038 - 00:04:51.014, Speaker B: Very interesting. Yeah. So as you said, the business model does change, but the platform itself also kind of changed quite significantly compared to the traditional finance. Right. So DeFi has a number of advantages. For example, it's quite open immutable, accountable. So why do you think, is that important? And what makes DeFi essential?
00:04:51.142 - 00:05:28.500, Speaker C: Well, I guess there's two ways to answer that question. So what makes it essential, I think doesn't have anything to do with DeFi necessarily, which is, I think the essential element of it is actually the value that's being created for people. Which is like, people need capital, people need to be able to borrow money, people need to be able to take that money and do something productive with it. People want some sort of risk protection or insurance on their assets, people need to run businesses and to borrow money to do that. There are all of these real functional things that people need to do in an economy. It's like why the world works. People can create value by working together.
00:05:28.500 - 00:06:17.494, Speaker C: And so I think Defi is just solving the same fundamental problems. Ultimately, it's just a different way of doing it. And so maybe a different way to sort of ask that same question is, well, I think Defi is essential because it solves some very essential problems in the world, just fundamental marketplace and economics and finance and money problems. It's like, how do I even own money or transfer money? Like really, really basic stuff. But that basic stuff underpins these really important utilities. Now, why can DeFi actually solve those problems better than the legacy system? I think DeFi, for all the reasons you mentioned, it's much more transparent, it's auditable. In essence, what we've done is standardized the APIs, like when you build on a platform like OAsis or Ethereum, now every financial primitive uses the same APIs, which now makes these things composable in a new way.
00:06:17.494 - 00:07:51.074, Speaker C: The fact that it's open source means that you can audit the code. I think open source systems tend to start much more brittle, and they start not as robust as closed systems, but over time, the iteration and the transparency allows them to grow at such a rate that they become much more secure. I mean, the Internet, the Internet runs on open source systems now, right? Which I think 30 years ago would have been almost unthinkable that that's actually how things would work. Or you look at Wikipedia, right? When Wikipedia was getting started, it was sort of a trope where if your college professor saw you cite Wikipedia, be like, this is ridiculous, why are you doing this? This is clearly inferior to encyclopedia Britannica, but the critical feature was that it was open and so it could be iterated on and all the bugs figured out and fixed quickly. And so now clearly Wikipedia is much, much better than any closed encyclopedia, right? So I think the essential feature is the openness and all the downstream benefits that come from that, transparency and auditability and composability. And what you'll actually get is a much more robust financial system that doesn't have a lot of the bugs of the existing financial system. And so I think DeFi actually solves many of the same problems and allows you to have many of the same utilities, but you'll actually get them in a way that's actually faster, cheaper, more auditable, more transparent, less likely to collapse, less likely to have too much leverage and have the whole thing implode, more likely to actually be able to get money to the people that need it, less likely for more private, less likely for authoritarian governments or autocrats to be able to just seize your assets, like all the things that you would actually want.
00:07:51.074 - 00:07:58.950, Speaker C: It's sort of like one step, I think, better and towards all these really positive things that the existing system just structurally can't give you.
00:07:59.100 - 00:08:06.710, Speaker B: So you mentioned so many benefits, but what are you the most excited about in Defi? Is it the composability or is it the openness?
00:08:07.130 - 00:09:39.146, Speaker C: I think the answer is all of the above. I think all of those are pretty amazing. If you, like, think about today's financial system, which is depending on where you size it, do you want to just look at equities, or do you want to look at all financial services? Do you want to look at lending? There are a lot of ways to slice it, but it's like hundreds of trillions of dollars. This is a massive, massive market, right? And you just said something like, hey, wouldn't it be great if we could just see where the money flows are going without revealing anybody's private information or violating privacy, but we could just see where there's leverage in the system so that if things get too levered, we can stop it and we can backtrace it and figure out who has the leverage and make sure that the system doesn't just blow up. Or wouldn't it be great if we could have privacy in a real meaningful way? So you don't have things like equifax hacks happening all the time, right? Or, hey, wouldn't it be great if you didn't have to go through some kludy API that's just abstracting away, like 1970s computer science, and every now and then it just randomly breaks and you don't know why it breaks? Or, hey, wouldn't it be great if you didn't have to wait 30 days to get API approval to use some financial services API any one of those things would be awesome, right, if somebody came along and said, I'm just going to do one of those things. Like, I'm just going to make the existing financial system way more private so nobody's data gets leaked, but it's still just as compliant. Or, hey, I'm going to make it really easy for you to just plug into any bank or any API, or I'm going to make it really easy for us to see if there's too much leverage in the system and make sure that the whole system doesn't implode.
00:09:39.146 - 00:09:50.370, Speaker C: Any one of those things would be a breakthrough. And Defi gives you all of those things, right? And so I think any one of them is amazing, but I actually think the totality of them is even more amazing.
00:09:50.540 - 00:10:08.910, Speaker B: So if we look then like a little bit more high level, right, let's say we take a bit distance from humanity, from Earth. So when considering humanity as a hive of collaborating individuals, why do you think that this collective of individuals actually came up with something like Defi? What pushed them towards that?
00:10:09.060 - 00:10:52.746, Speaker C: It feels like maybe it was an inevitability, right? Software eventually had to solve this problem. It's just sort of like, at its very base level, what are these really primitives? Right? If I'm a person transferring money to another person, it's just sort of this abstraction that we've come up with. It's just a tool to transfer value and to sort of track debts in a very base way. And so it just seems like eventually software was going to solve that problem, right? It just had to be, instead of us passing paper around, it had to be digitized, and then it had to become software native. And so I don't know. To me it feels like any human abstraction. Eventually software is going to be a better solution for that human abstraction.
00:10:52.746 - 00:11:44.358, Speaker C: And with enough humans iterating in parallel, somebody is going to stumble into the construction that is actually the ideal construction. And in a world that is relatively free flowing with ideas, the Internet just sort of connects us all in such a way that somebody can just put a white paper out there, and if the ideas are actually better, other people might pick it up and run with it. I don't want to say it's an inevitability. It was definitely guaranteed to happen. But it seems like with the scale of the Internet now and the number of brilliant people in the world, somebody was going to come up with some of these ideas, whether it was 2008 with bitcoin, in 2015 with Ethereum, or maybe it might have taken us another 20 years. But it almost, to me, feels like an inevitability that we would get essentially truly digital money and then open finance, open source finance. Just, to me, seems like it's almost inevitable.
00:11:44.358 - 00:12:08.710, Speaker C: It was just a question of when it was going to happen. I mean, you can go back, there are articles in the late eighty s and ninety s in journals talking about digital money and digital cash. Right? Like Chom was writing about these, the NSA was writing about these. People have been thinking about these ideas for a long time. So the ideas are not new. It's just finally, I think we developed enough technology and enough expertise and software to actually be able to solve these problems. So it almost, to me, feels like an inevitability.
00:12:09.050 - 00:12:33.946, Speaker A: Yes. That's a great way of looking at this. If it's not now, maybe in five years, ten years, someone just, given the nature of the problem that needs to be solved and the technology, it just seems that this is essentially right. A future direction and a destiny in some sense.
00:12:34.048 - 00:13:16.742, Speaker C: Yeah, I agree. And sort of from the lens also of, I think, founders. I think this is a really important insight that you just had. Don is like, if something is sort of destined to happen as a founder, if you really believe in that thing, that's actually a great place to be operating and learning and playing. If you look back at history, who really got this right in the last, let's say, 25 or 30 years, I would argue somebody like Reed Hoffman or Peter Thiel really got this right, which is like those guys were playing around with things. Like Reed Hoffman was playing with social networks. In 1995, he was convinced social networks were going to happen, and it was just a matter of time till somebody figured it out on the Internet, because that's such a fundamental property of humans, that we want to know each other and connect with each other.
00:13:16.742 - 00:13:54.054, Speaker C: And so he was playing with this stuff for literally a decade. I think people don't realize how early he was playing with social networks, and he just kept trying and trying and trying because he was convinced it was going to happen. And then 8910 years later, he does LinkedIn and he invests in Facebook. I think from a founder perspective, if you find one of these things that feels like an inevitability, if you're willing to be patient, actually, probably you'll get there, right? Probably you'll find that thing, even if it takes eight or ten years. But then when it happens, you can really recognize it. Right? Even if you're too early. I feel like this was part of our thought process in terms of going to crypto is like, we had no idea on what time horizon it would happen.
00:13:54.054 - 00:14:17.934, Speaker C: We're like, okay, we think this is going to happen. It might happen in three or four years, it might happen in ten or twelve years. We don't know. But it feels inevitable at some point. And so even if we're too early, by the time it does happen, we'll have built all the muscle. We'll be able to see that it's actually happened happening this time. Right? And so a lot of the people who saw Facebook happen in 2005 were people who had been playing with this stuff for many, many years.
00:14:17.934 - 00:14:40.326, Speaker C: And then when Facebook happened, they said, oh, this time it's real. Like, this time it's not a joke. This time it's not going to fall apart, because I've seen this all happen before, and this time it's real. So I think if you sort of have that insight or that realization or that belief, I think it's actually very freeing, right? Because now you don't have to worry about, what am I going to do? You're like, okay, well, I'll just do this until it happens. And then when it happens, I'm the best position in the world to actually see it happening for real.
00:14:40.428 - 00:14:56.330, Speaker A: That's great. Although then there is also the question of timing. Right? So oftentimes we do hear, like, you cannot be too late, of course, but if you are too early as a founder, as a startup, that can also cause issues. What do you think about that?
00:14:56.400 - 00:15:33.026, Speaker C: Yeah, you're right. The more likely failure mode for most founders, because most founders tend to be technologists, right? They tend to understand technology and see the promise of technology. The more likely failure case is that you're too early. And so there are a lot of ideas, like in the were tried that were just ten or 15 years too early. And so that is absolutely the greater of the two risks, that you're too early rather than too late. And so in some sense, if you kind of feel like you're too late, you're probably on time. So if you're looking at D five today and you're saying, oh, no, it's all over, all the big primitives have been established.
00:15:33.026 - 00:15:52.454, Speaker C: You're probably showing up on time, right? It's probably not too late because the size of the market is likely going to be 100 x bigger than anybody expects. So, great. There's 100 billion locked in TVL and DFI right now. I suspect the number is going to be at least 10 trillion. I don't think it's going to be anything less than that personally. Obviously not financial advice. Don't go trying to trade on that.
00:15:52.454 - 00:16:26.646, Speaker C: But to me, it feels like we're just so early, right? There's maybe a million people that have done anything D five related. Maybe if that's probably closer to single hundred thousand low 100,000 is probably my actual guess of actual users. So there's 3 billion people on the Internet. We're such a small fraction of the way there right now that I have to imagine it's got 100 x even from here. So, yeah, it feels like it's all done, or you're late, but actually we're still very early. Now, that being said, I think it depends on what your goals are. So I think if you're doing a startup, that is often the risk that you take is that you're just too early.
00:16:26.646 - 00:17:07.518, Speaker C: Which is why a lot of the best startup advice for early stage startups boils down to just survive. Just like figure out how to survive. And if you manage to survive for long enough, you'll do okay, because ods are you're too early. But if you take a slightly different lens on it, which is failure is okay, then you just keep trying. You can keep trying again and again, and eventually you'll get it right. And along the way, what you'll have built is a lot of the intuition and strategy and understanding, like really true, deep expertise and understanding of how this stuff works. And so actually, if you look at what's a good example from recent memory, I don't know if people are still on clubhouse.
00:17:07.518 - 00:17:41.294, Speaker C: That's an interesting example. Right? These are guys that have been playing in Socal for ten years before they really got it right. Or like the founders of Twitter had been playing in social for many, many years before they got it right. And so it's actually a common pattern that you have founders who hit success on the thing that they're doing, but they'd actually been playing for many years. We talked about Reed Hoffman. So if you take a sort of a long term view on it, which is okay, I may not be right now, but you think it's inevitable and the opportunity is big enough, that's okay. Eventually you might actually be right.
00:17:41.294 - 00:18:02.102, Speaker C: And then when you're right, you're really right, and that's a great place to be right. If you want a really asymmetric outcome, if you want something that's really big, then that's. I think the fundamental risk that you take, actually, is that you just might be a few years too early. And then you kind of have to suffer through that for a few years. But often the payouts are so big on the other side in terms of impact that you can have on the world that it's often worth it.
00:18:02.236 - 00:18:42.530, Speaker A: That's a great point. Okay, so talking about Defi, you mentioned Defi is essentially solving these huge fundamental problems in finance, but just in a different way. And an important aspect is how we measure Defi's growth and impact. So, so far in the community, mostly people use TVL total value locked as a metric to measure a DeFi protocol project and so on. So do you think TVL is appropriate metric to rank the popularity of DeFi protocols?
00:18:42.870 - 00:19:20.858, Speaker C: It's a know, it's not a great metric, but it's a start. And Scott Lewis, who invented TVL as a founder Defi pulse, will tell you the same thing. He's just like, yeah, it's an okay. But again, I tend to use historical analogy because I think there are these things at the time that didn't make sense to people, but when you look back on them because they make sense to us now, you're like, oh, yeah, that was kind of stupid. So there was a time, let's take with mobile apps, where the metric that people looked at was just downloads. Like, here's how many downloads we have. Or there was a time on the Internet where people just looked at page views.
00:19:20.858 - 00:19:48.274, Speaker C: They're like, here's how many page views we have. And in retrospect, you're like, okay, well, that kind of makes sense for certain kinds of applications, but that clearly doesn't make sense for all applications. If you're a payments business or if you're a SaaS business, you really should be looking at your revenue. You should be looking at your ARR, you should be looking at your average contract value. If you're a consumer business, you should be looking at your daus and your maus and your depth of engagement. There are these categories. If you're a marketplace, you should be looking at GMV.
00:19:48.274 - 00:20:46.310, Speaker C: It turns out, as people in an ecosystem get more sophisticated, our language to talk about what's happening gets more sophisticated, and our ability to sort of slice and dice those things and say, actually, this is how you should be thinking about. This gets much better. But right now, I think TVL, to me, is the equivalent of page views on the Internet or downloads in the mobile app era, which is, it sort of makes sense. But actually, I think when we play this forward ten years, we're going to say, well, that was kind of silly. Because clearly some payments execution product, like an instadap or a one inch, it's just like a different product than compound and Ave, right? Which is like this lending thing with a bunch of assets in there. And that's kind of a different thing than some sort of insurance protocol. And that's a different thing than an amm, or that's a different thing than a derivatives protocol like DyDx.
00:20:46.310 - 00:21:22.534, Speaker C: These are just different things. So obviously we should be talking about them differently and we should be more nuanced in the language that we use around them and the metrics that we track to use them. Now, one of the problems is there are a lot of different metrics that you could use. And so I think part of the evolution of an industry is that everybody in the industry has to come together to sort of converge on the metrics that matter. And so I think we're sort of in that process now. I think what's going to happen over the next five years is that we'll get much more sophisticated in the language that we use and the metrics that we track for each of these sub cases inside defi. But yeah, I don't think the market has really converged yet on how we talk about some of these things.
00:21:22.534 - 00:21:33.260, Speaker C: I think it's interesting. It's kind of potentially an opportunity. If somebody sat down and said, actually, here are the metrics we should be using, maybe I should do that. Maybe I should sit down, maybe I should write a blog post about that.
00:21:33.630 - 00:21:45.354, Speaker A: So maybe that's an exercise that we can do here. Also, what do you think? What are some other potential metrics that you consider appropriate to measure a healthy and organic growth?
00:21:45.402 - 00:22:49.570, Speaker C: Well, I mean, some really straightforward ones come to mind, right? I mean, if you have KYc users, it becomes a lot easier, but a lot of times in defi you don't. So you might have to. Proxy wallet addresses equals users, roughly speaking. And so I think you probably are looking at active wallet addresses on any given day or month. You're probably looking at some sort of gross merchandise volume like GMV, which is like, what is the payment volume of the thing that's flowing across the network? I think in some kinds of businesses you might actually be looking at, the core metric you might actually want to look at is effectively how much money are you saving people? So if your whole value proposition is like, I'm going to execute a bunch of trades for you, you do want to track GMV, but you also, in effect, want to track how much money you're saving people. What else. For something like a derivatives protocol, it's probably open interest volume and settlement volume, just sort of essentially transaction volume.
00:22:49.570 - 00:23:48.482, Speaker C: I think from these are sort of user facing metrics. I think from the protocols perspective, at the end of the day, revenue is actually not a crazy metric to be tracking either. What is the take rate of the protocol and whatever the value capture mechanism is, how much value are you actually capturing? And that's actually not a crazy metric to be looking at. I think in part because if you over optimize on that, the community just will leave. If you're too extractive, I think the community will leave. And so there's a natural counterbalance to that metric if you try to get too aggressive with it, but if you're able to continuously grow it, you're probably doing a lot of other stuff, right? I mean, at a really high level. My framework for metrics is basically there are only a couple of categories of metrics that matter, right? It's like how many people use your thing? How deeply do they use it, how good is your product at doing the thing that it claims to do, and how much money do you make? Those are the only four categories.
00:23:48.482 - 00:24:19.966, Speaker C: And so it's like how many wallet addresses do you have? There's some sort of gross merchandise volume or payment volume or transaction volume or open interest or something, which is like, how deeply are people using it? How good is it at the thing that it claims to do? So if what you're doing is like transaction routing of some sort, it's like, well, how much money are you actually saving people relative to the alternatives? And then how much revenue do you take? Right. So I think everybody will sort of converge on this or, but then at different lifecycles or in different subcategories, different categories of those metrics will matter more than others for different kinds of products.
00:24:20.068 - 00:24:32.946, Speaker A: Yeah, I think these metrics really measure, like you said, fundamentally these different aspects, the value that the product brings to users and its impact and so on.
00:24:33.048 - 00:25:14.030, Speaker C: Actually, one thought too, actually, sorry, that I didn't think about until we just had this conversation, is I kind of wonder how to roll community into this, because community is such an important facet and feature of these networks. It almost feels like you also want some sort of community health metric in there. And that might be a subcategory of how good is your product at doing what it claims to do. Because if you don't have a real community, then your product isn't actually good at what it claims to do. You need a real community of believers as well. So there might be some community metrics that are actually really different in crypto versus traditional businesses. I'll have to think about that.
00:25:14.030 - 00:25:16.098, Speaker C: Sorry to cut you off, but that was just a thought too.
00:25:16.264 - 00:26:02.090, Speaker A: No, great, great. Thank you. And also by community here, you mean more than just wallet addresses, wallet holders, broader community, and so great talking about this. Also as a consequence of essentially TVR only measures some aspects of the DeFi protocol usage and so on. So one common question I think we see today is that it appears that the majority of the defi activity is concentrated among a set of wheels and flashback style high frequency traders. Do you agree with this and how could we render define more inclusive?
00:26:02.170 - 00:26:43.660, Speaker C: I think it's certainly the case today. I think it's mostly, in my opinion, a side effect of gas fees. It's just Ethereum today has this challenge with throughput, and therefore gas prices are really high. And because gas prices are really high, in order for any of these transactions to really make sense, you have to move significant amounts of money around. If you're really doing less than a $10,000 transaction, is it really worth it to pay 300 or $1,000 in gas to really get your thing done? Probably not, right. And actually, the larger the dollar amount that you're moving, the more sense it makes. Like if you can move $100,000 and pay $300 in gas fees, that's even better.
00:26:43.660 - 00:27:22.410, Speaker C: And so, yeah, I think there's a natural current towards whales right now, and I think it's a side effect of gas fees. I think that will change as we get into L2s or side chains, or EVM compatible chains or other chains where DFI can spring up. Because in many of those cases, the gas fees are much, much lower, at least for now. In some cases, I think it's by design, and they will likely stay much lower for some time. In some of those cases, it may actually be the case that the gas fee, you just have the same problem as Ethereum. It's just there isn't a lot of demand there right now, but as demand shows up, you'll hit gas challenges and scalability challenges there as well. Or fee challenges, not gas challenges, but fee challenges.
00:27:22.410 - 00:27:56.694, Speaker C: But yeah, I think it's a side effect of the fees right now, and that's just sort of the reality of it. And that's okay. I think every system has its constraints. One way to think about that is like some of those constraints will get loosened and solved over time. But another way to think about it is, well, that's an opportunity, right. So if it turns out that's where the market is today, then as a founder, you can start thinking about what that means. And so it's entirely possible that until these scalability challenges are really solved, and I don't think we're that far away from them.
00:27:56.694 - 00:28:37.780, Speaker C: Right. Like, you're seeing L2s, like optimism and arbitrum roll out. You're seeing starkware has rolled out their thing. You have side chains between near and Celo and avalanche and oasis, and you have a bunch of good stuff that's allowing you to actually do defi now. So I think you're probably on the cusp of being able to address many of these things. But even if you said, hey, you know what, those things aren't ready yet, I think the opportunity from a founder's perspective may be that you just embrace it and you just say, okay, well, then really what we should do is solve for this problem and solve for the whales to be able to do what they need to do in the short term. And that's just your starting point.
00:28:37.780 - 00:29:08.710, Speaker C: And there are actually lots of examples of that in history. Right? Like, Tesla started that way. Tesla started with a $250,000 roadster because building electric cars is really hard and batteries are really expensive 15 years ago. And then slowly, over time, they worked themselves down to a model three that is a more consumer car. So it's not crazy. I think, also to just sort of say, okay, well, that's where we are. And so, as a founder, maybe that's where I should start, and then I'll build something that works for whales and works for large transaction amounts.
00:29:08.710 - 00:29:54.780, Speaker C: But keep in mind that the world is going to move and fees will come down. And so your protocol or your product needs to be set up to help to work for the average person, too. And I suspect the biggest and best protocols, like the ultimate winners here, will be led by teams that understand that that's where the world is going, that's the promise of this. And are sort of moving there and skating to where the puck is, as the saying goes, and getting ahead of mean. If you look at, for example, I think one of the really impressive teams is, like, the ave team, where they're very forward thinking, right? They're embracing. Every time there's a L2 that comes out like a polygon, they sort of embrace it. They're just like, okay, great, let's move there really fast, because I think they understand that today it works for whales and they're in a strong position.
00:29:54.780 - 00:30:20.478, Speaker C: I think Aave has the highest tvl of anybody, but they also understand that the world is going to change very quickly. And so they don't know when it's going to change, but they understand that it will change. And so then they're very aggressive about moving into these other lower fee sort of opportunities and just trying it out. And maybe it works, maybe it doesn't. But I think they understand that if they don't do that, somebody else will. And if somebody else does, then they get disrupted. Right? So they're very smart about that.
00:30:20.478 - 00:30:34.342, Speaker C: So I think that's a good playbook for founders as they're thinking about, okay, well, that's the way the world is today. But eventually the world is going to be much more open, much more accessible, much lower fees. And so positioning to be able to go there as the world happens over the next two to five years, I think is probably the right way to do it.
00:30:34.476 - 00:30:49.222, Speaker A: And then do you think the gas price is the only obstacle for this, to have more inclusive defi usage or other factors, you think, let's say, assuming tomorrow gas fee is really cheap?
00:30:49.366 - 00:31:14.586, Speaker C: No, it's not the only obstacle. I mean, there are a lot of others. I think it's the biggest one. But you're exactly right. It's not the only one by any means. I mean, in general, the user experience on this stuff is terrible, right? Like try explaining to an average person, like, okay, great, go. First create a coinbase account, then wire in some USD, then buy some eth, and then take your eth and then move it to your metamask.
00:31:14.586 - 00:31:31.766, Speaker C: And then, then take your metamask. What the hell is a metamask? Oh, you got to set that up. And then, okay, but make sure you don't get phished. And then only do it in this way. And then when you go here, this dialogue is going to pop up with a bunch of random characters on it. Zero, x, c, six, four, eight. Make sure that matches this other set of characters.
00:31:31.766 - 00:31:51.422, Speaker C: Hit confirm. It's just like, it's a terrible experience right now. There's no way normal people could do that. And now imagine trying to do that on a phone. Now imagine trying to do that on the phone in West Africa or Southeast Asia. Right? It's a nightmare of an experience right now. And so I think that needs to be made 100 x better and that will happen.
00:31:51.422 - 00:32:19.222, Speaker C: There are really good people working on all of these things, but the user experience around this stuff is absolutely terrible right now relative to where it could be. And it's amazing. I mean, it's a funny dichotomy, right? It's simultaneously a terrible user experience, and it's simultaneously magical. Every time I still send crypto, I'm just like, this is crazy. It's Saturday night, and I just sent somebody some money and just shows up in 10 minutes or 20 minutes or whatever. It's still sort of a magical experience. So it's a funny dichotomy where it's actually an amazing experience, and at the same time, it's a terrible experience.
00:32:19.222 - 00:33:04.226, Speaker C: And so if we can actually make it a usable experience for the average person, where they can actually get their heads around what's happening and use this stuff, I think that's where you'll actually see it become much, much more accessible as well. But in some sense, know, there's another sort of funny truism here, which is like, despite it being a terrible user experience, you still have a million people using it, and that really tells you that there's potential product market fit. Despite it actually being a terrible, terrible user experience, people are still willing to jump through all these hoops to use it. Or you look at something like Opensea, and the OpenSea experience itself, I think, is actually quite good. It's just like everything around Opensea is just like metamask. Getting e, like, signing transactions, like, all that stuff is just so hard. Opensea is doing $3 billion worth of gross merchandise volume.
00:33:04.226 - 00:33:38.282, Speaker C: It's just, like, crazy how much volume they're doing. And so imagine how big some of these things get once the user experience actually gets easy and good. And there are a lot of people working on it. But, yeah, I think that's probably the other big unlock is just basic user experience. Like, how do you even explain this stuff to normal people? Or what things do you abstract away? Like, what things do you not even show the normal person? And where is that line? Right? Because on the one end, the promise of this stuff is that it's self sovereign and you control your own assets and they can't be taken away, and so on and so. And you don't have to go through intermediaries. But on the other end, intermediaries do solve some real problems.
00:33:38.282 - 00:34:19.306, Speaker C: Like, you can do a password reset, or you can call somebody and say, like, hey, can you reset my password? Right. And actually, a lot of people need that. So I think there's going to be an interesting thing that plays out in the market here over the next five to ten years, as you get companies and protocols and businesses kind of on that entire spectrum, trying to play with the user experience. And I think it'll be really interesting to see where on the spectrum you get some winners. There will definitely be some big winners on the truly decentralized, self sovereign side. I think there'll be some really big winners on the 100% centralized side, like a coinbase. And I think it'll be really interesting to see if there's any big winners in the middle, which is sort of like quasi decentralized, but potentially a much better user experience than the fully decentralized.
00:34:19.418 - 00:34:32.130, Speaker A: And also, we can have more decentralized solutions for even things like password resets going forward. I think it's an exciting space with the new developments and so on, our.
00:34:32.200 - 00:34:43.670, Speaker C: Ability to maintain decentralization, but drive up the quality of user experience. There are fundamental technological advances that make that kind of stuff possible. That's absolutely right. It's a good point. Yeah.
00:34:43.740 - 00:35:16.670, Speaker B: You've beautifully laid out how the UI really poses challenges for users, which are still willing to spend hours and hours and a lot of money in gas fees, for instance. Yet they are quite prone to, as you mentioned, right, to problems such as phishing or other types of attacks, front running, et cetera. So this brings us to regulations to protect, at least, which should have the intent to protect users. Do you think GiFA is currently over or under regulated?
00:35:17.330 - 00:36:13.374, Speaker C: Both. I think the problem is that the regulations are not that clear and they're ill defined for what crypto actually is. So the example that you'll see thrown around a lot, I think, on crypto, Twitter, is we've created the car, but we're regulating it like a horse and buggy. So it's like, hey, make sure you tie your horse up outside the store so he can't run away. And you're like, what the hell does that mean in a car? Like, I have to get a leash on my car and tie it to the post, what does that mean? Right? And so a lot of the regulations, in my opinion, just don't quite make sense yet. And you kind of see this, by the way, this is not a knock against the FTC or the CFTC or regulators or anybody. It's just like that's kind of what happens in society, right? We invent new technology and then we realize that the old ways, like the old language that we had to describe that technology doesn't make sense anymore because the technology doesn't fit in those boxes.
00:36:13.374 - 00:36:58.042, Speaker C: And that's the nature of technology. I think it's a really good thing, actually, right? If we didn't have that tension between technology and regulation, then that would mean that something is really broken. That means technological progress has stopped because we stopped creating tension. You look at some of these things and you're like, okay, well, Ethereum used to be a security at the time that it was issued, but is no longer a security. So at some point along the way, Ethereum transmutated from being a security to not being a security. This is, by the SEC's own admission, right? So you're like, okay, well, that's interesting as a precedent. First of all, just to say that a thing used to be security is no longer a security.
00:36:58.042 - 00:37:39.194, Speaker C: And then that opens up a whole list of questions, which is like, okay, well, at what point did it become not a security, and how did that transformation happen? And can we turn that into a rule? Can you quantify that? Can you tell me that today a thing is no longer security, right? So it opens up a whole bunch of questions which we don't really have answers to. And without having answers to those questions, it's actually really hard to know. Literally, is a thing today a security or not a security? Because there's no clarity around that answer. So a lot of this stuff is, I think, ambiguous right now. And I think it's because technology just breaks these definitions. I'll give you another example. I think one of the things the government is going to have to struggle here with is how does KYC work? Because we now have two big challenges.
00:37:39.194 - 00:38:42.994, Speaker C: Like KYC, when everything was a Delaware C Corp or a us citizen with a Social Security number made like that term. Know your customer, KYC. That term makes sense in a smart contract world. It's not clear to me that term makes like, how do you KYC a smart contract? What does that spending? If I'm sending money to a to do I need to KYC that? Coinbase sends money to a smart contract. Does Coinbase need to KYC the smart contract? How would you even do that? Because it's not a human with a Social Security number, and it's not a Delaware C Corp with some like, what the hell is that thing? And how do you quote, unquote KYC it? What does it even mean to know your customer on an autonomous smart contract that lives in the cloud, that does not exist actually in any legal jurisdiction? Really? What does that even mean? Right. So I think we're actually going to bump up against a lot of this kind of stuff where we're just like, okay, the question doesn't even make sense anymore. And then we have to have sane discussions about, well, how do we actually regulate this? Because, yeah, of course you don't want a terrorist financing event to happen.
00:38:42.994 - 00:39:08.406, Speaker C: That would be terrible. And it would be both terrible, obviously, for the fact that there's a terrorist event and people die, and it would be terrible purely from the industry's perspective, because it could kill the industry. Right. That's an existential risk to defi and crypto. So clearly, we don't want that to happen. But maybe the way that we need to address that is actually by creating an entirely new way to solve this problem. And it's not unprecedented.
00:39:08.406 - 00:39:34.290, Speaker C: Right. I mean, we've created. Every time there's a new generation of technology, we sort of have created these sorts of precedents. So, actually, it's funny. We're, I think, going to have to revisit one of them in the traditional Internet around section 230. This is the thing that actually allowed the Internet in the early days to exist, where it basically said, if you're running a platform, you are not an editor. You're not like a traditional media company where you need to edit everything that's being said on these platforms and approve it.
00:39:34.290 - 00:40:25.938, Speaker C: You can take it down retroactively. And that was really, really important for the Internet to work. That's what allows blogs to happen and forums to happen and social media ultimately to happen. But now I think we're running up against, well, how does that work in a modern global system with fake news and misinformation? And so we're having to sort of revisit and maybe amend section 230. But I think section 230, in the early ninety s, I want to say it was 92 or 93 with the copy serve case, was a really important moment where actually a bunch of people actually said, hey, if we go one way, we're going to shoehorn in this Internet stuff to make it look kind of like a magazine or a newspaper, which it's clearly not. And so what we need to do is be smart about how we regulate this stuff to make sure that the innovation that can happen here actually does happen. And I think we're at a similar moment now with crypto.
00:40:25.938 - 00:40:40.186, Speaker C: It was just like, we actually need to sit back and say, wait a second. What problems are we trying to solve, and what is the right way to solve those problems so that we don't kill off the innovation? And I think that's kind of where we are right now. I don't think we've figured out a good solution to many of these problems, but I think we need to.
00:40:40.288 - 00:41:00.366, Speaker B: Yeah, I really like how you distilled in the sense that the reason that we created this tension is because there's innovation. So that's quite an intriguing insight. So speaking of innovation, nfts, right? We mentioned Opensea earlier, which is quite busy. So why do you think nfts are important?
00:41:00.468 - 00:42:17.622, Speaker C: The short, short answer is, I think it's a new business model that allows creators to connect directly with their fans without being disintermediated. So if you think about, in my opinion, the modern small business, is the creator online today, if you're graduating from college or grad school, you're like 22, 23, 24, you can get a tech job, you could get a white collar job, you're probably not going to get a factory job anymore. And if you wanted to start a small business, maybe in the 1970s, you would have started a restaurant or you would have started a cafe or something. But instead of doing that today, maybe you become a Twitch streamer, or maybe you become a YouTube celebrity or a TikTok celeb. That's actually a viable career path and you can actually make decent money doing it if you're good at it, right? You're a content creator, or you can have a substac, you're like an expert, you got a phd in macroeconomics, and you understand crypto, and you can totally start a substac and start charging people and make 100 grand a year, probably more than you could make writing for a major newspaper or something. So these are very viable career paths now just because of the scale of the Internet. The problem, of course, is that you're going through some intermediary that can shut you off.
00:42:17.622 - 00:42:57.682, Speaker C: So, like, if you have a patreon or if YouTube changes their algorithm or Facebook changes their algorithm, your business is gone. It's disappeared. And so what NFTs and crypto in general, I think, allow is for a direct relationship between fans and creators that can't be shut off, because by the nature of the crypto infrastructure of something like Ethereum, it can't be shut off. Like, that's the idea, right? And so what you actually have is that censorship, resistance, plus the value exchange allows you to have a new business model where creators can interface directly with their fans. And then NFT means a lot of different things. And so I think people are playing with what all of those different things are. And so you're seeing people say, well, the simplest form of it is for me to just create some art and sell it to you.
00:42:57.682 - 00:44:02.518, Speaker C: If I'm an artist, I can just sell you the art directly now. But I think people are going to play with things like I'm going to do a crowdfunding campaign and anybody can pull money into the smart contract and we'll go do stuff with it. In exchange, you get some NFT, which entitles you to governance rights on top of what this collection of capital will do. Or if you own this NFT, you get access to some special forum like you already see this with things like board apes. If you have a board ape, you can get access to special discord servers, and you might get airdrops from people that are trying to reach the board ape community. And so creators can sort of create communities with their nfTs, and the communities have benefits that come from being an NFT holder. Or Justin Blau at Royal or Royale is playing with this idea of how do music royalties work? Because in the traditional world, music royalties sort know there's this arcane system of the record labels that control the rights, and then the rights can get packaged up and resold and these private equity firms will go in and buy those rights.
00:44:02.518 - 00:44:46.978, Speaker C: But I think it'd be super cool, actually, if the fans could just own the music rights to the artists that they love, and the artists could retain some of that as well. And NFTs as infrastructure for that makes a ton of sense. If you own the NFT, you own one 1000th or one 1,000,000th of the rights to that particular music. And wherever the NFT sits, the money just shows up every month in that wallet. Actually, it's a piece of infrastructure to let money flow around and identify who's who. Potentially very valuable piece of infrastructure. So I think there are going to be a lot of different applications of quote unquote, nfTs, games and collectibles and digital art and music royalties, and they're going to be a thousand different applications.
00:44:46.978 - 00:45:20.802, Speaker C: But to me, the crux of it, what makes it really useful and novel and interesting, is that it's actually a different way for money to flow in a way that allows creators and fans to have a very direct relationship that can't be disintermediated, which is a fundamental problem on the Internet. It's actually creators and fans are disintermediated all the time. And back to this idea of disruptive innovation. I think this is a thing that the Internet can't do. This actually is a unique property of crypto infrastructure that you can't be disintermediated. Which is why I think creators are flocking to this. I think it's awesome.
00:45:20.802 - 00:45:57.806, Speaker C: I think it's actually entirely possible, in my opinion, that NFTs are actually how crypto goes mainstream. We're talking about how does this stuff really go mainstream? It might actually be that Defi tooling now exists. We keep working on the user experience to make that better. NFTs have come in, everybody can get their head around sports and music and art. That's a very normal user behavior that creates the impetus and the business model and the momentum for a bunch of this infrastructure to get way better. Now all the wallets get way, way better. And then three years from now, because all the wallets have gotten way better because of nfts and become way more usable, now all the d five stuff starts to work because everybody's here right now.
00:45:57.806 - 00:46:16.866, Speaker C: You have 100 million people here because they came for the art and the games and the video games and the music. And then they're here and they're like, oh, yeah, actually, I would love to take out a loan because my bank won't give me a loan. Or, oh, yeah, I would actually love to be able to lend money to people in these markets and help facilitate small businesses in West Africa. And now all of a sudden, the money starts to flow is actually NFTs catalyzed.
00:46:16.978 - 00:46:23.282, Speaker B: Speaking of this added value, because there's no disintermediation, how do you price an NFT?
00:46:23.346 - 00:47:21.782, Speaker C: I mean, I think it depends a lot on the specific case. If you look at something like board apes, what you're really buying into is a community. And so it's like, okay, well, what price do you put on being in a social club? If you look at something like crypto punks, I think part of what you're buying is social status. So what is social status worth to you? It's probably worth a lot to rich people. If you look at something like loot, if anybody's seen the loot project, what is it worth to potentially have one of the pieces of a new and emerging game that the community is creating together? Or the analogy I always use with loot bags is it's sort of like somebody created the original 52 card playing deck. At some point, somebody created the idea of, like, aces and spades and kings and queens and hearts and diamonds, right? Like somebody created that. Now imagine there's just like one of those decks.
00:47:21.782 - 00:47:43.326, Speaker C: That is the original deck, and you could buy one of those cards. And hundreds and hundreds of years later, there's blackjack and poker and gofish and solitaire. All these games have been created on top of it. And those are free. Those are open source for anybody to play, right. But at some point, somebody created the original playing card deck. That's kind of what loot bags are.
00:47:43.326 - 00:48:18.294, Speaker C: It's like there is the original deck that somebody created and you could own one of the cards in the deck. There's 8000 cards in the deck. So what might that thing have been worth if that original playing card deck still existed today? Probably a lot. In that case, it's going to be some function of what is the value of all of the games that get created on top of this playing card deck over the next five years. And is the community able to create real value? So I think it depends a lot on the use case that you're talking about with the nfTs. I mean, I think NFT today is sort of a catch all. And I think it's kind of like we were talking about TVL.
00:48:18.294 - 00:49:11.902, Speaker C: It's just sort of this blanket term that encapsulates a bunch of different use cases in defi. I think NFTs are sort of this blanket term right now, but actually, five years from now, maybe we talk about NFTs, or maybe we talk about things like play to earn games and collectibles and communities around art. I think we may actually just evolve our language to talk about the specific use cases. I would generally expect that to happen with crypto in general. For what it's worth, it reminds me a lot of mobile. There was a time, I think, in 2010, 2011, when we were doing our startup where if you went and pitched a vc, you're like, oh, we're a mobile app company and here's what we do. And if today, if you went and pitched a vc and you're like, hey, we're a mobile app, they'd be like, well, of course you are.
00:49:11.902 - 00:49:38.086, Speaker C: What else would you be? Right? That's like a weird thing to say, right? Of course you have a mobile app. Why wouldn't you have a mobile app? It's like weirder if you don't have a mobile app, right? And so I think for crypto and nfts, probably five years from now, there just comes a day where you're just like, oh, yeah, we do collectibles. We do digital collectibles, or we have this digital game, this community owned digital game, and people just know, oh, what that means is you're using NFTs under the hood because that's the only way to do that thing.
00:49:38.188 - 00:49:56.742, Speaker B: And these various categories of NFTs are obviously attracting quite different demographics, user demographics, to the blockchain ecosystem, right? So which kind of demographics do you think are nfts attracting? Maybe in the short term and maybe in the midterm?
00:49:56.806 - 00:50:39.750, Speaker C: Yeah, I think it's a variety. I mean, I think if you look at NBA, Topshot and dapper now has a partnership with NFL. That's sort of the sports audience. Right. Your mainstream sports audience that loves superfans of sports, of the NBA and the NFL. If you look at crypto punks and board apes, it's a lot of sort of, there's athletes and musicians and celebrities like the chain smokers have a board ape as their profile pick on Twitter, or like Jay Z bought a crypto punk. Right? If you look at things like loot, it's a lot of sort of crypto plus game players.
00:50:39.750 - 00:51:12.178, Speaker C: I think if you look at things like Axie just play to earn games, it's a totally different audience. Right. It's a bunch of people in the Philippines that are playing in this game. Right? So, yeah, I think it's going to be pretty diverse in varied audiences, but for lack of a better term, it's going to be, by and large, I think what's interesting about it is it's going to be not crypto people. It's actually like one minus crypto people. It's basically like everybody else, which is why it's so amazing. I think that's why it's such an interesting area is it's actually everybody else.
00:51:12.178 - 00:51:19.480, Speaker C: The crypto people already get it. And now this is actually, I think, one of the few things that actually normal people might be able to get their heads around.
00:51:20.010 - 00:51:52.090, Speaker A: We talked about Defi and we talked about NFT, and we mostly talked about them separately today. Although I really like your insight about maybe with NFT, we have more users with a great wallet experience, and then that can help DeFi to grow more users and so on. So then in addition to this, what's your view on the combination of NFT and DeFi primitives? What new opportunities and killer apps can emerge through their combination?
00:51:52.250 - 00:52:29.466, Speaker C: Yeah, this is a great question because I think one thing we didn't talk about on the NFTs is the fact that it's truly digital. You get all of the properties that we talked about in DeFi as well, which is you get the openness, you get the auditability, you get composability. And so I think nfTs, by being digital assets plus smart contracts, that is a really interesting area and a combination. And I think we're just starting to scratch the surface on what that means. And so, like v one. I think things like fractional ownership of nfts. So you put an NFT in a smart contract and issue 100 tokens against that.
00:52:29.466 - 00:52:57.334, Speaker C: Now you can sell 50 of those tokens, or 60 of those tokens, or 40 of those tokens, however you want to sell. That's an interesting primitive. I think lending against these is going to be a thing. So you put your nft down as collateral, essentially, and you can borrow money against it. So if I have a crypto punk, maybe somebody's willing to lend me 100 grand at 5% a year. Because if I default on my loan, they get my crypto punk. And if I don't default, if I keep paying my loan payments, they make 5%, which actually feels like a pretty good deal.
00:52:57.334 - 00:53:29.434, Speaker C: If you want a crypto punk, you're like, well, either I get a crypto punk or I make 5% of my money. That feels pretty good. And so I think there will be sort of lending and borrowing against this. I think you'll get the equivalent of like mortgages, which is maybe I can lend you money to buy a crypto punk or buy a board ape board. Ape floor right now is like 40 eth. So maybe you don't have 40 eth, but maybe you're willing to put down four eth of your money and you need to borrow 36 eth, and I lend you 36 eth at some interest rate. But the board ape actually sits in a smart contract.
00:53:29.434 - 00:53:59.858, Speaker C: So you can use it. You can use it for your profile pick. It's technically yours, but it's sitting in a smart contract where I can repossess it if you default on your payments, right. And so effectively, it's like a mortgage for nfts. So I think all of these and many other things will exist, or another one, I think you'll start to get even more specialized, is I think next gen nfts will be remixable. So if you look at loot bags, for example, it has eight items inside a loop bag, and I think you'll be able to pull those things apart. And some of them have different rarities, and those rarities are known.
00:53:59.858 - 00:54:35.474, Speaker C: And so then what you'll be able to do is remix those. And so maybe you can take ten different loop bags that you have, decompose each of those items. So you take like your divine robe and your katana. One loop might have a divine robe and the other one might have a katana, and some other one has like a one of one that you want. You can break all of those apart and then remix them and create a new one. And that's like a super loot bag that you have. And maybe that thing is super, super valuable because you've combined all these items together, right? Or imagine you kind of saw this with like mutant apes where you can take an existing ape, apply some token to it and create a mutant ape and create a new, like.
00:54:35.474 - 00:54:57.194, Speaker C: I think that kind of remix behavior, because these things are digital, is going to be increasingly common and we'll create some standards and some primitives around think, I think nfts as fundamentally digital objects, plus smart contracts and taking some of these ideas from Defi about composability, I think some of those primitives, I think that combination is going to be really interesting as well.
00:54:57.312 - 00:55:12.650, Speaker A: So now let's move on. Talk a little bit about your fund and your fund experience and lessons you learned from. So what's your experience for setting up and running a crypto fund? And how different is it to a traditional.
00:55:12.810 - 00:55:52.358, Speaker C: It's very know, I think on the equity side it's sort of similar ish. Like you can look at a business and say, okay, is it like I can look at some. Like you can look at Coinbase as a traditional VC firm and say, oh, do I understand that business? It was hard for Coinbase to raise money along the way because most people didn't really understand crypto. But I think we're now getting to a point where a lot of vcs sort of understand crypto and they can look at that business and make a decision on the business. Once you start getting into defi, once you start getting into like, by and large, the traditional vcs don't really understand them yet. I think they'll get up to speed. But even once they're up to speed, I think operationally is very different to run a crypto VC firm.
00:55:52.358 - 00:56:42.986, Speaker C: Right. So for example, let's say you invest in some token network and you have a bunch of, like, where do you custody them? Yeah, maybe Coinbase supports it, but do you just have a USB stick sitting in your office and some associate can see it? Do you put in a safety deposit box? Well, what happens if the person who has the key to the safety deposit box dies? So how do you mark your books? Like at the end of the quarter? What are the tokens worth? Do your investors into the VC firm understand how the pricing on this stuff works? Have they opted into understanding that? How do you pay your taxes if you have DeFi and you're doing any kind of yield generation? Do you have the tooling in place to actually, block by block, be tracking your taxes. So it turns out a lot of infrastructure that you need to be able to do a lot of this properly and at scale. And there are not a lot of firms that know how to do that. So at electric, we've built a lot of that. Most of our team is engineers. So we're technically a VC firm.
00:56:42.986 - 00:57:19.880, Speaker C: But if you look at who we hire and who works on the team, it's mostly software engineers. And it's because we actually have to write a lot of code to be able to do all the things that we do. In the long term, I think that's actually going to be a moat for our business. We can do a lot of stuff that the traditional vcs just can't do, which then allows us, I think, to ultimately go do things that are additive to crypto networks. Like we can participate in the networks and we can help with governance and use tokens strategically. We can do that kind of stuff on chain, which I think makes us more value add. So five years from now or ten years from now, does third party tooling exist to make all this stuff possible? Probably.
00:57:19.880 - 00:57:58.498, Speaker C: But then I think the frontier will have moved, right? Like three years ago it was just, can you understand layer ones and now it's nfts. And can you understand how to do anything with nfts? So I expect the frontier will just keep moving. I mean, in many ways, the way we describe this is if you subscribe to this Andreessen Horowitz idea of software is eating the world. Crypto is just software eating venture capital. Right? And so if you don't understand software and you're trying to be a crypto VC, you're swimming against the current. And I think play it forward even another ten years. I think it's really possible that the VC firm, the crypto VC firm of ten years from now, looks really different even than what a VC firm is like.
00:57:58.498 - 00:58:40.622, Speaker C: Maybe it's some sort of dow on chain where a bunch of people can pool capital and there are people who are getting compensated to make decisions. On top of that, Dow. And actually, the reason that founders are taking money from the Dow is because they're actually going to get tapped into the 100 people in the community who invested in that Dow. Right? So even what it means to be a VC firm or the value that a VC firm brings, maybe that ends up being distributed on chain in a different way ten years from now. Right? So that's always in the back of our heads, too, is actually do we end up getting disrupted by crypto itself? Right. We have to do a bunch of stuff differently because we invest in crypto. But does crypto actually fundamentally disrupt our business? And if so, what does that mean for us? And how do we think about actually evolving our business so that we don't get entirely disrupted?
00:58:40.686 - 00:59:07.178, Speaker A: Also on your website, you even describe the team as builders first and foremost. So now I can see why you wrote it that way. Are there other points you think why being builders as a fund is important? And also besides these tools for doing maybe defi staking and so on, what other tools do you build?
00:59:07.264 - 00:59:44.326, Speaker C: Yeah, the defi staking, yield generation, taxes, I mean, portfolio tracking in general. We also have ways to track, like developer engagement. So we've written software to crawl about 80 million repositories on GitHub and sort of analyze them and share those. Yeah. So we published an annual developer report that we're working on the 2021 version right now. So we'll publish that later this year. We're working on some community tools to really understand where community engagement is, in discords and telegrams and reddits, for example, just to see where people are actually engaging and what are they talking about.
00:59:44.326 - 01:00:20.420, Speaker C: So you can do sentiment analysis on different communities to understand what they talk about, for example. So yeah, we built a lot of that sort of tooling as well. And some of that we can open up to our founders so we can help them, for example, do recruiting by tapping into some of these channels. So if you know that there's a person who's really, really active on discord and they keep talking about sophisticated technical concepts, maybe that's a person you should think about recruiting, right, to be on your team. And so we can use this data and software in interesting ways. So we do a lot of that. One other, I think, really important point, because we're primarily early stage like seed and Series A is kind of where we focus.
01:00:20.420 - 01:01:06.846, Speaker C: I think having been a founder myself too, and having raised a lot of venture capital, I think there's also like an intangible that a lot of founders feel when they talk to people who have been founders. It's like the emotional resonance of, like, I've been there and I've suffered through the ups and the downs as a founder. Some days you go in and you're like, oh, we're definitely going to IPo this company. And then literally you'll go in a week later and you're like, oh my God, we're going to go bankrupt, right? That's the emotional ride of being a founder. Some days you walk in and you're, this is totally going to fail. And a couple of days later, you walk in and you're like, this is amazing that we're going to be the biggest company on earth or the most successful protocol or whatever, but there's sort of like an emotional intangible there. And I think when you talk to investors who have actually been founders, the resonance is just different because they've been through it.
01:01:06.846 - 01:01:26.630, Speaker C: It also, I think, creates different kind of behaviors downstream. If you've been through that as a founder yourself and you're an investor, you sort of know how to navigate that. You can help people navigate that. You're sort of patient when things are not going well. When things are going really well, you're like, okay, it'll probably get worse in six months. Things are never as bad as they seem. Things are never as good as they seem.
01:01:26.630 - 01:02:03.666, Speaker C: But I think, yeah, I think when it comes to actually raising money, increasingly, I think founders want to raise money from people who have been founders. I think there's some natural current in that direction. Just why you see so many of the new generation of investors are actually even sometimes current founders, right? It's not even former founders. It's like people are investing alongside, doing their core thing. I mean, if you look in Defi, for example, it's like Robert Leshner and Stani at Alve and Kane from Synthetix, like a lot know Tarun at Gauntlet, a lot of the best angel investors are actually founders. It's not that dissimilar from what's happening in traditional tech, too.
01:02:03.768 - 01:02:12.534, Speaker A: So then what do you think? What is a great crypto project? What do you look for when you make decisions on whether to invest in a project?
01:02:12.652 - 01:03:58.294, Speaker C: Well, there are a lot of answers. I mean, it depends on kind of the specifics of the project. Of course, we look at four things. We look at team, the technology product, if there's any kind of traction, and token economics, if there's a token team is most important at the early stage. Is this ultimately somebody or a group of people that can build the thing and ship it? Is the technology real? Does it solve a real problem? Does it actually do what it claims to do? Does it have any traction? Is anybody actually using this? Or if it doesn't yet, is there a reasonable go to market plan? Like, is there a plan to go get users? And what is that plan? And have they been thoughtful about it? And then, of course, thinking through the token economics and in practice, you're not going to have a lot of this figured out other than the team at the earliest stages. And so a lot of what we end up indexing on is, is the group of people that we're having this conversation with, are they going to be able to do what they claim to do? And a lot of that, funnily enough, I think, really boils down to, can the team help you learn something that you didn't know before? Or put slightly differently, like, often one of the signals I'm looking for is the, can the team teach us something counterintuitive? Right? So, like, if we walk in and we hold belief x and we walk out of a meeting with belief not x, like, we've totally changed our opinion on something that is a really strong signal, and it doesn't happen that often because actually it's hard to do that. And that's not to say we're the smartest people on earth or anything.
01:03:58.294 - 01:04:30.046, Speaker C: It's just like we're reasonably smart people, and so we probably hold a lot of mainstream, reasonable views for crypto. And so if somebody comes along and says, actually the mainstream reasonable view in crypto is incorrect, and I've discovered something that is true that most people who are smart have not figured out is true yet, that's really interesting. Right. Because that's where really big insights come from. That's where really interesting businesses get built. That's where really interesting protocols happen, is like somebody has figured out something that's actually true that most people have not yet figured out is actually true. So that's often the biggest signal we look at.
01:04:30.046 - 01:04:40.520, Speaker C: Like when we're zooming into the team, it's like, can you actually do what you claim to do? But often it's like after a couple of conversations, you realize that these people have figured out something that's true, that most people have not yet realized is true.
01:04:41.370 - 01:04:54.074, Speaker B: Like these counterintuitive. Right. The counterintuitive insights are very valuable because they kind of show a different route or maybe different opportunities that some others have not considered earlier, right?
01:04:54.112 - 01:05:25.166, Speaker C: Yeah. Often it comes down to there's some assumption that people have, and the assumption is not true. Most people are smart enough that they can reason through things pretty quickly. The problem is, what information are you starting with? Like, what assumptions do you start with that, then you reason through. And often what you find when you're doing these exercises is actually, there's some assumption that you had that turns out to not be true, and what a really good founder will do is challenge the assumption. So what they'll say is like, oh, it turns out everybody assumes X, but that's not true. And let me explain to you why X is not true.
01:05:25.208 - 01:06:10.226, Speaker B: It's going back to basic principles, right? Yeah, fundamental principles. So, speaking about the future of Defi. So humanity basically went through quite a few filters, right? We survived a lot of thunderstorms, et cetera, despite being confined kind of, to this one planet that could be hit by NASA every day. Right? What do you think? Does Defi need to, which filters does Defi need to cross to survive next? What are the biggest hurdles kind of that we need to solve and how can we solve them?
01:06:10.408 - 01:06:42.390, Speaker C: I think that the next big filter for DeFi probably is regulatory at this point. I think everything else, hacks and bugs, and we'll fix all that stuff. The tooling is getting better and better. I think the usability stuff, we'll fix that. There's enough smart people coming in. But I think the next big filter is probably regulatory. And I think it's sort of a challenge with Defi in particular, because by its very nature, these ecosystems, being decentralized means we're not efficient and we're not good at coordinating.
01:06:42.390 - 01:07:18.182, Speaker C: Right. Because if you think about it, decentralized systems are really designed to be resilient and long living, but they're not designed to be efficient and they're not designed to be effective in short periods. That's really what centralized systems excel at. And now what we have is the need to interface with a highly centralized system, which is like, it's not even that. There are like 100 senators that matter or 450 congresspeople that matter. It's like five senators that matter in the US and 20 congresspeople that matter. It's like very small number of people that actually matter.
01:07:18.182 - 01:08:19.690, Speaker C: And so how do you get this global community of developers and engineers and protocols to coordinate and convince five senators that we're trying to do good things here, right? Like, what does that interface even look like? So it's a big challenge, and I think it's probably our biggest challenge right now. We spent a lot of time thinking about this. We spent a lot of time behind the scenes working with various senators offices and their aides and congresspeople and various nonprofit organizations and donating a bunch of money to this stuff, as do a lot of other VC firms in the space. This is actually where a bunch of our money and time goes. Andreessen spends a bunch of time on this paradigm, spends a bunch of time on know, compared to, let's say, the banking industry, we're decades behind. Those guys are pros at this kind of stuff. The Defi and crypto ecosystems, we're very nascent in our ability to actually have influence right now.
01:08:19.690 - 01:08:45.046, Speaker C: And I think it's important because the regulation is going to happen. And I think back to this idea of we need good regulation, right? We need regulation that allows the innovation to happen in the right ways. And so I think we're now past the point of no regulation. The regulation is definitely going to happen. And so now it's either, well, are you going to get bad regulation or are you going to get good regulation? And so now we have to sort of think that's the next filter is like, can we actually figure out how to get good regulation there?
01:08:45.108 - 01:08:56.278, Speaker B: Interesting backstage insight that you don't see so visibly out there. Thanks. So if you have a magic wand, what would you like Defi to look like in five or ten years?
01:08:56.444 - 01:09:28.414, Speaker C: Well, I mean, it depends how you define that. I mean, I think on the back end I would hope it's much more secure and robust and easy to build on top of and much more accessible. And it's actually reaching people that need this stuff the most, the underbanked today, people in developing economies, which I think will happen ultimately. If you look at something like mobile phones, that's where it had the biggest impact as it sort of spread through the world. And so I think that will happen. And then on the front end, I would hope that we don't even call it DFI anymore. We don't even use that term.
01:09:28.414 - 01:10:23.778, Speaker C: It's just, oh, yeah, I can get a loan and I can move money around and I can do it, can pay its bills and I can pay my employees immediately or I can send money back to my family in another country. Like all these really basic things today, all of a sudden we can do them and they're ordered magnitude cheaper and they happen instantly and much more securely and privately. And all of those things will then build into things like, oh, I can actually be a creator and I can create great work and I can sell it on the Internet and my fans will pay me directly and the bank can't shut me off and YouTube can't shut me off and Patreon can't shut me off. Not to pick on those companies by any means. I don't think they're bad companies or doing anything bad. It's just sort of like to each individual creator that accidentally gets caught in some machine learning filter, that's terrible. From a precision and recall perspective for YouTube they're 99% right.
01:10:23.778 - 01:10:45.514, Speaker C: They're fantastic at what they do. But when you're talking about a billion people, that 1% really hurts. And so, yeah, I hope in five years we don't even use some of these terms. It's just like, oh, I solve these problems, right. The application just solves some problem and it's almost magical or it's just abstracted away from the end user, how the problem even gets solved. They're just glad that the problem is.
01:10:45.552 - 01:10:53.098, Speaker A: Being solved to expand this further. So how do you think the web will be different from web3 in ten years?
01:10:53.184 - 01:11:25.334, Speaker C: Yeah, I think they just converge. It's also a similar thought. Right. I think there will come a point where actually, if you have the option of building it using web3 infrastructure versus web two, you're just going to choose to use web3 because it's going to give you a lot of the same properties in terms of ease of building and being able to reach your users and the end users wanting it. And it's going to give you a bunch of new features. You'll be able to plug into all these mobile wallets, you'll be able to plug into money movements. And so your business model will be better because actually the fees will be better.
01:11:25.334 - 01:12:01.730, Speaker C: You won't need like a separate bank account, you don't have to worry about currency conversions. All of these things will just be so seamless that actually for a developer, you'd look at it and say, well, actually, maybe I should just build it mostly on web3 and get all those great properties. And then maybe you still have to, maybe you have to wrap it in a mobile app to shove it into web two distribution panels. But actually at its core it's still a web3 app. And so I actually think ten years from now, hopefully there is no distinction between web two and web3. It's just developers are going to build on whatever systems are better for them and ultimately I think web3 systems will be much better for them ten years from now.
01:12:01.800 - 01:12:21.340, Speaker A: So maybe just one final question. We love to share lessons and recommendations to the students and learners and the audience. So what are your favorite books? What books would you recommend to students and learners in the space?
01:12:21.790 - 01:13:32.842, Speaker C: There's a couple that come to mind. So one, I think just reading the primary sources, like going and reading the bitcoin white paper and the ethereum white paper and just like going and reading the white papers and then tracing through the sources, like actually go back and read hashcash or something, right? Just go read the originals and get your head around how this stuff even happened. There's a great book, I'm looking it up right now, called the company, which is essentially a history of how, if you go back to the 16 hundreds, the idea of pooling capital together was a novel concept. And actually the ability to pool capital and separate capital risk from personal risk and operational risk is a really important concept. And then eventually, so that's like the joint stock company with the Dutch East India Company. And then in the mid 18 hundreds, that evolves into people being able to create limited liability corporations by filling out some paperwork and going to their government and saying, hey, I want to start an LLC or a company. Because up till that point, you actually had to get approval from a king or a governor.
01:13:32.842 - 01:14:01.254, Speaker C: Like they had to give you a charter to start a company. And we sort of, like, lowered the friction to that. And I think the reason I'm understanding that history is really important is because I think in crypto, we've put that on steroids. We've now made it just in the same way that it was 100 x improvement to go from a king having to give you a charter to start a company to like, I can just file some paperwork and start a company on chain. It's like you push a button and you started a dow. And it's not just a dow, but it's actually a community, and it's a way to pool capital. So it's your bank account, it's a way to move money around.
01:14:01.254 - 01:15:27.750, Speaker C: So it's actually like a company plus a bank account, self sovereign bank at a push of a button. And so I think that's at least 100 x better than filing some paperwork at the government. And so I think understanding that is like the future of how capital is going to get pooled and moved around is important. And then I think I'm looking for where the original is, but I think going back and reading actually some of the original sort of cipherpunk literature could actually be a really good understanding of the roots, the cultural roots of a lot of what's happening right now. And understanding why were people in the 90s thinking about some of these ideas? Why were they thinking about privacy? Why were they thinking about moving money around? Why were they thinking about the ability for people to have this kind of control and self sovereign control? And what were they worried about? And I think some of those principles are really interesting. I think probably the fiction book that most people probably read the most is snow crash. And there's sort of a bunch of good tidbits in there that I think are sort of relevant to where crypto is headed and the metaverse, and maybe one last one is a lot of these concepts.
01:15:27.750 - 01:16:08.560, Speaker C: I think that I'm going to make sure I get the author. Uh, that's right, Davidson. Going back and reading the sovereign individual, which, again, has, I think, been a very influential book from a history of understanding these concepts perspective. So, yeah, I tend to think there's like, a Lindy effect to these. Right. Which is you kind of want to pay attention to the books or the concepts that have managed to persist for a long time, which is why reading the bitcoin white paper and the Ethereum white paper is really good. Understanding the history of the company, because the company as a concept has persisted for so long.
01:16:08.560 - 01:16:25.510, Speaker C: Snow crash, because it just keeps coming back over and over. And it's been so influential to how people think about the metaverse sovereign vigil, because it's clearly so influential in terms of how people have thought about crypto over the last ten years, 20 years. So those are some of the ones that come to mind.
01:16:25.660 - 01:16:35.510, Speaker A: Great. Yeah. Thank you. Thank you so much. I think this has been so amazing, such a wonderful discussion.
01:16:36.330 - 01:16:38.420, Speaker C: Oh, thank you so much. I really appreciate it.
