00:00:00.880 - 00:00:32.478, Speaker A: What's up, guys? Taki here. And welcome to part two of the series. How does DeFi get to a trillion TVL, where at the beginning of every month we take a step back and ask ourselves, how do we get back to its previous all time highs at 175 billion according to Defi llama right now, the TvL is at 38.2. And when I made this video last month, it was 37.8. So, you know, a $400 million increase in a month, that's cool and all, but that's nowhere near good enough. And I ask myself this question all the time as like, a full time DeFi bull analyst or whatever you want to call it. And I have a few opinions that I want to share.
00:00:32.478 - 00:01:14.710, Speaker A: Obviously, Defi TVL is denominated mostly in bitcoin, ether and stablecoins, okay? Because people lock up their crypto monies in these smart contracts. If the price of these crypto money, like, assets go up, then obviously TVL goes up. And also there's a lot of dollars in the ecosystem. So if the stablecoin market cap goes up, then TvL also goes up. And at September. Right? So, like, when I last made a video, the stablecoin market looked like this, and I was like, okay, maybe it's kind of like holding support here, but fast forward to October. And, I mean, maybe this is like, the rate of change of, like, the decline is getting much better, but obviously, we're still seeing stablecoin outflows instead of inflows, and this is nowhere near good enough.
00:01:14.710 - 00:02:10.278, Speaker A: And people have different arguments on, or people have different opinions on how we see TVL go up. Some people, right? Some people think that price needs to pump first and then dollars will chase. And, you know, that kind of makes sense, right? But I'm not of that opinion. I'm of the opinion that in order for price to go up, we first need to see the stablecoin market cap. Market cap go up. Because, like, look at this, right? I mean, like, how can we expect price to go up sustainably if, like, literally, like, the dollars in the system is only bleeding and thinking long and hard? And I came to this conclusion a couple months ago, and, you know, I was really looking deep into defi, like, crypto native applications, like the value proposition and the value it creates. But unfortunately, I just think that in this macro regime where interest rates, then the risk free rate is above 5%, DeFi applications just cannot compete.
00:02:10.278 - 00:03:03.270, Speaker A: Crypto native applications just can't create enough value for people to, people are going to choose 5%. Risk free rate, over 10% random crypto yield. That's just the cold, hard truth. And I think the only way right now for capital to flow back to the ecosystem is via tokenized treasuries or real world assets where we have entities and projects buying t bills off chain. And then whenever those t bills mature, flowing those interest payments from off chain to on chain and distributing those yields to token holders. And then, or to put it simply, bringing the risk free rate on chain, because this is the projection of the Fed funds rate and the market projects that we're not going to see rate cuts until the latter half of next year. But even if the risk rate goes, let's say, 4.5%,
00:03:03.270 - 00:04:05.450, Speaker A: can crypto applications compete with that? Yeah, the benchmark gets lowered a little bit, but this is nowhere crypto applications, I think it's nowhere good enough. I think if we're trying to recreate the traditional financial system on like blockchain rails, I think, you know, like the crypto maxis, they have this like certain way of thinking where, you know, they, like, they tell themselves and others that, you know, what, like, you know, tradfi needs to onboard, like crypto, right? Traffic needs to adopt crypto or they're going to become irrelevant. So, you know, people think that, okay, like, let's just keep building applications and then eventually trash file will adopt it. I think that's pretty unrealistic. I think what needs to happen is for, I mean, the crypto builders to continue building. And some projects, some teams just has to build like a bridge from, let's say, crypto to trashify, okay? And if you don't meet them in the middle, I just don't see how trash fight like moves over. And I kind of view RWA as like a trojan horse where, you know, tried sees the value prop of permissionless blockchains, instant settlement, fast settlement times.
00:04:05.450 - 00:04:51.010, Speaker A: And then, you know, as more TBO flows in the ecosystem, then maybe we can actually build superior financial products on top via composable smart contracts. And I've talked about, you know, this multiple times, but unfortunately, like, we don't have that right now just because of pure greed, okay. Because right now the larger stable coins is obviously USDC and USDT. And what do they do, right, as their business model? Well, they take in your dollars, right? So if you deposit, you know, $10,000 into Coinbase, you mint USDC, circle says thank you, right? Thank you for your money. We're going to mint 10,000 USDC, which doesn't pay anything. And then with like, the fiat that you gave them, they're going to buy t bills and they're going to keep all the profits. Of course, if you hold USDC on Coinbase, you get some yield, but that's not really defi, right? I mean, that's literally just a savings account.
00:04:51.010 - 00:05:39.820, Speaker A: And tether does the same thing, right? They literally take your backing, buy t bills, they keep all the profits, and they make roughly a billion dollars every single quarter. And why wouldn't they, right? It's a great business model. The stablecoin holders don't demand a, like, you know, yield, so there's gonna keep these profits. And I think that we're entering this macro regime shift where, you know, some projects are gonna say, you know what? Like, we need to eat into that market cap, right? Like, we need to eat into that market share. Like, why don't we issue our own stable coins, take some backing, buy t bills, and then distribute those interest payments on chain. Okay? And this is like what's been happening with SDAI. And it's been of the opinion that I think in order for Defi TvL to hit a trillion, we need to see, you know, like the die.
00:05:39.820 - 00:06:03.642, Speaker A: So, for example, you know, everyone knows, like the Dai stable coin, right? You can stake your Dai in the Dai savings rate, the DSR, and earn 5%. Where's the yield coming from? It's coming from t bills. And the TVO of this has been pretty much up only. And last month, when I made this video, it was at 1.31 billion. So a pretty decent amount of capital. And if you think about it, right, it's like Defi TVO, like, went up $400 million, right, from 37.8
00:06:03.642 - 00:06:29.982, Speaker A: to 38.2. And then the amount of money in the DSR went from 1.3 to 1.65. Right? Basically $350 million increase. And of course, right, like, I'm not saying that, like, this is like the only source of TVL growth, but it's a sign that, you know what? Like, why hold USDC? Why hold USDT? Just like not doing anything in your wallet when you can literally just stake it into DSR and 5%. Okay. And this is kind of like a vampire attack on the USDC market app.
00:06:29.982 - 00:07:35.114, Speaker A: Because what Dai is essentially doing is people put in USDC to mint Dai, and with the backing, right, maker, Dao redeems the USDC into fiat, and then by t vuls. So it's kind of like a slow vampire attack in a way. And I had this discussion with Nick Carter, which I'm sure a lot of people know as a bitcoiner, a pretty famous writer, speaker and whatnot. And he had a really good talk at Token 21 49, which I really respect or which I encourage people to read. And the market is punishing stablecoins issuers for the greed. And I think it's inevitable that we see more and more stablecoin projects, issue their stablecoin offshore in maybe more lenient regulatory regimes, and then slowly eat away at the market cap of USDC. Hopefully eventually USDC and USDT feel the pressure and they're going to be forced to share some of the yield, like on chain participants, not to coinbase stakers, but actual on chain participants and back to real world assets.
00:07:35.114 - 00:08:08.724, Speaker A: I think a lot of people don't like rwas. There's all the pushback. For example, I'll talk about this, and I'm not really against this person. This person, he's just sharing an opinion. I mean, it's Twitter, people share their opinions, but I think the word RWA triggers people. I think a lot of people get into crypto because they have this certain mindset about we don't like traffic and we want to build crypto native applications and we want to say fuck the banks or whatever. That's the vibe.
00:08:08.724 - 00:08:41.018, Speaker A: That's definitely the vibe. Then a lot of people get triggered because is this even defi? You're literally just tokenizing t bills on chain. Yes, you're creating a yield bearing dollar, like a yield bearing stable coin. But is that really defi? That's not really defi. And I mean, of course it's not purely defi, but like I mentioned, like it's, it's always a spectrum, right? Like Defi is never going to be like 100% decentralized. You know, it's, it's going to be a spectrum, right? Like some people prefer like more centralized products. Some people prefer purely decentralized products.
00:08:41.018 - 00:09:12.574, Speaker A: But you know, it's not like black or white, there's like a gray area in between. And unfortunately, right, the purely decentralized products in defi, or just like not great, right? Like not bad, sorry. Not good. Okay. Why would people LP, for some random save point get paid 10%? I mean, yeah, like that's, 10% is higher than 5%, but is it really worth the risk? Right? Like you can go to fidelity Coinbase, click 5% yield. Do I really want to LP on some like random Dex to earn 1020 percent? Probably not. So that's one of the reasons why.
00:09:12.574 - 00:09:47.662, Speaker A: Or, I mean, that's basically, like, the only reason, or, like, the main reason why DeFi TVO has gone down only. And as the wins leave the system, prices across the board goes down, the yields go down, because most yield is paid on the token. The fundamentals look really, really bad. No one uses these protocols, and that's kind of like the defi despair. But I'm making the case for the past couple of months that I think these tokenized treasuries can actually lead to a more sustainable bull market. Because why not create products that people want? Because the simple question is, do people want 5% yield on dollars? Yes or no? Obviously, yes. Okay.
00:09:47.662 - 00:10:23.788, Speaker A: This is a good product, so people will put money in it. Cool. So if people make more products that are good, like, you know, like, tokenizing yield off chain to on chain, maybe, you know, like, doing some financial engineering, and, like, maybe boosting it to, like, 8%, 10%, I mean, that's gonna be a good product, right? And is it. Is it purely defi. No, but it's giving permissionless access to the risk free rate on chain, because right now, only us citizens have, like, an easy way to earn the risk free rate. But if you live it, like, if you live in some third world country where, like, let's say, like the. Like the turkish lira, right? It's, like, down only, right? It's like the.
00:10:23.788 - 00:10:58.890, Speaker A: One of the worst currencies out there. I know a lot of people, or I heard stories of people like that literally take their salary in the lira and then immediately convert it to tether. Okay? And what if there was, like, a mobile application, right, in the future, wherever I, you know, like, they. Anyone can take their salaries in their respective fiat currencies, but have it immediately transferred to a stablecoin and then have that stable coin be staked into, let's say, the DSR earning 5%. I mean, I would expect millions of people to adopt that type of application. Of course there's regulatory uncertainty there, but, you know, like, there's a lot of hate. All right? Like, Rwas trigger a lot of people.
00:10:58.890 - 00:11:43.478, Speaker A: And then paper imperium had a pretty interesting thread here where, you know, it's, like I said, it's like a spectrum. I think it's interesting to think about, like, ethereum as, like, a emerging economy, okay? And if you think about it, like, the simplest way to think about it is, you know, like, the only way for people to put dollars into the system is if the system creates value. And unfortunately, right, crypto is not creating enough value. So the only hedge against, like, purely defi is to. You know what? Like, let's try to bridge, right? Let's try to meet in the middle. And if you want to be purely c five, right, like, no risk, then, yeah, go to fidelity. If you want options, if you want permissionless access to yields, and maybe you're not a us citizen, then, yes.
00:11:43.478 - 00:12:01.814, Speaker A: The DSR is a pretty good product. Dai has been around for many years. It's pretty lengthy. It's pretty battle tested. And I think people are much more comfortable with 5% on the DSR than 10% in some random form, unlike some random l two. It's just not really worth the risk here. And Evan? Evan, I think he's a good follow.
00:12:01.814 - 00:12:25.780, Speaker A: I talked to him a lot around the RW thesis. We're both of the opinion that we both think, why are people fighting this? It's inevitable. It's happening whether you like it or not. This is probably the only credible path to TVL being all time highs. It allows the protocolization of tether circle, passing yield onto holders. Because they're not going to do it. They're greedy.
00:12:25.780 - 00:12:47.786, Speaker A: They have shareholders. They're going to keep all the profits. Are crypto people okay with that? I mean, if not, then, like, why not, like, adopt something that's, you know, like, maybe that's, like, more fair? I mean, maybe fair is, like, not the right word, but, you know, you kind of get what I'm going for. And it also enables for a lot of cool new things. And I think the order of operations is, let's first, you know, so. Right, right. Let's start with tokenized treasuries.
00:12:47.786 - 00:13:14.580, Speaker A: Okay? Like, I. Like when I say rvas, like, I'm bullish on rdas. Like, I'm not bullish tokenizing watches, tokenizing sneakers, like, trading stocks, commodities on chain. I don't know, like, you know, real world lending. No, like, you know, like, tokenized treasuries are a subsector of the real world asset class, right. That entire sector. And I think, you know, the simplest product is, like, literally create a yield bearing dollar, right? A yield bearing stablecoin.
00:13:14.580 - 00:14:09.070, Speaker A: And I also made this argument that if, like, I think the term RWas trigger people, but, like, what if instead of, like, the RWA narrative, it was called the yield bearing dollar narrative, okay, I think people would, like, buy that narrative, right? It's just like, you know, it's called Rwas, and people, like, just don't think, you know, like, just, like, don't connect dots, because, I mean, at the beginning of the year we saw, like, the liquid staking derivative narrative, right? It's like, oh, like yield bearing eth. Wow, that's so smart. Right? That's so obvious. And now I'm literally saying, you know what? Like, if we're defy tv able to come back, we need yield bearing dollars. I don't understand why this pushback on this narrative, but, you know, it's. And I also think that, you know, this type of sentiment still makes me think that we're in the relatively early stages of, like, the yield bearing dollar narrative. I mean, you can call it, like, the RWA narrative, but I'm gonna start calling it the yield bearing dollar narrative.
00:14:09.070 - 00:14:37.012, Speaker A: But I mean, you know, like, RWA's as a term stuck around. So I don't think it's, like, really possible to, you know, flip, uh, like, change, like, the wording and whatnot. Um, you know, like, it doesn't fit their ideology. Um, like I mentioned, right? It's like the only credible way. And the people really, you know, yeah, like I said, like, meet them in the middle. And if you think about, uh, you know, because we always talk about, you know, like, the institutions are coming. The institutions are coming.
00:14:37.012 - 00:15:14.906, Speaker A: They're gonna buy our bags, right? And eventually they will come out, like, come to buy our bags. But what are they going to buy, right? Like, are they going to buy some meme coin? No. Are they going to buy, you know, like, some random. Yeah, like, whatever, right? Like, what are they going to buy first? Of course. Like, they're probably going to adopt bitcoin and ether first, and then they're probably going to, like, like, buy into, like, like, tokenization, right? Like, I mean, Larry Fink, right? People love this guy because he's bald. And, you know, blackrock is trying to create, like, a bitcoin ETF. I mean, I get it, but, you know, like, I, like, what is Blackrock gonna buy? Right? Like, I mean, I think they're more likely to buy something like maker over any other coin.
00:15:14.906 - 00:15:49.480, Speaker A: I'm not saying that they're gonna buy maker. I think it's very unlikely. But I think if Tranfi were to, like, bridge, like, billions of dollars on chain, like, it's gonna be led by stablecoins first. Okay? It's gonna be led by something around tokenization. Blackrock even invested in circle, right? So, you know, like, you already know where the puck is going. And I mentioned in my video last month, or like two months ago, right, in August, that I think Rwas is the trojan horse. And no crypto people can be like, you know what? Look at, like, look at these rwas, right? Like permissionless tokenization of securities and bonds.
00:15:49.480 - 00:16:22.380, Speaker A: Like, wow, like, traffic is like, wow, like, that's, that's really cool, right? Like, that's so smart. Wow. Like, I can make so much money adopting crypto, but then, you know, like, over time, right? Like, this is how tran five bridges to crypto, right? This is how tradfi eventually shifts to blockchains and like, adopts crypto rails, not the other way around. So that's gonna be it for me. Hopefully, you kind of get where I'm at with the RWA thesis. I think it's the only credible path for Defi to hit all time highs. Like, in this higher interest rate environment.
00:16:22.380 - 00:16:45.724, Speaker A: You can't meme coins pump. Yeah, they can pump for a course of a couple weeks or maybe even a couple of months. But can that sustain? Like, not really. Probably not. Why? Because there's not that much money in the ecosystem. How do we bring money back to the ecosystem? Tokenized treasuries. And tokenized treasuries actually are like a positive sum game, right? Because most yields in crypto comes from, like token yields or like in token emissions.
00:16:45.724 - 00:17:25.939, Speaker A: So, you know, sure, if you're farming it, you're making money, but anyone that's holding tokens just gets wrecked. But at least with token, like, at least with this, like, we know where the yield is coming from. And if we're literally pumping off chain yield from off chain to on chain, then that's like indirectly, like that's creating wealth within the ecosystem. And if people on chain, like, just make money, right, I mean, like 5% yield is like not much, but I mean, by definition they're making money, then that can actually trickle into other Defi applications, that can trickle down to other coins, right? More wealth creates for more opportunities. Like I said, it's going to be a slow process. Like, I'm not saying that we're going to get to, like all time highs, like by end of year. Like, definitely not.
00:17:25.939 - 00:17:59.936, Speaker A: But I think the most important trend to watch is adoption of the DSR, adoption of other real world asset projects, like tokenization of treasuries. And that's kind of like, I mean, if you like, watch my videos, right? I mean, literally just go to my channel here, right? It's like, you know, all these things I've talked about is literally around, okay, like, you know, like, how does defi get become anti fragile? It's going to be around statewide projects. And those are the projects that I am personally, like, very, very bullish on. So thank you guys. Thank you guys for watching. See you guys another time and have fun farming out there. And best of luck.
00:17:59.936 - 00:18:00.088, Speaker A: Bye.
