00:00:04.650 - 00:00:11.040, Speaker A: Okay, here we are. Welcome, Vitalik, to the defiant podcast. I'm so thrilled to have you here.
00:00:11.410 - 00:00:13.710, Speaker B: Thank you very much, Camilla. It's good to be here.
00:00:13.860 - 00:00:53.520, Speaker A: Yay. Okay, so for those of you who don't know Vitalik, I'm sure everyone listening will know him. But Vitalik Buterin wrote the Ethereum white paper in 2013 when he was just 19 years old. He inspired a group of dreamers to help him build this new blockchain that was meant to be a flexible base layer on top of which to build decentralized applications. A so called world computer that could run any program built on top of it without the need of a third party. So, Vitalik Ethereum launched in 2015. In the almost seven years since, would you say it has succeeded in becoming a world computer?
00:00:55.810 - 00:02:07.778, Speaker B: I think it's definitely succeeded at a lot of things. I think it's definitely succeeded at just kind of making all of the applications and even most of the applications that were described in the original white paper actually happen and people actually being able to use them and seeing what they would actually look like. And a lot of them have quite a few people either playing around with them or using them to do things that they really need. The thing that it hasn't really accomplished, too, is getting to the entire world. Right? The concept of a world computer, in the sense of it's a computer that is, anyone from in the world can look at and just has at least some basic ability to send programs into, and not just read from it, but also write to it. And I think Ethereum has done that. There's also this kind of more expansive meaning that I think a lot of people read into it, which is like, the world only needs one computer now, and it can be Ethereum.
00:02:07.778 - 00:03:13.258, Speaker B: And that was never the intent. Right. I don't think Gavin was thinking about that at all when the term came up. But then there's also, I think, this idea that's been in the project since the beginning, that this is supposed to be a platform that is really accessible to the world, and not just in a theoretical way, but also in a very meaningful way where lots of people actually can and are accessing it, and there aren't big barriers standing in the way. And I think there, there's definitely quite a bit of progress that has been made. And about a month and a half ago, I visited Argentina, and I saw firsthand just the kinds of diverse people that were using both Ethereum and other blockchains of different kinds as just a regular part of just their lives. And their businesses and their attempts to kind of save money, start projects, pay people and just do all kinds of normal things.
00:03:13.258 - 00:04:00.330, Speaker B: But at the same time there are these high transaction fees, there's all of these usability barriers, and there's all of these kind of problems that are still left. So if we want to kind of really fully achieve that vision, I do still think that there's quite a lot of work still left to go. Obviously work that we had hoped would be finished by now or even by 2016 or so. But software, I guess, always takes longer to develop than people predicted, so that's fine. But obviously the sooner we can actually get all of that work being done, the better. And the closer that Ethereum can come to actually kind of reaching this bigger part of its original vision.
00:04:01.630 - 00:05:38.562, Speaker A: Yeah, I totally agree with that view of Ethereum achieving its vision of becoming a world computer in the sense that it really has achieved most of the applications that you even listed in the original white paper. And I just went back and looked at those applications. So you had said Ethereum would be good for token systems, for derivatives and stablecoins, for identity and reputation systems, decentralized file storage, dows savings insurance, decentralized data feeds, multisigs, cloud computing, gambling. I guess that's maybe too much of gambling prediction markets and decentralized exchanges. So maybe like some in a greater extent than others, all of those applications are being built on top of Ethereum. But I think you're very right to say, and it's a fair assessment, that while it has become this infinitely flexible platform for builders, it's not really accessible to everyone in the world as kind of you and all of the builders of Ethereum have hoped for. And that takes me kind of to the next question, which is the next phase of Ethereum, which is meant to achieve this scalability, right, the merge of the proof of stake consensus layer with the application layer currently on the proof of work chain.
00:05:38.562 - 00:06:28.780, Speaker A: And of course this is a huge undertaking. I don't know if, correct me if I'm wrong, but it hasn't really ever been tried before, right, to kind of splice blockchains and piece them together and to make a new blockchain, super complicated stuff. And of course that's why it's taken years to get to the stage where we are finally, I guess, very close to seeing that happen. The whole point of this is to allow Ethereum to scale while also increasing decentralization. So what are the steps missing for the merge to happen? I'm sure you get this question so much but it was like the main thing that people wanted me to ask you. So I'll start with this one.
00:06:29.470 - 00:07:22.938, Speaker B: I think at this point it basically is testing, right? At this point, there are already some basic test sets and full implementations of everything that needs to happen for the merge. There's implementations of the consensus clients, there was implementations of what we call execution clients now. So Geth and netherminds are the bigger ones. And Peter Salagi, the lead dev of Geth, just tweeted out a few days ago that Geth is basically one PR away from being ready for the merge. Right? So PR means pull request. It's just basically a big piece of code that gets suggested to be added to the Geth project, and then it'll actually be added and included at some point fairly soon. But obviously there's still quite a bit of testing left to go.
00:07:22.938 - 00:08:24.734, Speaker B: The piece that has seen the least testing and where there is still some finishing touches being done on right now is what we call the initial sync process. So this is like when a node joins the network for the first time, then how do they basically download kind of what the existing states or what the existing account balances, contract code and all of those things are so that they can then kind of be part of the network and go from there. And there's just like some subtleties and kind of the interaction between how the formerly proof of work side does it and how the proof of stake side does it. So a bunch of technical stuff there, though also huge amounts of progress being made on it. So I think generally people are feeling very good about the merge right now. It's just a bunch of technical work, a bunch of testing, a bunch more testing, and hopefully we're going to be merging pretty soon.
00:08:24.932 - 00:08:29.280, Speaker A: Okay. Obviously the big question is when do you think that will happen?
00:08:33.030 - 00:08:38.900, Speaker B: Some people are saying June, some people saying July or August, I don't know.
00:08:41.430 - 00:09:12.880, Speaker A: Okay, so once this happens, of course, it's not like debts can just pack up their bags and go home, right? This is kind of the first step of a multi year and very complex process. So can you summarize kind of the different stages that will happen post merge until you think, okay, Ethereum is finally complete? Or I don't know if you would ever be able to say that Ethereum is complete, but at least complete in this vision of it.
00:09:13.810 - 00:10:38.840, Speaker B: I guess the closest thing we have to that is summarized in that diagram, the roadmap diagram that I tweeted out back in December. This was the one that talked about the five buckets that at least I used to organize what was left to be done where you had the merge, which was basically proof of stake, the surge, which is increasing the capacity of the chain, basically doing sharding and doing a little bit more stuff before that and some more stuff after that. Then there is the verge, which is vertical trees, which are basically a technology that makes it easier to validate the chain so nodes don't have to kind of be so heavy and require as big computers as before. Then there's the purge, which is making the chain kind of lighter and making the code lighter by not requiring every node in the network to process and store all of the old history. And then there is the splurge, which is just everything else. There's a lot of different buckets there, right? There's upgrades to the EVM, there's proposal builder separation, and there's this fairly long and list of just various miscellaneous buzwords and just fun items of different kinds. And then there's longer term things like ZK snarks, which are going to be probably everywhere in the Ethereum protocol five or ten years from now.
00:10:38.840 - 00:12:21.210, Speaker B: But that list of things, right, like just switch to proof of stake, add sharding. So we have some scaling, make sure we have good roll ups that are actually taking advantage of the sharding, make it easier for people to run nodes, make sure that we don't centralize as a result of MEV and those kinds of issues, try to make the protocol less complex instead of more complex over time, and then make the EVM better. I think if we do all of those and we just do the things that we know that we have to do today, then Ethereum is in a place where if nothing else is done even after that, then we're already in a great place right now. I think if all we manage to do is proof of stake and charting, then I think we're still in a good place. So there is a sense in which it's like there's basic things that we can do, and then there's extras, and then there's extra extras, and the more extras we can do, in some ways, the better a protocol ethereum becomes, and even the simpler a protocol ethereum becomes. So like there's this trade off where kind of, if we're willing to accept more temporary complexity in the development process, then we might get out more long term complexity in the ECAP protocol design. But if those don't get done, then that's also fine, right? And so there is value in trying to also kind of solidify as many parts of the protocol as soon as we can, just so that people can feel safe and know like, this is actually how it is going to work for the long term.
00:12:22.030 - 00:13:19.190, Speaker A: Right. Okay, so basically you have a set of must haves and a set of nice to haves in this entire roadmap. And is it fair to say the must haves are proof of stake and sharding and then all the rest is kind of okay. Would be good to have okay. And when sharding is working and there are roll ups to further increase scalability, do you think that at this stage, Ethereum would be able to be the single kind of transaction or single settlement layer for finance, for the Internet, or for global economic activity?
00:13:19.270 - 00:13:23.680, Speaker B: I should say I think it'll definitely be big enough to be able to do that.
00:13:24.050 - 00:13:24.558, Speaker A: Okay.
00:13:24.644 - 00:13:38.578, Speaker B: I mean, there's obviously the question of will everyone be willing to move all of their activity onto the same blockchain, or even any blockchain, but just from a pure, just can it handle the transactions point of view? It totally will be able to.
00:13:38.744 - 00:13:44.740, Speaker A: Oh, amazing. And would that be the kind of most desirable outcome for you?
00:13:49.450 - 00:15:23.380, Speaker B: That's a good question. What would a long term desirable outcome be for Ethereum? I guess aside from just are people using Ethereum, there is also the question of how are people using Ethereum? And are people actually getting benefits from stuff being on the blockchain instead of stuff being done in some other way? For example, there's a lot of projects that started off making kind of their private blockchains, and that stuff basically just turned into basically creating centralized systems that might have a couple of extra signatures and a couple of extra hashes at a few places, but users never actually see and never actually really get any real security or autonomy or kind of privacy or any kind of benefit from that. So I think once ethereum becomes mainstream, then I personally will definitely start caring much less about is 30% of the world on Ethereum, or 10% of the world on Ethereum, and much more. What actual value is Ethereum through these applications bringing? And that's something that I think is definitely really important to think about now as well. I just think the bigger Ethereum gets, kind of the even more important it becomes to keep thinking about that issue too.
00:15:24.470 - 00:15:41.900, Speaker A: That's a fair point. So for you, the most desirable outcome for ethereum comes not through looking at the amount of people or the percentage of the world that's using Ethereum, but what are they using it for? So what would you want to see people using Ethereum for.
00:15:45.230 - 00:16:59.460, Speaker B: So some of the things that I think people are using Ethereum for already that I think personally think are valuable, one is obviously just the currency use case, right? I think a lot of people do have needs that are just paying people, moving money between countries, just like savings and just ETH by itself provides a lot of that. But then there's obviously a lot of people, too, who don't want to handle that much volatility. And so stable coins, whether it's things like USDC or whether it's the more decentralized ones like Dai and Rye, I think they provide a lot of that for people already. So that's one another would be dows are being used to just especially being used to pool capital together to kind of do actually interesting and meaningful things. So city Dow is one of my favorites. Like a Dow that's actually trying to go through the Wildmade Dow law and illegally own and govern a new city. There is Vita Dao, which is funding a life extension research.
00:16:59.460 - 00:17:48.820, Speaker B: I guess the one that kind of got big yesterday was Assange. Dao, that was funding, I guess, legal defense for Julian Assange. And it looks like it's been getting a lot of money, so it might even end up branching out beyond that. I guess that depends what the community decides it's going to be. Thinking of constitution. Dow, I think, is an interesting experiment. I don't think there's much kind of direct social value that comes out of literally just owning a piece of the constitution, but just as a demonstration of, hey, the crypto community can kind of get out there and basically outcompete Wall street moguls and win and own big and important things.
00:17:48.820 - 00:18:59.500, Speaker B: I think it was valuable as a demonstration, and I think hopefully can give momentum to things like Citadel and all of these other experiments that could be really interesting. So dows, I definitely want to see more just dows of different kinds, and dows being used to help people do things that they would not otherwise be able to do. Prediction markets. I've been a fan of prediction markets for a long time. Just the idea of using economic incentives to actually encourage people to make predictions that are as accurate as they can. One of the big problems right now with just listening to the media as it exists today, right, is that people have these pressures and desires in the moments to make these really confident statements that make them sound like this really impressive alpha reporter that knows their stuff. But when six weeks later, it turns out to be complete bullshit, people don't really remember.
00:18:59.500 - 00:20:42.650, Speaker B: And prediction markets, I think are just like one really valuable experiment in seeing can we create something better and create just a tool to help people understand what's more likely and less likely to happen in the future? That's more likely to just to give numbers that are actually sane and just not completely crazy. EnS I have always been a fan of the concept of having names that are not owned by any one company, whether it's the traditional DNS system, or whether it's Google or Facebook or any existing company, like a name that you can actually own and trust that it is going to be yours and it doesn't depend on any authorities to be able to continue to exist. I think it's obviously been finding a lot of use within the ethereum ecosystem. If someone wants to send me ETH for whatever reason, which I totally don't need any more of, but if people wanted to, right, then they could just type in Vitalik ETH in their Ethereum wallet and it would just resolve to my address automatically, right? And that's powerful and that's really useful, but it's also useful in a lot of other cases, right? So there's chat applications where that just is what your username is. There's a bunch more things like that. Sign in with Ethereum, this is this kind of movement that's been growing the last half year. Like actually being able to use your Ethereum accounts to log into things and basically as your kind of web identity and directly competing with Google identity and Twitter identity and Facebook identity.
00:20:42.650 - 00:21:44.410, Speaker B: I think sign in with Ethereum is a really powerful tool because of how it really composes with a lot of other things, right? Because when people use sign in with Google, for example, they're often not just looking for, is this the same account that signed into this account that created this profile the first time? Right? They're looking for often anti spam. They don't want people to be able to make 100,000 accounts and use them to make fake posts or fake upvotes for a whole bunch of things. And Google, they have this kind of very weak form of KYC, right? That just is. So it does make it. You can get two or five accounts, but it's hard to get 100,000 accounts. And that sort of thing is something that the Ethereum ecosystem can provide as well, right? It's hard to get 100,000 accounts that have an ens name because that's just really expensive to do. It's hard to get 100,000 proof of humanity profiles.
00:21:44.410 - 00:22:27.098, Speaker B: It's hard to get 100,000 popes. By the way, when I say pope, I mean like proof of protocol tokens. I don't mean like 100,000 leaders of Catholicism. That would be really nice to have that. I just think the sign in with Ethereum thing is a good example of how all of the different applications can start kind of really coming together and building on top of each other. So, yeah, I think that's really good and valuable, too. Some of the privacy preserving, decentralized voting stuff like there's CLR funds would be one example.
00:22:27.098 - 00:23:55.106, Speaker B: There's a bunch of these kind of quiet experiments. So far, they haven't really gotten too far, but it's, I think, also a good use case of blockchains combined with some of the privacy preserving, zero knowledge stuff to basically make better governance tools. So there's like this big list of what I think are actually interesting things that are happening more and more in Ethereum land, right? And I think if we had more things like that, if we had even more ability for people to just use cryptocurrency internationally or use dows to organize, whether it's businesses or whether it's new cities or local projects, whether it's nonprofits or activism or funding scientific research or whatever else, I think that would be really amazing to have. The other one I think I didn't mention, but it's like this really interesting double edged sword, of course, is nfts. Right? Because it's fascinating in how they just both end up funding completely crazy stuff and just creating these embarrassing multimillion dollar splats on the Internet. But also, NFTs have funded a lot of really important things. And they funded science research, they funded activism, they funded artists, they funded writers.
00:23:55.106 - 00:24:24.580, Speaker B: And I think all of that stuff is really important, too. Those kinds of things, I think are growing. And I think being able to create applications that are actually meaningful and valuable and also have that kind of factor of getting dGens excited is something that I think would be really cool to see more of. And I hope somehow the Ethereum ecosystem can figure more of that stuff out.
00:24:24.950 - 00:26:56.034, Speaker A: I think it's very notable that all the things that you mentioned are actually already happening on Ethereum, because we could have had this conversation back even in 2017, when there was a lot of activity on Ethereum and a lot of speculation, but a lot of it was actually just speculation. And fundraising is a use case, but that was pretty much it. But now you mentioned all these things, currency and cross border transfers and remittances with stablecoins, dows prediction markets like ENs sign in, NFTs, all these things are actually happening. So even if some are smaller or just getting started, at least I think it's very encouraging to see all these use cases actually working at the moment. Okay, so to have all of this activity on Ethereum, going back to kind of the previous questions of everything that needs to happen for Ethereum to scale and support all of this wild demand for block space to support all of these use cases, someone might think, why not just increase Ethereum block size and just have this kind of switch and just instantly scale it? And I guess a way to summarize that thought is just like, why does decentralization matter? And I wanted to connect this question with your recent trip to Argentina that you mentioned, because there has been a lot of increased adoption of crypto in Argentina. But I heard you say in an interview, and I think Santi mentioned this to me as well, that a lot of it is happening on centralized. Like why is decentralization important? And how do you kind of balance the fact that for builders and people kind of inside the space? For many of us, it's clear why that is.
00:26:56.034 - 00:27:00.834, Speaker A: But for the end user, it sometimes isn't, right?
00:27:00.872 - 00:29:23.914, Speaker B: I mean, I think decentralization is one of those things that's difficult to understand why it's important until suddenly it becomes really obvious why it's important. The most important thing is just being able to build on a platform and an ecosystem where you know it's not just going to go in some completely different direction that breaks everything that you are trying to build on top of it, just because it's in some small groups, group of people's interests, right? Or even just because some group of people get lazy and decide to stop maintaining something that they were maintaining. So decentralization being about long term stability is, I think, something that's really important also, especially decentralization as a long term stability, even in the face of often very strong incentives, right? Like there's a lot of these examples of people building on top of Twitter or Facebook, and they built entire businesses around the APIs of these companies. And then suddenly the companies themselves decided that they'll shut down those APIs just because they often wants to release their own competitor or just for whatever other not very good reason. And these people's life's work just ends up being kind of completely destroyed, right? And even if that doesn't happen, then when these things become very single, these single central points of failure, then often there end up being these other forces that end up leaning on them. Right? And one of the challenges when you start having lots of these centralized intermediaries is that there's a lot of people in the world who want lots of different kinds of groups of people to just not be able to transact, not be able to kind of live regular economic lives. And this group of people is much larger than any group of people that they would dare actually write a lawmaking in illegal.
00:29:23.914 - 00:30:49.260, Speaker B: Right. The set of things that's censored is much, much bigger than the set of things that's illegal. There's a lot of very legal industries, whether it's political activism or sex industry or psychedelics, that end up getting targeted, often through these kind of very nontransparent and very non democratic channels, where they just lean on a couple of people that are high up in the middle of some payment processor. People in all kinds of countries, so often centralized companies would just decide to not serve entire countries, because they just decide that that entire country is too much of a money laundering risk or whatever. And that's something that ends up hurting and excluding often hundreds of millions of people. Right? I mean, I was born in one of these countries that gets kind of discriminated against in this way quite a bit. If you're on a decentralized system, then you know that you're not going to be singled out, singled out in that way, just because either who you are or even something, just because who you are ends up vaguely falling into something somewhere beside a category that someone somewhere decides that they don't like.
00:30:49.260 - 00:32:59.080, Speaker B: So I think kind of creating this kind of counter pressure against what I think would very easily emerge if just everything depended on centralization, where there's, like five different people in between every transaction. And if you just lean on any one of the five hard enough, then people can just lose their ability to transact is something that's important. And even in the absence of that kind of pressure, I think just creating things where you know that they will keep existing in the same form five years from now is something that a lot of people just underrate and that, I think, are really valuable. Right? So if you look at web pages, for example, the Internet Archive, I think, makes life a lot easier for people, because sometimes someone wrote something, and then that thing that someone wrote becomes really important, and everyone starts kind of building on top of it. And then for whatever reason, it could even be that their hosting provider just went out of business or some totally stupid reason, that page is not accessible a good ten or 15 years in the future, right? And because you have often the links break, which is really sad. And I think more decentralization and not necessarily blockchains, but things like IPFs could actually fix. But you have the Internet archive and at least you can go and look and you can find something that existed like ten or 15 years ago, right? But where is the Internet archive for programs, right? What if I want to build some financial thing and I want to build my financial thing on top of uniswap because my financial thing needs just some ability to trade tokens around then I would feel much easier if I knew that uniswap would actually exist like five years from now or ten years from now, right? Because otherwise, for every single dependency that I add, I'm basically taking on the responsibility that like, oh, they might decide to like change or disappear and then I'll have to scramble and figure out some new thing to go and replace it with.
00:32:59.080 - 00:34:03.370, Speaker B: That's something that I think is important for applications. It's definitely important for applications that are building on top of other applications. So I guess to summarize, there are different reasons why I think decentralization can be important for different people, and I do think that all of them are valuable. I think decentralization is more valuable the closer you are to doing something where you really needs to be sure that the thing that you're doing will continue to be possible to do two years or five years from now. If it's the sort of thing where you're just doing some one time thing and if it stops working, you can switch to doing a different thing tomorrow, then you don't actually necessarily need much decentralization. Maybe you just need competition. And you could say competition is actually a kind of decentralization.
00:34:03.370 - 00:34:45.000, Speaker B: But if, on the other hand, you are doing something where he needs to commit to it for a long time, not only, but especially if you know that it's the sort of thing where powerful interests might want it to not exist, then decentralization is useful for you. But also if you're doing something across a large community where it's difficult for you to agree on exactly which centralized authorities should be trusted, that's also a place where decentralization becomes more and more important.
00:34:47.130 - 00:35:44.810, Speaker A: Okay, so you mentioned all of these reasons why decentralization is important. And of course for communities and groups of people in repressed or censored societies, it's super important for developers or builders who need to be sure that their rules aren't going to be changed in the future or that their application can keep running forever. That's super important. But do you think there's a set of people or applications that simply don't need decentralization? Because right now I think there's just this push to have everything like web three is about bringing every application of the Internet on top of blockchains and social media, like everything that we use online. Do you think that's necessary?
00:35:45.710 - 00:36:30.890, Speaker B: There's definitely lots of applications that don't need decentralization. There's also a lot of applications that I think could use partial decentralization, but probably don't need a kind of very purest approach of no servers. We do everything on IPFs and on chains. So social media might even be a good example of that. Right. I think there could be a lot of benefit from creating some kind of social media ecosystem where if I make a post, then that post's ongoing existence does not depend on one single company deciding that it should continue existing. And kind of the post and the hash of that post just lives on its own.
00:36:30.890 - 00:37:26.074, Speaker B: And other people can link to it, other people can like it, other people can retweet it, and you would have these different and often centralized algorithms and interfaces for interacting with that content, and that's fine, but because they don't kind of control the content to the same extent, it would be easier to move between them. I think that kind of vision is valuable. Right. But there, to get the value, you don't really need to go to 100% decentralization. Right? There's a lot of value that you can gain from 20% decentralization or 40% decentralization, and I think that's totally fine. Another example might be like websites for booking flights, for example, right. Because the thing that you're ultimately buying is still a centralized thing.
00:37:26.074 - 00:38:25.614, Speaker B: It's a promise from a particular company to give you a seat. And if one of the platforms for doing this breaks or decides to censor you, you can just go on the three or four other ones anyway, right? Well, there's even more than three or four of them at this point. So things like that, when you're just interacting with something kind of one time, then, yeah, often decentralization is not really needed, right. For things. If you're the sort of person where the things that you're doing kind of follow along like very established patterns that are very similar to what plenty of other people are doing and that kind of have a lot of mainstream support and your entire life is like that, then you might not benefit from decentralization that much. Right. But even there you could make the case that you should get an ens name and start setting up your profile, just in case that's something you want in the future.
00:38:25.614 - 00:38:54.790, Speaker B: Or you should put at least a couple of percent of your money in cryptocurrency just in case something happens to your local fiat currency. But yeah, there's definitely a lot of people that don't really have some burning need to start where there's just this large value that they get from kind of blockchainifying their lives. And then there's other people for whom blockchains are their lifeline today. And I think there is an entire spectrum in the middle and I think that's fine.
00:38:54.940 - 00:40:03.230, Speaker A: Yeah. Do you think there's a case to be made for blockchain and web three to be used not because of its kind of censorship resistance properties, but just because it's better, it's easier, it works better, for example, for me, logging into or not logging in, but just interacting with DFI applications, for me, that's just better than having to have a password and email and login codes for every different web two application I could see kind of like having this integrated value layer on the Internet being just better than having this kind of separate financial system that is also segmented by geography. And that's a lot clunkier than to transact online in a way that's not natively online. I don't know. Do you think there's a case to be made that maybe web three is just better, even if some people don't require the decentralization aspect?
00:40:04.130 - 00:41:11.634, Speaker B: Yeah, I think for international money transfer, crypto is often already better than the banking system. I actually even had to deal with this fairly recently, trying to send money to a friend who had a bank account that was just. It was just with one of the smaller banks that you can't easily route things directly to, and so you have to use some corresponding banking thing. And I ended up figuring out how to make a banking transfer so it would get there from my Singapore bank account. But it was really complicated when I did it. I wasn't even sure that I was doing it correctly, and it ended up taking something like two weeks to arrive. That entire process was fairly stressful, and so I basically told them, know, can you please set up a channel to accept at least USDC or die or something else? So there definitely are lots for me personally, even just as someone who donates to charities quite a bit.
00:41:11.634 - 00:42:02.690, Speaker B: For example, crypto is a vastly better channel than anything in the banking system. Despite having no need for censorship resistance. Now you could obviously argue that in some ways it's still benefiting from kind of censorship resistance or something like censorship resistance indirectly, because kind of traditional finance is just inherently relies on all of these intermediaries and different intermediaries that are based in different countries, and that adds some inherent friction. And just the way that crypto works is much more based around ignoring all of that. And it just gets efficiencies that are really valuable even just for these kind of fairly simple and boring use cases. But still, that was definitely really valuable. International Internet payments in general.
00:42:02.690 - 00:43:27.726, Speaker B: I guess there's a lot of use cases that aren't so much being actively discriminated against by the financial system as much as they're just not being served, because the people in these systems are kind of like, it's complicated and hard to fix it from within the context of the existing system, and there's not much of an incentive to do it for accounts and web. Three, I'm definitely very bullish on the sign in with Ethereum thing. I actually think that accounts are this one centralized thing where there is this kind of theoretical argument that people make right, that, oh, users are not very good at maintaining their own passwords and users are going to forget their passwords or their passwords are going to get stolen. And so you need the friendly big brother to be able to recover your account if anything goes wrong. And this is the sort of standard argument for why Google accounts, Facebook accounts and all these things have their value. But the problem with this theoretical argument is that it doesn't actually match people's life like a lot of people's life, even right now for me, two days ago my Amazon account just got suspended because their AI suspected fraud of some kind when I was just trying to buy a new phone. And I just don't really have a good way of getting it back.
00:43:27.726 - 00:44:08.826, Speaker B: And that's been inconvenient for me. I've known friends who just lose their Google accounts, forget their password, and they contact support and they just can't get it recovered at all. So these kind of friendly big brothers that are supposed to help you recover everything, they're surprisingly negligent a lot of the time. And I think web sign in with Ethereum plus kind of better wallet technology. So things like social recovery wallets, I think actually definitely could create a much better product for a lot of people. So that would also be one good example of this kind, not full decentralization, but partial decentralization. Right.
00:44:08.826 - 00:45:12.218, Speaker B: You could still have centralized accounts and centralized websites, but you can use your Ethereum account to sign into them. And I think that's also definitely a really valuable use case. I definitely do think that things like sign in with Ethereum are going to be especially valuable to people who having a hard time getting a phone number for whatever reason. And a lot of these systems, sometimes these phone number verifiers work well in the big mainstream countries, but they end up not working well at all in the smaller countries that people forget to think about. So I do think that if you're the sort of person that depends on censorship resistance, or kind of depends on this kind of global accessibility that comes from decentralization more, then it's even more valuable. But it is one of those things that definitely has at least some value for everyone. I think it's different in different places.
00:45:12.394 - 00:46:18.820, Speaker A: Yeah, no, totally agree. Okay, so increased adoption for crypto is coming from grassroots communities and from the private sector, like you saw in Argentina. And we're seeing even in the US and in other places and in other countries, it's coming from more of the top down. Right? Like adopting bitcoin as legal tender. And other countries evaluating whether to issue CBDCs, like India made an announcement recently. So where do you think the kind of major or biggest wave of crypto adoption will come from in the future? Will it come from kind of these grassroots adoptions and private sector, or from top down governments adopting crypto for their own national currency? How do these two things interact? Also.
00:46:21.770 - 00:47:24.918, Speaker B: I'm definitely expecting the grassroots stuff to be more effective. I think we have even seen this year with things like the ETH names, for example, that just kind of spread out all the way across Twitter. And there's plenty of people who have those names, like NFTs have kind of spread very widely all on their own. So I think watching applications that just kind of find that niche and find that way of both having value and being able to really express and present that value to a lot of people can very easily break out. I could easily see that happening in more cases. Right? I could see even just sign in with Ethereum, for example, kind of helping to lead this kind of big wave of Ethereum as an identity taking off and being used much more. Obviously, cryptocurrency by itself is something that I don't really necessarily think we need big, coordinated efforts.
00:47:24.918 - 00:48:09.580, Speaker B: I think people will just, if they find it valuable, they'll find a way to use it, and it's going to just keep growing organically over time. I do think that there can be a value in coordinated efforts, like the kind that create a local district where all the shops accept bitcoin or ETH or whatever else. That's valuable as a kind of community thing of saying, hey, this district is kind of now the crypto heavy district. And so people that are enthusiastic about crypto things are more likely to all move there, and that could create these kind of interesting networks. I do think things like that can actually be valuable. It's kind of like creating a city, but it's like a much lighter version of that. Right.
00:48:09.580 - 00:49:21.120, Speaker B: But there's other ways of doing that as well, and I hope we kind of experiment with all the approaches there is. What else? The whole kind of crypto gaming thing is another one that's, I think, trying to find its niche, and there is a big chance it just breaks out into something fairly successful at some point soon, or even just. I don't know. I mean, I think there's different ways, like hundreds of different models, and if any one of them becomes really successful, if they could be successful. I think the big challenge with institutional adoption that, well, I guess the value that institutional adoption could provide is that it can really reduce friction and make it easier for the organic adoption to happen. But institutional adoption by itself, when there isn't an organic will, I think, is something that can just kind of very easily kind of just sputter out and stall. Right.
00:49:21.120 - 00:50:12.382, Speaker B: There's a lot of cases of these big companies that started accepting crypto for payments with a lot of fanfare, and then a couple of years later, they realized that, wait, we only have like 45 customers that actually use that option. Yeah. So I think it's different in different cases. In the case of countries like El Salvador, just making it outright mandatory. That's definitely something where I'm definitely more skeptical and more concerned, because when you not even just make an institutional push, but even start forcing people to accept it, then you're pushing a technology on people who don't really care much about it and basically are not even given the option to kind of pass by it. Right. And not really care.
00:50:12.382 - 00:51:13.234, Speaker B: And so exposing people in that way, in kind of large numbers to something that they don't understand, well, there's just so many ways in which that can end up going wrong and that can end up just leading to people losing money or getting scammed or even just getting disillusioned. Right. People end up even thinking that cryptocurrency equals this thing that these nasty right wing people want to push, or this thing that these nasty, whatever political tribe is kind of running a country that wants to push crypto at that time, wants to push, and so it could even end up having some negative effects on adoption in the long term. But I think there are good things that can happen, too. I think Wyoming's Dow law is an excellent example of government level of crypto supportiveness. They just created this law that allows daos to be incorporated entities and legally owned stuff. There's just lots of people that are building on top of that.
00:51:13.234 - 00:51:59.620, Speaker B: Like Citidao is building on top of that. A lot of projects are building on top of that. So that is something that definitely an example of a good model that I would hope for people to be following. Mean, Miami, I think is interesting. It definitely really helps that they have this Francis Suarez, the mayor, who is really enthusiastic about just being tech positive and pushing all of those things forward. There's Miami coin, and then there's more and more of these local kind of crypto things happening. So would definitely be lovely to see if any of those experiments end up turning out well.
00:51:59.620 - 00:52:15.350, Speaker B: Yeah, I think there's great ways for institutions to kind of have a mutually beneficial relationship with the crypto space. There's good ways, there's okay ways. And then there are also ways that do risk being really counterproductive.
00:52:15.690 - 00:53:04.502, Speaker A: Yeah, I think that's a really fair take. So it's like genuine adoption comes from grassroots, just like individuals and groups of people and communities wanting to use crypto. And then institutions can help that by encouraging it, making it, establishing kind of the infrastructure, or investing in startups, or just like making a regulatory framework that encourages innovation and so on. So it's like institutions can help this grassroots adoptions by just helping it thrive, but then there's the wrong way to do it, which is just like pushing crypto on people. Basically. It's kind of a summary. Okay.
00:53:04.502 - 00:54:15.070, Speaker A: And then related to this is, I wanted to get your thoughts on the US kind of regulatory environment around crypto, which there's just many different initiatives going on. It seems like recently the approach to crypto has been a bit more negative or skeptical or aggressive by many US lawmakers and politicians. So if the US wanted to really crack down and limit the growth of mean, do you think they could be able to just limit its impact and force it to be this very niche thing? Or do you think that crypto is strong enough and decentralized enough that even if the US took this very hard approach on crypto, it could still kind of evolve to become mainstream elsewhere?
00:54:16.450 - 00:55:14.802, Speaker B: I think if the US takes a very hard line approach. It would definitely be difficult for a lot of very important crypto things to be done in the US, but it would definitely still continue in full force outside of the US, I think. But a world where lots of countries ban crypto and try really hard to ban crypto is definitely a world in which it's much harder for crypto and especially good things being built on top of crypto and attempts to connect it to the kind of existing world more to prosper. I think one of the kind of tragedies that the current regulatory status quo risks falling into is this kind of problem that you might call anarcho tyranny. Right. So anarcho tyranny is, it's this kind of political buzword that people have been using. I forget exactly who coined it, but it's been around for 50 years.
00:55:14.802 - 00:56:02.666, Speaker B: But it's basically the idea of this state of government that has, it's basically like an anarchy in the bad sense toward people who are doing bad stuff. But then it's a tyranny toward people who are trying to do meaningful. Like San Francisco even gets described in this. It's very tolerance toward even people who are trying to steal things from stores to the point where they often have to add extra, put everything behind walks, and even close their hours. But then if you want to open a new restaurant, well, good luck going through $100,000 of permits. Right? And that's backwards. Right? We want the robbers, not the restaurants, to have to go through hundreds of thousands of dollars of permits, and hopefully the robbers never get them.
00:56:02.666 - 00:57:17.494, Speaker B: But the analog in the crypto space is like, if we look at just like fundraising, for example, the problem there is that what happens a lot of the time is that we have projects where in order to comply with securities laws, those projects end up explicitly saying, this is a token that has no value. We are not connected to it in any way. We make no promises. And if you're buying it, you're basically giving us a donation. Right. So the legal structure that bans basically this large category of things without going through this registration process, that's basically not realistically possible for crypto projects, ends up pushing a lot of projects into these alternative structures where they end up either basically not being open to the public at all and only being open to this very limited set of investors. And basically you have this kind of situation where the rich people get in at the front, and then the thing opens up to the public, and the public can only buy in when it's only at an all time high, and then the public is the one that gets fleeced anyway, but just a bit later.
00:57:17.494 - 00:58:45.494, Speaker B: Or they create these structures where basically the public, instead of buying into something where they have actual kind of assurances of something, they're basically buying into something where they have no assurances at all except the developers goodwill, right? And so it's like, oh, people like uniswap and these very well meaning DeFi projects are getting subpoenas and have to spend huge amounts of money on, then we have outright criminals that are stealing millions of dollars that are just roaming free. And I feel like if it was the opposite, if the DeFi project did not have to deal with so much of this regulatory stuff, but at the same time, there is more work going into going after all these multimillion dollar thefts, that feels like that would be a world that's better for everyone, right? But the challenge is that the reason why anarcho tyranies happen is that they're just easy, right? Because if he wants to do something meaningful, then in some sense you have to make yourself vulnerable. You have to have a presence. You have to do things that require long term plans. You have to have a team. And so doing meaningful and valuable things makes you more vulnerable than just doing totally destructive things. And so if you have this kind of, basically, the trap that's often very easy to fall into is the trap that's kind of harder against the first thing than against the second thing.
00:58:45.494 - 00:59:58.954, Speaker B: And that is, I think, a real risk that I do see a lot of regulatory regimes falling into that of basically being, creating more barriers in the face of meaningful things than in the face of things like these thefts and scams that realistically nobody wants to see existing. How to kind of create, basically, I think that there just is a need to create and agree on some kind of structures that just satisfy enough of regulators concerns and that the crypto community is willing to participate in so that they actually can be a better alternative. And what those might look like. This is a hard problem, right? Like, the reason why it hasn't been solved yet, I think, is that it's a hard problem. But I do think it's something that's worth more people kind of thinking about.
00:59:58.992 - 01:01:02.506, Speaker A: And looking into 100%. It's so ironic because it's like regulators criticize crypto about being a wild west, but it's because they are making it a wild west. They're just refusing to properly regulate it. And by not addressing the problem and just not creating any structure around it, projects are kind of left with having to do these weird structures where they're guessing what a security looks like, but nobody has ever told them. So they do these things like you were saying, not give their investors proper ownership because it looks like a security and doing these things like, oh, maybe it's attached to future revenue, but not really, and it just leaves everyone unprotected. So I don't know, the outlook is. I don't know if you agree it's a bit kind of bleak because it seems like there's no way forward.
01:01:02.506 - 01:01:10.354, Speaker A: Nobody is kind of giving any guidance that we might ever come out of this situation, at least in the mean.
01:01:10.392 - 01:01:59.380, Speaker B: I think one answer might be that places other than the US might actually be kind of easier to influence and easier to suggest and actually try approaches that manage to be better for everyone. And so the only way to convince is through a successful demonstration. That might actually be one of the answers. Right. I guess given that I think both of us have substantial outside the US backgrounds, we're definitely in a better position to kind of look at those options than a lot of the loudest voices in crypto are people who have basically spent their entire lives in the US and don't really think much about anything outside of it. Yeah. So that's one option.
01:01:59.380 - 01:02:50.340, Speaker B: Either you convince through words or you convince through demonstrations. Demonstration, I guess. But the way that you would convince through words that would actually work, I think at this point is basically suggesting some new alternative that enough people find reasonable enough that it succeeds and it kind of moves the needle forward. And it also doesn't have to be a federal level thing. Maybe there is something that could be done at a state level. As I mentioned, the way that Wyoming had created the Dow law, I think it is something that, as far as I can tell, I don't think it has enabled any bad stuff that would not have existed otherwise, but it has enabled plenty of meaningful stuff. Right.
01:02:50.340 - 01:03:07.014, Speaker B: As I mentioned, Citadel being a good example of this. And I feel like there is definitely going to, should be lots of other examples like that. And so maybe this is just a problem that we need kind of more minds to be focusing on and looking into.
01:03:07.212 - 01:03:58.250, Speaker A: Yeah. Okay. So I recorded interviews with other guests recently that I wanted to hear your opinions on. Some of the arguments they made, arguments that are somewhat kind of against how ethereum is doing things. So one of these guests was Emin Gun Sierra of Avalanche, and he had this very incendiary argument that saying that any layer one blockchain that relies on layer two scaling solutions has given up. Like his argument is that relying on layer two drastically reduces security, increases complexity, and he argues that blockchains should be able to scale from kind of their base like their core main net layer.
01:03:59.470 - 01:04:44.680, Speaker B: To me, that sounds like any country that relies on companies to provide any of people's basic needs has given up to us. That's a statement that sounds obviously realistic. I mean, obviously there's a few communists that probably believe it very sincerely, but we see how it's not true. Right? And layer two scaling layer twos are part of the greater ecosystem of a layer one. And I think a layer one that ecosystems being symbiotic with other ecosystems is. I think even saying other ecosystems concedes too much. Right.
01:04:44.680 - 01:05:13.460, Speaker B: The arbitrum ecosystem is part of the Ethereum ecosystem. The starknet ecosystem is part of the Ethereum ecosystem. The optimism ecosystem is part of the Ethereum ecosystem. And same with the loopering ecosystem and polygon. Right? But I think there's nothing wrong with relying on this kind of beneficial interaction between different parts and the whole. And I even think that there is important benefits that can come from it. Right.
01:05:13.460 - 01:05:47.578, Speaker B: For example, the Ethereum foundation historically is business development is totally not one of its strengths. And you could argue that part of it is a genuine desire to maintain neutrality and purity and other kind of important things. But part of it probably also just is like us not having certain kinds of talent. But like, for example, polygon, they do actually have business development, and they have been pretty successful recently at that. Right. And it's not just them. There's plenty of other layer two projects as well.
01:05:47.578 - 01:06:14.740, Speaker B: So I think there's nothing wrong with scaling through layer twos. Layer two, we need to stop looking at chains as chains, and we need to start looking at them as ecosystems. And different parts of an ecosystem definitely can provide kind of important tools and complement each other really well. And I think that's perfectly healthy and perfectly fine.
01:06:15.290 - 01:06:23.160, Speaker A: And do you think that that's a kind of secure way to move forward and to build?
01:06:26.330 - 01:07:12.150, Speaker B: There's no technical reason that makes anything about layer two is not secure. Right. Technically, the logic for how they work, whether it's roll ups or even whether it's the lightning network, that stuff's been understood and around for many years. So I. Yeah, I don't really see safety risks from layer two scaling that don't exist in layer one scaling. I actually think layer two scaling is better for experimentation because you can roll out different approaches to scaling in parallel, and you don't really need to put all of your eggs into one basket to the same extent. I don't think that's an issue.
01:07:12.300 - 01:07:18.982, Speaker A: Okay. I guess maybe usability, like uxui is the issue at the moment, right, with layer two?
01:07:19.036 - 01:08:02.882, Speaker B: Yeah, I think that's a real issue. I think there's definitely more that we can do to improve it. I think there's more that we can do to improve people's ability to, say, move assets between different layer twos. There's more that we can do to improve people's ability to kind of move between the different layer twos safely. I think there's a big difference between, say, being on loop ring or arbitrum and being on avalanche. Right. Avalanche is you're bridging into a separate layer one, whereas with arbitrum, you're moving onto a platform that actually is secured by the underlying blockchain.
01:08:02.882 - 01:08:49.030, Speaker B: And right now, metamask and the other browsers don't really make a good job of making that distinction clear to users, and I think it's important to make that distinction clear to users. There's definitely a lot more kind of usability work that can be done both on just plain old, just regular usability of the ecosystem and make it easier for people to just understand the concept of hopping between chains and what happens when they hop between chains, but also the usability of security and making it clearer to users what's going on. And in what cases are they actually safe, and in what cases are they not safe? But these are all things that lots of people are working on.
01:08:49.180 - 01:09:41.560, Speaker A: Yeah. Okay, so this is very much related to a post you recently wrote on. You said the future will be multichain, but not cross chain. So you said that there are fundamental security limits to bridges between chains. While, as you were explaining right now, you don't think there's kind of security compromises on moving between Ethereum and layer two, but there is on moving between Ethereum and other chains. And I guess you were proven right recently with the hack to the wormhole bridge that happened very kind of a few days after you posted that. So it was like, oh, Vitalik was right.
01:09:41.560 - 01:10:30.470, Speaker A: But it really does make sense. It makes sense that it's a lot riskier to live in this cross chain, in this kind of multichain world. But if that's the case, and the future is living in kind of this layer ones, and there are layer two scalability solutions, and maybe there are different communities using different blockchains, doesn't that just lose, don't we lose out on kind of this key feature of blockchain and crypto. That's composability. And wouldn't we go back to just like another set of walled gardens?
01:10:32.890 - 01:11:15.074, Speaker B: I do think that. I think bridges will continue to exist, as I think I mentioned in my post. One of the conclusions of at least this thinking is that there's this kind of anti network effect to bridge security, where bridges become less safe if lots of people are using them. But that also means that they become very safe if not that many people are using them. So there will be still some use of them. Even if there aren't any bridges, there will still be decentralized exchanges. Right? So it's not like you're not going to be able to, there's these walled gardens that you can't move things between them at all.
01:11:15.074 - 01:12:07.554, Speaker B: You will be able to have your Solana coins on Solana, and then you'll be able to decentralize, trade them into ether on Ethereum, and then trade that into bitcoin on the bitcoin network. And the tools for doing that are getting more efficient. And I think they're only continuing to get more efficient. And so it definitely still will continue to be possible to kind of be someone who is a multi blockchain hopping person, where you have do some of your stuff on some ecosystem and some of your other things on other ecosystems, and you just kind of hop between them as you need to. The only thing that we would not see much of is Ethereum native assets being on applications on Solana, or vice versa. But I don't even necessarily think that we need to. Right.
01:12:07.554 - 01:13:32.410, Speaker B: Well, if your application uses Ethereum native assets, then it can be on Ethereum. And if your application uses a lot of native assets, they can be on Solana. And if people want to borrow both, then they can just use an application that does both on both sides. And I think that's the amount that we lose from that kind of interoperability, I think, versus maximum interoperability, where every asset can just be teleported everywhere, is not actually that high. And the reduction in kind of tail risk and kind of systemic risk to the ecosystem is, I think, definitely pretty significant. I think one way to think about the analogy would be one way to do a walled garden would be for if you take Twitter and Facebook, and then you make it possible for people to have pieces of content that points to pieces of content that were created by other platforms. But then another kind of interoperability might be what if Facebook gains the ability to have an API call where you can just make retweets.
01:13:32.410 - 01:14:07.210, Speaker B: Right. And you can see how that second one is more dangerous than the first. Right. And I think in the case of cryptocurrency, there's a difference between messages and assets. And once you start moving assets over, then you get this kind of higher level of trust that you would otherwise not be getting. Okay, I guess. Sorry, I just realized that this was this kind of really complicated, just fun, technical rabbit hole.
01:14:07.210 - 01:14:42.434, Speaker B: Lots of things in crypto are these technical rabbit holes where it isn't easy to make one single conclusion, where we can say yay, one word and boo another word. It's like, oh, it really depends on the case. And you will still be able to interoperate and it'll look like you can interoperate in a lot of ways. But just this one particular thing of jumping assets around is something that is just always going to have this inevitable risk premium attached is, I guess, the conclusion.
01:14:42.562 - 01:15:26.066, Speaker A: Right? Yeah. Makes sense. And maybe some people will be willing to pay for that risk or take that risk. Right? Yeah. Okay. So then the other guest I had on that I wanted to get your thoughts was Idan Yago, who's building a Defi application on top of bitcoin. And as I think probably many of developers building on top of bitcoin thinks that bitcoin is the only legitimate layer for decentralized applications on web three to be built on because it is the most trustworthy blockchain, it's the most decentralized, it's the most secure.
01:15:26.066 - 01:15:56.058, Speaker A: And so to him, if we're going to be rebuilding the financial system, it should be on top of the most secure blockchain. And if he were to build his application on ethereum, he would be using an unreliable foundation. And I think this kind of echoes a lot of kind of bitcoin maximalist views. So, yeah, I wanted to get your thoughts.
01:15:56.154 - 01:16:27.510, Speaker B: Yeah, I guess I have two ways of replying to that. One is a little bit more trolley, and the other one is meaningful. I'll start with the trolley one. The trolley one is that this year Ethereum is switching to proof of stake, and proof of stake is better and more secure than proof of work. And so after the merge, Ethereum will actually be the most secure base layer. It's truly because bitcoiners are going to just yell at scream and totally disagree with this. But it is my belief, and I've written big long pieces about why in a whole bunch of places.
01:16:27.510 - 01:17:58.274, Speaker B: The other and more meaningful answer that I think kind of gets at some interesting differences is that this gets to a post that I wrote a couple of years ago called base layers and functionality escape velocity. If you just go to Vitalik, Ca and you just control f for escape velocity, you should be able to find it. The core idea, basically is that it's not enough for a base layer to be decentralized. The base layer also needs to have the ability to build things on top of it without adding extra centralization in the middle, right? I guess one possible analogy for this would be imagine if you had a country where that country followed very kind of libertarian rules about kind of political morality, right? Very strong property rights. If you have a piece of property, you can do whatever you want on top of it. But a piece of property is indivisible, and the only property lots that exist are property lots that are the size of a city, right? So the only plots of lands that currently exist and have property rights attached are the size of ten x 10. You can't split them up.
01:17:58.274 - 01:19:54.070, Speaker B: The only thing that you can do is you can make legal contracts that would get enforced by a court system. But even there, people might get bankrupt and weird things could happen. So in that kind of world, it looks like the base lawyer perfectly respects property rights, right? And it looks like the base lawyer does everything that someone who cares about that sort of thing would really want. But because the base layer only deals with property in these kind of institutionally large chunks, from the point of view of a person experiencing, living inside of this country, they might not actually experience that much freedom, right? And the reason why they might not actually experience that much freedom is because if they want to actually live, they would have to live inside of basically one of possibly a few thousand private cities. And those private cities might have whatever rules that they have. And possibly if the underlying culture is fairly authoritarian, and if the culture is fairly conformist or whatever, then it's possible that all of these cities are actually going to be fairly crappy and not do a good job of respecting people's rights, right? So kind of like the moral is that even if you're basically centralized, because in this particular case, it doesn't have enough functionality in this case, which would be allowing people to actually own their own property and not just basically have relationships with people that own these incredibly big city sized chunks of land, because it doesn't have the functionality. Well, it turns out that the experienced level of kind of freedom and sovereignty, and whatever you want to call it, living in this country is actually not very high, right? So I think with bitcoin it's kind of similar in that the bitcoin based chain does not support the complicated scripting, right? So it doesn't support what we call rich statefulness.
01:19:54.070 - 01:20:24.850, Speaker B: And because of that, it's not possible to create a roll up on top of bitcoin. Right. The only scaling solution that it can support is the lightning network. You can't create a roll up on top of bitcoin. You can't create a plasma chain on top of bitcoin. You cannot create complicated smart contracts on top of bitcoin. So if, for example, let's say you take the Ethereum foundation multisig, right, the way the Ethereum foundation multisig works is that there are seven participants, and you need four out of seven to move large amounts of money.
01:20:24.850 - 01:21:04.574, Speaker B: But any one out of seven can withdraw small amounts of money up to a maximum of a certain amount every day. And the problem is that this up to a certain amount every day thing, that's not like a feature that doing that requires being able to remember that, oh, you already made a transaction and you already made a transaction of this size. That's not something that the bitcoin scripting language is really able to process. Right. And so if he wants to build that kind of design on top of bitcoin, you have to build it on top of a system that exists on top of bitcoin. But then that system actually has to add its own trust assumption. Right? So if you take liquid, for example, liquid is a multi sig.
01:21:04.574 - 01:21:21.240, Speaker B: It basically is a permissioned consortium blockchain, but it's run by permissioned people that the bitcoin community trusts. And so it doesn't get lumped into the same category as what some of the banks are doing. Right.
01:21:22.890 - 01:21:24.680, Speaker A: Is rootstock the same?
01:21:28.410 - 01:22:14.466, Speaker B: I think in its current form, yes. I believe their long term vision is that they actually want bitcoin miners to be able to kind of enforce the connection between bitcoin and rootstock. But I actually haven't checked rootstock in a while. So if you get a root stock person on, and we would be happy to be corrected by them. But if they can get miners to agree on enough things to make the root stock what I would call trustless, then they would have essentially turned bitcoin into something very different from what bitcoin is today. Right. That basically is doing a soft work, which would be an interesting way of upgrading bitcoin.
01:22:14.466 - 01:22:37.120, Speaker B: Right. But we have to call it what it is, which is like, it's upgrading bitcoin. And if you upgrade bitcoin then of course you can give it functionality, escape velocity. Right. So I guess bitcoin, in its current form, it doesn't have functionality, escape velocity. It definitely does have a lot of genuine decentralization that plenty of chains really don't have. But it doesn't have this other thing.
01:22:37.120 - 01:23:17.258, Speaker B: But because it doesn't have this functionality, escape velocity, because it doesn't have enough functionality to be able to kind of build whatever layer two, you want to do what the layer one doesn't on top, the level of self sovereignty experienced by users ends up being kind of heavily mediated and much less than the level that's kind of offered by the chain in theory. And if bitcoin wants to improve on that, then it has to add functionality. And I do know that there are some people that wants to do that, which I think is good, but that's, I guess, the situation where it is today.
01:23:17.424 - 01:24:31.762, Speaker A: Yeah. So it's interesting because they're building on top of bitcoin because of all these different features, but self sovereignty is these transition features. But to do that, they need to build actually on top of layer twos, and they are giving away those features when they do that. Okay, before we run out of time, I wanted to get your thoughts on kind of the latest Ethereum crypto Twitter drama or controversy, I should say, which happened around when there have been different tweets or statements or comments that people have made in the past that were racist or misogynistic or just stuff that other people in the Ethereum community disagreed with. And so those statements have been met with those people who made them getting fired or removed from their roles and so on. So basically cancel culture. Coming to Ethereum, probably the most notable case happened with someone from ENs, which you've mentioned something he said in 2016 about.
01:24:31.762 - 01:25:35.862, Speaker A: He said homosexual acts are evil, transgenderism doesn't exist, abortion is murder, contraception is perversion. I mean, all this stuff that goes against a lot of the values of, I think, many people in the Ethereum community. And so he lost his role because of saying that. I think it's a very kind of tough issue. I mean, I'm 100% kind of like a free speech advocate. I would want everyone to have the right to say whatever without kind of fear of retaliation. But at the same time, I also see the point of people who say these are public figures, they are building for a community that wants to be inclusive, and they are saying things against many members of their communities and they're feeling hurt and so on, and they're not kind of good representatives of Ethereum or of the apps that they're working with.
01:25:35.862 - 01:25:39.660, Speaker A: So where do you stand on this?
01:25:40.510 - 01:26:44.458, Speaker B: Yeah, I guess I definitely have some different kinds of complicated and nuanced opinions on this. I guess one of them is that I think Brantley's kind of failing over this last week was definitely not just kind of like having opinions that lots of people disagree with. Right. I think his other big failing was that when the whole drama happened, he responded by first having this Twitter space where he didn't just double down on the opinions, but doubled down on them in this kind of very ham fisted way that a lot of kind of hiding behind my religion tells me to believe this. So I believe this. And in a way that didn't really make people feel like he understood or engaged with the opposing a. Like, he is a major delegate, he is a representative of a company.
01:26:44.458 - 01:28:09.082, Speaker B: He is also a delegate within the ENS Dao. And when you have a political role, then it is part of your job to be able to handle controversies well. Right? So I don't think you can even claim that he got kicked out because of something that's not relevant to him being able to do his job well. I think in some ways it is relevant. Right? So that's like one nuanced point, I guess another nuanced point would be that one thing that often gets lost here is that there is this kind of us centric aspect to the culture that unfortunately gets played up every time things like this happen. Right. And if you follow these kind of recent deplatforming debates closely, one of the things that you find is that the people who are the most strongly against the deplatformings are often foreigners and are often, like even foreign dissidents that are kind of escaping from canceled cultures that are much more, shall we say, intense than even things that the US has, right? So, like Alexey Navan, the russian dissident who has unfortunately been languishing in prison for the last year or so, he was one of the strongest opponents of Donald Trump being kicked out of Twitter about a year ago.
01:28:09.082 - 01:29:18.270, Speaker B: Right. Because ultimately, precedents do matter. And when you do something, you are legitimizing that action being done in general, including that action being done in the long term, often by other people who you don't like and you can't control. And that is something that I think people do need to constantly have their attention to and kind of also be concerned about. And just from my own personal observation, I've seen Latin american Ethereum community members. There were chinese Ethereum community members that had definitely not knee jerk, hostile perspectives to what happens, but definitely perspectives of like, we need to be careful about this. I think when things like this are done, it's important that they are done in a way that kind of clearly signals what actually is being done.
01:29:18.270 - 01:30:11.914, Speaker B: What are the values behind what's being done? And for example, why this doesn't set a precedent that say, for example, in the future, someone might be the EnS. Dao might make a protocol change that would take away the east name of someone that they decide has bad opinions. That's clearly something that I think nobody wants, or very few people want ens to go in that direction. I certainly don't want Ens to go in that direction, but it needs to be clearly communicated for why what was done this week is not the first stepping stone to doing something like that. I believe that can be clearly communicated, but it has to be. So that's, I guess, nuance to pain number two. Nuance to pain number three is like, I personally favor at least having 14 day cooldowns before anyone is fired because of a scandal.
01:30:11.914 - 01:31:14.814, Speaker B: I personally would love it if that was like a general social rule that everyone had. I mean, numbers even higher than 14 would be even better. And yes, that does mean that there is going to be people that are very uncomfortable, that will just have to sit on their discomfort for a while. But at the same time, I think sitting on the discomfort and not making knee jerk decisions is something that's very healthy and it is a muscle that we need to exercise. And I think that is something that would also be better at clearly communicating to the community that what was done was the result of a well considered deliberation. And not like, oh, the cultural revolution is coming to Ethereum now, or whatever. Nuanced opinion number four is that I think one of the beauties of the Ethereum community is that it is this kind of diverse and it has different subcommunities.
01:31:14.814 - 01:32:15.286, Speaker B: And Ethereum is not any one of its subcommunities. Right. I think that does give permission for subcommunities to be more opinionated. And there have been people that have been kind know, quote, canceled from some ethereum subcommunities that do continue to prosper in other Ethereum subcommittees. Right? So Amin might be one good example of that. There's plenty of kind of woken social justice leaning people that have various reasons to dislike him, but at the same time he's got rye, there's the money, God and Moloch down all these projects, and there's plenty of people who are happy with him being him, and he continues to prosper in that way. So I think it's important to not kind of over catastrophize and over interpret an Ethereum subcommunity acting in a particular way as like, oh, these are the values of Ethereum now, because Ethereum is big and Ethereum values are big.
01:32:15.286 - 01:33:57.910, Speaker B: And I don't think either myself or any ethereum subcommunity really have the right to define what all of Ethereum stands for. And I think it's healthy that that is the case. But also it does kind of, on the other hand, mean that we should be careful to kind of protect the Ethereum base layer from falling into controversies like this. Right? So, for example, sometimes people argue in favor of the idea that should we print more ETH in order to fund some base layer public goods at the protocol layer? And this is actually one good argument against, right? Like, do we really want the entire Ethereum community ending up making decisions, basically being forced to create this kind of big collective social signal that Ethereum stands in one direction or another direction on just some issue that ends up being totally globally controversial? Right. I think a lot of people do come to Ethereum as a refuge from whatever their local political issues are. And the world is a big place, and there's plenty of cases in which seeking a refuge from your local political issues is a totally legitimate thing that should totally not be denigrated. And Ethereum turning into a reflection, just a reflection of not even just the world, but even this one very particular slice of the world that cares about some particular issues and not other issues is definitely something that could also limit its potential.
01:33:57.910 - 01:34:20.766, Speaker B: So, yeah, I don't know. I'm not going to kind of wave the free Brantley flag or the get rid of Brantley or the let's go Brantley or whatever flags. I'm not so much, unfortunately, just complicated perspectives, because this whole thing is a complicated space.
01:34:20.948 - 01:35:01.582, Speaker A: Yeah, no, I agree. It's a topic that needs to be treated with nuance. I don't think there is, like one straightforward answer to it. I hate that we are kind of running out of time. I had so many more questions, and I actually have to get on a Twitter space with your mom now about. So I don't want to keep her waiting, I guess just like one quick final question to wrap this up, if you can. So I've been asking each guest what makes them defiant in line with the show's name.
01:35:01.582 - 01:35:03.754, Speaker A: So what makes you defiant?
01:35:03.882 - 01:36:01.966, Speaker B: What makes me defiant? That's a good question. I mean, I feel like I defy lots of things. I mean, I defy coin voting governance. I defy. I defy a lot of people's desires to take very short term actions that push the crypto space in a direction that looks nice in the short term but isn't really sustainable. What else have I defied recently? I guess I defied avalanche on Twitter yesterday. That was definitely, I mean, see, this is the other thing, right? I feel like I don't kind of stand for one radical thing as much as I just try to think about different issues and whatever my perspective is, that's what my perspective is.
01:36:01.966 - 01:36:38.858, Speaker B: And it's almost like the more that you can't predict someone's opinions from their other opinions, the more valuable those opinions are. So I definitely kind of try hard to actually think about things separately and not let any of people's existing boxes guide me. So, yeah, you're not going to get one thing, but you are going to get a very long list. And if you want to find out what that long list is, then I've written and twittered a bunch of stuff for a while and I probably will keep doing that.
01:36:39.024 - 01:36:56.382, Speaker A: Yes, please do. They're the best. Okay. Vitalik, it was so great chatting. I wish we had more time. Hopefully you'll be back on the defiant podcast at some other time and we can continue this conversation. Really a pleasure chatting with you.
01:36:56.382 - 01:37:06.246, Speaker A: Such interesting takes on everything. So again, appreciate you taking the time and thank you so much. Yeah, thank you, too.
01:37:06.268 - 01:37:11.460, Speaker B: This has been great. Close.
