00:00:07.720 - 00:00:53.632, Speaker A: Hi, everyone. Cool? So, yeah, today we're going to talk a little bit about bridging the gap between DeFi and Cefi. So, as many of you may or may not know, avant garde is probably most well known today for being the core contributor to the enzyme protocol. We have been the core contributor for about four years, and more recently, we got into the asset management space, helping out with Dow treasury management. And today we look after about $30 million in TVL for Dow Treasuries. For those of you who are not familiar with enzyme, it's the first decentralized asset management protocol in the space. It's been live for about four and a half years on Mainnet.
00:00:53.632 - 00:01:23.414, Speaker A: And today I'm going to talk to you a little bit about the protocol and the core benefits. And I'm also going to talk to you a little bit about the work we've been doing to bridge Defi and Cefi. So the four core benefits of enzyme, for those of you who don't know, we focus on really. Sorry, I feel a little bit faint. Connor, are you able to take over a little bit or actually, do you know what? I'm back. I'm back. It's all good.
00:01:23.414 - 00:02:06.394, Speaker A: Okay. So the four core benefits of enzyme are basically being able to tokenize fund shares. Actually, the protocol enables anyone to manage on chain asset management funds, indexes, Dow treasury management, but in particular, today, I'm going to focus on funds. The first key benefit is being able to tokenize fund shares. And you probably heard a lot about headlines in the press about asset management companies tokenizing their fund shares. But the key benefit here is that the fund shares actually are redeemable for the underlying assets, which is not the case in a lot of the headlines that you see in traditional finance. The second core benefit is that we offer a lot of transparency.
00:02:06.394 - 00:03:12.280, Speaker A: So we have data pipelines which are very sophisticated, which don't just look at the current state of what's in a vault, but also look at the historical pipeline of data, every event that's emitted from a smart contract, which enables you to have 24/7 reporting. So this is, I think, the only asset management protocol that can do that on chain and DeFi today. The third, really core benefit is automation. If you don't come from tradfi, you probably don't appreciate the level of automation that goes into operating and administrating funds. Probably you require four to five operational staff per investment professional to look after a fund operation. And that's obviously very costly and very time cumbersome. So what the protocol actually enables you to do is codify a lot of those operations, which frankly, removes a lot of headache and streamlines operations and lowers cost.
00:03:12.280 - 00:03:53.194, Speaker A: So as an example, when you set up a fund on ensyme, we're talking about a digital fund. You can configure things like management fees, performance fees, actions that determine investments, redemptions, so white listing investors, or minimum investment size. You can configure rules around redemptions. What are the assets that are, do you want redemptions in kind, or redemptions in a single asset? And so on and so forth. So there's no standard vault. Every vault is easily configurable, and all the operations, operations and administration is fully automated on chain. And last but not least, security.
00:03:53.194 - 00:05:21.404, Speaker A: I think this is probably, again, one of our strongest value adds as a protocol. The benefit of enzyme was always created so that the manager of a fund or a vault is always assumed to have a trustless relationship with the end investors. And that means that you can very securely or securely, we hope, delegate trading to an asset manager, whilst giving them very clear permissions on what they can or can't do, and like things like, you know, whitelisting, which protocols they're allowed to trade with, which assets they're allowed to trade with or not allowed to trade with, but very specifically and uniquely to enzyme, because the vaults have an on chain knowledge of price. We're also able to put in much more sophisticated, sophisticated risk management policies, which can prevent maximum slippage loss over a certain period of time, cumulatively, or a p and l stop loss if you want to delegate trading to members of your team. So you really kind of reduce the different ways that a manager can intentionally or unintentionally misappropriate assets. So, hopefully, I've given you a little bit of background around enzyme and the core features and why we're so excited about it. However.
00:05:21.404 - 00:05:56.094, Speaker A: Sorry. However, despite us being so excited about it, one could say that it hasn't really taken off as a protocol. In terms not one of the top used protocols. I think we have around $85 million of TVL today. Maybe at the peak we had 300 million. So we've been asking ourselves a lot the last twelve to 18 months. Why is it this really solves a problem from our eyes, and today we're just going to focus on the fund use case.
00:05:56.094 - 00:07:14.894, Speaker A: But we identified a few reasons for on chain funds. The first is that active fund management is especially when you take money for more than from more than two people as investors, is typically qualified as a collective investment scheme, which is a very heavily regulated activity. The second problem is when you look at the regulations involved with collective investment scheme, they are definitely not fit for purpose. They certainly don't take into consideration the fact that DeFi is ultimately trying to remove the need for intermediaries, reduce friction cost, increase transparency, et cetera. So trying to fit into the regulations actually ends up putting in all these inefficiencies again. So it's really frustrating. The third problem that we saw is that users would come, fund managers specifically, they'd hear about the platform or the protocol, they'd get really excited, and then they would suddenly realize, but wait, how is this a regulated activity? What do I do? And then when they realized that the burden is on them to find out the solution, they lose interest, because they know it's going to be a lot of money and a lot of time to figure that out.
00:07:14.894 - 00:08:29.794, Speaker A: And last but not least, when we've talked to more regulated funds, who are already regulated funds, their concerns are just the compliance processes around Defi altogether. So around twelve to 18 months ago, we took a decision to try and solve for this fund use case, because it's increasingly one that we think is necessary on chain fund management. It's one that, if anything, after Celsius, three arrows, FTX, et cetera. We think more on chain as the solution, not less. So for the last twelve to 18 months, we started to try and figure out how can we make it as easy as possible for someone to launch an actively managed fund on chain without having to worry about all of these things? And how do we do this in a way that doesn't compromise the values of defi? Can we preserve as many of them as we can, and can we bring this in a way that is a very low cost solution to people and also an easy solution? So, to put it into context, setting up a fund in traditional finance typically takes around $200 million in Aum to break even. That's obviously a very high barrier to entry. We want to bring that down drastically with Defi.
00:08:29.794 - 00:09:29.338, Speaker A: Can we do that while still kind of enabling an environment where people who manage funds can feel safe? And then, last but not least, we want to get more regulated players comfortable with the compliance aspects, many of which, by the way, are already built into the protocol and are optional. So we came up with a concept that we refer to as the avant garde platform. This is a platform which should be going live in a few weeks, but already avant garde asset management has been licensed as of May 31. It's built on top of the Ensign protocol. So enzyme, as a defi protocol, remains permissionless, open, completely decentralized, et cetera. And this is a thin layer on top that basically adds the licensing capability for managers to plug into. It enables clear, kind of.
00:09:29.338 - 00:10:35.884, Speaker A: It has a clear framework for trading. Now, depending on where you're based, you might not need KYT, but some Finma regulator players, for example, that we've spoken to, definitely required it. They want to use Dex technology to trade, but they need to know their counterparties, so all the options are available. And in order to make this tech enabled asset management platform work, we had to, unfortunately, unfortunately, partner with fund services provider offshore. This fund service provider was very open minded and actually uniquely very open to the idea of costs in the industry coming down and the fact that they have to adapt and survive or they will eventually be displaced. And we came up with a framework with them where we rewrote your typical subscription documents for a fund to be compatible on chain for a protocol like enzyme. This took a really long time, because try to explain that to lawyers, that it's challenging.
00:10:35.884 - 00:11:17.284, Speaker A: And then we had to come up with a way where the fund administrator typically looks after checking the NAV independently, making sure that the fund manager doesn't breach any risk management parameters, calculating the fees, et cetera. But let's face it, most of this stuff is actually done by the enzyme protocol. So a large part of their job, actually, most of it, is automated on chain by smart contracts. So ultimately, what was left of their role was independently verifying the navy. That's a legal requirement. So what they do is we needed to get their system to be able to call our smart contracts independently and verify the Nav. And that's all up and running smoothly now.
00:11:17.284 - 00:12:16.524, Speaker A: We also needed to make the investment redemption mechanism compatible with their legal requirements. But we also got to automate that there will be a necessity to sign subscription documents and do KyCML. That's the compromise here as far as DeFi goes. But on the flip side, we also achieved a lot of major benefits together and did get to preserve a lot of DeFi values. So the major benefits were our much lower cost. So this partnership, this, whatever you want to call it, experiment partnership, enables us to lower costs by more than 80% for a fund manager, and actually that only increases with scale. So the breakeven for a fund on this setup is now around four, $5 million instead of much, much higher before there's a much quicker time to market.
00:12:16.524 - 00:13:22.914, Speaker A: We anticipate that rolling out new funds on this kind of structure probably take two to four weeks instead of six to twelve months, especially now that it's been done once, should be easily replicable. Sorry. Because there are, you know, there's like things put like, you know, thoughtful documents put in place, like a DDQ, due diligence, questionnaire, subscription docs, et cetera. Hopefully we're able to attract a new kind of investor into DeFi that appreciates the transparency, the automation, the lower cost, et cetera, the institutional investor, which we probably still have not tapped in DeFi. And we have been able to preserve many of the DeFi values. Smart contract enforced security, the transparency, the non custodial aspect, because as I mentioned, the fund tokens are still redeemable for the underlying asset, and the removal of centralized counterparty risk because you're only dealing with decentralized exchanges. Oh, and I think there's one more.
00:13:22.914 - 00:14:18.592, Speaker A: And the automation also not just reduces costs, but reduces headaches. So in summary, the platform has kind of formed major innovations around it. Removes counterparty risk with respect to on chain funds, or enables a way for centralized counterparty risk to be removed from funds. It enables a non custodial setup, a way to invest in funds non custodially. It's the first, I think, ever set up to invest in a compliant and regulated on chain fund. And just to be clear, we've seen a lot of asset management products on chain, but most of them are passive, and those are much less complicated from a regulated perspective. So here we're only talking about actively managed, which is much more complicated and actually don't think has been done in Defi for that reason.
00:14:18.592 - 00:14:45.114, Speaker A: And last but not least, we can give investors 24/7 transparency at all times to be able to track what's happening in the vault and exit if they don't like it. So I think with that, I'll wrap up if anyone has any questions. I don't even know if we have time for questions, but we're around later. You can contact us. Yeah. Oh, there's a question.
00:14:50.094 - 00:15:09.910, Speaker B: Hello. Can you clarify a little more on the non custodial part? So I saw that the underlying assets were represented with ERC 20 tokens. Is there like a lockup period or what kind of mechanisms are you guys using for like, when they can claim the underlying assets at any time or. Yeah, how do you guys handle that?
00:15:10.102 - 00:16:02.854, Speaker A: Yeah, so actually every, like, the way enzyme is built is that when you create a vault, it's super highly configurable. So you can determine that the only recommendation that we make is that there is at least a 1 second lockup period, and the reason for that is to avoid flash loan attacks in terms of arbitraging the share price of the vault. Obviously that can still be done with a 1 second time lock, but it's more expensive, so it could be advantageous to have a 1 hour or 24 hours lock up period just for that reason. But really, we don't decide that for anybody. It's a protocol which anyone can use, anyone can use to set up, and anyone can determine their own rules around that. Any other questions?
00:16:09.194 - 00:16:17.322, Speaker C: Thank you. Do the investors need to have their web3 wallets to deposit whatever, like stable coins?
00:16:17.378 - 00:16:49.994, Speaker A: Oh, that's a really good question. So there's two ways routes into this type of fund. The first route is because we actually don't necessarily want to impose self custody on everybody. We just think it should be our basic right and an option that people have, but some people are not comfortable with it. So there's two routes into a fund. You can either go in with crypto or fiat. If you're starting with fiat, that's another role, minor role, I guess, that the fund service provider does.
00:16:49.994 - 00:17:35.563, Speaker A: They'll do the OTC trade into crypto and invest on your behalf, and then you have the option to hold the fund shares in custody with Bitgo as an initial starting partner. If you are crypto savvy, then you can say, I actually want to take self custody. That's something that you specify when you sign the subscription docs, if you're going to be taking self custody or not, you specify which it has to be. The wallet that sends the funds you know will obviously receive the vault token and it's going to be non transferable. So in that case, once you have signed a subscription docs and passed the KYC AML, you will be whitelisted on the vault by the fund admin, and then you can directly invest into the vault just by calling, just from the interface, so you don't need them at all.
00:17:37.983 - 00:17:50.120, Speaker C: And am I them then like redeeming back against that vault? Or am I not switching or selling it on Dexs? This ERC 20 token I'm holding, it's not like freely like marketable, is it?
00:17:50.232 - 00:18:40.272, Speaker A: So the transferability of the fund or the vault token is actually also something that's configurable at setup for this specific product. We've decided to keep the tokens non transferable because it creates regulatory complications. But for other types of products that are not as complicated from a regulatory perspective, it's totally possible to have transferable vault tokens. And then for the. I think your other question was on redemption. Again, that's something you can specify at vault setup. You can specify whether you want redemption in kind as the only option, or whether you want to allow investors to redeem in a specified asset or assets, and up to how much, because you don't want to have an unlimited amount, probably because it would mess up the balancing of your.
00:18:40.272 - 00:19:11.604, Speaker A: But you could say investors can redeem up to 1 million USDC and 1 million USDT, for example. And when that reaches a limit, you sort of get a notification that you've got to reprogram that or top up your USDC or whatever, rebalance your portfolio. Cool. If there are no questions, I think we can wrap up. Thanks very much, guys.
00:19:26.744 - 00:20:15.174, Speaker D: And thank you. Thank you for your attention, guys. And we continue getting into the topics which are very serious. And in a couple of minutes, we will meet Stanislav Shimek and he will be talking about regulatory outlook for Defi. So stay with us. One, two, three. Can you hear me? Yes.
00:20:15.174 - 00:21:00.384, Speaker D: Okay. Hello everybody, and thank you a lot for being here. My name is Tanya Slav Shimek. I'm a lawyer based here in Prague, and blockchain is my main area of focus on interest and expertise. And next to my legal practice, I'm also running a blockchain advisory business in a company called Romy, where we provide complex services to blockchain projects. In this talk, I would like to talk about what regulation actually apply on Defi. I believe this is a hot topic now with SEC being frenzy, do the regulation actually apply on Defi? Then we will see what's going to be the future of the regulation of Defi.
00:21:00.384 - 00:21:37.894, Speaker D: And then we will find some conclusions based on what's going to be set. So DeFi is increasing in popularity constantly over the period of time. We can see it in this chart is the share of the Dexs on the spot trading volume. So now it's about 15% of the overall trading volume share. And now it's going to be much higher because since SeC sued Binance and Coinbase, the trading volume index is actually skyrocketed. And now it's like 50 x. So it's very interesting.
00:21:37.894 - 00:23:37.234, Speaker D: And what are the reasons why people use DeFi or DeXs? Well, is it mainly two trade low caps, right, to make millions on pepes to lose millions or miladis? Another reason is anonymity, because now it's being hard and harder to find a centralized exchange, a solid centralized exchange that you can that you don't have to comply with KYC and then it's bankruptcies. I think many people learn their lessons during 2022 and unfortunately it's probably not over yet because FTX and Celsius will most likely claw back their users, which means that the people who withdraw their crypto and the three months before the bankruptcy can be called back and they will have to return the crypto back to the bankruptcy estate. So like in using centralized providers, there's a huge uncertainty. If you do one swap on a centralized exchange and then you take your crypto back, you don't know if in the three months, I mean, you have to wait for the three months and to see whether the provider doesn't go bankrupt and to see whether you will not have to be forced to return the crypto back. And this trend is most likely to continue because the centralized providers will be, and the centralized exchanges will have stricter rules for admitting coins to trade. Now, we can see that the US binance stop trading more than 100 pairs after the SEC lawsuit. Decentralized providers will also probably bank users from some states where it's going to be strict regulation because they will not be able to comply, because it's going to be too harsh and obviously anonymity because soon, especially in Europe, there's going to be travel rule implemented, which means that the centralized exchanges will send all the information they have about you straight to the state authorities.
00:23:37.234 - 00:24:55.106, Speaker D: So we can see that most likely defi will grow in the future. And as it will grow, the stricter the regulation must be what's the current regulatory landscape? So usually financial institutions, exchanges and crypto providers, service providers need to comply, need to operate under a license, need to comply with AML's law and consumer laws. Defi and decentralized protocols usually argue that they don't have to comply with this regulation, mainly on the two grounds. First of them is that they are decentralized, that there are hundreds of people deciding about the future of the project. So there is nobody who could force the protocol to do something the authorities want to, and that there is no legal entity that could be regulated or licensed because the users interact directly with the protocol and there is no classical relationship, service provider and the client. So what does the SEC and the US regulators say about it? They don't agree. They think that the automation of certain functions through smart contracts doesn't have any effect on the legal obligations and decentralization is the same.
00:24:55.106 - 00:26:02.988, Speaker D: So it means that whatever the project, however, is decentralized, fully decentralized, you still need to comply with all the regulation as decentralized providers. Moreover, the regulators kinda agree that practically all DeFi projects need to implement KYC. I mean, implement AmLas and do KYC to its clients, which almost no project, no DeFi project does. For now, it's the theory. And what's the reality? Well, SEC during its history conducted 118 crypto related enforcement actions, but only two of them aimed DeFi. The CFTC, the commodity Futures Trading Commission focused now more on crypto, with over 20% of all their enforcement actions being related to crypto, but only, again two of them during their history aim on DeFi. So there are only four enforcement actions so far.
00:26:02.988 - 00:27:10.980, Speaker D: So even though they are saying that DeFi have to comply, they are not really enforcing it. However, Gary Gainst, or the protector, he says that actually every Dex should comply with the security laws. Therefore, there is a big chance that after he is done with the centralized exchanges, he goes after dexs. So if we make a summary of the US regulatory landscape, DeFi needs to comply with everything as the centralized providers, but still, we don't enforce it that much. How is it in the EU? Well, the EU has a different stance. Rather than saying Defi needs to comply with everything, they are admitting that there are some regulatory that it's unclear who should actually comply with the regulation, where it should be the DAO, the interface, the website, the provider of it, or the company that develops the protocol. So they choose the way of implementing your laws.
00:27:10.980 - 00:27:59.908, Speaker D: That should make it clear. So like recently, the European Union approved Mica, which will become effective in one and a half year in all the European Union. And what does Mika, the regulation that was supposed to make everything clear, says about Defi. It says that where crypto asset services are provided in a fully decentralized manner, without any intermediary, they shouldn't follow it in the scope of Mika. So this Mika made it clear? Not at all, because we have no idea. There is no definition in the regulation of fully decentralization. And what does intermediary mean? So the EU members, the EU parliament members, say that now the authorities need to come up with guidelines and tell us what does it actually mean.
00:27:59.908 - 00:29:21.570, Speaker D: So for now, we have no idea in what scope Mika applies to DeFi and what doesn't. If the MICA was about to apply on DeFi, then all the projects, the DeFi projects will need to operate under license and meet a lot of obligations, like experience as trustworthy personnel, meet capital obligations, like risk management obligations, amo obligations, and it would be very burdensome for the DeFi projects. So it is how it is now. What about the future? Well, the SEC made clear that they really want to go after Dexis and DeFi because they proposed this April to amend the Exchange act, the definition of exchanges, that it was clear that Dexs need to comply with securities laws. Then from again from this April we have US treasury report about the crypto assets saying that yes, DeFi need to comply with all the rules and we should raise awareness about this one. And then also they suggest more tools like digital identity. So they want digital wallet to be connected to an identity of a person.
00:29:21.570 - 00:30:11.128, Speaker D: And then that the smart contracts don't have to comply with KYC, the ML laws. Then they suggest that there should be also a control on a smart contract level. That because the smart contract will see who is the user and based on how experienced the user is, he will allow him. The protocol will allow him to use leverage to trade certain. And also the report wants the US government to engage with developers to create AML tools for Defi. How is it in Europe? So as I said at the beginning, the approach of Europe was quite reasonable. But as soon as Dimica was approved, the european parliament assigned a committee to assess the regulatory challenges that state after Mika.
00:30:11.128 - 00:30:58.340, Speaker D: And they deal with DeFi a lot. And unfortunately their findings and suggestions are very harsh for DeFi. And practically they are also saying that DeFI should comply with everything as the normal centralized providers. So for example, they suggest that daos should have an entity status for licensing purposes, regardless of whether they are incorporated or not. So it means that if DAO operates a protocol, it will need to get a license to be able to do that. And also the daos should have a legal representative who will be like a connection between the authorities and the daos. Also the entities and people developing the protocol and the intermediary providing the website should be registered to.
00:30:58.340 - 00:31:58.784, Speaker D: Then there should be bankruptcy rules about what happened when the protocol fails. When there is a hack, like with terra Luna for example, it also suggests that all crypto should be considered a security unless they apply for an exception. That also suggests that should be created an eurovallet which should actually pave away for CBDC. There are many interesting features suggested. For example, that there should be a metrics that will tell you how much energy consumptions, you know, how much your coins make in energy consumption. How bad is this for the environment? And then the bankruptcy administrators should be able to seize all your crypto when you go bankrupt. And the committee also suggests to implement Trevor rule, which means that when you do a swap on Uniswap, the Uniswap will have to send the information to the state authorities.
00:31:58.784 - 00:33:06.154, Speaker D: So we can see that the future will most likely be that all the DeFI will be regulated in a way as the centralized providers are, and everybody should prepare for that. It's just the problem is that the laws and the guidelines take time and they need to get resources from enforcement which take time. However, this is the reality. Of course the crypto community is very creative, so they will come up with new ideas how to circumvent it. But the trend is clear. The regulation is going to increase and increase the same way as the popularity of DeFi is increasing. Of course you can try to be anonymous, and we can see it now that many projects, many projects now launch their projects anonymously.
00:33:06.154 - 00:34:11.310, Speaker D: And it can work for some time, because to reach out anonymous people and projects is much harder for the authorities. But it's going to be more and more difficult in the future with the new regulations coming as trevor rules, and with softwares like chainalysis being better and better. So in the future there's probably going to be DeFi completely regulated. And next to it there's going to be something similar to dark web, where anonymous projects and people without regulation will operate. And it's not going to be accessible for general public the same way, for example as it is with the tornado cache that you can still connect to the smart contract, but there is no website where normal people can interact with it easily. From Mika and some of the reports, we can see that truly decentralized projects can be regulated like the regulation can be less strict. However, we still have no idea what true decentralization mean.
00:34:11.310 - 00:34:57.355, Speaker D: And to be honest, we see for example, in the case of arbitrary, where the governance, the, you know, the holders, token holders voted in a way, and the developers and founders did something completely opposite. There are not that many truly decentralized projects for now. So to conclude, I just want this talk to be food for thought, not some legal advice. This is where we are most likely heading. Heading. And yeah, I bet that there's going to be many questions and we are short of time, I think. So you can reach me out whenever you want, wherever you want.
00:34:57.355 - 00:34:59.723, Speaker D: I will be here for the two days. So thank you.
