00:00:05.370 - 00:00:05.882, Speaker A: Presentation.
00:00:05.946 - 00:00:12.000, Speaker B: So next up we have Nick and Nick's going to be talking about the compound treasury. So Nick, without further ado, welcome.
00:00:12.690 - 00:00:45.130, Speaker A: Hey guys, thank you for having me here. Let me go ahead and just share my screen. Okay, awesome. I hope this is showing up. Okay, cool. So I'm Nick, I am the partnerships lead for compound treasury which is a product from Labs. Give me 1 second.
00:00:45.130 - 00:01:53.596, Speaker A: Might have shared the wrong oh, here we go. Yeah. So today I'll be giving an overview of compound treasury. I want to start with just a little bit of compound protocol background, which I'm sure most people here are familiar with, but just kind of frame how we went from the compound protocol itself to the treasury offering and then dive into a little bit of the risks and considerations that a number of more traditional financial firms are thinking about when they want to participate in DeFi. So to kick it off, I'm sure most of you are familiar with the compound protocol. Obviously it's an open source interest rate marketplace for various ethereum assets where anyone can come with their crypto. We've seen, I think the most popular use case in compound's lifetime has been these trading firms and hedge funds who are supplying volatile assets like Bitcoin and ethereum and then borrowing stable assets like USDC Dai or Tether.
00:01:53.596 - 00:03:22.008, Speaker A: And what that produces is this pretty high interest rate on stablecoins that's been integrated into a number of different applications, projects, exchanges, custodians and has been pretty successful. The compound protocol itself will always remain open and freely accessible and we're sort of building treasury as a premium service on top. So under the hood, as most of you probably familiar, users are supplying assets into liquidity pools unlike traditional lending where they're matching sort of various suppliers and borrowers based on shared terms. And the over collateralization presents a new type of risk profile I think than most traditional investors are used to since all borrowing is over collateralized and the health of someone's principal essentially depends on the automatic liquidation mechanism. So that's sort of a key part. And when we talk to folks who aren't familiar with DeFi is getting them comfortable with the fact that if someone borrows close to more than what they've supplied that this open ecosystem of liquidators will come in and keep the protocol solvent. Interest rates are simply determined by supply and demand for borrowing of each asset in the pool and this presents both benefits and drawbacks to different parties.
00:03:22.008 - 00:04:36.016, Speaker A: People like the floating interest rate because they don't need to be matched on a fixed rate with a borrower. But there are other sort of financial firms who have a lot of interest in locking in a fixed rate so that they can more easily plan around future products or releases a little bit on what the protocol has done so far. So there's been over 160 and probably at this point closer to $180,000,000,000 worth of assets supplied, probably closer to $60 billion worth of assets borrowed. Over 300,000 active users and a lot of crypto native institutions have integrated the protocol. Exchanges like Finance Okx OKCoin projects like Ledger or Argent or Fireblocks have all integrated the protocol to launch different types of earn or save features. And so for the first three years or so of the protocol's existence, this was a major focus of the community is how can we expand compound's interest rate markets natively into these various different avenues for liquidity just a little bit more on our team. So we are compound labs.
00:04:36.016 - 00:05:53.260, Speaker A: Obviously the team is distributed was originally based in San Francisco. We built the protocol back in September of 2018, pioneered a lot of the concepts in DFI and we've now set up a new subsidiary which is offering this treasury product. So when we think about the transition from the compound protocol, the compound treasury, the genesis from it came from these existing financial firms who are interested in accessing the high rates, in DeFi, but didn't want to deal with. The operational complexity of converting their fiat into crypto, managing their private keys, paying for custody, and setting up all the kind of different service providers they would need in the backend to access these high rates that exist on Stablecoins. So that was our impetus to build this treasury product which essentially seeks to create the lowest barrier to entry to accessing the benefits of the protocol. So with treasury we abstract away all of those complexities that I mentioned. We do all this in the back end and present users with a very simple experience for earning interest and supplying dollars rather than coming with crypto.
00:05:53.260 - 00:06:46.880, Speaker A: We think over time this will bring more institutions into DeFi, sort of starting with a limited offering and then as they get more comfortable with the protocol mechanics and maybe other types of protocols on ethereum and other chains, they'll want to dip their toes a little deeper. But with treasury we simply offer 4% on cash balances. We do all the conversions for our customers using different service providers like Fireblocks, who's our partner in this offering. And very simply, we take the variable interest rate that the protocol produces on USDC and we guarantee this fixed rate of 4% back to the customer. And you can see a little bit of what that interface looks like. Should feel somewhat similar to the compound app interface but a lot of the complexities are abstracted away. There's a little more granularity on the terms of the offering.
00:06:46.880 - 00:07:46.880, Speaker A: So we guarantee that 4% Apr for one year there's daily liquidity on positions with funding and withdrawals by wire transfer. We're currently only offering to US based accredited institutions. So that's institutions with at least $5 million worth of net assets. But we expect to expand this offering over time to hopefully make it as easy as possible for anyone with traditional US dollars to get started with DeFi. So just walking through what it would look like to fund your treasury account and get started earning, people would simply pull up wire instructions, send a wire from their bank. They can use an interface or the API to track their balance. There's also reporting tools that are a little more familiar to people who use web two products today rather than querying stuff on the blockchain directly, so they can simply export balance and activity history in a CSV.
00:07:46.880 - 00:08:38.050, Speaker A: And then to withdraw, they simply click an amount that they want to send back to their bank that they originally registered with us. So it's a really simple flow for the customer in the back end. The interest rates are powered by DeFi, but it's sort of combining these two worlds of fintech and decentralized finance, and this is a little more granularity on the flow of funds itself. So this is how we work with our partner, Fireblocks, and some banking providers, as well as Coinbase, who's doing the conversion. It's a pretty simple process of taking the dollars, converting them into USDC, supplying them the protocol to earn interest, and then custodying them on the Fireblocks platform. And the flow in reverse works exactly the same way. This is a little bit just on what we collect from potential customers.
00:08:38.050 - 00:09:47.796, Speaker A: Treasury is only offered to these institutions where we're doing KYC and a credit investor verification, which is obviously very different than the compound protocol, which is openly accessible to anyone with a Web three wallet. A little bit on the risk considerations. As you can imagine, a number of financial institutions like banks and fintechs see the benefits of these higher interest rates and liquidity that DFI provides. But they're very interested in digging into what does the risk profile of these products look like and how would they fit amongst the other sort of assets that we're holding or other yield strategies we have in traditional finance. So when we look at treasury, what we try to point these people to is to understand the risks in the flow of funds. So how do you go from US dollars in a bank account into the actual yield bearing asset cUSDC in Fireblock's custody? There obviously can be risks in the flow of funds to get there. There could potentially be custodial risks in how those cUSDC are being stored.
00:09:47.796 - 00:10:39.770, Speaker A: And then there's counterparty risk in that you are now interacting with a business which is compound prime our entity instead of a protocol directly. All these risks are very well mitigated with the secure flow of funds we've created. Fireblocks has best in class custody, so these risks, I think, are very well mitigated for these customers. And then on the protocol itself, there's a big sort of educational piece we do for these firms. There's sort of a difference between the actual risk on the protocol and the perceived risk. But the things that these financial institutions need to be aware of is any potential default risk. So would a borrower not be able to repay what they owe to the protocol and suppliers would become insolvent, which has never happened, thanks to a really efficient liquidation engine.
00:10:39.770 - 00:11:37.870, Speaker A: Is there liquidity risk? And that an entire market would be borrowed out and someone couldn't get their funds back in a timely manner? This also never really happens outside of when a market is less than a million dollars. But in markets like USDC, with billions of dollars of supplied capital, there's typically always 20% of its total volume in open liquidity. And then lastly, is any code security risk. So is there a way for someone to maliciously take user funds out of the pool? And we've mitigated this through a number of security audits and some great community members who consistently monitor the protocol. So that's pretty much it. I hope it was helpful to kind of see the evolution from the compound protocol into this treasury offering, how it may be appealing to more traditional financial firms who aren't ready yet to fully dip their toes into DeFi, but want to get started and understand the risks and benefits.
00:11:41.490 - 00:11:57.314, Speaker B: Awesome. Thank you so much, Nick. That was a great overview of the treasury product. One quick question. What has been the reaction for people who have tried this? This is clearly a much, much better offering than the alternative. So I'm just wondering how people have reacted to this.
00:11:57.512 - 00:12:17.366, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, we have a few customers onboarded today. They all really enjoy the experience. They sort of see it as an educational tool. Right. So they're earning more than they would usually. They're also just getting more involved in the compound ecosystem. We've seen them kind of serve as like a gateway drug into DeFi.
00:12:17.366 - 00:12:27.500, Speaker A: Right. It's very simple to get started, but then you start learning more about the processes underneath and we think it'll really just open up the floodgates to institutional capital in the space.
00:12:29.310 - 00:12:43.790, Speaker B: That makes a lot of sense. So hopefully we'll have a lot more people switching over and we get to see more DeFi companies or scripto companies use this as the product. So thanks for that's.
