00:00:00.280 - 00:00:28.072, Speaker A: Hello, everyone. Welcome to another episode of Deliberate Refuel, where you kept the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host and this is. I know it is the 22 April 2024. Alright, everyone, let's get into it. So before we get into today's episode, just wanted to say a big thank you to everyone who reached out to me, both in the Discord channel and on Twitter and on Telegram, with all of your words of support. After what I talked about on Saturday, about how I need to pretty much take a break from crypto, I think at this point in time.
00:00:28.072 - 00:01:02.080, Speaker A: Now, I did think a lot about this over the last kind of 48 hours since I put that episode out. And I've kind of come up with a little bit of a game plan that if you'll indulge me in for a couple minutes here, I do want to detail because I think it's important for you guys because it involves no refuels for two weeks. Now, that may come as a bit of a, you know, some sad news to a lot of you. It's sad news to me, but I think that I'm at the point where I need to do this. You know, I thought about an analogy today about how I'm feeling. I'm basically like a car that's had its check engine light on for a very long time and I've ignored it for that whole time. Basically what where I'm at right now, I'm running on fumes.
00:01:02.080 - 00:01:34.806, Speaker A: I need to take a pretty hardcore break, I think, where I just like, don't focus on crypto. Like, it's not like a holiday where I go away, but I'm still on my phone, still my laptop, focusing on crypto. No, I feel like I do need to take a proper break here. So the game plan that I came up with is basically that I will do the refuel for the rest of this week. You guys know I'm heading to Sydney next week for a crypto event for ETH Global Sydney, as well as a bunch of side events around that. So what I thought of is that I'm not gonna do any refuels next week. So originally I was gonna do a refill on Monday and Tuesday, but I won't do any refuels next week.
00:01:34.806 - 00:01:58.030, Speaker A: But I'll still be around on Twitter, on discord, things like that. I'll still be kind of doing things just maybe less than what I've been doing them traditionally. And then the week after that, when I kind of get back home and everything, I'm going to. There's going to be no refuels that week either, but there's also going to be no crypto at all for me. I'm not going to do any Twitter, no discord, none of that. And, you know, you won't be able to reach me, basically, unless it's, like, critically important. Maybe you can.
00:01:58.030 - 00:02:26.102, Speaker A: If you've got me on telegram, you'll be able to reach me there. But, yeah, I'm gonna basically take that whole week off kind of crypto altogether, and do a bunch of other things. I have a bunch of other things I've been wanting to do for a very long time, and I'm gonna take that opportunity to do that. So just fair warning here, you know, I'll do refills for the rest of this week. Hopefully, no rug fills this week, and then the following two weeks, there will be none. But I can't make any promises that I will be back after that either. I said in the Discord channel today that I've gotten to the point where I'm not having fun anymore.
00:02:26.102 - 00:02:57.686, Speaker A: I remember I said a long time ago on the refill that if this stopped being fun for me, that's when I'd stop doing it. And at this point in time, become not fun anymore. It is really mentally taxing for me to do anything crypto related at this point in time. I find myself just not enjoying it as much as I used to. And I think that is not a function of me not being interested in it. It's a function of me spending so much time within the ecosystem and burning myself out. So I really do think I need to take this break now, or else it's just gonna get worse and worse, and I may just get to the point where I literally snap and just, like, delete everything and that's it.
00:02:57.686 - 00:03:12.050, Speaker A: I'm gone. I don't want that to happen. I want to be around. I want to still be doing the refuel. This is my, you know, this is the thing I'm most proud of in my life. One of the things I'm most proud of in my life is all the work that I've done on the refuel, building this great community around the daily Gwey. And I do feel really guilty about this as well.
00:03:12.050 - 00:03:40.718, Speaker A: Guys. I know you guys are going to say not to feel guilty about it, but I do, and I apologize that I have to do this. I wish I could go, you know, on without having to take breaks or anything, because I love it so much, and I love, you know, getting feedback from you guys about how much you love the show and how much you love all the coverage that I bring and that I keep you bullish when things are bearish. Like, I love all of that. But, you know, I'm a human like the rest of you. And I do feel like at this point in time, I need to take a break for my own physical and mental health because my body is screaming at me and my mind is screaming at me. So that's what's going to happen.
00:03:40.718 - 00:04:05.740, Speaker A: So just a reminder, not this week, but the following two weeks, there will be no refuels. And then for that kind of second week there, I will be not contacted but will not be on the discord or anything like that. I trust that the mods on the discord will be able to handle any scammers or spam in there and anything that happens there. But I will still be reachable via things like telegram for people who have me on there for critical things. If it's not critical, I will not reply to it. That's kind of my plan there. And I'm going to avoid Twitter.
00:04:05.740 - 00:04:43.304, Speaker A: And this will be the first time, as I mentioned last episode, it'll be the first time I'm doing this in a very, very long time, in seven, eight years, this first time. And it's kind of scary, but I'm kind of excited about it, too, to see how I feel because I really do think it's what I, what I need right now. But anyway, enough boring you with all of those details, just figured I'd let you guys know and give you that heads up there. But thank you for sticking with me all this time, and I hope you'll still be around when I come back from my break. Not this week, obviously, but the following two weeks there. But the rest of this week, as I said, is still going to be a refuel. So let's get into the meat of today's episode, which is a little bit light on content because I did do an episode on Saturday, but still a lot of exciting stuff to talk about.
00:04:43.304 - 00:05:32.622, Speaker A: So first things first, the ETH eTF's. I put this tweet out yesterday where I said I still think the ETH ETF's are being approved on May 23, and I still think that guys, I really do still think that, like, obviously no one else thinks that at this stage, where very, very few people think that at this stage, but I still think it's getting approved on May 23. And I also, I think I said either on the refuel recently or in the Discord Channel recently that even if we don't hear anything by the end of April from the issuers in the SEC, I'm still just going to stick with my prediction of it being approved on May 23. If I'm wrong, I'm wrong. I don't care at this point, honestly, like, everything in me believes that they should be approved based on the facts and circumstances. But if they're denied, I'm just very curious to see what they're going to, how they're going to get denied. I am betting on them getting denied based on the spot futures correlation thing, which all that does is kick the can down a road.
00:05:32.622 - 00:05:46.686, Speaker A: It actually doesn't do anything else except that, like, the ETH will eventually be approved from there. But at this point, I'm just like, so over this discussion. So I was like, you know what? I still think they're going to be approved. I'm going to keep my odds at 100% for May 23. If I'm wrong, I'm wrong. I'll eat that. I'll own that.
00:05:46.686 - 00:06:21.614, Speaker A: I don't really care at this point in time. Now, the reason I'm bringing that up is because Andy here actually, quote, tweeted my, my tweet and basically said, you know, ethereum has so many positive catalysts ahead of it, and yet still so many hated. And I wanted to talk a little bit about these today. So obviously he said that the ETF is a positive catalyst. Now, as I said, if the ETF happens on May 23 or it happens later, I don't think it really matters that much at this point in time. I think that regardless, ETH is getting an ETF and that will be bullish. And honestly, as I've said before, you guys know that my belief is that even if the ETH ETF's are denied on May 23, that is still going to be bullish for ETH.
00:06:21.614 - 00:06:57.460, Speaker A: I don't think that's going to be a bearish thing, faith, at all, really. And I'm curious to see what the volatility is around that date as well. And I'm curious to see, like, if we actually get some back and forth between now and then. Like, does that make the market more confident in the ETH ETF's being approved on May 23? We'll have to see there. But also the fact that, you know, L2 fees are still way down after blobs went live and L2s are growing so, so much right now, guys, like, I know that in crypto we tend to have like these volatile growth periods where things will spike up and then come back down and spike up and then come back down. But with l two s, it's really been a gradual thing. We have had spikes here and there.
00:06:57.460 - 00:07:29.684, Speaker A: Obviously meme coin season on base happened recently and a few other things happening there. But really it's been a gradual growth of these kind of top l two s where they keep getting usage. And even the ones with existing tokens, like for example, arbitram has its token, has had its token for a very long time now, and yet the arbitrary ecosystem continues to grow. Optimism has their token already, which means there's not really any airdrop farming going on, and they're doing just fine. As an ecosystem base said they're not going to have a token. Maybe they do one day. I mean, I've said I think they're going to have a token, but I doubt there's very much airdrop farming happening on, on base.
00:07:29.684 - 00:07:54.892, Speaker A: Right? As opposed to what, what was probably happening with the other ones out there. Now, there are other l two s that still haven't done their tokens, and there's probably airdrop farming happening there. But generally the trend has been up. And I'm going to talk a lot about the l two growth in a little bit. I've got that set aside for later in the episode. And then Andy mentioned that the modular app chain evolution cements ethereum as a settlement layout. This is a big one and something that I think is under discussed within the broader crypto ecosystem, even within the broader ethereum ecosystem.
00:07:54.892 - 00:08:35.836, Speaker A: Now, I've been calling ethereum a settlement layer for as long as I can remember that. You can go back and find me saying this probably back in the ETH hub days, you know, if not before that, on twitter, about a theorem becoming the settlement layer. Now, specifically, ethereum being a settlement layer for l two s and for, for roll ups slash l two s, you know, whether they store their data on ethereum or not, ethereum is that central hub there. And that is really bullish for ethereum because it basically means that ethereum is a de facto kind of like secure hub for all of these l two s because people will often argue and say, oh, well, you know, ethereum is not the only chain that can do l two s. You know, these other chains can do l two s as well. It's like, yes, okay, fair enough. But do they offer the same things that Ethereum offers? No, they do not.
00:08:35.836 - 00:09:07.836, Speaker A: Ethereum is the most resilient and decentralized and secure settlement layer in the world. Like I would argue it's even more resilient, secure, reliable, decentralized than bitcoin layer one. Like I would make that argument, but I'm not going to make that argument now because it is a longer argument. But you guys have heard my points around that before. So I believe that the most successful and the biggest l two s will settle to Ethereum and will continue to settle there. And the cool thing about this is that they can settle to Ethereum using it as a data segment layer or not. And right now it's actually free to put your data on ethereum.
00:09:07.836 - 00:09:45.732, Speaker A: So it makes no sense for you to be a valid IAM unless you're trying to scale up to, or that you're expecting to scale up to like thousands of TPS or something and then you'll exceed 4844 data capacity. But for all the existing ll two s or roll ups that use Ethereum as a data availability layer, it's free right now to post your data. Now obviously that's not going to be the case forever, but Ethereum's roll up centric roadmap is centered around making data as cheap as possible, possible there. So, so there's that going on there. And then of course the ERP 1559 burn is working as expected. I know fees have been relatively low recently in the single digit way amounts, but that's not going to last forever, guys. That is because the market generally is quiet, is quiet right now.
00:09:45.732 - 00:10:06.736, Speaker A: There's not much activity happening across the board, really. It's not just with Ethereum, it's with everything right now. And I think that once that kind of resets, we'll see that. We'll see that activity picking back up. And I know some people will be thinking about the recent runes launch on bitcoin where Bitcoin daily fee spiked up massively. I think they had like a day of $100 million worth of 24 hours fees. But that's an outlier.
00:10:06.736 - 00:10:38.546, Speaker A: Like, I'm talking about the, I guess like weekly monthly trends here, not the daily trends because the daily trends are always skewed. I mean if you want to compare what happened with runes on bitcoin to what happened today's on Ethereum, you can compare it to the Yuga labs other side mint that ended up happening. I think it was in like 2022 where there was a lot of fees. I think it was hundreds of millions of dollars of fee revenue on Ethereum. L1 for that day or two that was happening there. And that was a once off there. Yes, Ethereum fees have been relatively high over the month on month, year on year period there.
00:10:38.546 - 00:11:07.830, Speaker A: And Ethereum has been burning those fees, or most of them, which bitcoin does not do, by the way. But yeah, when you look at those kind of outliers, there's not really anything going on. I actually think that money that was used on those runes things, most of that money was literally just like throwing it away. You may as well throw a lot of money away because the things that people were minting and things that people were doing with it, from what I've seen, they didn't really come out ahead. Now, the only people that came out ahead were the bitcoin miners. But also, what do you think happens to that BTC? It gets sold eventually. Like, the miners aren't holding this.
00:11:07.830 - 00:11:44.064, Speaker A: Like they're going to scale up their operations, they're going to sell BTC to fund it, and none of it gets burned. So I don't really see that as a bullish thing. Whereas with Ethereum, doesn't matter if fees are low or high on net, you know, 70, 80% of it over time and in perpetuity is getting burned. So that is incredibly bullish for ETH as an asset because it all flows back to its value as an asset, therefore. And then the final thing Andy mentioned here, which is, I guess, like not the final thing to be bullish about when it comes to etherium, but just that the thing that Andy mentioned was, was Eigen layer and restaking generally. And Eigen layers, main net going live and abs is secured by restaked ETH. I've talked about this at length on the refuel.
00:11:44.064 - 00:12:13.464, Speaker A: Not going to rehash all those talking points here, but this is just another black hole for ETH guys. Just another kind of, I guess, value driver for ETH as an asset. Restaking generally. And I think that I've described ETH as this kind of thing. There's this ball that's being held underwater before. Like the amount of demand that we're seeing for ETH right now and the ball just being held on the water, the person holding that ball underwater, their muscles are about to give out. Like, I really do think that it can only go on for so long before ETH just pops, right, just, just pops up massively and it goes up a lot in price.
00:12:13.464 - 00:13:04.070, Speaker A: And I do think we could see ETH at all time high sooner rather than later due to this. And I mean, I've said it before, but generally I think that right now, or at least over the last couple of months, a lot of eats, kind of laggy or shitty price action was due to the fact that, that there's this, just this overhang of the ETF narrative on there. But I think that once that subsides in a denial or approval ETH, regardless of a denial or approval ETH will do quite well there, generally because there's just so much demand for it, there's not much ETH left to buy. Guys, like, and we really are, I think, still at the midpoint of the bull market, I think we're just cooling off before the next expansion phase starts, which, in my opinion, starts relatively soon. Honestly, I'm still super bullish on, on this kind of bull market. I don't think we've topped at all in terms of, like, the bull market top or anything like, so we're going to keep, you know, I'll keep you guys updated on that one there. But yeah, thanks to Andy for pointing these out.
00:13:04.070 - 00:13:47.494, Speaker A: Just gave me an opportunity to a little bit of a bullish rant there. All right, so actually, I'm going to save this tweet for later because this is all about growth in the Ethereum ecosystem, so I'm going to save this for later. But what I wanted to give a quick shout out to was a stakers new resource for monitoring airdrops to solo stakers. So you can see here that they have a list of projects that have airdropped for solace to solo stakers so far, such as Omni, Stark, Starkware, Celestia, and Diva. I don't think diva has come yet. This is just an announcement here, so you can check that out for yourself. But I'm really, really glad to see that East Taker has put this out there because now I have a central repository to link to people when they ask, you know, which projects are airdropping or have airdropped to solo stakers here.
00:13:47.494 - 00:14:21.892, Speaker A: I do think that while the trend is kind of intact right now, where more and more projects are doing this, there hasn't been enough that have done it yet. And I think this is due to two reasons. One, there's not enough noise being made about it right now, I think. And two, no one can seem to really agree on which list to use, like which list of solo validators to use, which is kind of frustrating because we do have good lists. I've shown them before on the refuel. So I think that we need to just basically keep pushing. The list that I've shown on the refill before was this one from GL CNI, I believe I'm gonna bring this up on GitHub here.
00:14:21.892 - 00:14:53.474, Speaker A: Yeah, so you can go to this, I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But this I think is the best list we have right now. If you want to check out the repo here, you can check it out because it's got, you know, all the solo stakers that they've been able to identify here, both pre and post merge, as well as rocket pool node operators too, which, which in my opinion count as solo validators. That as well. So I think they should, people should really use, or projects should really use this list. So you can go check that out for yourself if you haven't yet. But yeah, you can go check out eats takers new airdrops page for solo stakers if you haven't already.
00:14:53.474 - 00:15:42.412, Speaker A: All right, so onto the growth portion of today's refuel, talking about growth not just across l two s, which is going to come up in a sec, but also Ethereum staking generally. So I haven't shown these charts for a while, the validator count chart as well as the staked ETH chart, but I figured it was worth covering this because there's some interesting trends here that I wanted to point out. So when it comes to number of validators, we can expect this to collapse once MEB, once AIP 7251 or Max EB comes along in the Petra upgrade later in the early next year. Because as you guys know, you'll be able to stake 2048 ETH per validator, which means we're going to see a lot of this consolidate. But right now we're at almost a million validators here. I think we're at 990,000 or something like that. I expect that to get cut in half at the very least, if not less than that, which is very good for the network.
00:15:42.412 - 00:16:24.642, Speaker A: Guys like that does not mean that we have less security on the network, does not mean we have less node operators on the network. All that means is that we have less tech debt on the network and we have a more stable and reliable and scalable network, which is obviously a net positive for everyone. But regardless of that, of Max EB going live, we can study the chart as it is now. So when looking at the validate account chart, it's going to be the exact same as the staked ETH chart here. So I'm going to focus on the staked ETH chart for this portion. So essentially what I noticed when looking at this chart was that you saw we kind of saw a spike from like May of last year to around, I guess you could say October of last year. So may to October, what is about six months there where the number of ETH staked went up by about 10 million.
00:16:24.642 - 00:16:40.178, Speaker A: So from 18 million to like 28 million ish or something like that. 27.5 million ish there. So it went up a lot. But then, since then, it's been kind of like it trickled from October to around January. It trickled by. Up by about like 1.5
00:16:40.178 - 00:17:12.298, Speaker A: million. But then, since then it's gone from. From January this year at about 29 million up to 31.6 million in April. So over four months, we have brought on a bunch of almost 3 million extra ETH stakes. So that's more than what we saw previously here. Now, I think that these trends, what they point to is basically a lot to do with kind of restaking generally, and a lot to do with Ethereum staking kind of being de risked because, as you know, in April of last year, Shapalo went live right where withdrawals went live.
00:17:12.298 - 00:17:33.062, Speaker A: And essentially what happened was that staking was massively de risked. So for the six months after that, we basically had this up, only, you know, 10 million plus ETH, or around 10 million ETH was staked here because of that de risking. That happened. But then we had a trickling in around until January of this year when the LRT stuff started skyrocketing. Right. And then. And restaking was happening during this period as well.
00:17:33.062 - 00:18:20.858, Speaker A: But then when LRT's come along, when you could basically stack those points, farmings that people were doing with ethify, swell, puffer, Renzo and a bunch of others out there, you could basically put your ETH into those and then they would put that Ethan to Eigen layer. So you are now kind of doing this recursive farming or this recursive yield stacking or point stacking, whatever you want to call it there. So that's where these other spike has kind of come from. And that's continued, obviously. But, you know, the funny thing about this is that we're all having debates recently, especially when it comes to the ETH issuance curve, over how much ETH is actually going to be staked in. I wouldn't say like the terminal kind of capacity or the terminal velocity, but how much ETH is going to be staked at a kind of like, you know, near terminal or near near kind of, you know, the maximum amount here. So I've said before that I don't think we're going to get 100% of ethaked.
00:18:20.858 - 00:18:58.522, Speaker A: I don't, I don't even think we're going to get like 80, 90% of ethake. I could say maybe 60, 70% or something like that. But from here on out, I don't think that there's going to be like a massive flood of eat state coming in. I think what's going to keep going up, but I don't think we're going to get like 10 million ETH staked in six months. Like, I just don't see that happening because the more and more eat that is staked, the obviously, the less eat there is to stake, and the less people that care to stake their ETH, generally. And I know people will think to themselves, well, you know, if you're not staking your rate, you're technically losing and technically being diluted because you're not getting the new issuance to you. But the thing is, is that, like, for a lot of people, that new issuance isn't that big of a deal.
00:18:58.522 - 00:19:34.604, Speaker A: Because if you do the calculus of, okay, well, if the yield for staking all inclusive, not just the new issuance, but also the fees and the MeV, is 3.5%, but on every year, the price of ETH goes up, like, on average, one to 200%, well, then you don't really care about missing out on that three and a half percent yield, right? Like, you don't. It's kind of indifferent. You're kind of indifferent to it, right. It doesn't really mean much to you. And then people will argue, well, what about putting your, you know, your, your lsts or LRT's to work, you know, borrowing against them in defi and stuff like that. Well, most people probably don't want to do that.
00:19:34.604 - 00:20:29.028, Speaker A: Like, the ones that don't want to stake, we don't want to do that anyway. They're probably trying to get like the least risk kind of exposure to ETH as possible, which is just holding vanilla ETH here. But then I guess, like, there's another argument that can be made around the fact that the ETF's, the ETH ETF's, eventually we're going to have like a staked ETH ETF. So what's going to happen is that I think that there's going to be two types of ETF's, this normal spot ETH ETF and then a spot staked ETF. And it's going to be very interesting to see what happens there because at that point, it's a decision between both the, I guess like ETF manager, whether that be blackrock or someone else, you know, Van Eck, all these institutions and the customer, do they automatically, these institutions opt in the customer to staking their ETH or do they ask them if they want to do that? And that becomes another question. Because we know that the tradfi world is obsessed with yield. We know that in crypto, like a 3.5%
00:20:29.028 - 00:20:46.418, Speaker A: yield isn't really a big deal for a lot of people. I know a lot of ETH holders that don't stake their ETH. Guys, like literally the ETH, it's in cold storage. They don't want to stake their ETH. And that, and the exact reason is because they look at 3.5% and like, eh, I don't really care about that. Like I'm, you know, I expect ETH to go up so much when obviously they're not thinking about the fact that that's 3.5%
00:20:46.418 - 00:21:12.458, Speaker A: in ETH terms, not in dollar terms. I should have mentioned this before, but still to them it's like, ah, you know, I don't understand staking and I don't want to go with these LSTs, all these LRT's, because there's kind of risk associated with that smart contract risk, peg risk, you know, all that sorts of stuff. And that's how they think. They're just like, I just want Eid exposure, that's it. I don't want to mess around with anything else. And they, they're happy with that because they're still making a return over the long term on their investments because of the fact that they expect eat to go up. And it has historically gone up a lot.
00:21:12.458 - 00:21:40.234, Speaker A: Right. And we'll continue to go up from here as we strongly believe. I mean, if you're buying, if you believe it's going to go up in the future, whether that belief is right on or not is another thing. But that's what people are doing here. So then, you know, with trad five, it kind of changes the conversation because these are crypto natives that I talked to, or at least people that are not like in the tradition. They're not like investing in stocks, they're not using kind of blackrock to manage their funds or anything like that. They're, I wouldn't say they're crypto native, but they're definitely people that are in crypto's orbit, so to speak.
00:21:40.234 - 00:22:19.670, Speaker A: But in the tradfi world, they're obsessed with yield. So what happens when Blackrock or van neck whoever it is sends out an email blast to all of their ETF holders and says, hey, we have this new staked ETH ETF thing. And they'll dumb it down for their audience, obviously. But then the headline will be, earn 3% or whatever percentage yield it is on your ETH, minus the fee that they will take. Of course, all you have to do is click one button. I do think a lot of people will click that button because I don't think that the blackrock and van neck and that will make the risks obvious to people. I think what will happen is that they'll just abstract the risks away and any losses they incur for any reason at all, slashing or what have you, they'll just socialize that amongst their base there.
00:22:19.670 - 00:22:57.230, Speaker A: So that's where I think the calculus can definitely change a lot, is when we have, like, these managed vehicles that can be used to. To stake. But until that happens, I just don't see, like, this stake ballooning up, like, massively anytime soon. I do think the staking is going to be up only for quite a while, but it feels like that the massive amounts of growth of new stake coming in is going to slow down for a little while here because of the fact of all the reasons I just outlined there. I mean, I could be completely wrong on this, but that's the kind of trend and pattern that I'm seeing right now. But, yeah, this is the chart to pay attention to the staked ETH chart, there are many charts like this. The validator count chart, as I said, that's going to look completely different.
00:22:57.230 - 00:23:21.814, Speaker A: It's actually going to look very funny, because let's just say we have this chart, and then we're at, like, a million validators when Max Eb goes live. And then you just see, like, a massive drop in the chart, like, 500,000 validators. People are going to look at that and there's going to be fudder, I already know, is going to be fud around it. People are going to be like, oh, what happened to all the validators on Ethereum? Ah. And when in reality, we'll know that it was just people consolidating their eat stakes. We're going to do a little bit of fud fighting at that point. You know, that's how I kind of see that playing out there.
00:23:21.814 - 00:24:09.566, Speaker A: But anyway, on to the next thing I want to talk about, which was the growth around the ethereum ecosystem generally, and specifically, l two. So Sebastian here put together a nice little tweet where he tweeted out basically usage across all of the Ethereum mainnet and the various Ethereum Altoos. He included Polygon in this, but I believe that's the Polygon Pos chain, which technically isn't an l two yet, but will be in the future. So I mean, even if you kind of like take away polygon here, it's still up only growth for the rest of the ecosystems. You know, base ZK, I mean it's not even every one of them, right? It's just base zksync, arbitrum, optimism and Ethereum mainnet as well. And this is across active wallets per week, transactions per week, trades per week, and also transfers of USDC weekly here. So it's all up only, which is really really great to see there.
00:24:09.566 - 00:24:41.498, Speaker A: And that's no surprise to anyone paying attention, especially if you've been listening and watching the refuel. I cover this all the time, but I just figured these charts were really nice to show you guys what this looks like, you can check them out for yourself. I'll link in the YouTube description below. And then of course l two beat also has their various ways of tracking activity across l two s with the scaling factor here. We saw it spike up quite a bit post Denkun because it was like a mini base season and kind of like a mini l two season going on there. And they also include Djen chain in this now as well, which is an l three. So it's not just an l two that's being tracked here, it's an l three as well.
00:24:41.498 - 00:25:12.686, Speaker A: But that's pretty much like been up on average. I mean it is down from its all time high right now, but it has been up on average. I mean this is over the last year, but if you go over the maximum time it's, it's up only really. And then of course you have all their other kind of, kind of pages here. Like value lockdown has really been up only on the most part, but this is very sensitive to price movements. Like if the prices of ETH and some of the other tokens doubled overnight, this TVL would pretty much double as well. So that's why I think the TVL generally is not like the best metric for measuring growth.
00:25:12.686 - 00:25:45.370, Speaker A: It measures growth in like asset prices. But if you want to look at TVL as denominated in stuff like ETH, that's also been going out, people bridging ETH into these l two s and so on and so forth from there. Now of course another website you can use to track all of the growth of Altoos is growthepie xYz. I've covered this website a lot on the refill before. I really like their L2 user base kind of, kind of chart here where you can basically say it's been up only not at all time highs right now, but being up only for ages. Like, it's just. This is what I meant when I said earlier in the episode, that it's just been consistent growth for a very long time.
00:25:45.370 - 00:26:10.506, Speaker A: You can see that playing out here, and then you can go into any number of other different kind of metrics. Yeah, active addresses, transaction counts, debit, coin, market cap, so on and so forth. The general trend is up there now, of course, last thing I wanted to talk about was ethereum and blobs. This is Hill Dobby's blob dashboard. Now, we're still not anywhere near the target of three blobs per block. We're around half of that right now. So 1.441.5
00:26:10.506 - 00:26:39.728, Speaker A: blobs per block here, which means that it's basically free to use blobs right now. I remember I said that we did have a period of time where inscriptions were taking up a lot of blob space, but that doesn't seem to be the case anymore. And no one is doing inscriptions or blobscriptions right now. In terms of the l two s. That or the roll ups that are using blobs, the most you can see here in blue base is far ahead right now. Like, in terms of the amount of data that they're using, they're the biggest. Then in second is arbitram, I believe.
00:26:39.728 - 00:27:03.926, Speaker A: Then in third place is op mainnet. And then you've got the other other ones here as well. There are some that pop in and out, like Starknet, for example, will pop in and out, depending on the day. And then you've got Zk sync and in Linnea as well. But yeah, base is definitely the biggest here. And that's because I think base right now is the one that's seeing the most activity out of all of the l two s. And obviously that's generating more and more data they have to post down.
00:27:03.926 - 00:27:40.434, Speaker A: So they're definitely posting more blobs than other than everyone else is right now. Not by a substantial amount, but definitely by a pretty healthy amount. I mean, you can see here that over the last 24 hours, base posted 100, 163 blobs, whereas arbitrary, and posted around 73. So, yeah, I think base is, what, double or more than double right now than arbitrum. And then you know, I guess like much bigger than the other ones put together, but it's not like it's ten times bigger or anything like that. So definitely going to keep an eye on that, to keep an eye on the different growth between the l two ecosystems there. But you can find all these dashboards that I just talked about.
00:27:40.434 - 00:27:56.390, Speaker A: I'll link them in the YouTube description below for you to do so. And the last little chart that I wanted to show is this one on the left here. You probably can't see it because of my camera. Unfortunately. I don't think I can move it around. Maybe I can actually just click into it and you guys will be able to see it here on my screen. So this is the blob base fee since launch.
00:27:56.390 - 00:28:20.450, Speaker A: So since blobs launched on March 14 here on March 13 when Denkun went live. So to the left of the chart, you can't see most of it, but it's basically flat. This is the blob base fee. This is basically means, meaning that blobs were free right up until about the 27 March until the. What is it, the 3 April where you can see the blobs. Blobscriptions came along and started bidding up blobspace. Yeah.
00:28:20.450 - 00:28:43.902, Speaker A: But then that collapsed and we've basically been at the same point since, you know, April 3 April kind of fourth year, where it's basically been free to post blobs there. So that's another interesting chart that I love keep paying attention to on Hill Dobby's dashboard here. But I think that's going to be it for today's episode. So thank you everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow.
00:28:43.902 - 00:28:45.614, Speaker A: Thanks everyone. Bye.
