00:00:03.130 - 00:00:28.502, Speaker A: Hi, everyone. Welcome to Unchained, your no Hype resource for all things crypto. I'm your host, Laura Shin, a journalist with over two decades of experience. I started covering crypto five years ago, and as a senior editor at Forbes, was the first mainstream media reporter to cover cryptocurrency full time. Subscribe to Unchained on YouTube, where you can watch the videos of me and my guests. Go to Youtube.com, slash c slash Unchained podcast and subscribe today crypto.com,
00:00:28.502 - 00:00:49.290, Speaker A: the crypto super app that lets you buy, earn, and spend crypto all in one place. Earn up to 8.5% per year on your BTC and more than 20 other coins. Download the crypto.com app now to find out how much you could be earning. Today's guest is Stani kulachev, founder and CEO of ave. Welcome, Stani.
00:00:49.630 - 00:00:52.460, Speaker B: Thanks for having me here, Laura. Happy to be here.
00:00:53.150 - 00:01:02.800, Speaker A: You have an interesting background that pulls together several strands that touch on different knowledge areas relevant to crypto. Why don't you tell us how you got your start in the space?
00:01:03.910 - 00:02:31.962, Speaker B: Yeah, definitely not a usual background in our industry. Well, everyone has kind of unique background here, but I started probably four and a half years ago, getting into this space practically in the product side and building protocols in decentralized finance. And actually I found ethereum when I was still studying law. So by education, I'm a lawyer. And during my last years of my studies, I wanted to understand better how we could make contracts, like legal agreements more efficient. And part of my research, I tried to research AI and a bunch of other automatization, but I stumbled upon ethereum and smart contracts, and the idea of immutable contracts and code made a lot of sense to me in form of execution that you always have legal agreements kind of like that execute no matter what. And before that actually funny, I was building before law school financial applications in Fintech, which focuses more on user experience, and somehow there's a sort of regulation involved in Fintech, so ended up kind of getting more excited, like understanding more the legal and jurisprudence side.
00:02:31.962 - 00:02:35.200, Speaker B: And that's how I ended up all the way here.
00:02:35.810 - 00:03:12.540, Speaker A: Yeah, and I think it's interesting because when I look at Ave, I feel like I can kind of see that background coming through, especially like right now at this time in crypto, where a lot of stuff that needs to be built in crypto actually does look more like fintech, because you need to connect this new financial system to the traditional one. But let's also talk about kind of this little interim period where you had started something, a different project called ETHLend. What was that? How did that lead you to Aave? And then I'm very interested to hear you tell us how you managed that transition from one project to another.
00:03:13.470 - 00:04:06.870, Speaker B: Well, it started mainly when I definitely started to practically understand more smart contracts and how they work. And because I tried to solve kind of idea. That how you make legal agreements more efficient. But I quickly realized that actually what smart contract can do, they can actually provide more efficiency into finance. And one of the things I tried to kind of understand how we could make a kind of on chain smart contract where there is a lending transaction where the actual borrower has an incentive to repay back the loan. And normally it's not so obvious because the Ethereum how it is, it's practically pseudo anonymous. So addresses do not have any identities so it's very hard to do any kind of lending or loan transactions.
00:04:06.870 - 00:04:54.620, Speaker B: And what we kind of realized is that actually you could use various cryptographic assets as a collateral, post a collateral as a borrower, receive funds from the lender and then as there is more collateral in the protocol you are incentivized to repay to get back your collateral, whatever it is. And back during that time there wasn't that many different collateral types. But the idea of work, I mean the whole D five space is more or less about over collateralization and collaterals in essence. So it was just a small proof of concept that we developed and evolved into a community and then just evolved into something else. I never wanted to do a startup like this. That was not my plan at all.
00:04:56.190 - 00:05:02.510, Speaker A: And so how did you decide to transition from Ethland to Ave?
00:05:02.930 - 00:06:11.198, Speaker B: It was a difficult decision because when we created the Ethland product it was very early, it was 2017 and we kept building it but we're practically creating a product into a market where the ecosystem wasn't kind of wide enough, there wasn't many users and there wasn't even stable coins. So people were kind of posting collaterals and borrowing eat or practically USD pegged eat and it was very challenging environment plus the user experience wasn't as good as it is today. If you look at AVET today or Uniswap, we didn't have that kind of things. What we realized during 2018 is that as the ecosystem started to grow is that a pooled model makes a lot of sense. And this is what, for example, Uniswap had. And we understood that now that the collaterals that are on Ethereum are getting more and more market capitalization. And what essence this does is that you could actually pull the liquidity and pull the risks.
00:06:11.198 - 00:06:45.726, Speaker B: And at that point we decided to build Aave and we actually rebranded first because Italy in some way was actually also kind of like a meme. It was just searched for ethereum lending and it was funny name back then that you could lend out ethereum and people return it and it was a bit of a meme and we just wanted to have some kind of like a branding that was easy and recognizable and maybe at some point even something that is easy also for the mainstream. If we are willing to go that far.
00:06:45.908 - 00:06:53.280, Speaker A: And so then how did you decide to make the transition to Ave? And how did you even message that with the community?
00:06:53.670 - 00:08:04.866, Speaker B: Well, practically at some point we just decided what steps we should do. I mean, we started to discuss with the community what kind of naming options we could have, what kind of branding we have could have. And at that point we were even thinking, should we hire actually like a branding agency that could just make some sort of like a facelift and come up with the branding? And we actually heard a lot of people and received offers, but eventually we wanted to do something ourselves. And at some point we just went to the community and said that, hey, this is what we have in plan and this might be very interesting. And people love that because somehow our community always understood that it's more than just ethereum lending. And I think it's usually the community that pushes you further than you want to be. You want to focus quite a lot, but there's so many things happening and your community wants you to spread in multiple ways and do everything, which is kind of like we're also excited to do a lot of things at the same time, but there's just not enough bandwidth to do things securely.
00:08:05.058 - 00:09:01.500, Speaker A: So now Ave is the second largest DFI protocol after MakerDAO. It has about $5 billion locked in it. And so actually, I was originally supposed to interview you last summer and for various reasons the news changed and I wanted to do something that was kind of a little bit more, just some breaking news at that moment. But I looked back at that original script I had written and even just last summer, it said Ave was the fifth largest D five protocol and it had $150,000,000 locked in it. So suffice it to say that Ave has seen really fast growth. But I'm just curious, why don't we have you describe because I tweeted that I was going to interview you and a number of people said, have him explain Ave the way he would to a five year old. Or someone said to his normie friends, so why don't you take a stab at that?
00:09:01.870 - 00:09:35.998, Speaker B: Well, I usually explain very simple that with Ave you practically see your crypto grow. That's about it. Because technically what it is, you practically deposit cryptographic assets and you get yield. But end of the day, the yield is in form of getting more that particular crypto. So if it's eat, you get more eat. If it's, let's say, stable coins, you get more stable coins. I just explained that it's a way to grow your holdings not just like in value, but in quantity.
00:09:35.998 - 00:10:21.342, Speaker B: And it's that simple. Basically, it's just like, of course there's the lending part. Someone is on the other side consuming and those kind of things, but in essence, it's just pretty much depositing funds and getting yield and you will see your crypto grow. And actually this happens very directly because the way we designed the protocol is that if you deposit assets, you get a tokens in return. So 100 USDC means that you get 100 a USDC. And we actually developed this algorithmic formula which means that you will see every second your balance increase wherever you're holding those assets. So it could be on your MetaMask cold storage.
00:10:21.342 - 00:10:37.880, Speaker B: You will always see the balance increase depending on how often your wallet provider is calling the balance of that asset. But that's like a very unique way to create assets because normally that happens in banking, but not so often in our space.
00:10:38.670 - 00:10:44.970, Speaker A: And so Ave in a way is imitating banking. Right, people deposit.
00:10:46.030 - 00:11:43.994, Speaker B: Yeah. I would say what we are trying to do is we're trying to not imitate but we are trying to kind of fix the back end of finance in general. So let's say when I used to work in Fintech, what we were focusing quite more heavily is pretty much like the user experience. So how to make the user experience in finance better. And this is what neo banks have been doing and all the challenger banks, electronic money providers and whatnot, and all this fintech is trying to solve like improving the user experience, but everything else is hauled by the financial infrastructure and that is not moving anywhere. And what Ave is doing and also kind of like others in the DeFi space is actually taking that kind of like a back end of finance and improving that. So making it first of all, open that is accessible to everyone to participate, to build upon.
00:11:43.994 - 00:11:55.186, Speaker B: So you get developers from all parts of the world and have this kind of transparency. That is what we are essence trying to solve as Aave and DeFi in general.
00:11:55.368 - 00:12:30.620, Speaker A: Yeah, and one thing I was looking at is in terms of how quickly Ave has grown. I think something that's interesting and impressive about it is that Aave's closest competitors, Maker and Compound, which at the moment rank first and third in terms of total value locked, both have Silicon Valley backing, they both have investment from Horowitz. Well, definitely. Obviously Compound also has offered a yield farming scheme and Ave hasn't done that yet. So what do you think accounts for Ave's success?
00:12:31.390 - 00:13:42.382, Speaker B: I think there's a lot of factors involved into it, but I think kind of like we definitely created very good technology in one way, but also we were able to attract communities that were underserved. So I think that's the key component. So back then I think Maker was pretty much focusing on having it as a collateral, maybe a couple of other collaterals very conservative even though they have this kind of like a depth gap so they can actually list new collaterals but with limited exposure, which is really good in my opinion. And then Compound was also pretty conservative in form of basically what kind of assets there could be listed. How we came to the market is that we started to look like different communities and seeing what are the active communities who actually could use our product and also are currently underserved. So they might have some collaterals that they could use, but they cannot use it anywhere else. And the thing is that we started to actually look on those and started to list them as a collateral.
00:13:42.382 - 00:14:31.902, Speaker B: And one of the interesting part was there is that we adjusted our risk framework in a way that we get less exposure than other protocols that we don't allow, let's say borrowers to get that much out of the collateral. But still we are touching upon market that no one else is serving at the moment. And that's how I think was one of the part of success. Of course there's also a lot of work involved in the technology, the communications, branding, and we participated in a lot of hackathons. We are very much developer friendly protocol. So I guess one time we calculated that 80% of the liquidity just comes from elsewhere than our user interface. So someone builds a product or protocol and it consumes Aave deposits.
00:14:31.902 - 00:14:53.740, Speaker B: There could be yield aggregator. And I think we try to be very developer friendly at the same time. And we have touched a lot of communities in very good moment. I think those are key things and probably other people have more to say because it's always difficult to assess what's the real deal behind of the success.
00:14:54.350 - 00:15:21.010, Speaker A: Yeah, but it is interesting, I think, what you said about the difference in strategies and kind of accessing, maybe more of like a long tail interest and just finding the communities that are enthusiastic. One other thing was earlier I did ask you to describe Ave, but also recently in early December, ave launched its version two. What are the new features?
00:15:22.310 - 00:15:57.690, Speaker B: Yeah, so version two is like by itself the protocol. We made a lot of savings in the gas costs. That's like one of the things. But I think the main things is that actually we made the protocol more useful for the users. So when you're depositing into Ave, you can actually then swap your deposit, let's say from USDC to Dai. If Dai gives you more interest rate without actually withdrawing the deposit and going somewhere else and swapping there and coming back. And then at the same time you can also swap your collateral.
00:15:57.690 - 00:16:57.330, Speaker B: So let's say that you deposited a collateral, let's say Ethereum, you borrowed USDC and you maybe converted that to USD. Then you went to a Tesla store or online, just ordered yourself Tesla and bought that. And now kind of like you already spent those funds, then you can still, without returning your loan, you can actually swap that collateral to something else. Let's say you have everything in Ethereum, but you want to have that part of your collateral is in some other asset, you could practically do that as well with the collateral swap. And also you can repay your loan with the collateral. And that practically means that if you have bought a car and you don't have those funds anymore, you could actually close the loan with the collateral. And that's very much user centric features, but they're really good because it actually kind of makes the protocol more useful.
00:16:58.310 - 00:17:24.838, Speaker A: Yeah. So basically if I have a certain type of collateral that I've put up and I wanted to keep that collateral because I want exposure to that price movement, but then there's some other shiny new token that I want price exposure to, I can switch it easily without having to close out my position in Aave.
00:17:25.014 - 00:18:18.170, Speaker B: Is that it? Yeah. And I think where the cool part comes is that the way the Ave protocol is designed is that you can create new markets and each market can have different kinds of collateral assets. So in some point in the future when we can tokenize more real world assets and other kind of assets and then you can just swap your exposure for whatever that collateral is and it becomes more interesting. Let's say if you have exposure to real estate in some part of the world and you can swap it, let's say from Malaysian real estate to South African real estate, if those will be tokenized. Of course there's a long process still on that kind of frontier, but this just shows how exciting can be at some point. And of course the fact that you are already able to draw liquidity against those collaterals is fascinating.
00:18:19.630 - 00:18:32.480, Speaker A: One other thing is with the debt tokens. So if I have these tokens that represent my debt and then someone holds that but then sells it to someone else and I default, then what happens.
00:18:32.850 - 00:19:23.630, Speaker B: In terms of the debt tokens? So the A tokens are transferable, so it's practically a receipt of the deposit. So you could sell your A token to someone else and let's say you could actually use it as a payment currency. So if you deposited USDC, you get a USDC and that grows in the balance and you use it as a payment, whoever you pay it will still increase. So that's kind of very cool payment currency. But the depth tokens itself. So if you take depth, we mean depth tokens, they're not movable at the moment and pretty much they could be movable, but we didn't want to make it movable yet because we're still unsure of all of the edge cases and whether it's a security concern or not. So we decided that we mint them.
00:19:23.630 - 00:19:39.670, Speaker B: Maybe there's some use case that some developer might find in a hackathon, but we just don't make it movable yet. But we're still researching whether it's possible to do that and kind of like trying to research the edge cases and so forth.
00:19:40.330 - 00:20:26.920, Speaker A: Yeah. Also just all the different jurisdictions probably have different rules around what's a security or what isn't. And so that could also make things challenging. So speaking of security, but in a different way, I wanted to ask also about the safety module which is a key feature in Aave to keeping the whole system secure. It's basically kind of like a way for people to stake. And I'm sure people who've been following the DeFi space know that there have been a number of hacks in DeFi. So can you describe how the Aave safety module works, how you designed it to help Ave in the event of an attack like that and whether you've had to use it in any way?
00:20:27.610 - 00:21:24.230, Speaker B: Yeah, so the safety module is part of the whole kind of like avenomics. So kind of like how we are letting the community to govern the protocol and also kind of carry the risk of the protocol. It took us like roughly six months to design like perfect Avenomics. It's not just the team works, we had a lot of feedbacks and everything and it was a lot of work. But in terms of how it essentially works is that the Ave token is a governance token. So the token holders in the community, they are practically participating governance decisions that are risk based decisions. So let's say what kind of asset could be added to Ave protocol, what kind of risk parameters, for example, how much you can borrow against what could be the incentive in liquidation to the liquidators and so forth.
00:21:24.230 - 00:22:43.146, Speaker B: Because you're kind of adding or taking this kind of risk, you could transfer the risk to the token holders and the risk transfer is either passive or active. The active one is where you take the Ave tokens as a community member and you deposit into the safety module. And that practically means that in the safety module you're backstopping the protocol in case of any kind of like exploit could be failed. Liquidation. Simply similar that happened with Maker in Black Thursday last year when the collaterals went decreased in value substantially and pretty much like 30% of that stake can be slashed if this kind of like a shortfall event happens. Now, currently the safety module is roughly I haven't looked on a daily basis, but last time when I looked, I think it was last week, there was one point I think 5 billion worth of value there in total and that is practically 30% of that is backstopping the protocol. And of course if that doesn't cover there is this kind of like a passive way of covering deficit, protocol deficit, which is the recovery issuance and where new Ave is minted.
00:22:43.146 - 00:23:26.910, Speaker B: And this is something similar that Maker for example has. So we tried to kind of pick whatever we saw doing in DeFi this different kind of backstop modules and implement something that is quite innovative backstopping with governance and community members. And let's say tokens is a very bespoke model. You rarely see something similar in traditional finance, but I guess somehow it makes sense. It's not like full hedging. So I would say if someone needs additional, let's say risk hedging, they should go for insurance. But the idea of the backstop is that it takes care of the protocol.
00:23:26.910 - 00:24:01.962, Speaker B: We haven't used it yet, but it's something that it was designed to be used if something happens. So it's practically ready there at any given moment to be used. And that's how the reason we actually wanted to build the Avenomics this way is that we understood that the most important thing for DeFi, and especially to Ave protocol, is that we have a healthy protocol and it's not in deficit and that way we get more deposits and adoption. Yeah.
00:24:02.016 - 00:24:22.400, Speaker A: So speaking of your plans to decentralize governance, that is one of the trickiest processes that any team can undergo and there's a lot of discussions about how to do it and what really constitutes decentralized. So how did Ave decide to do it and how do you feel that that process has gone?
00:24:23.430 - 00:25:13.546, Speaker B: Ave kind of had this progressive decentralization, so when we launched a product, we had keys to the product. And what happened is that there's two reasons why you usually keep as a DeFi protocol founding team, the admin keys. And one of the things is that if something is found, you need to fix it quickly. That's the kind of like the main thing. Second thing is that you also need to do it very quickly. So if you are able to fix some sort of an issue within ten minutes or 1 hour, that is very important thing compared to, let's say, if you have a governance process, like full fledged governance, you have to wait. There's two days voting period.
00:25:13.546 - 00:26:29.606, Speaker B: One day of kind of like a cool down delay, and then you have the kind of like a fix then it might be problematic of securing the protocol. And in our case, we were definitely confident on our work and usually things are found very early when you launch a protocol, maybe even like even after audits, there might be something that might be found in the first weeks or maybe a couple of first months, maybe in three. But then it's already kind of like you start to kind of get this general consensus that pretty much the protocol is safe because there are so many air pairs that has been looking at it, at the code. And for us, we had to accelerate the governance mainly because the amount in the protocol started to be substantially high and we never ever expected it to be this high. So we were joking when we launched Avid that if this thing goes ever, we will have like 30 million in the protocol. It will be huge, it will be so cool. And when we just saw it grow and grow, we were at the same time kind of like, I would say nervous that this is taking off and at the same time it's good.
00:26:29.606 - 00:27:31.980, Speaker B: But at the same time we started to actually think now we have to actually give the power to the governance and do it as soon as possible. And then we practically gave the keys. Since then, governance was very new to me in the sense that usually internally you can brainstorm things and maybe ask from the community. But now you have these procedures, it feels like very procedural and getting things you have to actually campaign and nothing is like even if you have a good idea, it might not get executed if people are not active enough to vote or maybe some of the parameters aren't like what people like. And this is super new to me actually you need to work a lot to campaign and it's kind of like I love governance, but it's another kind of like building block in our workload at the same time.
00:27:33.890 - 00:28:06.920, Speaker A: Yeah, no, I can only imagine going from know not this extreme but almost like a dictator of your own little world to suddenly just being one of the you know, obviously I'm sure as the founder and still as the CEO of Ave the company, you have a lot more sway than the average person. So what is your vision of a fully decentralized Ave and how far is Aave from that now? What else do you feel you need to do to achieve that?
00:28:07.370 - 00:29:11.082, Speaker B: I think basically we have quite wide distribution in the sense that there are sort of token holders. But I see two problems. One problem is that even though we have wide base of holders, our governance is too much relying upon the team and kind of like not just the team doing the work, but also kind of that the team makes the right things and it's a very heavy load on us at the same time. But also kind of like it's not very contributing to the actual governance and we're trying to figure out how we can get wider base to participate because there is participants but the problem is that they're active when it's very big topic to vote or it's something that really concerns them a lot. But how we could make everyone to participate. Not everyone, but good amount of activity on, let's say, even smaller votes. That makes sense.
00:29:11.082 - 00:30:12.074, Speaker B: And one of the things which is very problematic is the gas that people just pay gas to govern. And that's a problem. I mean, if you have to pay to vote transaction fees, it's not that incentivizing and that's one of the things what is kind of like a bottleneck there. So we kind of like from the voting perspective, we want to have more addresses voting and of course we want to have more addresses delegating to other addresses and having this kind of like a protocol politician. So this is the one thing and this problem is a bit common, widespread in DeFi. Another problem Ave has in governance is that our governance is a bit different than address. Because in Ave governance you can actually delegate voting power just to kind of protocol politicians and also separately, the governance power sorry, the proposition power to someone to put a proposal on chain so that if it gets voted in, it will automatically execute.
00:30:12.074 - 00:31:08.210, Speaker B: And you can delegate that power to put proposals on chain to someone more technical, kind of like a lawmaker code makers. And what we are trying to do is that there would be others that are creating proposals to improve the protocol and this is something we started to work upon recently. I mean the version two that governance that allows to actually delegate proposition power went live on December, so it's fairly new but we're trying to achieve a kind of like a state where there is other teams asking crowns. From the Arbitao and also building the protocol so that the Arbit team actually competes with others as well in form of building the protocol. And that's something we want to achieve and it takes quite a lot of time, but it's kind of like an issue at the moment in my opinion.
00:31:08.710 - 00:31:30.882, Speaker A: Yeah, this is a really interesting part of the discussion. So in a moment we're going to discuss a little bit more about this concept of protocol politicians. But first a quick word from the sponsors who make this show possible. Crypto.com, the crypto super app that lets you buy, earn and spend crypto all in one place. Earn up to 8.5% per year on your BTC.
00:31:30.882 - 00:31:51.150, Speaker A: Download the Crypto.com app now to see the interest rates you could be earning on BTC and more than 20 other coins. Once in the app you can apply for the Crypto.com Metal card which pays you up to 8% cash back instantly. Reserve yours now in the crypto.com app. Back to my conversation with Stani Kulachev.
00:31:51.150 - 00:32:03.460, Speaker A: So you were just talking about what you were calling protocol politicians. How do you define that and do you see protocol politicians as being a good or bad thing for DeFi and or decentralized projects in general?
00:32:03.910 - 00:33:39.010, Speaker B: I see it kind of being good and bad but mainly good because it's very difficult to do bad things in DeFi because kind of like if something is really bad the good people can always fork create a new community and there is no modes here. And this is something, once you see happen, it actually activates the forked, kind of like a protocol. And it has to kind of respond to that with the narrative and everything. But I think with the protocol politicians I think it's good because you kind of delegate your voting power to someone that has similar values as you have and more time to actually go through the proposals very deeply and maybe it might be a team actually and they might have technical people. That could actually review the code and what it actually has there. And I think the problem of course is that if you have big holders and they are getting into coalitions that's a problematic thing. But I think forking is the solution in every single problem we can look back into Linux and see how things work but in that sense but one of the issues of the protocol politicians is that there is no incentives at the moment.
00:33:39.010 - 00:34:44.102, Speaker B: So I was actually talking in clubhouse with Rick Burton, who's been in DeFi space for a few years now. And practically he was trying kind of to participate in DeFi governance as a protocol politician style. And it's just like the incentives aren't there because if you want to do it very well, being a politician, it's a full time job. And just being a protocol politician just for the sake of decentralization might not be sufficient, especially when DeFi. And cryptocurrencies is all about incentives. And this is the missing part. And I think to solve this thing, I think DAOs need to step up and start to kind of somehow distribute actively grants, and not just grants, but stream funds into, let's say, protocol politicians that get enough support, and then you have the system that they don't need to worry about who pays what.
00:34:44.102 - 00:34:52.890, Speaker B: And actually the DAOs will pay, and they just can focus on campaigning what's important for their agenda and whoever they get mandate.
00:34:53.950 - 00:35:06.720, Speaker A: But you were saying some of the protocol politicians might be technical but then there might be others that aren't. They're just advocating for certain changes they want to the protocol is that how you envision what a protocol politician is?
00:35:07.250 - 00:36:10.354, Speaker B: Yeah and the thing is in politics as well we have people who might be also kind of with a legal background and some that are not. And the thing with proposals that are in DeFi is that the proposals are technical so you can write a nice description of what the proposal is, there's some discussion but the law is actually the code. So when that goes to the on chain voting and it's important to understand what the code actually has in terms of the payload. And it's good if you understand, because if there is something that actually isn't correct, then you can actually say that. Okay, this is a problem in this protocol, but it's a rare occasion that you put something on chain that is highly different. What you kind of described in terms of like it's very would say like a rare case. And that is why you don't need to be technical person.
00:36:10.354 - 00:36:27.090, Speaker B: And I think you shouldn't be a technical person because this is the part where non technical people can contribute and participate. So I think that's the power of being a protocol politician that you don't need to be necessarily technical but it might help in some cases.
00:36:27.250 - 00:37:30.800, Speaker A: Yeah, it would probably help in terms of whether or not you actually do the coding, at least understanding what's possible and kind of just how different technical considerations might affect decisions that you would want to make. So this is sort of related just in terms of the fact that this also kind of bleeds into that legal area. But one thing is you launched that credit delegation product last summer and it's interesting because that was what people were calling unsecured loans where they were essentially based on legal agreements. And I was wondering in the time that you had that, so there was the first version of it and now with V two of Ave, you have a different version of it. But I wondered even in V one, how did people tend to use it? Who were the lenders and borrowers and then if they were in different jurisdictions, how did they decide which jurisdiction they would handle any disputes under and stuff like that?
00:37:31.170 - 00:38:36.898, Speaker B: That's an interesting question because how we did the credit delegation version one, we practically developed kind of like a vault where you could just put a tokens there as an avid depositor. And because the a tokens are there as kind of like a collateral. So whoever you allow to access that vault, they can draw practically to that vault and then to themselves credit from our protocol against someone else. A tokens. What it actually allowed the Delegators to do, or the depositors actually is that they have now technical capability just to lend out to someone with their kind of like against their collateral which is deposited there. So the cool part here is that you deposit into Ave, you earn interest, you delegate, you earn a bit more interest. But the thing is that how it is different than you will do normally is that you would actually just borrow yourself from Aave against your collateral, some other asset and send it to someone else.
00:38:36.898 - 00:39:48.902, Speaker B: And this is kind of like less of a good user experience. But in this relationship, what we did actually is that there was one borrower, for example, diversify and they borrowed what happened in this relationship, they made an agreement through OpenLaw. And OpenLaw is just kind of like a DocuSign type of application which with additional twist. And the twist is that you can actually put into the document executions as well. Let's say point certain conditions to certain addresses and then when the contract is signed, whoever signs as the last one can deploy a contract. So in this Open Law template, which is pretty cool, the last person who signs it deploys the vault and once it's deployed, then the Delegator just funds the vault and then another person draws the credit. And this open law template, you could just choose, like, different jurisdiction, england dispute resolution, clause arbitration, how many arbitrators you could choose, choice of law, let's say English law.
00:39:48.902 - 00:41:06.618, Speaker B: And then, of course, the parties put their names and everything pretty much like the same way as DocuSign works. And then, of course, the addresses. Who is who? And so that was the case. So we created a legal wrapper, but also at the same time we had another kind of interesting credit delegation type is that where depositors were delegating into a smart contract world that did something in DeFi and could only do one particular function and that contract didn't allow the funds to be used to anything else. So there was a wire vault called Ya Link which borrowed two credit delegation and borrowed roughly 15 million worth of USDC from Ave via credit delegation. And there wasn't any legal wrapper here because everything is on contracts and obviously this world could only practically deposit into a I think they were like, farming something and then kind of like all the revenue they were paying back to the delegators. Because this is like a closed loop relationship between smart contracts and there's no additional credit risk because it's in the system.
00:41:06.618 - 00:41:21.270, Speaker B: That was the second type. Kind of like so there was this one type where you just borrow and handle yourself the legal wrapper or just trust someone else or you do this smart contract closed loop system. Those were the two type of credit delegations.
00:41:22.010 - 00:42:03.300, Speaker A: Oh, that's really interesting. Yeah, what you described with the open law thing is almost like some kind of it's almost like legal zoom but specifically for these blockchain contracts. It just sounds really interesting. I also then wanted to add so in version two so in version one, especially if you were dealing with a specific counterparty rather than doing the smart contract version of using these credit delegation products, that was kind of more of a workaround. But in V two you've made it more native to the protocol. So how does that work?
00:42:03.830 - 00:42:58.918, Speaker B: Yeah, so now it's super easy. So basically as a depositor, you deposit assets into the version two and then you just grant a credit line to another address and that another address just can come and borrow. This is pretty interesting because it's way easier and this is something that we are now, we don't have a user interface for this yet, but this is something we're launching in let's say a couple of weeks. And the idea is that practically you can delegate through the user interface to someone else and also whoever gets the credit line can also manage and repay the credit line through the user interface. Of course, we don't have the kind of like it's more of a trust based relationship. So you will not pretty much delegate that way to someone that you just don't know. It will be like sending funds to zero.
00:42:58.918 - 00:44:17.774, Speaker B: Yeah, but what's cool about this is that then the average governance, they could actually decide, hey, what if we allow, let's say third parties. They could be projects that are working on other collateralist loans or they might be CFI lending desks or traditional institutions. What if they can create vaults where they can ask credit delegations and that will be in the user interface. So practically there might be a vault that can accept credit delegations and depositors could add there it gives certain kind of a premium and that vault then borrows under collateralized but does some sort of functionality. It could just borrow to lend out in centralized markets or it could be another protocol that is borrowing in the closed loop system or it could be just some fintech startup that is having some sort of lending activity and they source the liquidity this way to the traditional finance and lend it out further. So practically what it allows actually to do is that today we think about DeFi in a way that it actually vacuums liquidity. So we are trying to kind of get more deposits into the space, more people using DeFi that way.
00:44:17.774 - 00:44:46.950, Speaker B: But one of the things that we're not working that much is actually how we get the liquidity out of DeFi into traditional finance with the trust networks and different kinds of ways and credit delegation is just pretty much that. So I could imagine some beautiful day very soon. Other governance could vote that this particular Vault could accept credit delegations in a user interface, and it could be some sort of financial institution or a lending service provider.
00:44:47.530 - 00:45:03.360, Speaker A: And then each one maybe would have its own parameters for the type of borrowers that they would allow or something like that, right? Like they might have their own way of scoring people's risk or something.
00:45:03.890 - 00:46:18.194, Speaker B: Yeah, so one interesting, there could be just like a project that manages let's say credit risking and maybe lending activity and they just source the liquidity with the credit delegations and then they decide okay, we're going to give credit based on this and this and this particular parameters and it could happen in traditional finance. So practically they could do even credit checks, they could do even the normal stuff that is happening. But what's interesting here is that the person that is getting the credit, whether it's consumer credit or let's say B, two B credit, let's say consumer credit and buys a car and part of that liquidity or fully could be sourced from Ava and DFI this way. So there is like a trust relationship between this financial institution and the ave governance and that way you need to trust it. But because they are doing let's say lending activity you kind of expect that they do things right if it's only based on let's say this kind of reputation. And then pretty much the lending institution that is lending out to their consumers, they do the credit checks and they have recourse and so forth.
00:46:18.322 - 00:46:32.060, Speaker A: And then could borrowers kind of build credit by showing their behavior. Like this is my main wallet that I use to interact with Aave and here are all the debts I've taken out and paid back or anything like that. Could that also be built on?
00:46:32.990 - 00:46:36.710, Speaker B: So I think so. We've been talking with DeFi dad practically.
00:46:36.790 - 00:46:43.546, Speaker A: Because Travis Blaine, for people who don't know him, he works at Dapper and.
00:46:43.568 - 00:46:44.940, Speaker B: He'S a super cool guy.
00:46:45.410 - 00:46:50.270, Speaker A: And by the way, he wanted me to ask you who's your favorite dad in DeFi?
00:46:50.610 - 00:46:52.510, Speaker B: Well that's of course DeFi dad.
00:46:54.450 - 00:46:59.714, Speaker A: Okay, I'm glad we got to ask that. I wasn't planning to, but since it came up anyway, go ahead.
00:46:59.912 - 00:48:08.366, Speaker B: Yeah. And I think what's interesting in DeFi that besides that he's bringing DeFi to wider adoption and making actually explaining it to five year olds and I guess he's doing it on a daily basis. But if you could actually have some sort of you get credit delegations, you repay loans and end of the day maybe you hold in your wallet other things NFDS and so forth maybe you actually form this on chain identity that is so valuable for you and it has provenance and maybe that becomes a credit facility. So it becomes this kind of a new reputation. I think our problem usually is with under collateral loans is that we always think that we need to always think how we chase the person all the way to the end that they repay all the debts. But actually the traditional lending doesn't work completely like that because for example, in B, two B lending companies go bankrupt and you might not see most of the funds that you have lended out to a business or to a startup. Many startups fail.
00:48:08.366 - 00:49:19.934, Speaker B: So in terms of private equity, that happens quite a lot. Venture capital and also in many European countries and US you have this kind of possibility to file for bankruptcy as a person as well or have this kind of arrangement that you repay part of your debt. So we should never kind of think that the recourse has to be like that you have to chase someone. And actually I studied insolvency law, I mean like bankruptcy law. And one of the interesting thing is that our economy is more based on this kind of remorse. So if someone fails, you kind of try to settle as much as you can but then that the person gets back into the economy and could be productive and healthier compared to the old kind of thinking that where debtors should get everything that they invested into. And I think if we get this kind of thinking into the onchain identity and under collateral loans, then we will start to see more interesting under collateral sloans not the kind of ways where we go all the way back to traditional finance and try to figure out how we get part of the payment back.
00:49:19.934 - 00:49:32.674, Speaker B: But actually you have so called address based reputation with everything that you have achieved that you don't want to lose it, but if you lose it once it's totally fine. If later you make something good.
00:49:32.872 - 00:50:10.910, Speaker A: Yeah, it definitely would depend on a really good identity system, though, because otherwise although I know, okay, I was just going to say that somebody with bad credit could just keep opening up new addresses, but then they would still have to build the good credit and the good behavior with each. So anyway, all right, so let's switch gears for a second to talk about the E Money license that you got in the UK, which was granted to the UK business entity that Ave has. And I checked on the website, it says that that is still being built. So what are you building there and what do you plan to do with that license?
00:50:11.250 - 00:51:06.386, Speaker B: Yeah, so one of the things, our goal was to kind of get more adoption mainstream and it's just so hard to direct people to, let's say, to an exchange and say that, go there, buy some eat and go to another exchange, buy some stable coins. Now it's a bit easier. You could just say that, go to this exchange, get some stable coins, get some eat, and then create a MetaMask and do this and that, and then you can deposit. There's less steps now, but still too many steps to actually someone to get exposure into DeFi. And what we want to do is kind of like narrow that gap quite a lot. So practically that you're able with your traditional currencies. So let's say pounds, dollars, euros, you could convert them into stable coins and later deposit into DeFi as well.
00:51:06.386 - 00:51:40.860, Speaker B: So kind of like having some sort of like an end to end relationship with the users in the sense that you have the DeFi backend, but then you have the actual front end where you're reaching out the normies, the mainstream. That is what we are trying to achieve and we're building it. It's more of like a side thing that we're trying to build and it goes quite slowly, but I think we're going to launch something quite soon, maybe in Q Three, I think will be the most kind of like, optimistic plan.
00:51:41.390 - 00:52:14.360, Speaker A: Yeah, this is probably the part of your work, like I was saying earlier, that touches more on fintech and is more connected to the traditional banking system. And so it will definitely probably work a bit slower and there's probably a lot more compliance that you'll have to deal with. Well, one other thing that I wanted to ask about was Ave had pioneered flash loans and I wondered how you feel about the fact that ten of the 16 most prominent attacks in DFI in the past year have involved flash loans. Is there anything you would do differently about that?
00:52:15.210 - 00:52:58.238, Speaker B: Yeah, so, yeah, this is an interesting thing. I have been thinking that quite a lot. Well, one of the things is that most of the flash loans are used for actually good purpose and not just arbitrage, but actually refinancing debt, closing loan positions, let's say, before liquidators can get in and take the borrowers kind of like part of their collateral so they can kind of pre liquidate themselves. And there is Flash loans used. So Flash loans are actually used quite heavily in many things. Last year I think there was 2 billion worth of Flash loans from Ave. So that's like substantial amount compared to the hacks.
00:52:58.238 - 00:54:18.650, Speaker B: What the hacks kind of like do those hacks are possible to do without Flash loans? Just having the preempt capital? Of course if you're a 16 year old kid or something like that and you figure out Flash loans and that's the kind of a way you can make this kind of exploit, then of course it does help in a certain extent. But what Flashlone actually does more for this kind of security is that it actually bulletproofs the protocols because you can't deploy anything out there that can't withstand that kind of an attack. Because if you can defend a Flashlone attack, it means also you could defend a whale that will do similar kind of an attack. So that is my kind of like a key component in, in terms of Flash loans and whether kind of like they're good or bad because they're actually innovation, they bring something new and they empower developers and they empower users. And also at the same time they ensure that developers are building good protocols that they are not getting exploited. So kind of like every Flash loan exploit means that the development team just didn't find something or they cut corners. Like that's the problem in DeFi generally because DeFi is not equal.
00:54:18.650 - 00:54:27.140, Speaker B: There are projects that are putting a lot of effort in security, there are projects that aren't putting effort in security and this is kind of like a problem for the space.
00:54:27.750 - 00:54:38.230, Speaker A: Yeah. So with V two, you did introduce Flash loans to Ave itself. And I wondered what did Ave do to try to protect itself from potential attacks?
00:54:39.530 - 00:55:29.334, Speaker B: That's a good question. That's a good question because I think pretty much how security is handled is it's really about reviewing code, thinking different kinds of scenarios, understanding potential attacks, reenterancy any kind of attack that related to Flash loans, understanding each and every attack, like what happened, why? And other potential scenarios. So those are one things. And whenever you introduce new code, you need to think about what are the cases that this particular code could lead to. And then you have a rotation system in your team that every kind of developer tries to review the other developers code. And there's good procedures on that. So that's one thing.
00:55:29.334 - 00:56:23.878, Speaker B: And then the second important thing is to have test cases, enough test cases for various different type of behaviors. So you should be testing more than you are developing, that applies more into smart contract based development. And then of course, once everything is ready and you're confident with your code, then you can actually go to auditors and say, hey, we heard that you are doing very good work. I read your previous work and we're very confident that this is something that fits your expertise. And then you take those third party audits and the version two, for example, we have five audits. Our fifth audit came recently and we had formal verification, which is like mathematical proof of how the protocol works and behaves. None of these are guarantees, it's just like how much you put effort on security and the more you put, the better.
00:56:23.878 - 00:56:42.240, Speaker B: There isn't limitation like how much you should or should not put. You should just put everything because the stakes are high. The example where we thought that there was 30 million will be in Avi protocol and then there's billions, it just shows how high the stakes are.
00:56:42.610 - 00:57:32.990, Speaker A: Yeah, I did an episode with Taylor Monahan and Dan Guido about this and Taylor was just like, people don't think that just because there's an audit that everything's know. She was just like, this is not any kind of seal of approval. And yeah, she agreed with you that it's just kind of a continual thing. And I think I can't remember if we discussed it in that episode, but obviously where you have things like new token standards coming out like what was that hack? Was it the imBTC one where the new Er seven seven standard I think caused a bug, but that was a known thing, they just didn't do anything about it. So yeah, it's like you have to constantly keep up on developments and watch them for how they'll affect your protocol.
00:57:33.330 - 00:57:42.030, Speaker B: Yeah, and that's a commerce security thing. I mean, if there is a improvement, you need to update your software.
00:57:42.530 - 00:58:25.070, Speaker A: So let's also now talk about Avi's partnership with Realty, which is a project that tokenizes real estate on Ethereum by creating LLCs for properties and then sending a share of the revenue that each token holder holds to their own Ethereum wallet in stablecoins, which is I think super interesting. And Ave Realty tokens can be used as collateral for people to borrow. And so since at least in the US. Realty tokens are securities, I was wondering what changes you needed to make to accommodate that in a decentralized protocol?
00:58:25.410 - 00:59:25.198, Speaker B: It's a good question because it's a completely different pool. It's so called like private market with permissioned access. So practically in this case, the Realty, they're using the Ave kind of as technology, the smart contracts, but the market is completely private. So everyone who participates that market has to go through their own process of KYC and so forth. And this is kind of like interesting because we recently created the feature of practically whitelisting and blacklisting addresses. So practically now anyone that has an interesting project in mind, they can just take the other code and deploy a market for their own purpose. It's the same as someone will use MySQL database, but instead of using a common MySQL database, they just use for themselves for settlements and so forth for the settlements sake of transparency and liquidity.
00:59:25.198 - 01:00:18.402, Speaker B: Yeah. So that's the only way, in my opinion, to approach the kind of like a security aspect and also kind of like those assets that are not purely cryptographic assets. And I think we'll see a couple of other ones coming during this year. And it's interesting to see whether they catch and what kind of attention it catches because you kind of lose the permissionless factor where you have. This interoperability compensibility and then you're kind of left with the security of ethereum and the transparency that the public ethereum provides and maybe like fixed settlement system. So the participants that are going through the compliance and participating in that market, they don't need to rely on written agreements, they rely on smart contract execution. So there are still quite a lot of benefits on that.
01:00:18.402 - 01:00:29.460, Speaker B: And I'm interested, will those benefits by themselves be enough for these kind of projects to take this market further and I don't know.
01:00:30.390 - 01:00:55.920, Speaker A: Yeah, well, I have to say something that interested me about this project and in general, just listening to some of the other interviews you've done, it seems that you and Ave are pretty eager to integrate real world assets. Frankly, I feel like most crypto and DeFi people view that as kind of a headache to interact with off chain assets because I feel like it just introduces a whole host of other problems. So why is that something that's interesting to you?
01:00:56.610 - 01:01:52.394, Speaker B: Yeah, it is a headache. And the good thing about many of the things that we are kind of like partnering and talking about especially like real world assets, we're pretty much like technology providers so we just give the infrastructure and rest is on whoever is tokenizing those assets and managing. So practically we have a smaller headache in one sense. But of course, if their project succeeds, that's amazing. But also we tend to forget that most popular assets on ethereum are real world assets which is practically tokenized dollars. Which is interesting part because usually when we think about real world assets or tokenizing real world anything, we think it quite widely how to do it globally. But if you look at the biggest tokenizations, they're just one jurisdiction.
01:01:52.394 - 01:02:56.710, Speaker B: It's practically, let's say dollars what USDC is doing and they had just one jurisdiction, which is US dollars. In that sense, that's what they do. And I think we'll see more of projects doing it more locally so they try to actually solve locally the tokenization and then if it works, scaling a bit further. But also it's kind of like a hope, at least personally, that we will see more value and transfer more value from real world to the cryptographic ecosystem. Because in the cryptographic ecosystem, decentralized finance value could move very quickly, developers could build very interesting concept products and efficiencies and the transparency itself is very fascinating. And of course if you sold the transparency in the off chain as well, the custodians and so forth and the stuff related that's fantastic. But I just think having this value network there's sort of potential and we just are scratching the surface.
01:02:57.610 - 01:03:23.070, Speaker A: Yeah, no it will be interesting to see where it goes and how it can affect real world assets when you bring those. So obviously right now Ethereum has been experiencing a state of high fees for loads of different types of transactions for a while. How has Ave been thinking about scaling? Are you looking at layer two solutions? Are you looking at other blockchains?
01:03:24.530 - 01:04:38.420, Speaker B: We are quite a lot but we do have a strategy but we are trying to a bit of not to share it too much because at the same time the layer two is not super important for us, it's more important for trading facilities, order books, something that has a lot of transactions in that sense. And Ave is kind of like a follower in the sense that where there's transactions, there's liquidity issuance, then there's a need for secondary liquidity lending, borrowing market. But we are talking to every places and there's already like an ecosystem project called Ave Gotchi and they ported the Ave Tokens into the E Tokens into the Maddox and that was just one example. And there's other kind of like folks in the community that just want to port them and it's already like a good start so that we see that it's more of a community initiative to get layer two experimentations but we're still kind of like looking at it. But we definitely have an interesting solution at some point when we are ready and that might come quite soon even. It really depends on how serious the LTOs will become.
01:04:40.890 - 01:04:45.190, Speaker A: Also would you consider leaving Ethereum or trying a different blockchain?
01:04:46.250 - 01:05:58.526, Speaker B: Well, kind of I was born and raised in Ethereum in terms of we've been always building here but at the same I also would say that that's our on chain headquarters. In that sense it's very difficult to live because the culture is here, the ecosystem is here, the compatibility is here but there are some cool things happening in our places. I've been following what's happening polka dot. I've been following also like layer twos and just keeping curiosity always and I don't think people will copy what Ethereum has. But what I'm interesting to see these new cultures evolve in other blockchains and seeing which direction it takes and maybe if Aave has place there because Ave is more about not even about DeFi but building culture and being part of everything that is in the on chain. We want to empower finance is big space but it's just a space that empowers other economies and cultures. So we want to empower what's happening in the creator community, the ecommerce community on chain and be involved in various parts and that's why we focus more on culture with the.
01:05:58.526 - 01:06:14.850, Speaker B: Branding and everything and that's why I'm following what's happening in other blockchains as well. But I will not say we will ever leave Ethereum. I hope not. I mean, this is super cool to be here with so many. I mean, the community is very healthy.
01:06:16.790 - 01:07:15.430, Speaker A: Yeah, I feel like I asked this question of a lot of people and I get a kind of similar answer. I think they're kind of seeing where things go. But people do, I think, seem to have some kind of loyalty to Ethereum and recognize that that's where a lot of the activity is and where you can get network effects. So earlier we did talk about kind of the difference between Aave which doesn't have kind of the traditional Silicon Valley venture capital backing. I mean you do have some investment but it's just a little bit of a different beginning that you've had. And if we even just look in general, obviously DeFi and decentralized projects in general are really different from traditional startups. So in this open source world, which is quite different from what it would be like building a traditional startup, what can a DeFi project do to build a moat?
01:07:16.090 - 01:07:46.274, Speaker B: I think nothing because it's impossible to build a moat. We tried. Because I think what's interesting in DeFi is that especially compared to traditional finance and other businesses, is that there is nothing that actually protects anything because the code base is open source. And the idea is that anyone can contribute. Anyone can just take that code, improve it and create something else. And then you can look at that and create something more better. And the liquidity also works the same way.
01:07:46.274 - 01:08:53.782, Speaker B: If someone creates a better algorithm, the liquidity just moves there and also better user experience. So there isn't that much of a thing that is protecting. But what's cool about it is that the innovation speed of innovation is very quick which makes the space very attractive and very promising at the same time. So I think as a DeFi project or a newcomers, I think what's important is actually how much you can keep up with the rate of innovation. So it actually doesn't matter what's the product currently you're working upon, but how you vision to improve it and what you might be doing after that product and what are the next kind of things. And it always kind of like to some extent in my thinking, it always boils down to the team, like how open environment they have to be creative. So if the team, the founders and if they can be openly brainstormed and kind of come up with ideas fairly, usually there is constant innovation and we see this in DeFi happening.
01:08:53.782 - 01:09:17.438, Speaker B: Like protocols are innovating constantly even though we're kind of competing as crazy here, but at the same time it's stressful. But as you get used to the idea that everyone is just like coming out with cool stuff and you're expected to come with some cool stuff and people like that, then you kind of like get into the mode and do.
01:09:17.444 - 01:09:32.210, Speaker A: You feel that the community can sometimes make it? Like earlier when we were talking about the difference between just being able to implement changes that you want and now having to go through this process, does that make it harder to keep up with the pace of innovation?
01:09:33.270 - 01:10:13.760, Speaker B: Yeah, but it does. There's two elements kind of like you kind of miss a bit the surprise element in one way. So you have to discuss it quite openly on what you're building, what you're going to implement. Otherwise if it comes out of the bushes and there's going to be a proposal word, you have very little time to actually educate everyone what's going on and campaign on the improvements. And then of course there is the procedure that you have to do, but at the same time it has stability. It adds stability and it adds certainty. The certainty is very important.
01:10:13.760 - 01:10:39.450, Speaker B: Even though protocols have to innovate, they have to be very secure at the same time and changes has to be applied in a not light kind of like weight manner. So one way it slows down, but it brings lot of value by having more stability in the protocol and yeah, those things are kind of involved.
01:10:40.510 - 01:10:42.730, Speaker A: All right, well, what's next for Ave?
01:10:43.230 - 01:11:52.350, Speaker B: Next for Ave, I think yeah, we're deploying new markets. So that's amazing thing because we've been promising to deploy new markets for a long time and we actually found a community developer that is working on deploying them. So the next market we are deploying is actually this kind of like a AMM market where you can use not just uniswap liquidity provider shares as a collateral, but also social swap shares and balancer shares and also Kyber as they are coming up with their AMM. So automated market maker kind of like where you can trade like your tokens from each of yes, yes, exactly. So you can use them as a collateral and get liquidity more. What's interesting here is the governance. So we decided because our governance model is quite unique and it allows this kind of like voting strategies and have inclusivity on multiple tokens, we decided that we actually are going to govern that market in a way that the Ave tokens has some voting power as well.
01:11:52.350 - 01:12:21.900, Speaker B: But also we give voting power to uni bal, KNC and Sushi tokens. So practically it makes kind of like inclusive governance so that even though it's a product, we're not only ones governing because it relates in one ways to the other protocols. And I think this is the next thing coming up in DeFi that you have projects building together things, governing things together. And this is where you will see a lot of interesting stuff.
01:12:22.750 - 01:12:32.110, Speaker A: Yeah, it does sound really interesting. All right, well, we'll have to have you back when that happens. Where can people learn more about you and Ave?
01:12:33.490 - 01:12:57.700, Speaker B: I think following us on Twitter. So Ave ave is our handle. We're quite active in Telegram and of course, discord. And I'm actually frequently now in clubhouse. I'm just listening and sometimes talking there. And that's a nice place to chat about things. And if someone wants to look what our markets looks like, it's Ava.com.
01:12:57.700 - 01:13:11.190, Speaker B: The team is very reachable. I'm quite active everywhere. Try to be as close as community as yeah, okay, great.
01:13:11.260 - 01:13:13.690, Speaker A: Well, thank you so much for coming on Unchained.
01:13:14.190 - 01:13:16.730, Speaker B: Thank you, Laura, for having me here. It was a pleasure.
01:13:17.150 - 01:13:39.610, Speaker A: Thanks so much for joining us today. To learn more about Stani and Ave, check out the show notes for this episode. Don't forget, you can now watch video recordings of the shows on the Unchained YouTube channel. Go to youtube.com slash z, slash Unchained podcast and subscribe. Today unchained is produced by me, Laura Shin, with help from Anthony Yoon, Daniel Nuts, Dan Edelback Shashank and the team at CLK Transcription. Thanks for listening.
