00:00:00.160 - 00:00:36.820, Speaker A: The original mission of Maker Now Turn sky remains the same, right? Take the benefits of the technology and bring it to the mass market. What basically the ecosystem realized in the last couple of years was that building they will come is not going to suffice. And you need a new type of culture, a new approach if you want to bring the benefits of Defi to the mass market. So now the focus increasingly has to be on making Defi easy to use, making it really accessible, making it feel less like crypto and more like fintech or some like an app on your phone or something, right?
00:00:36.940 - 00:01:07.430, Speaker B: This episode is brought to you by Chaos Labs, one of the leading on chain risk management firms. You'll be hearing more from them later in the show. This episode is brought to you by Ledger, the most secure hardware wallet trusted by 7 million users and securing 20% of the world's digital assets. We'll be hearing more from them later in the show. This episode is brought to you by Renault Partners, the premier go to market advisory firm for early stage crypto teams. Thanks to them for making this episode possible. If you like the Lightspeed podcast, then you need to subscribe to the Lightspeed newsletter.
00:01:07.430 - 00:01:40.516, Speaker B: Written by a team including yours truly and delivered to your email inbox daily. Lightspeed is your essential daily briefing on all things Solana, exclusive news, deep analysis and the latest trends delivered in a way that's digestible and I think sometimes kind of funny. Stay ahead of the curve with the same insights that guide readers from Brevan Howard, Gemini, Jito, CME Group, Solana Labs and Foundation, and many more. The link to sign up can be found in today's shownotes or if you go to Blockworks Co. Subscribe to the Lightspeed newsletter today. Welcome back to Lightspeed. I'm Jack Kubenek.
00:01:40.516 - 00:02:35.630, Speaker B: During what's been an overwhelmingly bullish year for Sol, tons of projects that first launched on Ethereum have also deployed on Solana, which continues to prove itself as a worthy rival to its older and more well established counterpart. There was PayPal, which launched its PyUSD stablecoin on Solana after initially being exclusive to Ethereum. There were Defi darlings like Delta, Neutral startup Athena or Restaking piece Renzo. Even ETF issuers like Vaneck and Bitwise added Solana to the fold after having Ethereum products in the us. But last week sky, which is formerly known as Maker, launched its tokens on Solana, which was really interesting to me because Sky Maker is one of the real defi ogs that's been Ethereum Exclusive for nearly a decade now. Its USDS Stablecoin, which is formerly known as dai, is the third largest, trailing only Tether and Circle. This was a pretty big get for Solana.
00:02:35.630 - 00:03:09.600, Speaker B: To talk about what causes a core Ethereum protocol to finally go multi chain, I brought Rune Christensen, the co founder of sky, on the podcast. Rune is an interesting character who's been a public figure in crypto for years, longer than Solana's even existed. I hope you enjoy. Let's get into the show. Hello and welcome back to another episode of Lightspeed. I'm your host Jack Kubernetes, joined today by Rune Christiansen, the co founder of sky, which was formerly maker. Rune, thank you for coming on the show.
00:03:10.220 - 00:03:11.440, Speaker A: Glad to be here.
00:03:11.980 - 00:03:53.990, Speaker B: So I wanted to have you on today, Rune, because Sky's USDS Stablecoin, which was formerly known as Daisy, it's the third largest stablecoin by market capitalization, just deployed on Solana last week. IT already has $85 million in market capitalization on Solana, helped along by some liquidity initiatives that we'll get into, I'm sure. And it is already the fifth largest stablecoin on the Solana network, I think six days after launching as we're recording this. So let me start at a. A basic level run Maker for a long time was exclusive to Ethereum. Why launch on Solana and why now?
00:03:55.330 - 00:05:10.188, Speaker A: Yeah, it's a long story that goes all the way back to really the beginning of Defi and the beginning of Ethereum. Right. So very early on Defi was founded by people with very strong idealism around how you could improve finance using blockchain technology. That's the same reason I got into stablecoins in the first place was because I was really into Bitcoin. But I realized if you make it more useful, you, you know, you create stability, then you can, you can sort of take this superior technology and you can use that to kind of to help the world, right? Help people get a lot of benefits from the technology. And early on it was all theoretical, right? I mean it was sort of people believed in the potential of the technology, but it was hard to see sort of what is the practical use case of this stuff, right? So you only had the real crazy people, real ideological people build the very early projects on Ethereum in Defi. And so really, I mean, and basically the way you can describe the culture around building back then was build it and they will come, right? That you sort of built this amazing underlying technological infrastructure and then, you know, like others will build on top of it and it'll just sort of happen naturally.
00:05:10.188 - 00:07:03.380, Speaker A: So Maker was created in that environment and Maker is perhaps the ultimate building they will come project in a sense that it had this sort of very slow paced, security focused approach to building stuff that then became very robust infrastructure on Ethereum. And now what's changed is crypto has really started entering the mainstream, right? We're like with, I mean speculation on Bitcoin and meme coins and then also the broad adoption of stablecoins like Tether. And the original mission of Maker now turn sky remains the same, right? Take the benefits of the technology and bring it to the mass market. But what basically the ecosystem realized in the last couple of years was that build it and they will come is not going to suffice. And you need a new type of culture, a new approach if you want to bring the benefits of Defi to the mass market. And that is meet the users where they are, right? So now the focus increasingly has to be on making Defi easy to use, making it really accessible, making it feel less like crypto and more like you just, you know, it's like Fintech or some like an app on your phone or something, right? And this is happening all over the place. But basically for Maker, it was so fundamental in how the whole ecosystem was set up that to really be able to deliver on the full potential of taking the technology like a decentralized stablecoin and then bringing that properly to the mass market basically was a complete transformation of the ecosystem, right into this sort of outward focused project that really aims to have sustainable growth and sort of lots of innovation and initiatives in parallel to try to grow across different dimensions.
00:07:03.380 - 00:08:12.090, Speaker A: And then a big part of this with sky, right? With the new, the new, basically the new ecosystem, the new approach that the ecosystem takes is of course multi chain because that's a really powerful way to kind of meet, to meet the users where they are, right, and make it easier for users. And then Solana is like such a key market, right, because that's where a lot of the new users to crypto, they're Solana users. So it makes a lot of sense to then bring the new stablecoin usds, which is really also just basically just, I mean, has the same features as DAI with some new functionality, but mostly it's the same. The big difference is now it has USD in the name. So it's a lot faster for someone to grasp what it is and what it does if you don't already know it, right? Or if you don't have time to research it. So that's basically the idea. Bring usgs, bring the benefits of Defi to as many people as possible through things like, I mean, just first of all bridging the stablecoin onto Solana, but then also with things like the liquidity mining that is available in all the top Defi platforms on Solana now.
00:08:14.160 - 00:08:45.650, Speaker B: Yeah, there's a lot in there I want to unpack. I'll maybe start with the Solana side of things then. I actually do want to talk about what you think about Ethereum as well. But you also, a number of months ago proposed to move what was Maker then to an SVM fork as part of the end game program for MakerDAO. I'm curious why it was that you wanted to do that. What about the Solana code base and how it's built architecturally? Did you like more than you liked Ethereum?
00:08:46.870 - 00:09:52.480, Speaker A: Yeah. So the general principle of the transformation from Maker into Sky, which at the time was called Endgame before the sky brand was revealed, was this idea of like revisiting all the old dogma. Right. Or like sort of rethinking what if you were rebuilding a Defi project from scratch in this modern world where the focus has to be on a lot more on functionality and real use case and it's no longer just theory and ideology. And one of the things I realized is that you have this, basically you have this challenge. Well, it's both a challenge and an opportunity in Defi, which is that you need very complex governance. So it's incredibly difficult and sort of very, I guess you could say sort of strategically intensive to maintain a large risk management protocol, especially at stablecoin protocol, which is like the most difficult and challenging type of risk management there is.
00:09:52.480 - 00:10:45.140, Speaker A: And if you have this governance capability anyway, which you need because you can't avoid it, you can avoid having very complex governance if you want to be able to tap into things like real world assets. Right? So you tap into Treasuries and tap into collateral that's pegged to the US dollar, which is necessary if you want to scale up a stablecoin dollar peg. Basically, if you already have this capability, then it is very cheap from a kind of complexity perspective to also operate an app chain. And having an app chain is just, I mean it's just beneficial because it's just, it's, you know, sort of a, it's a, it's kind of a. It's a major upfront investment into software, but then it pays off heavily in terms of Reduced costs over time. Right. And control over the, the core security and execution environment.
00:10:45.140 - 00:11:16.028, Speaker A: So from that perspective I basically got into looking. Okay then if you're going to do an app chain, then of course the natural choice at the time was. And Ethereum L2, that was kind of the first time this was really started to be considered. Right. And there's actually a lot of Ethereum defi projects doing this now, like creating their own L2 app chains. But I started looking beyond just the Ethereum ecosystem because I thought, you know, that's a point we have to kind of look at. You know, this is a very, like, this is something that's going to happen very far in the future.
00:11:16.028 - 00:11:41.346, Speaker A: Right. It will still be even now, I mean now it's a year later. Right. But it's still five, seven, ten years out in the future. Right. So it's really interesting to look at not where is the technology today, but where is it going to be very far out in the future. And Solana was really like the first, like the first technology stack that I looked at that I thought was actually, you know, that had that kind of.
00:11:41.346 - 00:12:39.160, Speaker A: Not only did it have a lot of like sort of cool things you could do in theory, but it was also doing actual stuff in practice that was really interesting to look at. Yeah, I feel like I sort of front ran a lot of the excitement there is around Solana now because at the time actually the thing that got me to look at Solana seriously was somebody just looking at sort of charting all the times the blockchain went down and basically showing that it's going down less and less often. Right. And that's the thing that underpins the philosophy of Solana, which is it's really, really ambitious but then it keeps trying to improve. Right. And that's also kind of the same basic approach that sky takes to its own kind of growth over time, right. That it tries to really set up for extreme scalability and then just continuous self improvement so that all that scalability potential can be put to use.
00:12:39.540 - 00:13:36.118, Speaker B: Chaos Labs, the leading on chain risk management firm, recently launched its new flagship Oracle product Edge, which delivers integrated high precision risk and price data for any on chain application with a market. Edge emerged from stealth after two months securing Jupiter, the top swap platform on solana. Already securing $30 billion in volume and more than 60% of all Solana perp's volume. Edge is comprised of three components, price risk and proofs. It delivers high precision price data with an integrated risk engine powered by Chaos, is advanced outlier and anomaly detection algorithm. It automates delivery of real time parameter adjustments on chain based on current market conditions and it enables the secure onchain delivery of custom data points, including reserve attestations delivered via zkps. Most recently, Wintermute announced its selection of the Edge Proofs Oracle for Outcome Market, its new smart contract based election prediction market tool.
00:13:36.118 - 00:14:33.202, Speaker B: Thank you to Chaos Labs for making this this episode possible. Celebrating 10 years of innovation Ledger remains the most secure hardware wallet for your Solana and logins. Trusted by 7 million users and securing 20% of the world's digital assets in recent years, Ledger has built a robust ecosystem of products and services, making digital ownership more secure and accessible to everyone. Ledger's newest devices, Ledger Stacks and Ledger Flex feature the world's first secure touchscreens, making it easier and safer to manage your Solana transactions and coins. With Ledger Live you can seamlessly and securely manage and stake your soul alongside Ledger Stacks and Ledger Flex. Ledger introduced the Ledger Security Key app, a safer alternative to traditional passwords, enhancing your overall digital security. During Black Friday, upgrade to Ledger flex and get $70 in bitcoin plus save up to 40% on select ledger Nano wallets and accessories.
00:14:33.202 - 00:15:18.990, Speaker B: Hurry because these offers are valid until December 5 while supplies last Everybody knows there's a massive shortage of top senior marketers in crypto and teams are constantly struggling to get their go to market done right. Renault Partners is the premier go to market advisory firm for early stage crypto teams. They help top founders tell their stories better and build great non technical teams. They advise founders on all things market, tight brand position, community building, social media and building a internal teams. They work with some of the top projects across Solana, Monad, Tunbase and others. Renault Partners has built the most elite network of native crypto marketers globally. They create custom expert teams to support founders with transformative strategy work.
00:15:18.990 - 00:16:32.240, Speaker B: Some of the best founders, VC firms and ecosystem leaders in the business trust Renault Partners to help them their teams expedite their marketing success and catalyze their growth. If you're a founder or a VC looking for support for your teams, I highly recommend connecting with them. You can learn more@renault partners.com as far as that comparison between Solana and Ethereum, I think there's this perception out there that Ethereum is very cypher punk, very decentralization focused, whereas Solana makes maybe certain trade offs where it's decentralized enough, but not to the extent that Ethereum is and it's more focused on being pragmatic and shipping things than on, you know Having this real cypherpunk decentralization kind of ethos. I know that maybe if my co host was here he would disagree with that sentiment, but it is a kind of a perception that exists. And with Maker having been like a pretty kind of decentralization forward organization for nearly a decade, I'm just curious what you make of the decentralization discourse between Ethereum and Solana.
00:16:32.660 - 00:17:57.438, Speaker A: Yes, well, so I actually think that, I think that it is clearly the case that Ethereum is more decentralization purist than Solana is, while Solana is more focus on like pragmatism and practical use and so on. But the twist is that from a Defi perspective, fundamentally there's a limit to how decentralization purists you can be. So Maker early on and Sky, I guess even more so is very committed to sort of hitting the sweet spot of being as decentralized as you can possibly be before you completely destroy the use case. So there's actually very few things you can do with the additional amount of decentralization that Ethereum provides. So I think it does exist that there is some level of resilience and decentralization in Ethereum that just makes it sort of harder in some sense on that dimension compared to Solana. But a project like sky, because it taps into Treasuries and USDC and has all these, you know, companies and, and various types of, of real life actors interacting with legal structures and governance processes and so on. It, it's just, there's just a, you know, they're like it it.
00:17:57.438 - 00:19:07.780, Speaker A: In practice it makes no difference. Like the, you know, Solana is just as, as good for the use case as Ethereum is. And on the contrary like, I mean then the, the, the upside that Solana has, right, which is the, the much greater speed and the so and I mean just because of its sort of later, because it's a later generation. There's just the level of performance is just at a completely different level and that is actually something that Defi really can take advantage of, right? Like fees and MEV and all that stuff really matters and makes a big difference. So I, yeah, I mean I think, I think Solana is really great on that front and also I think there's another, I mean Solana sort of really paved the way for things like a whole cohort of new blockchains that are coming, right? That because of Solana success it proves the multi chain thesis and that's opened the door to other types of super exciting technology out there like SUI for Instance, like I think Sui wouldn't. I mean, I keep hearing this like Sui sort of can be like Solana, right? This whole narrative that's driving the growth of sui. And I think we have Solana to thank for that.
00:19:07.780 - 00:19:54.956, Speaker A: And I think, I mean, tweaks are like a super exciting technology, right? And it's sort of, it's not as much of a. I mean, just like Solana is not as big of a kind of paradigm shift from Ethereum as Ethereum was from Bitcoin, right? Then Sui is sort of another smaller incremental improvement on top of Solana. But they all sort of like enable each other, right? And this is to me really the most important thing in this, like the blockchain debate and so on, right. Is that all this stuff all synergizes and benefits each other, right? It's one giant ecosystem. Everybody benefits big time. People are sort of realizing this because they're increasingly talking about apps. And if you like, the apps is what matters.
00:19:54.956 - 00:20:22.516, Speaker A: And apps absolutely are just so much better off. The more technology there is, the more investment there is, the more scale, the bigger the market is. Right. Like Solana, apps benefit from the fact that Ethereum is so big because that just means the market as a whole is way bigger, the sector as a whole is way bigger. So the opportunity and the risk is lower and all of that. Right? So I think that just means there's like a bright future, that there's much more diversity and growth in the field as a whole.
00:20:22.708 - 00:21:32.040, Speaker B: I want to tap in on a certain part of that. Where kind of at the beginning of your answer you mentioned like full decentralization doesn't necessarily work when you're doing defi because you touch real world institutions. There's all of these complex players and there's governments. And this to my understanding, has always been kind of a big thing for maker. I remember in 2022 the tornado cash sanctions came out from the US treasury and you were talking about, you know, moving I believe, USDC out of the the maker treasury and replacing it with eth, because USDC could essentially be like frozen due to the like OFAC sanctions list. So from where we stand today, if you received a court order from an American or a European court that said we believe that, I don't know, North Korea linked activity happened in USDs. I need you to freeze the address so we can recover the stolen assets.
00:21:32.040 - 00:21:33.400, Speaker B: Would you do that?
00:21:33.520 - 00:22:20.886, Speaker A: Let me just address the point about the first, this thing about moving the centralized collateral out of the system, right. Which was originally Kind of that was originally direction that the ecosystem was taking with the transformation into sky. Right? But basically just after sort of doing very intensive research on this, it became clear that it's just, it's. It would basically. I mean it's actually. It wouldn't really be possible to, to like modify a system that was already at the scale of, of DAI at the time to become this like basically purely, like be purely collateralized. So purely use something like ETH as collateral.
00:22:20.886 - 00:22:59.760, Speaker A: And instead what was basically the kind of the outcome of that is that the best you can do is you can split up into. You can basically split up the system into two and then have like sort of two directions. That one that basically completely doubles down on pure decentralization. Unfortunately it still doesn't. You actually cannot produce like, you cannot actually hit the like what I would call actual pure decentralization as long as you're trying to do stablecoin peg to the US dollar because you're always going to need an Oracle. So the Oracle component always means that you have something that connects it to the real world. But that's basically, that's sort of one like.
00:22:59.760 - 00:24:18.864, Speaker A: I mean that's the one direction you can take and then the other one is basically deeper integration with the real world. Right? And the. So sky basically is the continuation of the path that Makeup's already on of like more integrating more with the, with the, with the real world, focusing on bringing the benefits of DEFI to the mainstream and basically just trying to use the technology to create, to do as much good as possible. And then because of the capability of sky to basically spin off independent projects, which is like a whole thing that like a sort of cornerstone of how sky scales under the hood is through this thing called subdaos. But then basically through that mechanism it would be possible to also bootstrap a completely new built from the ground up, purely decentralized stablecoin. And then to, to. I mean one of the ways that basically sky and USDS maintains this commitment to like full integration with the real world and just focusing on bringing the benefits of DEFI to mainstream is that there is the theoretical ability, I guess you could say, not theoretical but like the, I mean there is basically the, the ability is there from a governance perspective to upgrade the USDS token.
00:24:18.864 - 00:24:59.790, Speaker A: So it would be possible to program something like a freeze function into it later if it turned out to be necessary to, I mean prevent the whole system coming at risk, you know, because it uses real world, real world assets as collateral. Right. So as I see it that's actually like, it's a necessary feature if you want to support really, really large scale. Right. An actual global adoption and integration with the, with the real, the real world financial system. I think at the current scale that, that everything is at. It's not, it's, it's not kind of relevant.
00:24:59.790 - 00:25:41.730, Speaker A: But it would be problematic to not have that as a theoretical possibility for the long term which would still have to go through all the decentralized governance process and so on to put these kind of mechanisms in place. But the problem is basically that if there's no mechanism to introduce a freeze function through an upgrade controlled by the decentralized governance process, then there's just no way to respond to something like a threat to seize collateral or something like that. Right. And all these issues, that's always something you kind of have to deal with if you're collab. I mean basically if you're, you know, your DEFI protocol. Right. It's a decentralized protocol.
00:25:41.730 - 00:26:19.186, Speaker A: It's interacting with jurisdictions all over the world. It's using all sorts of decentralized collateral. But it's, but it's basically, it's also relying on for instance, I mean it has a heavy reliance on rule of law in the U.S. right. Like that American courts and, and the American system will enforce the claim that USDS holders are sort of, you know, indirectly are benefit from. Right. Where ultimately the stablecoin remains stable and it will keep its peg because there are treasuries protecting its value.
00:26:19.186 - 00:26:36.490, Speaker A: Right. And those treasuries, they're like, I mean they're. The reason why they have the value is due to the legal system. So you're relying on the legal system and that basically means you're going to be. Yeah, it's, it's, it's not sustainable to expect a sort of one way reliance like this at very large scale. I think. Right.
00:26:36.490 - 00:27:07.578, Speaker A: It would, it would be politically unfeasible in, in the sense that you wouldn't, you know. Yeah. Any kind of government. Right. I think any kind of sort of like large organization would at some point resist that. Like that a defi protocol or whatever is basically building something on top of it that potentially could harm. Right.
00:27:07.578 - 00:28:12.320, Speaker A: Could harm them or help their enemies or something. Again, I think it's only an issue that happens when you think at very, very large scales. So that brings, that comes back to the point of like you want to, you know, the, the kind of, the main like bring the benefits of defi to the mainstream building stuff. That's more for the real world or for regular people that are not so crypto OG rooted as. As people are in the, in kind of the original DEFI community and then basically making sure that the alternative systems also built, right? So by building, but also developing purely decentralized technology, or at least stable coins that are as close as possible to pure decentralization, even though you still won't get around the need for Oracles building that basically acts as a hedge against the potential for governments to eventually kind of interfere directly with the defi and sort of abuse the same. I mean, what ultimately is the same kind of control they have over all sorts of other types of economic activity all around the world.
00:28:13.740 - 00:28:46.710, Speaker B: So just to summarize, if I'm understanding correctly and like, I appreciate you answering that really candidly, but that like USDS has the ability to introduce centralizing elements such as a freeze function, because of the scale you're looking at, it's impossible to not have that. And if someone wanted to launch like a fully decentralized, unstoppable sort of stablecoin, the subdao model within sky would give them the infrastructure to do that. But that's not what sky and USDS is going to be.
00:28:48.210 - 00:30:18.936, Speaker A: So actually two things. So first of all, if something like a freeze function was implemented in USTs, it would have to function through some kind of decentralized process, right? So that you as a like, it would have to go through decentralized governance. It wouldn't work to just give some kind of unaccountable centralized entity a backdoor and then just let have them kind of dictate whatever happens in the system, right? Like, it's actually a pretty, a big part of the, of what sky can do is it can sort of act as like an objective arbiter of all sorts of conflict or dispute or kind of, you know, like deal with basically unknown things that have to be, that have to be decided. Right? So, so the way, I mean, I mean, and the thing is anything like this would have to be implemented based on a lot of kind of discussion and research in the ecosystem, right? It would need to be done in response to like reaching a very large scale where this starts to become relevant. But what I imagine being like a key feature would be some kind of real accountability, like real rules around how it works and why it works. Right? I mean, ultimately the goal is to prevent, I mean to protect the stability of the stablecoin, right? To pretend to prevent basically that. The other option is that you have governments trying to control the stablecoin by going after the collateral, right? And that's what you want to avoid, right? Because then suddenly everybody, everybody gets affected badly.
00:30:18.936 - 00:32:22.678, Speaker A: Right? And this is actually an issue that like a lot of DEFI has in general, that it's sort of like everything is sort of built on top of other things. And then at the bottom you have something like usdc, right, which has a freeze function, right? Or you have something like Treasuries, which are entirely beholden to the legal system, right? So that stuff always, it always exists there somewhere in the stack. And then the question is, are you going to sort of risk the whole thing getting affected by it, or do you build in the ability to have a more sort of surgical freeze function that can deal with it? Or do you build something completely separate that simply has no or as little as possible reliance on these kind of basically building blocks that interact with the real world and interact with real world legal systems? And so sky is actually committed to developing this project we call Pure Die, which is like, it's not going to be a sub dao, it's going to be like a completely independent thing that will basically just use the same basic technology that has been developed for the sky launch, but then use it to launch kind of the best possible version of a purely decentralized stablecoin. Similarly, just like I said, as a hedge to make sure that technology is pushed forward and ultimately delivering on that original ideological commitment that it really is built into the project's DNA. Right? But the, the trade off again is like, it's just a, I mean there's a, there's a lot of cost to going for pure decentralization and it makes scalability very difficult. So the trade off is basically that if you want to, if you want to bring the benefits of DEFI to the mass market and you want to have an actual positive impact on as many as real people as possible, you don't have a choice. You have to integrate with the real world.
00:32:22.678 - 00:33:21.890, Speaker A: And these like purely decentralized systems, they would only become scalable in the actual kind of worst case scenario where all of the world's government, they start just like completely going off the rails, right? And you have, things start to really fall apart for real. That's the moment when you could see a move into purely decentralized technology. But then until then, I mean that, you know, we shouldn't sit around and let people get ripped off by the banks until then, right? Even if we believe it's guaranteed to happen, it's a really good thing to bring the benefits of DEFI as broadly as possible. Right. And just get more adoption of blockchain technology and all of the benefits and cost savings and transparency and I mean all the benefits of decentralization that in any case, right. That exist regardless of whether there is, you know, there's Treasuries built into the system or not. Those Treasuries are still trackable on chain verifiable in a way that is a completely, you know, it's a total game changer to.
00:33:21.890 - 00:33:50.200, Speaker A: To what people can be used to. Right. And you have a lot of, I mean we, we saw that with like Silicon Valley bank, right recently of how the opaqueness of tradfi just. That is a huge problem. And Defi really helps with these things. Like it really helps with robustness with more than just sort of, you know, just like being going all in on like a very sort of particular type of ideological approach to it.
00:33:50.580 - 00:34:41.235, Speaker B: I'm curious, sort of just to get your thoughts as a person who's now kind of has deployed this defi aligned stablecoin on Solana. Just what you think defy, especially on Solana I guess can be for. Because it's been a big narrative over the past year. You know, Solana's Defi protocols since mid late 2023 have tacked on billions, you know, several billion in total value locked and have tons of users. JITO and their block engine continues to see like record usage and all this stuff. And a lot of it is currently for meme coin trading. Like a lot of the volume is people looking to speculate on meme coins.
00:34:41.235 - 00:35:07.569, Speaker B: You're someone who comes From a very OG DeFi kind of place. And I think at maker have at different times tried to explore like the Huntington bank partnership to have real world assets and things like this. So I just want to ask like, especially like let's just limit to Solana right now. What can defi before after memes on Solana.
00:35:08.389 - 00:35:56.348, Speaker A: I mean it always ties back to, you know, providing some kind of benefit to the real world. So value only exists in the real world. Like meme coins only have value because people cash them out and then use them out in the real world. Right. So the only use case of defi is basically it's actually stuff like security tokens and settlement in financing in the real world or something like small businesses holding their savings in crypto or something like that. You need to have that activity there ultimately. And if you have that activity, then you can drive value to the blockchain token, right to the native token.
00:35:56.348 - 00:36:32.920, Speaker A: So The SOL token and the ETH token, their value derives from the activity that's happening on their blockchains. With Ethereum it's maybe a little bit less and it's sort of a little bit Bitcoin like. But Ethereum also isn't Bitcoin, right? So if you want Bitcoin, you use Bitcoin. Ethereum has to definitely, it will not have much value if it doesn't have a lot of very robust activity on its blockchain. And the most sustainable, most scalable type of activity is going to be actual financial transactions. Right. And this is also where the potential is mind blowingly huge.
00:36:32.920 - 00:37:45.060, Speaker A: Just looking at some really basic security tokens. I mean that's something that sky is heavily focused on right now with this thing called the Spark Tokenization Grand Prix, which is basically this subdao so specialized project called Spark that's running like a billion dollar contest to allocate assets into the top security tokens out there, where you have institutions like BlackRock and all the major security token issuers basically participating in this contest to try to be included in the USDS collateral portfolio. So sky has been doing real assets for several years now and it's been in this kind of, it's actually been like sort of off chain real assets in a sense where the funds are just sort of sent out, send into the real world and then they're go through, they go sort of mess around in the regular banking system. And it's super complicated. It's like super complicated, expensive, slow, risky. The funds can get stuck, you get, you can get deep banked. There's all these like massive problems that you're subjected to all the time.
00:37:45.060 - 00:39:00.352, Speaker A: And then when, you know, when the ecosystem looks at what you can do with security tokens, it's just like all these issues can be solved and it's like faster and it's cheaper and it's more transparent and you've got a lot of economies of scale because you can kind of specialize in these different tokens. So to me the upsides are just, they're so obvious. And what we're looking at right now is just like the absolute super early stage beginning of this stuff. In fact, we're not, I mean we're really, really barely scratching the surface. Like I feel like we will start to scratch the surface when sky starts allocating large scale into tokenized real assets because that might then open up for more liquidity and more sort of established participants in this space. While right now I think it's a lot I mean, a lot of it is just more like early, very early adopters using the tokenized security so far. But it's once we start going down to the risk curve basically and start to get into more unique and interesting assets, financial assets, and then use DEFI to do things like credit enhancement.
00:39:00.352 - 00:39:23.100, Speaker A: Right. So you take a more risky asset like private credit was talking about earlier, right. Which is stuff I'm really interested in. Right. You do actual loans to like a real factory in Vietnam or something, right. And then you add credit enhancements. You basically, you sort of slice the exposure into something that has a lot of risk and then something that is low risk.
00:39:23.100 - 00:40:03.232, Speaker A: That's the kind of stuff you can do that on chain incredibly efficiently and you know, with unprecedented levels of transparency and verifiability and enforcement. Right. So the people who are supposed to get, take the losses and supposed to get the protection, they actually get it without such a heavy reliance, like slow, you know, unreliable legal systems that could take years to reach a fair conclusion. Right. So that kind of stuff I think is just like once that really gets going, it's going to be so super exciting. And that's also where like I was talking about earlier, like that's where you see the performance of Solana, for instance, will really shine in this. Right.
00:40:03.232 - 00:40:18.420, Speaker A: Because that just means you can do like even more stuff. You can do so much financial engineering and all of these things can be done very cheaply. So you can do it for very small transactions and so on. And yeah, I'm just, it's going to take a long time, right. But I'm very much like strapped in for the ride and I'm very excited to see all that innovation.
00:40:18.800 - 00:41:05.810, Speaker B: Yeah, that's, I guess like a little bit of my gripe with Defi at the moment is that it feels like in the prior market cycle, Defi was pitched as this new way to do finance and finances. Things like, you know, taking out a mortgage so a family can own a home and things like that. And we had like NF, you know, house deeds, NFTs on the blockchain, whatever in 2022. And now in, you know, approaching 2025, it feels like there still really isn't meaningful finance happening on DeFi. A lot of it is still speculation and meme coins and so forth. And so point taken that it'll take some time. But, but that, that's, that's a little bit of like my, my, my annoyance with, with Defi, I guess you could say.
00:41:07.070 - 00:41:47.982, Speaker A: Yeah, like I said, Sky's working on it. Right. And typically Maker and Sky has been the thing that sort of pushed the limit of this and took it to the next, the next paradigm. So once sky starts doing really large scale, I mean, yeah, tokenized real assets, that's the first step. But like I said, that's not even the exciting part. I think when we get a little bit further, it's actually going to be quite exciting. But there's also like an important lesson to learn, right? Because Maker originally, the very first RWA deals Maker did was like jumping straight into private credit financing these types of private credit deals in Southeast Asia.
00:41:47.982 - 00:42:20.492, Speaker A: And out of those, there's so many of those that defaulted. So there was like, I think something like four or five million dollars in losses that Maker took quite early on, just like lending money in crappy deals. Right. And, and that's an example of what's called adverse selection, right? That like, only some really, only really, really bad deals are going to want to go and deal with the confusion of trying to get financed through blockchain technology. Right. And, and that's the reason why it has to be slow. Like the whole.
00:42:20.492 - 00:43:09.272, Speaker A: There's so much that needs to mature. Like, you can't just like it. And I guess it's sort of the build it and they will come thing failing, right? You can't just like build a bunch of tech and then expect the whole world to kind of adjust and start actually using it. So I also feel in the same way that it's almost like in that sense, it's kind of like it's slowing down because every time we turn a corner, every time the industry opens up a new chapter of like, okay, now we'll do tokenized treasuries. Well, turns out that's super complicated. Just the tokenized treasuries was like a huge challenge, Right? Maker tried to do that for like two, three years already. And it's only now that, that it's sort of getting, it's getting good and workable and then there's going to be the next level of risk and there's, there's going to be its own, like, issues with that.
00:43:09.272 - 00:43:20.340, Speaker A: Right? So, yeah, so it's just going to take a while. But then once the floodgates open, it's going to be, it's going to be irreversible and it's going to be like a level of scale that nobody's seen so far.
00:43:20.800 - 00:44:05.936, Speaker B: Yeah, yeah. That's an interesting part of Maker's story that you were doing deals in Southeast Asia. I didn't know that I do want to get into the USDS Solana launch a little bit. And one thing I'm particularly interested to ask you about, Rune, is the liquidity incentives. So you've launched on a number of kind of defi lending protocols on Solana, including like Camino, Orca, I believe. I don't have the whole list in front of me, but sky is essentially spending, I believe something like 500,000 a week. I don't know if it's per protocol or in total in liquidity incentives where it'll essentially provide you a boosted yield if you mint USDs and bring it to these protocols.
00:44:05.936 - 00:45:11.020, Speaker B: And this serves to grow the market cap of USDS on Solana. It obviously has worked so far. There's 85 million USDS tokens on Solana now. But I guess like, what are the thoughts behind the, the, the correct amount for the Dow to be paying in these liquidity incentives? And I don't know, like we saw with PayPal's stablecoin, a lot of liquidity incentive spending over the summer and PayPal's PyUSD, the stablecoins supply on Solana has really declined in recent months. It's been like down only since the incentives kind of dried up and some of that capital that was just there for the yield has gone elsewhere in search of greener pastures. So a lot of pieces there. But I guess how do you think about the right amount to spend in liquidity incentives? And are you concerned at all that essentially mercenary capital is just going to leave and get rid of their USDs once the liquidity incentive spending ends?
00:45:12.070 - 00:46:01.956, Speaker A: Yeah. So the liquidity incentives that are available in Solana right now, it's actually a combination of basically two types of incentives you could say, right? So the first one is the savings rate. And so this, the savings rate is basically the name for like that is the marginal rate, right. So the savings rate that sky can pay to USDS holders, because that is what sky is able to generate on the collateral on the back end, basically. And that's currently set at 8.5%. So there's actually this sort of fixed unlimited ability to provide an 8.5% savings rate that applies to Solana.
00:46:01.956 - 00:46:36.266, Speaker A: Right. And actually it's done by, I mean basically like a governance regulated process where the, the sky contributors, they basically they basically just like monitor what is the amount of, what is the net supply of USDS on each of these protocols and then figures out, okay, what's the equivalent of 8.5% paid out over last week for this amount. Right. So this, like, done on a weekly basis. So that first, like zone, as we're recording this, a. A week hasn't passed since launch.
00:46:36.266 - 00:47:01.186, Speaker A: So this hasn't, this process hasn't actually occurred yet, but it will, it will go, it'll go live very shortly. Right. And what's then going to happen is actually the total incentives are going to go up because now there's going to be. So far there's been no impact of the savings rate, but now the savings rate is also going to start impacting. Right. So it's going to be equivalent to like, basically, yeah, 8.5% on.
00:47:01.186 - 00:47:09.506, Speaker A: On 85 million for a week, which is whatever. I can't, I can't calculate that in my head. But it's.
00:47:09.538 - 00:47:12.578, Speaker B: It's in the millions. That would, that would be in the millions at least.
00:47:12.634 - 00:47:23.058, Speaker A: Yeah, well, for over a year, for sure. But I mean, for next week it'll be. Yeah. Couple of million. Well, yeah, four. Four million or so. Five.
00:47:23.058 - 00:47:28.170, Speaker A: Actually more than whatever. Seven million divided by 50, I guess. Right?
00:47:29.590 - 00:47:35.490, Speaker B: Yeah, a couple of. Is that worth it? Is that a worthwhile expenditure for Sky?
00:47:35.990 - 00:48:04.680, Speaker A: So this is actually. I mean, the savings rate is the standard rate that the system pays to every user, right? So the system actually makes a profit from paying out the savings rate. Like it's generating like slightly more in marginal returns on the back end. But, so then, but, but that's. So that's the part that is like permanently sustainable. Right? So of course it's not going to be 8.5% forever, because right now rates in crypto is really high.
00:48:04.680 - 00:48:25.330, Speaker A: So that's why sky is able to generate such a high return. That's not going to last forever. Eventually it'll probably go down, but so will all other rates as well. Right? Because sky is just taking. It's just tapping into all the other rates and using that to deliver the 8.5% savings rate. So those will always be correlated, that when every other rate goes up, then the sky savings rate will also go up.
00:48:25.330 - 00:48:53.408, Speaker A: But again, that part is actually permanent. It will never stop. So that will always be available in these protocols forever. But then on top of that, there's something we call the integration subsidy. So that's the 500k number that basically on top of the savings rate of this fixed 8.5%, there's this. There's the 500,000 being paid out on a weekly basis to kind of bootstrap and subsidize initial liquidity.
00:48:53.408 - 00:49:28.642, Speaker A: And a lot of that goes to just subsidizing USDC liquidity. Right. So stablecoin liquidity, that's about half of it. A little bit less than half of it is spent on that. Later on that fun like that role will disappear entirely and sky will just deploy a native so called psm. Like basically start deploying the sky protocol natively on Solana through something called Skylink native. So that's kind of like just sky basically sort of natively being installed in Solana piece by piece.
00:49:28.642 - 00:50:03.820, Speaker A: And one of those early pieces will be a native PSM so that there will be unlimited one to one liquidity with USDC without Sky having to pay very expensive liquidity mining incentives to get that liquidity. And then the other things like the other half of the 500k per week is going on the Defi protocols. Right. So Camino Drift and the save. And so what's happening is these protocols, they're also starting to offer co incentives. Right. So they're actually also going to put some extra boost and extra yield on top of this to kind of match what sky is providing.
00:50:03.820 - 00:50:43.156, Speaker A: But basically the idea is over time this subsidy will have to go down because it's not sustainable. Right. This is like a price that sky is paying above what it's able to generate on the back end. However, it's completely worth it to use it to kind of seed the adoption in the early stages, I think. Right. Obviously Solana is the first sort of multi chain launch that sky has done. So a lot of what happens on Solana is just going to be experience that sky can then reuse when doing multi chain launches on different blockchains.
00:50:43.156 - 00:51:28.516, Speaker A: But ultimately, I mean Solana is a key market. Like I think, I think it's, it's, you know, like it's just so important to be installed there and it's a huge deal to be the like already be one of the biggest stable coins on Solana. Right. And, and like definitely there's no, there's not going to be any kind of compromise with Skylake. It's like a full commitment to Solana. Right. In terms of deploying the Skylink native, continuing to integrate with more Solana Defi and delivering the savings rate continuously onto Solana and doing these subsidies to keep growing the just keep the total demand growing and just you know, do stuff with real assets and whatever.
00:51:28.516 - 00:51:36.760, Speaker A: Just like keep basically keep being like a leader in innovating on what can be done with Defi and Solana.
00:51:37.580 - 00:52:27.026, Speaker B: Yeah. Relatedly, something I've been looking into recently and interested in is Solana, the assets market cap is currently I think between a third and a fourth of Ethereum's market cap, it's like 130 billion versus 400 billion or something. Whereas Solana's stablecoin market cap is like 1 25th of ethereums, it's like 2 billion versus 50 billion. I don't know if those are the correct numbers exactly, but it's, it's some huge discrepancy like that where I think 50% of all stable coins are on Ethereum and 2% are on Solana. So how, how does Solana close that gap? How does Solana get like the type of stablecoin market cap that Ethereum can see, or at least a more comparable market cap?
00:52:27.098 - 00:53:33.810, Speaker A: So practically in terms of like the real goal is to just like grow the economic activity and so on, then I would say it's all about the real world asset integration and getting institutions. They will bring that liquidity and then maybe we'll start using Solana as a backend for offering products to end users, something like that. Right. But I think the thing that might really explain the huge amount of stable coins in Ethereum might also just be the wealth effect. Right? Whereas I've heard this explanation of like, you know, Ethereum did have a lot of, not just eth itself, but like a lot of the projects on Ethereum were launched in ways where people just made a lot of profits from them and then they sold them into stable coins and kept that on Ethereum natively. I think basically on Solana this seems to be more of like you pull the money out of the ecosystem or maybe it's that everybody's putting their money into Sol rather than stablecoins. And that could be an explanation, but it's probably also then also just related to kind of age of ecosystem.
00:53:33.810 - 00:53:38.554, Speaker A: It's something that just slowly happens over time.
00:53:38.662 - 00:54:59.572, Speaker B: I've come to kind of similar conclusions, kind of the, the last thing I want to get into a little bit with you run is are you familiar with Futarchy and that whole experiment on Solana? So I want to get kind of your take a little bit here and for, for listeners who might not be as, as plugged in this, this one's maybe a little more for the sickos, but daos, decentralized autonomous organizations have been around kind of as long as Ethereum have, and doing governance in a decentralized way proves very tricky. It can cause a lot of gridlock, a lot of sclerosis by these daos that don't make decisions as quickly as they need to. I Think Maker and Sky have solved for this through a subdao model where there's kind of smaller. And you also have these. I forget what the technical title is, but teams that are authorized to do certain actions maybe more quickly if it's needed. And so you've had workarounds where it's like not everything needs to be subject to a governance vote and stuff moves really slowly. But I think Solana, as it develops and lots of projects are doing token launches and launching governance is part of that.
00:54:59.572 - 00:55:30.820, Speaker B: Rather than doing the traditional dao model where you have proposals and then you vote on them, they're doing futarchy, which is there's a pass mail, a pass market and a fail market for every proposal for what the dao should do. And you basically make a decision based on what you think will be best for the native token's price. So, I don't know, run. What do you think of futar? Do you think it's an improvement on the traditional dao model? Is it something that Maker would, or, excuse me, sky would explore instituting? What's your take?
00:55:33.440 - 00:56:05.042, Speaker A: Yeah, I basically, I don't think it's really workable, sadly. I mean, I was really into it as sort of like, as something that would be. And, well, and it might still be that you can tap into it, but it's not going to work. Like, I don't, I don't believe that it works as like the call model for how you govern it out. And that's because, I mean, it's just obvious to imagine that it's something like, well, it's about to build a giant Ponzi scheme and that's going to make the price go up. Right. Like while you're doing the Ponzi scheme and then it's going to go to zero afterwards.
00:56:05.042 - 00:56:31.894, Speaker A: Right. But the rational choice is then still, let's go ahead and do it. Right. So you're going to run into almost like, I mean, possibly even like a version of the traditional problem daos have, but on steroids, where they're just like not, you know, they sort of lack very basic intelligence. Right. Maybe that can be. Maybe that can be solved by putting very strong guardrails.
00:56:31.894 - 00:56:45.430, Speaker A: Right. So like a mechanism that sells. If the future T tries to build a Ponzi scheme, then, you know, override it and don't let it do it. Right. But if it tries to do some cool marketing thing, then that sounds. That's good. Go ahead.
00:56:45.430 - 00:57:33.684, Speaker A: Right. Then of course, from experience, then I know what's going to happen is The Future Key will then try to find ways to make a Ponzi scheme look like a cool marketing thing. So you're going to get an arms race where you need very intelligent actual governance that is able to understand that. Yeah, it's classified as a marketing thing, but it's actually going to turn the whole thing into a Ponzi scheme. How do you detect that if it's actively being camouflaged? This is taking things down like a rabbit hole of like this is the fundamental problem of not just dao governance, but even human politics. In fact, I think this is why I was talking about earlier. The west is falling apart because this is sort of what's happening in the west right now, that it's being sold as nice and fuzzy welfare.
00:57:33.684 - 00:58:09.910, Speaker A: But it's like a giant Ponzi scheme that could pretty much sum up a lot of what's going on in advanced economies right now. Yeah, so it's a huge problem. The subdam model is like a part of how you solve it because you kind of like split off and you say like, well, if you guys don't figure it out, you're going to blow up and you're not going to affect the rest of us. So you can operate in parallel and decisions can be made without going through like an ultra slow governance process. Right. But that's still like, like they're still just solving half the problem. More like it's more like it's chopping up the problem.
00:58:09.910 - 00:58:38.090, Speaker A: So now you have the same problem but in smaller bites, but you still haven't like dealt with the actual issue, which is that individual humans can be smart, but like in groups they're usually really stupid humans. Right. And they're very sort of prone to like populism and emotions and so on. And so at this point, I think the only real answer is basically artificial intelligence and like data driven decision making. Right. So you kind of have to actually be able to specify what is a Ponzi scheme. Right.
00:58:38.090 - 00:59:26.450, Speaker A: And that's the way you allow, let's say a future key to make a bunch of decisions and knowing that you have a way to objectively catch it if it tries to build upon scheme or something like that. Right. And that's a huge amount of what, like that's a huge amount of what sky is investing in in terms of improving governance. It's basically, it's actually less so like building some fancy AI or fancy LLM that sort of like does some AI magic and solves governance. And it's a lot more about just like Data accessibility, just like structuring the data, just like, you know. Yeah. Like building what looks almost like an artificially intelligent system, but that initially is run not by robots or AI, but by bureaucrats following rules.
00:59:26.450 - 00:59:48.530, Speaker A: Right. Which funny enough, is not really that much different from how like current legal systems work in the real world. Like governments today are basically giant AIs run by bureaucrats. That is very badly designed giant AIs run by bureaucrats. Right. And, and with DS we have an opportunity to kind of build, I mean, well, and this is a whole network state thing as well. Right.
00:59:48.530 - 01:00:30.876, Speaker A: Like something like better legal systems in a sense that can then initially work well because they're just more efficient. And so the bureaucrats don't, you know, they can operate more efficiently. But then from there, you know, you start empowering the bureaucrats with AI tools and you start to have the rules themselves be provided in this like structured data format. Yeah. And I think with all of that then you can have, you know, a big system that can actually safely tab into future key, tab into wisdom of the crowd. All of these things, right. Like opinion polls, whatever, you know, people choosing their favorite color for the new logo design or something because you can put guardrails in this stuff.
01:00:30.876 - 01:00:38.524, Speaker A: So you can, you can make these like really cool grassroots automated decision processes knowing that they're not going to go off the rails.
01:00:38.652 - 01:01:03.000, Speaker B: But the comparison you made here is like to how governments work. But I feel like Daos more are a replacement for corporate governance, which do have a smart person at the top and a CEO who can decide what is and isn't a Ponzi and this kind of thing. So why bother with daos at all? I guess like, why not just do the corporate governance model that is tried and tested in the private sector?
01:01:03.860 - 01:01:39.460, Speaker A: Yeah. I mean, I think really that it's kind of the other way around. Right. That we actually, I mean Daos is the like corporate governance and real life governments and every single. I don't think you can mention anything that is not going to not just benefit, but require to survive, structured data that you apply artificial intelligence to. Right. You can't compete or survive in the future if you're not accelerating in terms of making better decisions and allocating resources more effectively over time.
01:01:39.460 - 01:02:19.528, Speaker A: And Daos, they really suck badly when you just have a bunch of bureaucrats and a bunch of humans that don't know what they're doing and you put them in this completely new environment with no norms and a bunch of ideologues with big dreams. But maybe not that much life experience that can then get tricked and all that. They've stumbled really badly. It's been kind of embarrassing how bad the daos have fared since their inception. Also because they're so messy, right? Because they're transparent. So you see all like the sausage, you know, how the sausage is made constantly. And it's like embarrassing, right.
01:02:19.528 - 01:02:57.900, Speaker A: Like in government that stuff's happening behind closed doors. Right. It's way worse. But the public doesn't see it all the time. Right. In the same way that it's happening with Dallas. But my point is that all of these disadvantages, they're kind of, they're finally getting flipped upside down and turning into a huge advantage with AI, Right, because of the transparency and basically the kind of the rethinking of organizations more as code that is just like, that is the perfect substrate for how to apply AI to organizing organizations and resources and services and all of this stuff.
01:02:57.900 - 01:03:54.218, Speaker A: So, yeah, I actually think, like, I genuinely believe that daos are the most powerful way to apply AI. Like, I don't think companies that basically are not radically kind of, I don't know what to call it, like radically blockchainifying their operations will be able to keep up to speed with those that are, because of how AI agents, they will just blockchains will be sort of a more native environment for AI agents to operate. And so it's more like, I guess if we didn't have AI, if we didn't have technological acceleration, then yeah, that's like total dead end. Like a failed, failed experiment. That just sucks. And we should just stick with like the stuff that works. Right? But because we have this technological acceleration, it's the other way around.
01:03:54.218 - 01:04:14.330, Speaker A: Like the companies and the governments, they're going to have to become daos. Like they're going to have to adopt all of these tools and processes and frameworks and so on because without it they're just not, I mean they will just get out competed by fully transparent, digitally native systems that are just implementing AI end to end.
01:04:15.590 - 01:04:34.232, Speaker B: Yeah. And we're seeing some interesting like AI agent Dao experiments go down on Solana right now. So I'll be interested to see how all of that shakes out. But for now, that is all the time we have. We've even gone a little over the time limit. But I've. I've been really enjoying speaking with you, Rune.
01:04:34.232 - 01:04:45.688, Speaker B: So yeah, thank you very much for coming on Lightspeed. Hope to have you back on again sometime. And yeah, best of luck with figuring out the Solana deployment Absolutely.
01:04:45.864 - 01:04:47.192, Speaker A: That's a lot of fun.
01:04:47.376 - 01:04:48.820, Speaker B: Great. Take care.
01:04:53.260 - 01:04:53.500, Speaker A: It.
