00:00:13.450 - 00:00:50.800, Speaker A: Good afternoon and thank you for coming to this talk. I'm Changwo from I'm Talking Labs. And I'm talking is a non castio wallet based in Singapore. And today then I'm going to talk about the topic which is called Postmode wallet. So before the talk, I would like to ask you guys a question. What is your ideal wallet? I think many of you may like use MetaMask, maybe I'm Token or others wallet. So what is your ideal wallet? Looks like you don't need to have answer the question now, but it's worthy to think about it.
00:00:50.800 - 00:01:42.186, Speaker A: So let's take some time to look at where we are now and look back at the past. I would like to go through some number and some observation from what we have right now. So, here is the adoption map of the Ethereum users. So we can see many users are distributed in North America, Europe, Asia and everywhere. But these users really are crypto users. So how do I define crypto users? That's because not everyone uses the crypto wallet. But I think most of the people right now they just use the decentralized exchange, like binance, like FTS exchange.
00:01:42.186 - 00:02:42.654, Speaker A: So how do we turn this kind of situation? So make more people to get into the crypto wallet is the core idea of this topic. So for now, there are over 221,000,000 people have cryptocurrency right now. This number might not be accurate just for reference. If we assume the number is correct, then 97% of people don't know crypto or don't have any kind of crypto assets. So one day if you want to introduce the crypto wallet to your parent, your friend or even your teacher, how do you do that? Can you help them to set up a crypto wallet in two minutes, five minutes or even in ten minutes? I think the answer for now probably is no. It's really hard for them to know what is crypto because the learning curve is pretty high. So here are the challenges we are facing every day.
00:02:42.654 - 00:03:28.446, Speaker A: If you are working as what is company, then you will receive the feedback like this every day. So people don't know what is the crypto, what is the C phrase, and also they don't know how to speed up the transaction when their transaction gets stuck for those questions. So we need to come up with some solution for the future wallets. How do we fix it? So, if we want to make the mass adoption to happen, crypto wallet is an important entry point for unborn Webster users. Yeah, so we need to fix it. So how to fix it? So let's recap again. So, if you want to rebuild a wallet, then we need to know what the future wallet looks like.
00:03:28.446 - 00:04:21.450, Speaker A: So this is a very good question because if you think about the smart contract developer in 2018 or 2019 at late moment because they didn't sense or they didn't know there is a kind of attack called NAV attack. So when you design a smart contract at late time, eventually you really have to defend NV attack. So that's why we need to know what is the future and we need to know how to design the wallet. And so this is the reason this topic called the post merge wallet. So let's look at the future. The concept of the angan is proposed by Vitarica in 2021. Actually, the goal is to scaling the Ethereum for many users so we can onboard more users to the Ethereum ecosystem.
00:04:21.450 - 00:05:10.250, Speaker A: For the eng in the article that Vitarica mentioned, ethereum is pivoting to a low art solution centric roadmap. What does that mean? It means today we have already seen lots of layer two solution coming up. Just like STARnet EDC uptron or optimism. Since if the layer two is the future, that means we need to have more data space for the roll up. So how do we have more data on the roll up? So, here are two ways we can do that. So, first we need to have more get more larger block. And the block need to be verified very easily for the line client.
00:05:10.250 - 00:06:08.850, Speaker A: If we can do so, then we can have a large block and that is what Denshadin doing. And another approach to do this is how do we make the data smaller? If we can make each low up transaction smaller then it could fit into the bigger block. Then that means we can get a lot of transaction get into the block. So in the future ideally we think there might be a high TPS with a low transaction fee into the blockchain system. This is important because if we look back at the history of the internet then we will find this is kind of similar. So when the internet was born, the bandwidth is a secret resource and it is very expensive. Not everyone can afford to the internet.
00:06:08.850 - 00:07:12.898, Speaker A: With the cost decreasing then we can see many of many applications start to growing on the internet. So if you was in 1998, you probably don't think about what is YouTube, what is Netflix, but if you are in 2020 or 2022 then you might think Netflix is makes sense, we can have more online video with cheaper transaction fee. We can do more thing, not just DeFi, not just NFT. We can do lots of potential application in the market. So yeah, let's think about how do we make the wallet better so we can have more application on board into the Ethereum ecosystem. So yeah, we need to have a wallet which fits layer two roadmap and its user is friendly. Here I want to give you a very brief short summary.
00:07:12.898 - 00:08:08.162, Speaker A: So first it's really hard for the general user to know what is crypto, what is Ethereum? Think about it. If you want to teach your parents to set up a wallet, the first thing is they need to write up the C phrase. So why is CFRs? Yeah, it's difficult to understand. And then next if they want to send some token then they need to have some ease. So this is another thing that's quite challenging for them because this cannot make a transfer unless I got some eases. The second thing is the user experience is pretty bad now because I think because the learning curve is pretty high. So most of the user don't know how to run the wallet.
00:08:08.162 - 00:09:00.678, Speaker A: Like how do I interact with DeFi? If there is a new application, how do I access the application? They need to learn it from the video or some guy. It's really hard for them to know how to do that. And third, just like I mentioned, for now we have already have some users but most of the users are crypto user. They are just general users. And because all of this challenge they are just stay with the centralized exchange, how do we try to get them into the ecosystem? So we need to have a layer two ready wallet which is designed for the future. I think this is a very big thing because in DevCon we see the merge is already finished. So the layer two is if the layer two is the feature.
00:09:00.678 - 00:09:47.958, Speaker A: So we need to start to thinking about what is the future wallet look like. So far is a requirement we think ideal Wally should have. It's overwhelming. Again, if you are working at the wallet company, this is really overwhelming. Every day you will receive users feedback complaining their token was stolen or they just approved to some fake contract. So how do we avoid that? Avoid it. And even though there are more important questions is how do we make sure the user's assets is safe and how do we help them to manage their key.
00:09:47.958 - 00:10:18.766, Speaker A: So today I'm not go over this topic but I will just focus on the key management and how do we make their account could be recoverable. Here are two solutions. One is MPC and the other is AA FTRA account. I think the FTRA account is a very popular topic during the devcom talk every day. So you might probably might heard about it. But for MPC. Why is MPC? MPC actually is a multiparty computation.
00:10:18.766 - 00:11:13.134, Speaker A: So think about this simple. If you want to generate a random number if you want to generate random numbers through three people, you can ask each one for a number and then we can sum it up to get the result. So actually the MPC is a way for joining computing a function over the input. Let's take another example. If we can take the signature as the result, we can ask each party to contribute part of its secret numbers as the input and then we can get the signature. So this is kind of some boom mass or magic. We do not need to have a private key but we can generate the validate signature.
00:11:13.134 - 00:11:55.470, Speaker A: So the input is not related to the private key. So you don't need to worry about once your device got lost because there's no private key stored in the device but eventually the signature will be generated. The way it operates is pretty similar to multisig. Think about that. If a user need to request a transaction, he need to have another party to cowork to generate the signature. So this is really like a multi SIG way to send a transaction. So this is a very important feature for the MPC wallet.
00:11:55.470 - 00:12:52.050, Speaker A: And the MPC wallet looks like an EOA with an invisible private key. Besides, it could be decided with the threshold settings. For example, like two of three. So for example, if this is a threshold signature, then if we want to send a transaction, then the device need to cowork with another device which is online together to generate the signature. But also this is the weakness of the NPC. It needs the help of another online devices to working together. If you think about that, for this secret which distribute to different devices, it could degregate to some centralized service.
00:12:52.050 - 00:14:00.646, Speaker A: So for example, if the service help to store this secret then the service could help the user to identify the transaction is valid or not. Because one day if the user want to interact with the app or some DeFi application, once this party find the DeFi is fake or is a scam, then it can stop to help to generate the signature. So it's more like this is kind of like a risk control function. And another part for the MPC is it could support multi chain because as I mentioned, the MPC wallet looks like an EOA with invisible private key. So this is a wallet and they all go with this invisible private key. For MPC wallet it could support BTC bitcoin. It also can support the Ethereum and all of the private chain is if their signature is NPC friendly.
00:14:00.646 - 00:14:35.438, Speaker A: So this sounds perfect, but for the MPC solution, just like Hua mentioned, it requires having an online computing unit to co work with. These are accounts. In Ethereum we have these two types of account. One is EOA and the other is the smart contract account. So I just talk about the EOA over the NPC solution. So how about we talk about the contract account? So this is the abstract account wallet. So it's a kind of smart contract wallet.
00:14:35.438 - 00:15:32.374, Speaker A: So the nice thing that the smart contract is it is flexible. You can call anything into the smart contract so you can have a customized rule, so you can define your lure into this smart contract. With the AA wallet there is an entry point with two phases verification and execution. Because in current Ethereum transactions are verified by ECDA signature with balance and nouns check and then execute the transfer of all the co function. So we need to define this verification and execution. So this is pretty easy for the AA wallet. So what does is important if we can customize each kind of verification dual so that means we can define any kind.
00:15:32.374 - 00:16:14.546, Speaker A: Of signature in the smart contract like POS, like Shino or like Eddddsa. So we can have all kinds of signature verification rule building into the smart contract. And also, if we think this is not safe, we can make it multi signature Wallet. So that means you can control the wallet could be controlled by five people. But only three people approved. Then the transaction can be executed. And the other advantage is it could be designed to verify of transigning message.
00:16:14.546 - 00:17:03.646, Speaker A: So this is pretty important because if you think about a Meta transaction you think about a Meta transaction or some gaming app because the user don't know how to get the ethers. So if you can have some relayer to help them to relay the transaction. That would be useful because they don't need to buy the ether when they want to send a transaction. And the last is I think it is more important is we can change the signer. Okay, to me, the most important and interesting thing for abstract account is we can abstract account from the signer, from the EOA. So that means we can have a signer and we can have an account. But the account doesn't equal to signer.
00:17:03.646 - 00:18:52.550, Speaker A: So this is a very important feature because one day if we want to design a kind of application like did or Sobon token, the account could be fixed and we can have the same address, but we can have a different signer to control this account. Here is a summarize of some part of features of the NPC wallet and the abstract wallet AA wallet so for NPC it's developed in 2018 and for now there are many protocol so you can use any kind of this to design your NPC wallet. For AA recently there are some EIP like 29 38 and 23 37 yeah, so if you are interested in then you can try to read it and Alice actually is hierarchical switch hole signature protocol which is designed by me and my colleague. This is different switch hole signature because we can have different asset structure trying to make the share with a hierarchical level compare some of the important feature with the NPC and the AA wallet so for NPC and AA both of them could run in multi signal way. So that means we can have a multi signature operation but for AA because the account and the signer could be different so that means the account could be changed in the future. So this is the signer could be changed. This is a typo.
00:18:52.550 - 00:19:28.926, Speaker A: But for NPC because the private key is equal to account and the signer. So, yeah, this is not possible. But for NPC and the AA wallets because they all could be designed with social recovery. So both of them work with that. And for MPC and AA Wallets, all of them can support risk control. Just like what I mentioned. MPC Wallet, if you delegate your secret share to another centralized service, then this centralized service could help you to filter those malicious operations from the users.
00:19:28.926 - 00:19:55.990, Speaker A: But for AA because this is a smart contract wallet. So you can define any kind of rule into the smart contract. Like you can set the daily withdrawal limit or you can have some list address. But for MPC, because this is more like a private key solution. So it could support multi chain. But for the AA wallet. Because it runs on the smart contract.
00:19:55.990 - 00:20:54.986, Speaker A: So that means if the private chain does not have a smart contract or it's not EVN comfortable then it cannot support multi chain and for MPC because this is not the smart contract so it could not doing some meta transaction. So yeah, for AA it can take advantage of the meta transaction but for DeFi friendly I think this is a very important point here. So a sounds like a pretty cool thing. But if you try to look back, all of the smart contract developed right now, not every smart contract supports smart contract wallet. So that means only the EOA can control or can interact with the smart contract. And also another thing is most people do not support EIP 2071. It's an interface for the smart contract.
00:20:54.986 - 00:21:26.920, Speaker A: Wally I think this is the advantage of MPC. Wally from this table we can see the ports and the cons of this kind of these two solutions. I just follow the mean from the east too. So Xiaoi is here. Yeah. We can combine MPC and the AI wallet so we can design a future wallet. You can have a wallet like that.
00:21:26.920 - 00:22:19.682, Speaker A: If we consider this is the future wallet, then have a signer here. And we can have account into the smart contract wallet and also because of the feature of the MPC and the AA for MPC it could be long in off chain but for AA because all of the operations are on a smart contract, so it should be on chain. So there are two different features. But I think you can take advantage of these kind of two solutions. And third, because, just like I mentioned, MPC need another party. To be online to help to co work, to generate a signature. So it should be synchronized, but for AA, it could be synchronized, but this is not really friendly for signature wallet because for multi signature wallet, when you send a request.
00:22:19.682 - 00:22:50.798, Speaker A: You need to have another party to sign a transaction. So there is a lot of delay. So at the last, I think if we can combine these two kind of solution this is a benefit we can design a future wallet for this kind of application, like for payment. Because for payment, you need to have a very user friendly wallet. And for did you need to have address which is sent as an account? Yeah. So we can do a lot of things if we can combine these two kinds of solution. So thank you.
00:22:50.798 - 00:22:53.020, Speaker A: This is my talk. Thank.
