00:00:01.000 - 00:00:22.314, Speaker A: Hi. Hi, everybody. Welcome. Small group, but that's good. Better, small, motivated audience than a large audience with unmotivated people. So welcome, everybody. If there would be people here that helped organizing this event, I want to say thank you to them for inviting me.
00:00:22.314 - 00:01:03.884, Speaker A: I came from Belgium with the train, so it took me about 13 hours, but I finally got here. So that's the good news. So I'm a belgian designer and an artist, did numerous jobs as an artist and as a designer. And I obviously have an interest in the future, otherwise they wouldn't have invited me here. And since last ten years, I focused on how would our future. How could our future evolve towards a solarpunk society? And one of my main interests is nature, and especially how we can learn from nature. So that's called biomimicry.
00:01:03.884 - 00:01:45.994, Speaker A: And of course, also technology and science. They're all part of the vision that I and others depict. So though I know that many people will already have attended to other speakers at this event that talked about Solarpunk, so I ought to expect that everybody has some vision about what Solarpunk is all about. I showed here two illustrations. Those are the only two illustrations that aren't my own illustrations. And they show other punk art genres. One is steampunk, and the other one is obviously cyberpunk.
00:01:45.994 - 00:02:17.928, Speaker A: And it's all about creating a world. So that's what those art movements do. And typically, what's often depicted is the city. And in cyberpunk, what you see here is a rather dystopian worldview where many computers, artificial intelligence, robots, stuff like that, and often an anti hero. That's the punk concept. And the steampunk is more classical, the victorian age. And the central question here is, how would the world look like if it's steam powered, obviously.
00:02:17.928 - 00:03:02.374, Speaker A: So both, as you can see, are part of the. One of Judge's Red is one, it's a movie, and secondly, it's also a comic book. And the other one, arcane, is a game and an animation series that you can see on Netflix. So you see there's this influence among artists and among the movie industry and game designers. So that's also very interesting that there's a large scope of people interested in these genres. And I think with Solarpunk, the scope of people interested is even broader. And that's because we envision here a bright, sustainable future that concerns all of us.
00:03:02.374 - 00:03:48.388, Speaker A: So that's the first of one of my own illustrations. So if I would talk about Solarpunk, I would divide the word solarpunk exists out of the two words solar and punk. And I think solar, everybody has an idea what solar means and what it stands for. Obviously it stands for how would a solar world look like, solar powered world look like. But we will not limit this only to the solar powered energy. But also other renewable energies are welcome, of course. That's why I also added an arrow to the windmill, very well known energy source, wind, and to the ship as well, sailing ship, because it doesn't stop at just the energy production.
00:03:48.388 - 00:04:49.264, Speaker A: We also look at how the means of transportation, agriculture, architecture, they're all important here, and they need to be shown in a future Solarpunk futurist world. But the punk element, that's a very important one as well. And with many solarpunk visions that I see depicted on the Internet, the punk element is a little bit missing. But it's, I think, perhaps even more important than the solar part. And that's obviously about having control about the means of production, about agriculture, food, food sovereignty, food security, energy security. And who needs to have control. The people who live at those specific places, they need to become more independent, because now we all depend too much on large corporations and state controlled services that not always serve the interests of the mass.
00:04:49.264 - 00:05:19.360, Speaker A: You all know that in capitalism there are other things that matter for those in control. The profits and the financial returns. I should have added to the photograph that inspired me here. This is actually where I live in Ghent. If you would come to Belgium, I would invite you to visit that city. Nice medieval city, won't regret it. And it's a more industrial side of Ghent.
00:05:19.360 - 00:05:41.880, Speaker A: You probably won't see that one, but I pass with my bike often. And in the front, what you would see, what you see here is actually barren land. You typically see that at more industrial sites, where you have a lot of infrastructure, roads, canals that are used for logistics, to supply the goods to the factories and the industries.
00:05:42.072 - 00:05:42.376, Speaker B: And.
00:05:42.400 - 00:06:42.640, Speaker A: And that land can be used and managed in a much better way. And here it's about permaculture practices, and you see some low tech cable system that's used by local people just who live there and have more control in this way about the food, local food system. In the back, I also added an arrow with the punk side. And what does that mean, this punk image? It's about. Those are office towers, corporate office towers. We built a lot of commercial buildings and corporate buildings, and also not in the most efficiently used way. And we still have this conception about land and real estate, where we have privately owned buildings that slow us down in creating a real collectively managed society where we use the space much cleverly, but you will see that in the other slides as well.
00:06:42.640 - 00:07:24.370, Speaker A: So this slide I showed it to just to say one small thing. I can predict the future. Nobody can. We can only give some hints and show images how we would like the future to be. And there are many other visions as well. I can assume that people that are here already are found for some more solar pancreas. But it depends a little bit of your personal situation, the class you're in, if you need to struggle for the point where you're at that life, or if you are wealthy, your culture, the background, your religious background, the geographical situation.
00:07:24.370 - 00:08:08.794, Speaker A: If you're living in Africa and in a more desert situation where climate change smacks hard, that will be different than if you're in an older country. So you see different situations here. Perhaps I won't explain them all, so we can move on to the core of this presentation. But I once did an exercise with some befriended science fiction writers to summarize different other visions about our future. And there are plenty, and those are some you can see. The first one is a typical eco village. You have many people who are sick of society as it is today, and they just want to get out.
00:08:08.794 - 00:08:37.934, Speaker A: They want to stop at the rat race. They seek for land, which is needed if you want to start something. And they find land often think about countries like Portugal, where the land is rather cheap, with villages that are completely deserted. And they go there and they start their community. It's a bit solar punk, but still it's quite an isolationist community as well. The other one is a more typical high tech city. So that's what corporations like to promote.
00:08:37.934 - 00:09:10.926, Speaker A: Technology will deliver us all the solutions and they want to move on. It's business as usual from a capitalist society and neoliberal regulation towards a more greener variation. But the power dynamics remain the same. So I wouldn't say that that's really solarpunk as well. Perhaps some people will be more focused on religion and more spiritual visions. That can be a future scenario for some communities. This is for the billionaires in the audience.
00:09:10.926 - 00:10:17.328, Speaker A: Perhaps there are some who are interested in this one. And there are obviously a lot of billionaires who are already thinking about their brand. Utopian ideas that they can finance with their wealth, and often very exclusive only for those who possess enough. Well, they can continue to do this as long as the cash comes in more a plutocracy, or even where there's a plutocracy, or one ruler who has the power here. And I think we already have many examples in the world where there is a small group of one ruler, a dictatorship. That's what I was searching, has the control about the country often backed up by military and police. So it's difficult to go towards a solar pan community as well here, because it's likely that you will be arrested when it goes to big.
00:10:17.328 - 00:10:52.140, Speaker A: So this is a slum village, we already well known with slums. But perhaps in the future new, new slum cities will arise. Think about the many climate refugees that are coming to Europe, and we push them back. And what we create, temporary, for instance, container refugee camps. But after a while they become permanent. And it could be that it evolves towards a situation where the dominant powers make a line and say, okay, you do whatever you want, and if you cross this border, we shoot. So they are left on their own.
00:10:52.140 - 00:11:10.232, Speaker A: That's a more unintentional community. Of course. Perhaps some solar punk elements could emerge there. But then you have of course futurist fissions that have always been there. Think about living on the open sea. The open sea, that's rather difficult. But perhaps shallow waters or lakes are possible.
00:11:10.232 - 00:11:40.020, Speaker A: And so some will be focusing on such visions as well. Can be a little bit solarpunk as well. It depends. Some still believe in technology, even when it comes to their own personal belief. Think about transhumanism. So these are supposed to be a new type of transhuman people who with their adaptions, can survive in more hostile environments. And what you see here is something very present day, a fandom.
00:11:40.020 - 00:12:21.028, Speaker A: You can see many people who feel much more attracted towards fictional characters and imaginary culture, and feel that they relate more to that than to the real world. And already it's manifestating in events and in fairs. But perhaps in the future, some communities could gather and start their own imaginative culture community. So just to say there are many visions in a complex world, and Solarpunk is part of it. So I will focus today mainly on the city. I have added some slides about eco villages as well, but I don't know if I will get there. We'll see.
00:12:21.028 - 00:13:05.408, Speaker A: I have 1 hour and a half, so we'll see where we get. You see how the city evolves from a very dense patchwork of infrastructure and towns. And this, I obviously added this map of Europe, and I think everybody will have the same impression. It's of course a little bit exaggerated. I needed this illustration to show you. Once we introduced the car, once we invented the car, we got the freedom, but we unfortunately also got to make roads and infrastructure to go wherever we want to go. And this created this immense patchwork where nature doesn't have much place anymore and a future, a nearby future.
00:13:05.408 - 00:13:54.394, Speaker A: We will. One of the key solutions of climate change adaption will be that we need to go for enormous rebuilding efforts. So the city is still a very good environment. If we manage and design it intentionally, instead of very chaotically and non intended, and if we get rid of the property rules and regulation as we know them, we could create very great sustainable cities and it could become something like this. Thank you. I made this transition. This is a part of a series of illustrations that show you how we could evolve from where we are now towards a late solar punk future.
00:13:54.394 - 00:14:37.394, Speaker A: Just to give you an idea what it could be and what different stages we could have. So the first one is the now. It's not if we walk out of this building that we will see such things. It's more metaphorically, it's symbolizing what we see today. We're in a situation in our current civilization. It's very polarized. So we have the old system and many people perhaps feeling so much, even political leaders and corporate leaders feeling so much anxiety that they still support the old recipes that don't deliver any more the solutions that we need.
00:14:37.394 - 00:15:23.240, Speaker A: And at the other hand, there are small scale initiatives happening. Like, you see the spooft of garden. You see people here who get rid of the pavement and started to grow, I don't know, some trees or perhaps gardens. You see tent camps here, but you see also uprisings. That's because also the public is very polarized. If you would compare it with the story of an apple, in our current situation, you have, I don't know, corporations who sell you an apple and say, okay, to one person, you have an apple, we give you this apple. But if another person comes and say, let's do something different and get rid of the apple, we will grow some apple trees, and you will have a diversity and abundance of apples.
00:15:23.240 - 00:16:21.724, Speaker A: Many people are rather inclined to still protect their apple, and they don't see the future to come. And they, you can easily set them up against each other. And that's what's happening in this day and age as well, that demagogues and political leaders use it to seize power in a very disrupted, polarized world. And this one is obviously somebody who doesn't see any solutions anymore. So you see also the drone that's about state control and about more repression. Because when the mass becomes more wants to uprise, you need to repress it if you want to keep control. So after a while, the grip of the corporations and the state loosens, and we end up in a situation where perhaps they are still dominant, but it's less than it used to be.
00:16:21.724 - 00:17:05.274, Speaker A: But we have an economic fallout where the, the global trade system as we know it doesn't exist anymore. And it's more difficult to have those huge urban construction projects as we knew it. So what do people need to do? They need to. It's the age of do it yourself, do it ourselves. Typical jugat solutions, where you see all those quirky designs and solar panels popping up everywhere, where you see rooftop gardens, all good initiative. You see people reclaiming the streets. So the car is obsolete here, but it's a situation where it's still too little organized.
00:17:05.274 - 00:17:47.300, Speaker A: So there needs to be more organization, but that comes in a later stage. So already here you have regional cooperatives. Communities on a local level start to cooperate with each other and they start to create energy, large regional energy cooperatives, cooperatives to deal with water management issues and stuff like that. Even old futurist ideas revive. You see the buildings that we know, like office building skyscrapers, are being retrofitted. And this is, for instance, the kikutake. I don't know if you know, I'm a futurist from the past idea of capsule homes that been integrated in the city.
00:17:47.300 - 00:18:18.404, Speaker A: And you see there's much more green as well, even water ponds. Water gets its place in the city of tomorrow as well. Things evolve and become more and more organized. But we have to deal. If we see in the back, the city is much more surrounded by wilderness and the brown, supposed to be agriculture, sustainable agricultural practices. The city evolves and we will have to deal with the demographic expansion as well. So more and more people come to the city.
00:18:18.404 - 00:19:01.906, Speaker A: So you have to have an idea and a plan. How can we evolve smartly? The city has become a superstructure, but we will see other illustrations as well in the later slides. And it becomes more of an integrated superstructure that is in service for the people. And what you see is the city expands along transit lines. So you create after a while, an urban map of towns and villages that are connected, where you have much more space. Freestanding houses and freestanding infrastructure gets demolished, and you connect cities. And the place in between is also part of the city.
00:19:01.906 - 00:19:40.282, Speaker A: And we call it the linear city. That's how it's dubbed. What you also see is that there is an introduction of even some high tech, like personal package transport systems that use guidance guided rails to deliver packages, because you need other solutions as well. If you abandon the car, of course. That is what I would call. In Belgium, there's a famous architect and futurist called Luigsko, who makes this beautiful illustrations and artwork. He's quite old, but he has a long career with many beautiful depictions of what I would also call Sorapung cities.
00:19:40.282 - 00:20:44.670, Speaker A: And you see, the city has almost become one with nature itself. And what you see here is a nice example of a contour trust city with many, like rice, rice field platforms. So it expands the surfaces that we have to grow veggies and to grow plants. This is an era in which we finally find new materials, because that is obviously one of the problems we have. We depend too much on concrete, which has a carbon positive outcome, but we need carbon neutral materials, even carbon negative materials. So materials that sequester carbon. And one of the ideas that is being used here, if I could redo this illustration, the brownish structures that look very organic, I would draw them thinner, more like a parametric design, computational design with tensile structures, stuff like that.
00:20:44.670 - 00:21:40.680, Speaker A: But anyway, it's shown here because the survival of new abundance of new material, that makes it possible to create large new urban expansion. And this material originates from sea cultivated organisms like algae, diatoms, bacteria that we add with seashells. That's just one idea. And it makes it possible to create this carbon negative material. We come to the final stage of a solar punk future, and which yet the advent of a new material, and this is for this material, we just need to look at biology, at nature again. So we have basically three ways of producing humans. We have subtractive processes in which we subtract materials from a large piece of material.
00:21:40.680 - 00:22:32.090, Speaker A: We have additive fabrication, where we add material, think about 3d printing, and then we combine them. That's called assembly. But there's a fourth mode of fabrication. That's how nature works. If you simply look at the seed and you put it in the ground, it grows from that one seed, an entire tree. And if you look at the mammal cell, for instance, and it grows a whale or a gorilla or a human, very complex beings or living habitat could evolve from an artificial living cell as well. If you look at how nature does it, you have this cellular organism that uses a membrane to protect it against a rather hostile outer environment, and it uses osmosis to let the materials infiltrate.
00:22:32.090 - 00:23:09.816, Speaker A: And inside the cell happens a form of production. It breaks down the materials it needs, and it uses it for, for its organelles and for its cellular reproduction. And when the cells reproduce. It can flow the materials it needs through a vascular system, and it can grow in very complex forms. And this city that you see is actually a living symbiote. So an artificial living city that constantly senses its environment. And we have evolved towards a society that's no longer human centered, but is actually centered for all species in the entire world.
00:23:09.816 - 00:23:55.584, Speaker A: It's typically for our present day society that's very, very human centered. And we just build and do things without taking into account that there are other species that use the soil, use the air and use the land. So what are the different aspects that are needed? This is part of a book that I'm working on together with a canadian writer. And that's obviously urban rewilding. So it's not only rewilding of what used to be that patchwork with lots of infrastructure, it's also cities need to be rewilded, they need to be more pleasant to be there. It needs to be. If you walk out your door, you wouldn't see concrete and steel everywhere, and cars.
00:23:55.584 - 00:24:31.362, Speaker A: You should end up in a street where you feel like you're in nature already. And of course, in the beginning you see typical historical buildings. That's Fredericton in Canada for those who may know it. It's a rather older colonial architectural style village town. But we could sacrifice some of our buildings, some of our infrastructure, and create passages, for instance, wildlife. And that's what you see here in the foreground, you see lots of trees and you see mammals that have access. And we preserve this area only for wildlife.
00:24:31.362 - 00:25:13.994, Speaker A: So we no longer think that we are the superior species. And we think, yeah, we put the city here. We can't redo it or undo it, but we can make it possible by sacrifice some of our infrastructure that animals can pass. And that's what you see here. There's more place for public transport, you can see that as well. And for much more open space, public transport, and pedestrians and bicycles, it can start small. So if you would look at anybody who owns a home, the right illustration shows even a typical urban home with a small garden, with slope, lots of shadow.
00:25:13.994 - 00:25:54.188, Speaker A: But you can start there by using climbers, for instance, and making biodiverse systems that welcome many other species as well. So that many other species can live in a biodiverse street or neighborhood. The other one is something that we are already doing at the left. We are more and more making our cities more better suited for water infiltrating. But we again look at it from a very human centered focus. We could look at it from a more care position, where we take care for other species. And I deliberately chose the earthworm, a very humble species.
00:25:54.188 - 00:26:42.278, Speaker A: But I can assume that if you could ask an earthworm what he would like or what it would like, it wouldn't choose to have concrete and steel everywhere. It would choose, probably choose to have access to soil. And so it could go to the surface and could recycle organic matter that falls on the ground, and it could aerate our soil. And I think our soil. I think if we would have a philosophy where we take care of this piece as well, many of the problems that we're facing will be solved as well. So I would promote civilization of care. This shows one of the problems that we have with our use of land, a very large problem in our cities today.
00:26:42.278 - 00:27:18.834, Speaker A: And actually, the key problem here is that on top, you see, obviously, the problem is that animals can pass. And if you look where the people in such a large space actually have access to, it's a very small strip of sidewalks that they can use. Most of it is preserved for the car. And all the other red buildings are privately owned. So we take that for granted. But actually, it's not that land was divided and pieces that would once be for humans. So we created this.
00:27:18.834 - 00:28:23.010, Speaker A: We created those regulations, and we created those models of land, real estate ownership. And it gives us many problems, like speculation. People like having a situation where one single person could theoretically buy up an entire street, and he can decide what he does with it. If he says, it's lucrative for me to have Parkinson's, we have to park all those electric cars somewhere. And he can gain money with it, he can choose for it, but he, it slows down the creation of a real solarpunk sustainable future. Because if you look at the other illustration, you could move towards other models, like Georgia's approach, community land trust approach, models where we still could have our privacy, where we still could raise your kids and have a minimum of privacy, where you still could have your own garden. But where we look more from a perspective of a collective, more from perspective of a community and for other species as well.
00:28:23.010 - 00:29:02.504, Speaker A: So part of the gardens and the neat is made clear. So animals can pass and people can pass as well. You have a much greener environment that's much more healthier. And we still could define rules for people to have their own small peace, where they can live privately with their family. But the ownership models definitely need to change over time. What you see here is another aspect. It's about retrofitting our infrastructure.
00:29:02.504 - 00:30:27.418, Speaker A: So very typical about or current civilization is that we have a lot of commercial buildings and commercial towers in our cities that take quite a lot of place. And obviously they are mostly situated in the center of the cities, but they are completely underused and misused and mismanaged. Everybody knows those pictures where you have homeless people sleeping next to buildings that are empty during the weekends. Such things are very well known. And once we get rid of this quite arbitrary division of public space, private space, and we try to think more collectively, we can build superstructures and we can build structures that serve the people living in such places, and we can define the way functions of buildings much more clearer. A and in the beginning this is more a typical early age Solarpunk illustration where you see again those quirky designs, because there's a, yeah, there aren't much large construction companies and there's a lack of materials. So we need to upcycle, recycle the materials that we have.
00:30:27.418 - 00:31:23.534, Speaker A: And what you get is a vision where people retrofit the existing buildings and they can already do quite nice things. What you see is that there is a cycling part at the first or second level. So you could actually preserve a certain level and create different layers of transportation passages throughout the city and wind space. We could redesign rooftops and make them more suited for rooftop gardens. We can have adapted more parasitic types of architecture that blend in with the existing towers, all such things. And of course, again, urban revolving. And you see, what used to be a typical corporate lawn in front of a typical corporate or commercial office has become a much more biodiverse example.
00:31:23.534 - 00:32:14.280, Speaker A: So here you see the same building but in a different setting. There's actually the illustration that the photograph that inspired me here was from a canadian city. It's called Halifax, and it's a typical harbor city where you have those typical concrete harbor and those large, large piers with a lot of yachts and beautiful boats. But again, a very human centered view. There used to be a river system that shaped that river over ages. Then we came and we created at our convenience, only for our needs, but we could regenerate those harbors and create an environment that's much more welcoming for other species as well. You see the seal who uses a pier.
00:32:14.280 - 00:33:17.014, Speaker A: So these are simple solutions, but it just needs to take into account by the designers and by urban planners, architects, of course, obviously other means of transportation, of water, like sailing ships, survive. You see that the pine trees can get much closer to the shoreline and you see those retrofitted suctions. Some perhaps could be stripped and used as greenhouses. Others could become housing towers, perhaps yet others to take care for elderly people or the young kids. And you still see quite a lot of natural materials and beginning, many natural, organic materials, materials that you can produce locally will emerge, will be used. That's another example. It gives a view on a city center, and you see that it doesn't need to be always quirky or jugat style.
00:33:17.014 - 00:33:58.430, Speaker A: It can also use digital fabrication methods, like on top you see a 3d printed facade that has neo gothic style. So we can be very creative. Whatever we, whatever we do. It doesn't mean that we need to go entirely back to a low tech civilization as well. Of course, low tech can be introduced and is welcome, but what you see in the middle there is that vertical, the pointer doesn't work anymore. So a shaft is an elevated shaft, so high tech can still be integrated as well. You see that streets that were once very dominated by the car are reclaimed by the public and used by the public.
00:33:58.430 - 00:35:25.144, Speaker A: So it's a much more healthier, inviting place to be. And what you see here, and that's actually the focus of this illustration, is a town hall, a typical town hall, supposed to be the center of the democracy, and supposed to be the place where people could go to and discuss things that concern them about their local community, the place where they live. But in the end, I don't think that many people end up in the town hall to discuss certain matters. But this is another design that it's much more inviting with community tables, with community kitchens where people just want to gather and where they come by accident. Because around this city center there are workshops, grocery stores, coffee shop, where people can drink a coffee and eat something and they meet here by accident, and they could easily chip in and listen to one of the presentations that somebody have, somebody who wants to pitch an id for the neighborhood. It's a much more inviting settlement. And on top you could have working, open work, co workplaces where people could collaborative work on community projects and find the proper expertise and proper people to work out different things in different fields.
00:35:25.144 - 00:36:38.760, Speaker A: The small, tiny house like rooms that you see could be focused on specific specializations, it could be healthcare, it could be sports, it could be water systems in the city where you could go to, and you need more technical expertise with somebody who guides you, a technical expert, you will still need people doing administration and people guiding you. But it's again a different concept. So we could reinvent many of the services and things that we have in this present day society that's entirely shaped by the system we're in. So that's nice back. So another aspect is retrofitting. But in the beginning we could also try to cleverly use the kotic cities that we have, where cities are always built on the remains of a former city. And many cities have a long history, preserve and keep our relics of the past, which is of course a good thing as well.
00:36:38.760 - 00:37:32.636, Speaker A: But it makes it also difficult to do an urban expansion. So we could use the space that we have more cleverly by adapting, by introducing forms of more parasitic architecture. This is a concept derived from a finnish architect, Marco Casagrande. And he showed a nice concept at the para city, where he uses some sort of generic rectangular shape that can be easily used and fit in in between, for instance, two buildings that can cross streets and where you can create in an organic way some sort of superstructure. So that's what you see here. You see bridges that connect formerly privately owned buildings. And all of a sudden we expand the spaces that we can use in our cities.
00:37:32.636 - 00:38:43.468, Speaker A: And many of those volumes we could think about systems that are a little bit like the legal technics concept, that can be attached to each other and can be much more cleverly used to create more space. You see as well that the structures, again, the red, I would point to it red robotic structures that use the rails from those rectangular structures are used here to deliver packages, for instance. And what I also want to point out is the asian inspired style of dividing places. So we could also move towards a more minimalistic lifestyle where we use our interior space much cleverly, so we don't need to produce as much as we produce now. Also an introduction in the middle of some sort of artificial waterfall. So we again welcome water in the city. In the past, we put water away under the ground, or we regulated it and made it straight so it passed the city very quickly.
00:38:43.468 - 00:39:50.214, Speaker A: But we let the water meandering through the city and regenerate water systems. So this bio urban organism, if you would look at the city, you see the first illustration, that's a typical urban blueprint with large buildings, infrastructure, roads meant for the car canals. And those buildings, if you were to strip them down, what you would see is not always, but in general, you would see the typical Le Corbusier domino concept of different levels divided by roof plates and ground plates and load bearing columns. And you could pass from level to level with an elevator or a stairs. So imagine if you would stop looking at the city at this building is owned by this person, this building is owned by that person. Piece of vacant land will be used to build that commercial building. Now, if you would look at it from the point of view of an entire community, who could use that space? You see actually structures that can be used and combined to generate a superstructure.
00:39:50.214 - 00:40:45.690, Speaker A: And you would have lots of those skeleton buildings that can be used with a new form of adaptive architectural model, generic designs. So we could go towards those illustrations that you can see at the right and colored in the red. And then you get an entire new concept about what a city might or could be any space as well. So what you see in the lowest illustration, that perhaps some levels could be entirely used by vehicles that can, small vehicles, electric vehicles or bicycles, that could be a possibility. And it doesn't need to be of course as complicated or as such a grand idea. It doesn't need to be like that. It can be start small.
00:40:45.690 - 00:41:48.906, Speaker A: The first illustration shows again an asian inspired design where you just have two buildings, one street, one public street and two buildings, perhaps all boat privately owned, perhaps two people who want to move forward and have a vision about a future and combine them or connect them with the help of the municipality to create this japanese or asian like wooden bridge. And it adds a new element in your neighborhood. This is actually a design that exists where people can also meet. Have another view on the city where they can add green like climbing plants. And you can imagine it yourself. I assume the other one is also very simple, one with an alley that now in a normal present day, you will find plenty of such examples. If you walk in the city here where heat, especially on a warm day like this, reflects and it's absorbed by the concrete and you get into a really a lethal situation where the city becomes a heat island.
00:41:48.906 - 00:43:30.922, Speaker A: But you could, if you think more structural and more from out of the perspective of creating, having an entire different vision about how you use space, you could connect two buildings and create those shade green roof shady places that can be again used for communities as well, to play some chess or whatever. Another example where an entire street is regenerated with a smaller place for a new line of human powered and smaller electric vehicles, and where you have those terrost structures that also solve the problem of the sunlight in the summers, the same goes up for a lot of the vacant space that we will have in obsolete office buildings and corporate campuses. There is an enormous amount of machine constructional systems that can be easily clicked and combined with each other to very fastly create shapes in a room that can serve a multitude of functions. So we could have this very flexible, resilient way of looking at the space that we win. And even you could even at a certain point in time, you could even say, our city will be part of a larger bioregion. We already passed the time where we arbitrarily divided our land in the. And the borders of what we call nations and countries.
00:43:30.922 - 00:44:12.076, Speaker A: But we look at how nature, how a logical natural system works. So we have a bioregion, the city fits in in this bioregion. And we could, for instance, turn our cities into like this, as some sort of valley like city. That's, of course, a very exaggerated example, but it becomes possible. The other illustration shows what two former office towers have been turned into. Like you see that there are passages from one building to another building. And you hardly can recognize that once were two, for instance, very well known commercial shopping malls.
00:44:12.076 - 00:44:48.658, Speaker A: But here it can have a multitude of uses. We could house people and do so many things with it are many other functions as well. Like I said, it can be used for personal package transport as well. That's what you see at the left. Okay, next slide. So after a while they will become more newer forms of architecture as well. We could use this generic models that are logically and easy to produce local, locally.
00:44:48.658 - 00:45:25.984, Speaker A: So we don't need to have production that comes from there. Another part of the production that comes from there, where they can produce locals on the spot where you live. And we could change our look on how we look at our cities and think about ecosystem, seeing the human as yet another animal. Like there are so many animals. And try to think from an ecosystem design philosophy. Where if you would look at a forest ecosystem, a tree is an ecosystem on itself. And the many trees combined form a forest.
00:45:25.984 - 00:46:02.688, Speaker A: That's, of course, one large ecosystem. A city could become something similar. Where you have the offices, new towers, I mean, that become ecosystems on themselves, similar like a tree. And combined, they form a large urban habitat ecosystem. And if you would look at the tree, what you see, the canopy with its amount, a large amount of leaves, what they do, they catch the sunlight, use it for their own photosynthesis. And use it for their own chemical processes inside. The leaves or buildings could do the same.
00:46:02.688 - 00:46:33.654, Speaker A: They capture the water, they evaporate water. All buildings could do the same. They could have green roofs. And what you see, the brown top layer is an infiltration volume that infiltrates the water and makes it pure again. And water goes down and comes into a pond, a pond that can be used by many other species as well. That's something that you don't see that much in the city. But we could redesign our buildings in cities in this way.
00:46:33.654 - 00:47:16.984, Speaker A: On the bottom, what a tree normally does, it grows its roots and the roots penetrate the soil and they extract their materials out of the soil. And there's a constant recycling happening in the soil. We could do that here as well. A building could become a recycling center. So the products that we used, we have quite some plastic that we produced could be collected here. And what you see underneath is an open source, half fabricated production center and all those open source hardware, plastic machinery that exists. Think about the precious plastic project.
00:47:16.984 - 00:48:09.864, Speaker A: Perhaps you know it, you can easily download the plants and make one of those shredders or extrude it yourself. And you could start with local production, and those designs can be used to create recycled benches from plastic and stuff like that. Those are initiatives that are already happening, but could be integrated in a new community vision that serves local communities and on the spot production. You see the second floor here is used for a family that can use it for leisure and for relaxing, for some cooking. But there's also a public place with a public kitchen underneath and on the top. I actually made this illustration for a book that was about the future of work. And this is an entire new vision about work.
00:48:09.864 - 00:49:05.564, Speaker A: Where we go to corporate campuses and where we work from nine to five, a lot of what David Graeme said, bullshit jobs. But here we have an entire new concept about work where we could chip in some community tasks or needs that or community needs. And we have artificial intelligence. We have the Internet to organize ourselves, and we have artificial intelligence that can help us with guiding us with tasks that need to be done more quickly instead of other tasks. And they can help us with assembling teams, and you can go here freely. And the myth that people will not be motivated anymore if there aren't a large group of corporations that provide them a wage. That's a real myth.
00:49:05.564 - 00:49:43.484, Speaker A: People would see that we will still produce and create the things that we need and have plenty of free time as well. So people come here, it's like a co working space, and on a community level, they can organize work. Over here you see that buildings are connected and a forest as well, the same thing. A forest is not a standalone organism. It's connected with the entire forest. If you would look at the soil, you would see that there's a mecorridgel network of fungi, fungus that connects all the roots with each other. And here the buildings are connected as well.
00:49:43.484 - 00:50:36.914, Speaker A: So this entire new vision becomes part of our solarpunk future. You see how we move on towards the contour terrace city, because the city obviously will expand, people will come and come, and we will have to deal with the population growth as well. What you could do is move towards the borders of the city and grow horizontally, like a mold does. You could look again to nature and molds grow horizontally as well. We could use the same building systems to grow what we called the contouter rust city. At the borders of the city, large contout rust structures are designed that can be used for a multitude of functions. And here you see some depictions of what it could become.
00:50:36.914 - 00:51:45.652, Speaker A: And this is an illustration I made for a czech architecture magazine once. And it depicts several stages of this contouterat city. And in the center you see the large skyscrapers, typical for an industrial age architecture. And you see the red connected volumes that could be more of the Solarpunk age, where we use the space more cleverly and where we abandon the concept of private ownership. But we think more from a community perspective and transfer land and real estate to the commons. And what you see is at the borders, you get those terrace shaped volumes that can expand horizontally as well and can be used for, for agriculture or for parks or for small vegetable gardens for the people from the city. And immediately next to the pontoo terrace cities, you see all sorts of sustainable agricultural practices happening.
00:51:45.652 - 00:52:40.732, Speaker A: And then it becomes food forests, and that goes over into wilderness. So we could end up in a situation where everybody can literally take his bicycle, and within 50 minutes they are, in or 20 minutes they are in the complete wilderness. You see how we revived the river system as well. We even created the brown. You can see is an artificial canyon like, valley like structure that we recreated to welcome many species that we once destroyed by regulating that river. And what you see is in the back you see another knot, another note of this urban web connected by a linear city where the city can expand as well. And around the city, complete, vast wilderness.
00:52:40.732 - 00:53:24.808, Speaker A: We gave that space back to nature. Yeah. How could it look from the outside? So here you see people that are in the food forest picking food. And it's another myth that is caused by the agriculture multinational industry that we would have no food if they aren't in charge anymore. That's a myth. I recommend you to look at, for instance, George Lard and his food forest and permaculture videos to see the richness of a food forest system. And people could just enjoy the feeling of going to grab their own food.
00:53:24.808 - 00:54:12.966, Speaker A: And you see there's again a rich diversity of many other animals as well, grazing animals, birds of prey, stuff like that. You see gardens, water elements, and we depicted here a typical madrasa like architectural style to show. Now we see cultural influx of people as a threat. It threatens our civilization, but it doesn't need to be a threat. It can be an enrichment, of course, it could be. We could create this nice mixed part of architectural styles that come from all over the world. And here you see the more typical arabic style with persian style, mixed with a solar punk style.
00:54:12.966 - 00:54:41.746, Speaker A: And the forms that you see are the contours. And in the back you see a city. Again, how you look at a city, I would say look at it. And to the contour city, as well as an ecosystem, you see the coral ecosystem that has different layers of coral systems. They all are combined and connected with each other and serve a multitude of species. Starfish, angelfish. You see some of them summed up there.
00:54:41.746 - 00:55:42.238, Speaker A: And you have the terrast contour city as well. There is a multitude of smaller ecosystems, sub ecosystems as well. You have natural forests, you have grasslands, and you have an artificially created meandering rivers system. And so that merges perfectly with the surrounding nature. We let water aquifers fill itself, and it can be used for all aquatic and all animals, instead of only for agriculture or for industrial uses. What you see is that the cities in those lower levels of that Konturtara city can be used for agricultural practices, so it can be used to store goods, it can be used for housing, townhouses can be used to store our agricultural machines and devices. And again, those agricultural devices can be easily open source as well.
00:55:42.238 - 00:56:39.128, Speaker A: Think about open source ecology that devised a great deal of machinery and completely open source manner. And again, you could, with the community, take the control about means of production and the means of your agriculture organization. And that's what you see in the top part of the contour trust. Layer the inside with a much more space that is used by open public space instead of cars, parking lots. What you see here is that people gather, you have an increase of social space where people meet, greet, exchange ideas. And that's, I think, obviously what you see in this picture. You have colonnades and passages where people can walk into shade, but much more green, and plants that carry fruits that they can pick.
00:56:39.128 - 00:57:32.732, Speaker A: And again, some sort of romantic inspired aqueduct like system. So the water is present again as well. And in the background, the terrost, the contour terraces of that city. So expanding, as I said, can be done by using the linear city. What could be an obvious approach is that it expands along a transit line that can be, for instance, a rail system, an old rail system rails, or an old road that has been used. And you see that it has the same architectural shape as the contour terraced structures. People can live there and can have the same conveniences, same services, if they live there as well.
00:57:32.732 - 00:58:32.190, Speaker A: So how would it look? Oh, you see how cities could be constructed as well, the contorted city as linear city, by building up these layered structures. There you see the upper right illustration shows the contour thrust structure. But it doesn't need to be one single vast network of a superstructure like architecture. It can be dispersed with open space in between. And this is a more late solarpunk era linear city where you actually have. So thinking again about the nanotechnology artificial growing city that could even make it possible to grow underground cities quite easily. But we're speaking about, that's speculation.
00:58:32.190 - 00:59:11.882, Speaker A: We're speaking about a distant future here. And the terraces could shape and blend in more easily and become more naturally with the surrounding nature. A winter scene of such a linear city, you see how it's much more in harmony with its surroundings. And the top spaces are here used to to grow green for greenhouses. So you could use again your space much more cleverly. And people will always nearby all the services they need when they live in this linear city. Such linear city could have all sorts of shapes.
00:59:11.882 - 01:00:07.432, Speaker A: I'm presenting here the typical contour trust, but it can be whatever this is inspired by some sort of organic grow pattern of a plant. The first one, it can be large at some places, broad, where it could be thin and almost unpopulated as well, actually becoming just a railway system, not more or less than that. And it can be a very dense populated area as well. It depends what we want and where we at and what the communities that live there want to do with it. You see the typical eco bridges. So again, now we make infrastructure and we hardly think about animals that need to pass there. So again, a very human centered way of looking at our design and building and constructional techniques.
01:00:07.432 - 01:01:07.086, Speaker A: But in a new vision, we will always think, what will we do with land that make it more difficult for other species? And how can we undo that? What can we do for other animals as well? So these eco bridges can be part of it. We could even use this such superstructure, a linear city, to regenerate land that we completely wasted during the industrial age. Former mining sites or sites that we polluted by using the linear structure as some sort of valley. That's what you will also see in many of lux visions and the linear city, as I said, can be thin. It can be a very broad structure, and it moves mean along the world, like a river system, for instance. And it could go underground like tunnels. Think about tunnel networks.
01:01:07.086 - 01:01:54.194, Speaker A: In, for instance, Norway or Swiss, Switzerland. It can cross rivers like bridges do. So we could easily find our way in the landscape without disrupting it too much. We have patchwork, urban dispersed society in the present day. Some view about a cross section about how such a city could look like you actually have everything there. You could have regions where there's more heavy industries, where it's less interesting to live, because that makes noise and all the annoyance that you would have. You see number two, heliostats to add natural light in the structure.
01:01:54.194 - 01:02:48.932, Speaker A: Number three, show residential zones. It can assimilate old architecture as well. And even number twelve, fancy science fiction like technological protects, like the Star Trek turbolift, could be reintroduced in such structures as well. And number eleven is also a little bit of a high tech virtual reality augmented reality project, where we could use in spaces to even mimic another city, an old parisian look, or even an ancient city. We have the technology to create such nice environments as well. The concept of work evolves as well. In late Solarpunk age, we could operate machines.
01:02:48.932 - 01:03:31.702, Speaker A: We don't need to sit in the devices and come in unhealthy, dangerous situations. We could use the daily work concept to use augmented reality, virtual reality to operate robotic systems from a distance. That's what you see. And the advantage would be that if people get out of their workplace immediately, they are in, surrounded by a beautiful nature. I think it's a lie that people need to watch out on a wall. There's plenty enough space. Another concept depends on your imagination.
01:03:31.702 - 01:04:37.534, Speaker A: Is this is a shake? It's from the Japanese. It's called borrowed scene, where they constantly work with the landscape and use it within their, within their houses as well. We could use this in the linear city or in the contour trost city as well. And here, you see, we could even use the terraces and the surrounding environment to grow specific plants, like, I think, about hemp, rice, pine trees, aspen trees that can be used to make or organic materials. And we could use them high tech architectural fabric from an organic, from organic matter, plate material, pressed plate material, whole fabricates to construct furniture and stuff like that, and can be grown because we will need space as well. Oh, that went very quick. I don't know what happened here.
01:04:37.534 - 01:05:26.356, Speaker A: Oh, so the linear city there was last. Another advantage is if you would look at space and you see it as a generic volume that can be used by people. We could look at it entirely differently. We could say we generate, or we create a space that serves us in our basic needs. It keeps us away from the hot environmental conditions, like rain, weather conditions, storms and protectants against that. And it gives us all the utilities we need, electricity, water, such things. And the only thing that we can do is we can move freely in this structure.
01:05:26.356 - 01:06:10.174, Speaker A: And just wherever we want to stop, we can take advantage of the superstructure and live there. And this can even mean that there's an emergence of an entire new lifestyle where people use this urban web to move and to constantly travel along the urban web. And so if they choose not to remain at one permanent space, they can. And it could mean that there is an entire new range of vehicles that could be designed. Many of them already exist. Think about the many cool vans that are used for people when they go to music festivals and stuff like that, or when they go on a journey. Think about the tiny house movements.
01:06:10.174 - 01:07:32.976, Speaker A: But they could be used within a superstructure as well. So that's another conceptual idea about dealing with space and dealing with structures that stops from the moment when you think pure, from an individualistic perspective, and when you start to think more collectively as one human species, and how a structure could serve us. And those are all illustrations that show that the other one shows more tiny houses that are placed somewhere and that are used by a group of people who wants to use a part of the superstructure to live. That transit linear city could be used to attract people from villages, to give them the opportunity to use it as well. Because of course, we will not force people to abandon their villages as well. What you see here is yet another example that I once designed of an elective electrified bicycle that uses some sort of open source materials that can be really moderately rearranged to create some cool bicycle that you can use as a house. So this is more difficult in the winter to use.
01:07:32.976 - 01:08:58.494, Speaker A: But if you have the protection of a superstructure, you could easily do that as well. And if you have very nearby the possibility to grow food and stuff like that, you could live a quite self sufficient, self reliant lifestyle. And this is another example that I once made, where you could easily have a much more resilient way of looking at things, adaption and flexibility that will be needed in an ever changing world, that where the changes to come with climate change, which will be necessary. And here you see how the linear city grows, and how old infrastructure is demolished and used to build the new city. So you see people here, you could actually have a tribe of people, could be Solarpunks who feel attracted to a lifestyle where they help to regenerate the surrounding world and where they help the plants and rewild barren land and help to recover our world. And this is what you see here. People deconstructing freestanding houses and abandoned infrastructure, and people that are obviously growing plants.
01:08:58.494 - 01:10:11.534, Speaker A: What you see underneath is the same, but with trucks that are adapted so they can use the railway infrastructure, and they are electrified here. And within the trucks, within the cargo trails, there are open source machinery that can be used to demolish larger infrastructures, that can be again used, recycled to build new structures. And you see how the city could grow. Okay, again, back, the battery is low. So we still have some time to. To finish the entire presentation and to talk a little bit about ecovillages as well. So, ecovillages, because the vision that I portrayed here is obviously all urban and makes sense if we want to do huge scale rewilding efforts and if we want to live as efficiently as possible.
01:10:11.534 - 01:11:20.264, Speaker A: But there will still be plenty of isolated villages as well, and we will not get rid of all the infrastructure from one day to another. And there will be people with other beliefs as well. But our villages as well could also change and become more resilient, more adapted to the changes to come. And what you see here is actually an illustration that's derived from a real existing housing solution called Peter Pot, from an american inventor who uses some sort of technology, which he calls solar roof technology. It uses a layer, a finishing, with some sort of bubbly foam that is used to thermoregulate the entire house, which means in the winter, because of this foam that's inside it, it can heat up the place. And in the summer, it keeps the place called, if you want to know more about it technologically. He has an entire website where he explains those things, and he made many designs.
01:11:20.264 - 01:12:10.490, Speaker A: It's a combination of a traditional house with this new technology as well. So, because what you see a lot is that there will be, especially in more isolationist communities, less opportunities to make use of an enormous supply network of new materials. So you should think very cleverly how you shape and construct things. So this is a rather simple design, but what you see is the traditional acadian house. So acadian settlers from the northern part of Canada. And what you see there is a traditional oven. So you see some low tech being mixed with more high tech, new technology, basements used to store food.
01:12:10.490 - 01:12:46.604, Speaker A: And again, this modular approach, you could easily make a larger building as well, a simple design. And there are plenty of other designs that are equally interesting to study or to look at. And the rooftop being used here as a garden, it's actually technology that is often used for greenhouses as well. And you see that there are part. Some parts, like the lower level, is finished with traditional materials. It can be traditionally locally organic materials like mud, clay, stuff like that. Adobe.
01:12:46.604 - 01:13:36.390, Speaker A: And energy production. That is what you see in this very commercialized, commodified world, is that people are again forced to solve all the problems on an individual level. Things like energy would be much more logical if we do it on a cooperative, community level. So that's what you see here, is that on a community level, people use the community to give them energy security with power stations. And again, you see the typical permaculture elements coming back. The eco villages. They can have different roles, and they can be integrated in a broader vision as well.
01:13:36.390 - 01:14:23.614, Speaker A: One of those at the right is some sort of meditation center that you see. It's still connected with the linear or contu city, again, at its borders. We keep that reserved for nature. So that's something that comes back also with ecovillages. And this is, again, more eastern inspired. And perhaps some of the spiritual communities could reside there and give us courses and teach us the interesting life lessons. And other ecovillages that are completely immersed by nature could be part of a new schools within a new solar pink civilization.
01:14:23.614 - 01:15:18.398, Speaker A: What will also arise is new schools. Now, our educational system is very focused on what corporations and what our current society needs and what sort of skills it needs. In the future, we will focus more on regenerative practices, about rewilding, about craftsmanship. A lot of people completely don't know how the things that they wear, the things that they eat, the things that they have, how they are produced, which makes them very vulnerable. And yet many people find pleasure in crafting things themselves. So it could become. They could become new schools where they teach people again to have crafts and to have skills, so they can devise and create and become makers themselves as well.
01:15:18.398 - 01:16:36.488, Speaker A: And so this is what you see at the left, one of those ecovillages that's completely focusing on nature, rewilding, regenerating our second world. And finally, and I think this is almost the last slide, actually assume that it's lost slide is perhaps even a lifestyle in dense forests would be possible for some. If we think about what could be possible here you see subterranean houses. At the right, you have halfly subterranean. And where there's an entire vision of subterranean houses as well, and subterranean infrastructure. And it has advantages, because it can much more easily blend in with nature, and there's perhaps less impact on the surroundings as well. In a forest, it could be easily done that we create structures that can be integrated in the forest or in more natural landscapes like you see here.
01:16:36.488 - 01:17:46.264, Speaker A: And perhaps communities and people could live in such places. It doesn't mean that there will be entirely low tech. It could be that there are people who still use high tech as well. Like those cabins are actually parts, very small, very simplistic lifestyle, but yet they could have computers, telecom applications, and they could be in touch with the entire complex world, and yet still live in the middle of the wilderness, but still being connected with the outer world for many services that they need, because surviving in the wilderness, that's very hard to do. You still need community, you will still need contact with other people, and underneath you see hanging structures. So that's another possibility. If we make materials that don't hurt the trees that much, we could create nice tree house designs as well.
01:17:46.264 - 01:19:08.946, Speaker A: So I think this is the last slide. So I managed to give you a view of all the different visions, so I'm glad that I could keep in time. And what you see here is a lost illustration, again, over a water system with this is something that I didn't talk about, about living on waters. There wasn't enough room, but this is a small glimpse of it, where they use, again, some sort of superstructure that's standing on what we call PSP platform, as a self stabilizing platform that can be used to stack different volumes and where people could adapt and create the volumes as they wish. And you see also that it blends with the traditional stilt houses that you would see in a more aquatic environment. Something that I forgot to mention as well. We will need the knowledge of indigenous people, native people, something that we neglected in the colonial age.
01:19:08.946 - 01:20:03.284, Speaker A: We completely abandoned and suppressed that type of knowledge. But native people who nurtured the land and used the land for so many ages, have a lot of knowledge about what in that particular bio region would be the best solution. So I would welcome it if that could blend in with the solar pink fissions as well. And what you see is obviously also the new public transport that emerges everywhere. So I would say thank you for your attention. I hope that I gave you an idea what solar pump might be from the viewpoint of one artist. And I assume that many artists, because it's a collective approach, have other visions that are equally interesting.
01:20:03.284 - 01:20:20.304, Speaker A: And together, I hope we could go towards a brighter future. So thank you for your attention. Give us some time, if there are still some questions I don't know. Yeah.
01:20:27.764 - 01:20:50.040, Speaker C: Good. Good. Okay. Thanks so much for your presentation. It's amazing work. Question about whether do you collaborate with architects, like to realize some of these ideas. And, you know, in your drawings, I think of architects like from, for instance, terraform one, Mitya, him, or Francois Roche from France.
01:20:50.040 - 01:20:55.884, Speaker C: They work with natural ecosystem processes in their work, for instance.
01:20:56.664 - 01:21:22.414, Speaker A: No, I didn't work with architects or any real life projects. The people which I collaborate most are often other artists or science fiction writers who do some storytelling, create the narratives, and that's the terrain where I have most experience. But it would be interesting in the future to look if some of those designs could be realized or to collaborate with such people.
01:21:25.874 - 01:22:01.954, Speaker B: Okay, thanks for the presentation. I definitely would love to live in such an organic city. That's a great vision. But it hits me several times when I was looking at those pictures you presented that these structures are extremely freshwater hungry. And so my question would be, if we would like to build such an organic city in the area where the freshwater is scarce, how it should look like, how it should change, to actually respect that we do not have enough fresh water in such an area.
01:22:02.414 - 01:22:07.648, Speaker A: Oh, so your question is what we should do in a desert like region? Yeah.
01:22:07.696 - 01:22:14.124, Speaker B: Yeah. How such an organic city should look like in a desert like region.
01:22:14.664 - 01:23:02.974, Speaker A: Actually, it will definitely be geographical. The position that you're at will differ. And like you saw, many of the cities are more central Europe. So I try to focus on the place where I live because I'm less familiar with what happens in northern Africa or in the middle of Africa or in the jungle era. And I'm glad to see that there is a. Within the Solarpunk movement, there's a much more empowerment of other artists who live in other regions to give them the empowerment, because they know what materials can. Can be used here, what's possible over there, and how this.
01:23:02.974 - 01:24:02.316, Speaker A: Perhaps some of these fissions can be integrated in their region. I have made some designs about more cities that are in a desert region where we. I can show them to you, but I could share them with you later on, where they use most more structures that are subterranean. So where they go subterranean, because it's very difficult over there, like you say, because there are very harsh and difficult conditions. And some places, I expect, will be just an inhabitant in the future as well. It will be very difficult to remain there. So it could be that some places that become too hot to live, will be unpopulated, and that people will move much more towards nordic parts where it's more easier possible to live.
01:24:02.316 - 01:24:33.984, Speaker A: And what I've also seen is that there are large, but it's at the borders of where the desert starts. Large efforts to undo desertification and where they try to create green walls. And I actually saw a vision of a befriended Solarpunk futurist writer that devised the concept of the linear city at the borders where there is still some green, where there is more captivity of water, but in the middle of a desert, I think that will be difficult.
01:24:34.444 - 01:24:35.384, Speaker B: Thank you.
01:24:40.644 - 01:25:00.804, Speaker C: A question about self sustainability and using services for everything. Like for example, here in our picture, there are wind turbines. Like, do people service them by themselves or everything? For everything, you use some kind of service.
01:25:02.064 - 01:25:06.048, Speaker A: So people do it on an individual scale. Is that your question?
01:25:06.096 - 01:25:09.460, Speaker C: Or do they on an individual, community or community?
01:25:09.612 - 01:26:10.084, Speaker A: Well, the most visions that I worked on, it's more on a community level. So because, again, it's very difficult to manage a self sufficient lifestyle on your own. It's actually even difficult in a small group of people, like, say, if we combine, we want to have a self sustainable lifestyle would be difficult. So for many things, you absolutely will rely on a larger network. I'm even talking about for some means of production or for some utilities, you will need regional cooperatives. So that's something that will need to be established. And that's something that makes it very difficult today, because we live in a hyper individualized society where the communities that exist aren't well equipped enough to organize such civilization, but we should evolve towards those regional networks of cooperatives to serve all our means.
01:26:10.084 - 01:26:16.268, Speaker A: I think it will be very difficult to live a very self sustainable lifestyle on your own.
01:26:16.436 - 01:26:27.532, Speaker C: Yeah. So in a case where my house shrinks to the size of the pot. Right. So I rely on community.
01:26:27.708 - 01:26:28.180, Speaker A: Yes.
01:26:28.252 - 01:26:30.156, Speaker C: Rather than external services.
01:26:30.220 - 01:26:47.524, Speaker A: Yeah. You will still partly rely on the community as well. So we will not be somewhere in the remote jungle where you could survive on your own. That's difficult. One more question from myself.
01:26:47.604 - 01:26:49.844, Speaker B: Thank you so much for the presentation.
01:26:49.924 - 01:26:50.524, Speaker A: You're welcome.
01:26:50.604 - 01:26:52.744, Speaker C: I see definitely the value of the project.
01:26:53.444 - 01:27:01.394, Speaker B: A question, what are the costs of the project, and do you receive any investments or not?
01:27:01.814 - 01:28:10.522, Speaker A: Well, if you would look at it from the financial perspective, from our present day, how we look at finances, then it's very costly to make this. But this is something like you seen in the transition that evolves over time, where we will also introduce different economic models as well, based on reciprocity based on perhaps new tokens that can be introduced based on social, like your social input that you give for a community. So things like that. So we will evolve away from the monetary civilization that we have now. And the moment that we can establish this new community identity, we could also reintroduce different means to different models for the final system that we know today to organize more complex things. Cool.
01:28:10.578 - 01:28:11.374, Speaker C: Thank you.
01:28:16.134 - 01:28:19.814, Speaker A: So those were the questions. Right on time.
