00:00:02.920 - 00:00:44.036, Speaker A: Hello. Thank you for the invitation. Thank you for being here. It's definitely one of the most exciting conferences within this ecosystem I've ever been to, and I travel a lot and participate in many conferences, so it's a privilege. I hope you will find my presentation also interesting, inspiring and fun. So I will be talking about a new project by Golem foundation where we will be using staking rewards to find some very, very cool projects. Okay, 2022 is widely considered within our bubble.
00:00:44.036 - 00:02:02.402, Speaker A: As a year of Dallas last year, we experienced a rapid growth in a number of decentralized organization, in the number of individuals, or at least wallets involved in them, as well as the amount of funds that are managed through some sort of decentralized manner. And this remarkable surge is often described in crypto media as cambrian explosion. The thing is that this term is misleading because it suggests that what we are experiencing is a rapid boom that brings about a multitude of competing approaches when this is really not the case. In reality, the variance of organizational structures and governance mode within the DAO ecosystem is very, very limited. Most of daos follow familiar blueprints and rely on a very narrow set of governance primitives. I think it can be safely said and accurately set, which is probably even more important that the governance model of the vast majority of daos can be described as snapshot plus multisig. And don't get me wrong, I'm not criticizing any organization, any daos, for choosing to follow a well established path.
00:02:02.402 - 00:03:09.370, Speaker A: There are actually very good reasons why we often decide to use something that has been already tested, that we deciding to use the well tested frameworks. These frameworks are easy to deploy. They make the deployment process smooth, fast, unproblematic. They help users feel comfortable, which makes onboarding quite easy, and obviously they reduce operational risk. So there's really nothing wrong in having this attitude of letting others. There's some novel ideas first before deploying it in our own production setup. But from this ecosystem standpoint, the fact that so many of us rely on the same tools actually is a huge, huge loss, is a lost opportunity to experiment, to gain knowledge, and to do something innovative.
00:03:09.370 - 00:04:03.856, Speaker A: And blockchain ecosystem, which we are occupying, is actually a perfect environment to test new ideas, to build new institutions. Entry barriers are obviously pretty low. Exit is much easier than anywhere else in the world. Blockchain provides transparency, thanks to which we are able to analyze everything that happens within our organizations in much more detail than outside of the blockchain ecosystem. So by using the same designs, we are actually limiting our potential for learning and we're missing out on understanding what works, what doesn't, and why things fail. So if we like to leverage the potential that blockchain provides us to the fullest possible extent, we should start experimenting, and should be experimenting much more. Enter octant.
00:04:03.856 - 00:05:28.122, Speaker A: This is this new project by Golem foundation that I teased a moment ago. It's a novel platform for running experiments in decentralized governance, and while introducing Oktan to you, I will first explain or present sort of a meta experiment in the participatory public goods funding that will be running within this platform. And then I will also explain how the same setup can be used to run more narrowly focused experiments in decentralized governance. So let's start with this meta or grant experiment, however you want to call it. We are in the fortunate positions of sitting on a very, very large pile of ETH, and very soon we'll be staking 100,000 ethics. And staking 100,000 ETH obviously generates a lot of rewards, and every 90 day we will be turning a predefined amount of this rewards to octant community, thus providing a budget for experimentation. The octant reward pool the octane experimentation budget is going to be divided into two main streams, user rewards and match rewards.
00:05:28.122 - 00:06:12.126, Speaker A: To have a say how octant operates, users will have to lock at least 100 GLm for an epoch lasting 90 days. GLM is an ERC 20 token native to the Golem network. You can easily acquire it on many exchanges, centralized or decentralized. The more GLM you lock into Octan smart contract, the higher your user's reward will get and the bigger your say in how octant reward budget is. And what is really important is this time locking setup is completely non custodial. You have full control over your funds. Your funds are not pulled together with resources of others.
00:06:12.126 - 00:07:24.022, Speaker A: You can unlock your GLM at any moment you choose. However, if you'd like to say how octant operates, you need to keep your GLM locked in for 90 days. And once this 90 days epoch and users with valid lock ins will have a two week long allocation window during which they will be able to make a decision whether they want to keep day user rewards to themselves or donate it to public goods. Causes chosen from the list created by octant community. And if you choose the latter, if you choose to donate your rewards, then your donation will be magnified from matching rewards. The donations will go to project proportionally the matching rewards will go to project proportionally to users allocations. So up to this point, it's basically very simple setup, right? But we actually made some twist in it to make it more fun, more engaging and more meaningful.
00:07:24.022 - 00:08:36.636, Speaker A: So first of all, in order to be eligible to receive funds, and in order to be able to allocate them to different causes, users will have to be active. There is this allocation in Windows. If they do nothing, then basically their part of users rewards will go back to octant and will be used for restaking. And similarly, in order to receive community donations, projects will have to pass certain predefined threshold of community allocations. Donations below this threshold will go back to octant and will be used for restaking. And this twist turns this game into a multiplayer game, because in order to have an impact on actually what's going on, you have to observe what other users are doing, how your favorite projects are doing, whether they are above or below the threshold, and you need to react accordingly. And in order for you to be able to react accordingly, we are making allocation decisions completely free.
00:08:36.636 - 00:09:56.526, Speaker A: There are no gas costs involved, so you can change your decision as many times as you want, as long as the allocation window is open. So you can think about this design as an experiment in voluntary taxation in coordination. Here we are interested in answering questions such as what makes people people actually give to public good causes? How does matching funding influences users decisions? Are people observing what others are doing within the app? Are they coordinating in groups? And so on? And we believe that these are really important questions, and we believe that answering them in a real life setting, with real resources at stake, will actually benefit the whole ecosystem, the whole Ethereum community. But this is not where the experimental aspect of octant ends. Each epoch will also provide us with an opportunity to test various governance primitives. And in order to enable this kind of experimentation, we are actually making octant modular and easily upgradeable. To oversimplify things a bit, you can imagine octant as like three independent biointerconnected modules.
00:09:56.526 - 00:11:15.384, Speaker A: One is responsible for e staking, another is responsible for this GNM time locking mechanism, and the third one is responsible for the governance over octane budget. And while we want the first two modules to be stable, the third one is upgradable. Thanks to this, we are able to introduce various changes to the governance mechanism without losing continuity of state and without user disruption. Thanks to this setup, we can play with various, for example, matching funding systems without asking users to migrate their tokens to a different smart contract, because we changed some small things in our network setup. And this modularity will enable us to play with matching funding systems with delegation frameworks will enable us to test various anti Sibyl solution identity solutions, so on. And initially we will be running these experiments on our own to test various hypotheses as we as a foundation have. But our ultimate goal is actually make this platform available to outsiders and let them run experiments to test their ideas.
00:11:15.384 - 00:12:23.170, Speaker A: You can imagine octant as experiment as a service here, how the service could work in practice. Foundation allocates certain amount of if from staking towards octant. Just as in the example I explained before, there's an open call for proposals for design of governance experiments that influence how the budget is distributed among the public goods, various public goods causes. In order to submit a proposal, you have to lock a certain amount of GLM with us. The highest bidding proposal wins and the experiment is executed within octant environment. Obviously. Again, I'm oversimplifying a bit because there will definitely has to be some kind of review process, because we'll need to make sure that your experiment is not in any way endangering the staking part of the whole setup and that glms that are locked by users are also not in any danger.
00:12:23.170 - 00:13:02.222, Speaker A: But that's the basic idea. Okay, so where are we now? Octal is already live on Sepolia Testnet. It's publicly available, anyone can play with it. Just go to octant app and connect your wallet. We are still making some tweaks to the UI and UX, also making some changes at the back end. But basically all the crucial functionalities are there are worked, have been tested, have been audited. It's basically very soon to be launched on on the mainnet.
00:13:02.222 - 00:14:37.990, Speaker A: Since this is a testnet, we are using Testif and Testglm which you can get for free from our faucet. The epochs are really short, they are like 24 hours long, the allocations are even shorter and as maybe you can see the screen behind me, instead of using actual public goods causes, we are using historical moon missions as placeholders and we are hoping to launch this app on the Ethereum mainnet at the very beginning of August. And what is important is that the version that we are going to be launching on the mainnet is just an mvp. We still believe that there is room for improvement and we are actually eager to hear your ideas, how we can improve our design to make it even more useful to the Ethereum community. And we are mostly interested in ideas how we can gamify this whole experiment. Because the sad unfortunate reality is that governance design generates a lot of interest only when the governance process is for some reason contentious. In normal circumstances, even people who are very active in the governance or the organization, DAos or otherwise, don't spend a lot of time thinking about what is different outcome between different delegation frameworks or matching funding systems and so on.
00:14:37.990 - 00:16:08.944, Speaker A: Unfortunately, research like this, even though it's really important, beneficial and necessary for us to actually advance as a spate, do not generate a lot of readership and do not generate a lot of excitement. And we believe that in order to make people care and make people interested in mechanism design, we need to think how we can turn governance into engaging experience. So this is why we are thinking how we can maybe use NFTs and Soulband tokens to make it more interesting for users. We are also thinking about introducing game levels that are unlocked once certain achievements are obtained by users, and so on. So if you have any ideas how this experiment can be more exciting to the user, more engaging, and thus more meaningful when it comes to the results, please do not hesitate to contact us. A we are still like pretty early in the process, and b we take this upgradeability very seriously and we intend to use it to the fullest possible extent. So chances are that if you have a good idea, it's going to be implemented sooner than you actually may even hope.
00:16:08.944 - 00:17:30.474, Speaker A: Okay? So if you like what I said, that it's a good idea, please follow us on Twitter. It's basically handle is Octant app next week we will announce a special pre launch event that we are calling Epoch Zero. And during this epoch Zero, we will be distributing $1 million worth of ETH among various public good causes. And since this is a prelaunch epoch, it will happen outside of the app. You won't have to lock any glms with us and the vote win will happen on snapshot. We're trying to make this familiar as with the setup, as familiar as possible so that there's no need for any onboarding and anyone can be included. So if you would like to participate in this epoch Zero and you would like to distribute part of this amount to your favorite project, please follow us on Twitter and then we will announce when the epoch starts how you can participate and what projects can receive your support.
00:17:30.474 - 00:18:17.914, Speaker A: Okay, so that's basically it. If you'd like to know more about octant, the description is that octant build. Just like a general introduction, the app itself is available at Octant app. If you are more interested in backbones of this project, ideas behind it, math behind how we are calculating users rewards, match rewards and so on, then go to docs octant app. And for more information about Golem foundation, where we got our ETH and stuff like this, go to Gollum Foundation. Okay. If you have any questions, I try to do my best to answer them.
00:18:17.914 - 00:18:57.084, Speaker A: If my answer won't be satisfying, then please come to our booth. We have our community relations director, some developers with us. So thank you. Any questions? I actually cannot really see you that well. I know that there are some people here, which is like really encouraging. Sunday. I know that the party was like pretty crazy, at least I part of it was crazy.
00:18:57.084 - 00:19:16.104, Speaker A: I'm a boring academician. Like, what do I know about parking? Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. My wife is also at our booth. Yeah. Okay. Yeah.
00:19:16.264 - 00:19:23.884, Speaker B: What will be the, what kind of governance experiments do you, do you plan.
00:19:23.924 - 00:20:26.576, Speaker A: To have running first? So we are starting with a setup that is very, very simple and actually very, very close to what many other daos are doing. We basically using coin voting, linear distribution and stuff like this. But obviously this is just a start and just to make the onboarding as easy as than possible. But we would like to move to something much more advanced, much more exciting. And one of the first experiments we would like to run is in quadratic funding. But in order to actually introduce quadratic funding into this mechanism, we need to first play with some identity and civil solutions. So probably the very first experiments that we'll be running will be testing various anticipal tools that are already available in the community.
00:20:26.576 - 00:21:15.044, Speaker A: But we are actually also in contact with some developers working on some stuff that has not been announced yet, but they are eager to actually test it in live environment that is as close as possible to what actually happens in organizations. I think the most important, the most valuable thing about octant is that we are running experiments not in some artificial setup, but in a setup that very closely resembles what actually happens in daos. There are real resources at stake and we're talking about large resources. As you can imagine, returns from stake in 100,000 ETH is actually quite a lot of money. So we believe that results of the experiments running this platform are going to be quite, quite meaningful.
00:21:22.464 - 00:21:42.932, Speaker B: What do you think about the accountability in funding the public goods, for instance, let's take the example of gitcoin. After the matching fund. There is no monitoring or accountability process which is implemented in the platform. Do you have any plans like addressing this?
00:21:43.108 - 00:22:28.412, Speaker A: So, yeah, that's definitely an issue. We have not come up with a solution for it right now. We will be starting with grieving grants for general operations. So basically there will be review process for being whitelisted to be included in the octant potential beneficiary pool. We'll be looking what the organization is doing, what is the track record? Probably at the very beginning we will not be funding any like one of projects, because then there definitely has to be an ongoing review. Maybe there has to be some milestone. There definitely has to be some milestone set up, and then there's going to be some monitoring.
00:22:28.412 - 00:23:13.814, Speaker A: At the moment, we have some ideas how to do it, but we don't want to do it our own as a foundation. And since we don't have yet community, because the project has not been yet launched, the overhead would be way, way too high for us. But yeah, it's an excellent point. I know that project like ours and projects basically try to fund public goods within the ethereum ecosystem, and not only here, actually struggling quite often with monitoring of grant recipients. Anyone else.
