00:00:04.120 - 00:00:24.238, Speaker A: Well, thank you so much for coming on the podcast, Joe. Super excited to have you here and share all the things that you've been working on. A little bit more about your background, how you fell down the crypto rabbit hole high level, just talking about crypto and some cool things that you are also working on at framework as well.
00:00:24.414 - 00:00:33.110, Speaker B: Yeah, no, appreciate the opportunity, Logan. Very excited for this opportunity based on some of the stuff we've had a chance to catch up on. Yeah, eager for it, man.
00:00:33.730 - 00:00:42.386, Speaker A: Perfect. Well, let's dive right in. Could you start maybe just sharing a little bit about your background for the podcast listeners?
00:00:42.498 - 00:01:32.230, Speaker B: Yeah, sure thing. So I guess kind of going all the way back to the beginning, I kind of came across bitcoin as a high schooler, and I kind of find this as a common theme where a lot of, I guess, the younger people find themselves like, interacting in their first economies, in games especially. This was like, I guess the late two thousands, but was basically using bitcoin as a means to get paid while being under 18. So I was selling in game assets, et cetera, and was also really fortunate to, I think, have a father. That kind of helped me understand the non speculative aspects of this industry and of bitcoin as a network really early on. So as I moved into college, I studied hardware and electrical engineering, and that was specifically in the medtech application space. But I also started getting involved in software development, specifically in the e commerce industry, as a self taught developer.
00:01:32.230 - 00:02:37.946, Speaker B: So a lot of my Internet friends and developers that I worked with in that space were the ones that introduced me to the smart contract paradigm on Ethereum. This was early 2016, although I never really excelled at solidity myself, I was fortunate enough to have the privilege of using and experimenting with a lot of the early defi ecosystem, like ether, Delta Maker, et cetera. And when Covid hit in 2020, it really gave me the opportunity to kind of completely jump into the rabbit hole, so to speak. So I spent a lot of my time researching the space, mostly as a power user, but also as a community member and a lot of early DeFi projects. This is like the Ethland before Aave compound and yearn days during DeFi summer. And I was really just enthralled by the speed of innovation, the composability, and like, how individuals with non traditional or even like anon backgrounds were empowered to make meaningful contributions in this space. So that combination of factors like, really gave me the conviction to finally jump into the industry full time and kind of leave my previous career behind.
00:02:37.946 - 00:03:13.380, Speaker B: And the spring of 2021 is when I got connected with Vance. I'd followed him for a minute on Twitter, but he got connected to me through my Twitter. That was anon at the time, and I joined framework as an investor almost two years ago. So at framework I spend the majority of my time exploring early stage projects across the space, and I primarily focus on developer oriented products and services and then increasingly more like consumer oriented applications as we think about the future of how this technology and this developer stack is leveraged. So that's kind of me in a nutshell.
00:03:14.600 - 00:03:38.540, Speaker A: Definitely appreciate all the clarity. Yeah, it's always interesting. People always come approach the space from different angles and so very cool to see how you kind of got your story started, especially coming from the more anon background. I think that's definitely a web3 unique attribute.
00:03:39.200 - 00:04:08.910, Speaker B: Yeah, I find that there's a little bit more similarities, maybe with like, I just have so many friends that did exist and Personas through like games or like communities, like Discord, Reddit, et cetera. But I feel like this space has been the first time where like people can like truly engage in economies at scale, despite the fact that they're anonymous or despite the fact that they might like, lack a traditional pedigree, so to speak. So definitely one of the things that I think I like really aligned with personally and a lot of what gave me the motivation to jump into the space full time.
00:04:09.890 - 00:05:01.650, Speaker A: Awesome. Very cool. Well, I would love to, maybe we synced on a couple topics and I think one thing that you and I are both aligned on is ultimately growing the user base of web3. Today, that's not very many users low couple millions. But I think what everybody wants to really see in this space is getting to hundreds of millions and billions and really talking more. So on the high level, the dichotomy between the early web3 adopters and some of their preferences compared to what will actually be needed to onboard, say, a billion people into the space. So I'd love to maybe start the conversation there and how you're thinking about the early days of web3 and those users, and then how we actually bridge or cross the chasm in some sense to mainstream adoption.
00:05:01.810 - 00:06:31.390, Speaker B: Yeah, definitely. I think there's a number of areas we can jump into here, but I think one of the things I had to check my bias on, especially following when I joined framework, was I've had the privilege, I think, of almost a decade of self custody assets on these networks and having a bit of a script kiddie developer background that has empowered me to at least experiment and stumble when there's not a lot of assets at stake. But one of the things I've always been trying to check my bias on is that not everyone shares that same experience or expertise or has had the privilege of the time in the industry to learn things. There's definitely a number of areas across this developer stack that I think we're finally starting to see middle grounds on, where historically we've seen, again, this dichotomy of you have the crypto purist approach, or you have the centralized or retail friendly approach, and I think it's a trend where every bear market, at least, that I've experienced, we do start to see these ideas get experimented more, but this is the first time I felt like there have been concrete improvements, specifically from the next billion users perspective, where people do have more of a spectrum of products and experiences to consume compared to the previous ones, where it's like, hey, you're getting onboarded through a seed phrase and metamask, and that's the only opportunity or the only option you have. So, yeah, happy to jump in and discuss this because I think it's pretty relevant right now.
00:06:32.100 - 00:06:56.148, Speaker A: Perfect. Perfect. Well, maybe on a high level. Let's start with articulating the early preferences of adopters. And then, in your words, what do you think it will take to ultimately move that needle per se, to actually allow the networks to scale and do those hundreds of millions or billions of users?
00:06:56.284 - 00:08:14.582, Speaker B: Yeah, I think one of the interesting things here is when you go all the way back to the start of. I guess if we just say we start at the early introduction of the smart contract paradigm with Ethereum, there were a lot of factors there that were required in order for this technology to proliferate. If we didn't have majority of these early users having the ability to actually verify these systems, well, it's ether and bitcoin, they wouldn't have value because people don't have transparency into how these systems operate. I think what we've seen over time is that as the tooling around these solutions has gotten better, as the actual user application experiences have been built out, we've finally at least begun to explore onboarding these users through different sorts of applications outside of that technology. Or I guess the crypto purist approach. I think it starts at the protocol level, where we've seen blockchains become more accessible, but there's still maintain this dichotomy of chains that prioritize, I guess, what I would call end user verification and how quickly you can allow an end user to actually participate in the verification through something like a lite client. But then on the other side, equally as important, I would argue, is the end user access to these systems as well.
00:08:14.582 - 00:09:17.520, Speaker B: Those are topics like AlT layer ones or other networks that fundamentally make a different trade off so that users can actually have the ability to not pay dollar 50 for a trade etcetera or whatever it was during the bull market. So I think that's really where it starts. I think there's a necessary, I guess, recognition that we must make where these networks would never have proliferated without some of these, I guess, trade offs, so to speak. As far as empowering the end users to actually go all the way down the stack and verify these chains themselves and get access to the code that they're actually operating on top of where on the other side, we've definitely seen people take other approaches where these chains are solely being created to service end users, bar none. I think that's an important thing. I don't think we ever go from one into the spectrum to the other. I think it is important that we have teams that are experimenting on both sides of the spectrum in order to actually find middle ground.
00:09:17.520 - 00:09:24.630, Speaker B: So that's how I think about the protocols and how they service users and what the users are prioritizing.
00:09:26.010 - 00:10:08.930, Speaker A: Yeah, that makes sense. I definitely agree. The space really started from end user verification and has continued to grow and experiment in different paths since then. Maybe before we dive deeper into end user verification, I think one of the hard parts about the industry today is describing decentralization and talk, talking about how to quantify it and what it actually means to be decentralized. I'd love for before we jump into some of the nittier and grittier topics of end user verification for you to describe, how do you view decentralization?
00:10:09.830 - 00:11:18.420, Speaker B: Yeah, I think this is something even going back to even the peak of the previous cycle, it was a very relevant topic as people were attacking the trade offs that different networks made. I think my, I don't want to say my definition of decentralization has changed over time, but I think it's definitely gotten kind of somewhat more complicated and nuanced. At the beginning, when I first started leveraging these networks, the first time I sent an ether delta trade or something like that, there was an inherent desire for myself to want to understand from a to z why I could trust what was happening. A lot of retail users today that are coming from more web two experiences have always just said, hey, I see a brand name on this application. I'm comfortable trusting them. I might not have read the terms of service, I might not have visibility to their back end or what they're doing with my data, but that is the status quo, so to speak, for some of those people. But getting back to your point, for me, I really do rely on the crux that decentralization is providing people the opportunity to gain transparency into the systems that they're operating from a user perspective.
00:11:18.420 - 00:11:43.600, Speaker B: And then from someone that wants to go a step deeper, it really does rely on how permissionless it is for someone to actually participate in the consensus of the network and ensuring that people, regardless of background or access or geographical location, have as equal access to participate in that system as possible. That's how I define decentralization.
00:11:44.680 - 00:12:26.876, Speaker A: Yeah, I found this as, I guess, is there a way for you to quantify it a little bit more? Because I found this is a more common point of view, but then it kind of gets into the debate of, all right, what is considered fair for one person, maybe completely different in terms of costs for another person. Is there more objectable, measurable metrics that you look at, or is it kind of just on this high level, being able to run a node or verify on chain data?
00:12:27.028 - 00:13:29.076, Speaker B: Yeah, historically, and I think there's been a lot of this. I've seen a lot of discussion on this on Twitter as of late, even going back to the modular summit in Amsterdam last year, where I was fortunate enough to be in person for the debate between Anatolia, Mustafa from celestia. I think traditionally, the historical metric has always been the Nakamoto coefficient and how many single entities, essentially, it would take in order to break the consensus requirement of the network from a majority perspective, I still do continue to lean on that. And I think there's been an aspect of. I think some of what specifically anatolia started to argue for, as far as, just like, all that matters at the end of the day is, like, the amount of replicants of state, or the amount of replicant copies of state, and how distributed those are across different operators. There's aspects of that that I agree with. I think there's also aspects of this, as you alluded to, where it becomes more nuanced than trying to create a single, objective measurement for these things.
00:13:29.076 - 00:13:50.780, Speaker B: Especially when you look at modular networks and how there's different operators or roles within each part of the stack, it becomes, unfortunately, even more difficult. But I would say that's probably what I lean on, especially for monolithic chains, is like, you know, how many replicants of the state are there? And essentially, like, how easy would it be for, like, a single actor to essentially, like, take over that system?
00:13:51.720 - 00:14:35.474, Speaker A: That makes sense. Now, I like to start the conversation there, like, just trying to, like, find, like, a middle ground, because I feel like that's important to kind of, like, tee up the conversation into going into, like, more in depth on the technical side. So on your point of view earlier was just, like, end user verification on the earlier stage, or this was the preference of early adopters, and then going forward to kind of mainstream adoption, maybe this may not be as much of a priority for them. So how do you see the landscape today, and how do you think it's going to evolve to the more mainstream adoption?
00:14:35.632 - 00:15:51.620, Speaker B: Yeah, I see kind of two approaches there. Like, I think a lot of people on the modular side would say that, like, their hope is that they can construct a, like, architecture for these networks that essentially, like, empowers people to participate in some degree of participation and, like, contributing towards the security of these networks without even really knowing it. So this is this, like, whole concept on, like, the modular end of the spectrum where, you know, I know there's people that are contributing to some of these projects where they, like, specifically hope that, like, hey, maybe there's, like, a game wallet or, like, a browser wallet where users are actually, like, that, like, contributing towards the collective security of the network through data availability sampling or something similar like that. Right. I think the other side of the spectrum is that if you have enough kind of sophisticated actors or enough actors that have the ability to contribute towards these systems, this is kind of, like, more of the Solana approach where, you know, anyone that is engaging with these networks with kind of, like, high enough of, like, an economic risk, like, should be operating that sort of, like, that sort of a system. So, you know, if I'm engaging with, you know, maybe. And I think it's been interesting in the Solana space specifically, because we've started to see daos that have, like, kind of, like, pooled their resources together in order to actually, like, collectively contribute through, like, potentially, like, operating their own validator node or something like that.
00:15:51.620 - 00:16:58.700, Speaker B: And I think that that's where, like, I think as the architecture, like, kind of paradigm continues to, like, shift and, like, proliferate, like, we will see, like, more, like, nuanced abilities for people to participate in these systems. And candidly, I think there is a potential future where users don't even maybe realize that they're doing it, and it's kind of happening in the background, much like, I don't know, this might be a crude analogy, but it's like you and I hop onto a website like this that's using something like HTTPs, we don't necessarily know the intricacies of what's allowing us to verify that this connection is secure. But again, might be a crude analogy, but that's where I hope, and that's where I hope things shift too. Because at the end of the day, I think it is very important that as we onboard more people, we are providing the access and tools for them to actually contribute towards the decentralization and robustness of the social consensus behind these networks. Because without that, I really feel like we're missing the forest for the tree, so to speak. As far as why this technology is important and in hand, why the applications that are built on top of it are also important.
00:16:59.840 - 00:18:11.828, Speaker A: Yeah, it's been fascinating to watch the space grow and be able to better articulate what decentralization is. And as you mentioned, some of the preference of the early users, and now what mainstream may or may not value. It is interesting in that regard. I think there's been a lot of innovation. I mean, I think the modular kind of stack in celestia was really pioneers in this regard of the light clients. And light clients have some unique properties with the honest majority guarantees, just allowing majority of network to flag something for a full node. Do you think I, if like clients kind of become standard or de facto on like kind of across all blockchains, does the size of the node for full nodes really matter too much? If you still get the same guarantees with light clients, or similar guarantees with.
00:18:11.844 - 00:19:28.846, Speaker B: Light clients, I see where you're getting at with that. I think. I think it's always going to be relevant, because at the end of the day, especially when you think about how users are able to benefit from the economic participation in the network, so it's maybe even stepping back from the ability for someone to verify. But I think an equal part of decentralization is ensuring that people have at least somewhat equitable access to the economic outcomes of these networks as well. I would hope that we don't see these super nodes where it's, you maybe have these really, really high performance systems, because there is nuance there where it's like, okay, these systems are only able to operate in literally only certain physical locations because of the requirements there. It reminds me to some degree of what we saw happen with proof of work consensus as well. Whereas yes, anyone can technically participate in bitcoin consensus, but when you think about how the, I guess, ownership or control of that consensus has been basically aggregated to these very sophisticated firms that have access to basically free energy and or proprietary ASIC technology.
00:19:28.846 - 00:20:18.340, Speaker B: I think that's what would concern me in that regard is it's like, sure, if you give a bunch of lite clients the ability to activate a user activated hard fork world, will they now have to step in and be able to backfill the role of what were malicious full nodes? I think there is a balance there we dont want to see. Just because we have this modular stack where we can really empower clients, that doesnt mean that we really need to push the full node requirements to the extreme, regardless of that. Because in the event that you do have this worst case outcome where all the light clients are noticing fraud and theyre like, ok, we want to essentially like fork the network, they're going to be the ones that have to actually step into the requirements that those full nodes have. So I guess that would be my thoughts on that.
00:20:19.640 - 00:20:28.712, Speaker A: Yeah, that makes sense. I do think it's going to be very interesting. I still think like clients are very earlier in the days and so I'm.
00:20:28.776 - 00:20:43.230, Speaker B: Well, at least at the bottom perspective, yes, but I would argue that at least in the way that these networks have proliferated historically, they've always been a fundamental aspect of what has empowered the security behind traditional byzantine fault tolerant consensus networks.
00:20:44.410 - 00:21:39.570, Speaker A: Yes, I'm curious over the long term how they'll continue to be utilized, and if they're utilized, how that utilization will ultimately affect full nodes. I think it's going to be something definitely interesting to watch over the coming years, but maybe shifting a little bit. We kind of just wrapping this up talking about early stage users and their preferences versus the majority. And majority may not have the same preferences of being able to verify everything from end to end. Do you think that like over time to bring in the majority, there will just be less people verifying the chain?
00:21:41.630 - 00:22:24.950, Speaker B: I don't think it'll be less people, but I could see an argument where potentially a lesser percentage of the participants are actually verifying the chain. So when you think about if you have 10 million users of a network, maybe there is a smaller percentage. But by hope again is that we create architectures that have the byproduct of making it even seamless, or even to the point where it's like you're leveraging a network that's maybe hitting some sort of data availability network or leveraging some sort of data availability network. My hope is that we can make software basically abstract away the technical bridge to participate and those sorts of things.
00:22:26.210 - 00:23:04.090, Speaker A: Yeah, I definitely have a point of view on what I think ultimately that will become. I think you start to get into the nitty gritties of the actual architecture design in some of these things. You can't overcome the laws of physics. I'm definitely curious to see how they'll play out long term. I think on that front in block space, how do you see the block space narrative playing out? Some people think we'll need infinite amount of block space, some think we only need a small amount. What is your opinion there?
00:23:04.170 - 00:23:58.192, Speaker B: Yeah, it's funny how the cyclicality of this basically counters at least the speculative cycles in my eyes. But I think one of the things, one of the trends that I've noticed and even discussed amongst our team is this. We're continuing to see innovation to a point where the consensus around block space is somewhat becoming commoditized. I always describe my perspective on this as a barbell, in the sense that I think we see very high demand on both ends of the spectrum, where people are willing to take on very large trade offs on either ends, whether that means we see a ton of demand for Ethereum block space today. I think the lendingness of that continues to proliferate. And when you think about the economic demand for block space on that end, it will continue to prosper. Especially when you think about how institutions or larger entities actually underwrite the risk of operating on these networks.
00:23:58.192 - 00:25:08.880, Speaker B: I think there's always going to be a demand there on the counter. I think we've seen a lot of really interesting innovation over even the past twelve months. On the other side of the spectrum, which is, what are the minimum set of guarantees that users can become somewhat comfortable with? When you look through last cycle, it's like, okay, we have chains like BNB proliferating where there is no permissionless set of consensus nodes, in the sense that the majority of these things are operated by a single entity. We've seen even that model iterate. Maybe if we jump to something like polygon Pos, where it's very similar structure, maybe some could argue a different ethos. But I think really what's excited me, I got excited by some of the early teams building on validiums. And I think what we've seen with what arbitrum is introduced with anytrust is you can get a really nice compromise there where it's like, hey, if you're an entity or a community or something that has the demand to spin up a network, you don't have as much of a need to bootstrap in the traditional sense of how these networks have been bootstrapped historically.
00:25:08.880 - 00:26:04.470, Speaker B: When you think about an any trust setup for those who aren't familiar, you essentially have a one of n honest data availability committee on the back end of this thing where as long as one of the operators of that network is willing to post the data availability needed to essentially prove fraud, then to my understanding, the users are still basically empowered with l one exit guarantees, which is that's kind of how I like define rollups in like the broadest sense is it's like, what are the exit guarantees of users? Or like how I would define l two s, despite I don't want to kind of go down that rabbit hole given the amount of people that like having discussions around the nuance there. But I think that's kind of how I see the demand for block spaces that like we'll see very high demand on both ends and we're seeing even on like maybe the more trusted end of the spectrum, like new architectures get introduced that like I think do create some like net benefits for those types of use cases.
00:26:06.150 - 00:26:31.450, Speaker A: Yeah, lots of parse apart. Where do we begin on the Ethereum front? Do you think once the Nakamoto coefficient is more widely understood, people will pay such a high price for Ethereum block space versus these other networks that have say similar coefficients?
00:26:31.610 - 00:27:46.760, Speaker B: Yeah, I think it depends. I think like the price that people are willing to pay for access to these networks is like, it is much more than the Nakamoto coefficient when you like, define the security of these networks. Decentralization definitely is a part of that. Again, going back to the beginning of this space, that was such a requirement because these networks were so early and they were so small that if any single entity did get majority access to the consensus of these networks, then it became an endangered the entirety of the stack. I think there's definitely going to be a lot of pricing pressure, but thankfully we are seeing a lot of innovation, I think, in that space when it comes to things like EIP 4844, et cetera, that are hoping to basically empower the L2s and roll ups that are building on top of that stack so that they can essentially post cheaper call data to the chain and a different approach. But I definitely agree with the sentiment that you're trying to get out, which is that are users always going to be willing to pay that premium? Probably not, but I think there's also aspects of the network effects of the actual applications that are existing on top of those networks. And obviously the liquidity that sits alongside that, that plays into that value proposition as well.
00:27:47.940 - 00:28:18.620, Speaker A: Yeah, I'm super interested to see how this plays out. Do you think ethereum and its in state when they're doing the full like data availability that they plan to roll out with the 1.3 megabytes per second? Do you think that's going to be enough for demand, or do you think that they'll artificially cap it at 1.3 megabytes per second, or do you think they'll just continue to expand it to meet demand?
00:28:19.040 - 00:29:06.250, Speaker B: I think it's hard to tell at this point, that's for sure. I think one of the things I'm very interested around is when we do see 4844 go into effect, do we see that very quickly get filled? Do we see the tool sets around, people spinning up their own roll ups, or these roll ups as a service projects really start filling up that demand? I think if I had to guess, I would say that that would happen on a relatively quickly basis. But it's going to be very interesting to see. I think that's one of the things that myself and some team members that I get the privilege of working with are very interested in seeing who's right as far as our hypothesis there internally.
00:29:08.910 - 00:29:22.410, Speaker A: Yeah, I'm interested. I still even think with 1.3 megabytes it's not going to be enough. Even after 4844 is implemented and after the full rollouts implemented.
00:29:23.510 - 00:29:51.700, Speaker B: I would totally agree in that sentiment. When it comes to if we're going to truly onboard the majority of coordination across society onto these networks or across major economies onto these systems, there's no way that's going to be sufficient. But again, I think there is a trade off that certain users are willing to make where it's maybe they don't want to facilitate or they don't want to facilitate activity on that sort of a network or trust it, maybe they're willing to trust like a one event, any trust or something like that.
00:29:52.640 - 00:30:45.030, Speaker A: So on the kind of like any trust assumptions with like either arbitrum Nova or. Yeah, with arbitrum Nova. Anytrust, what are your thoughts kind of around these like, data, data availability committees? Because in my point of view, it's kind of like almost in some sense restarting the network where you're posting some of the data there instead of officially using the Ethereum full security? I don't know. To me it's just a smaller group of people that are just running privileged nodes in some sense. How do you think of, I think in Arbitrum's point of view, I think there's less than 20 people running this data.
00:30:46.010 - 00:30:46.506, Speaker B: Yeah.
00:30:46.578 - 00:31:15.698, Speaker A: Okay, 21. Do you think they scale that or do you think it's okay to keep the smaller amount? Because to me this goes back to the very core of decentralization. And I think the big thing here, and this is why I really would love to have a standard format for decentralization, is holding even these L2s and these data availability committees to like similar decentralizations standards.
00:31:15.754 - 00:31:16.082, Speaker B: Yeah.
00:31:16.146 - 00:31:24.082, Speaker A: Security that we do to like other layer ones as well if they're not using the full security of like the layer one.
00:31:24.226 - 00:32:31.994, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean I remember like sitting at Devconnect during the l two beat day and it was like, I forget the name of the man who runs that organization. But like his whole first speech to like introduce this event was just kind of dunking on the entire l two space for how much there is to improve there. I think the idea that these architectures are building towards a future where they can become essentially at an end state entirely inherit the trust assumptions of the l one, or the lack of trust assumptions at the l one. That's the future that I hope we can build towards ultimately. But I think there are a lot of valid criticisms as far as how those systems exist today. And to your point, when it comes to maybe some of these more centralized data availability committees on something like an anytrust, I think it becomes a byproduct of what the users and developers of those networks are willing to accept. So one of the arguments I could see is it's like, ok, if every operator, regardless of their social standing, you have these different entities that are well known.
00:32:31.994 - 00:33:41.400, Speaker B: And if at any point the users basically get rugged, they would have to get rugged by all of them simultaneously, or they'd have to get rugged by a portion of them simultaneously. And then maybe there's some catastrophic failure of the client software on the other end that could lead towards a poor outcome for users where they essentially get rugged by the chain. But I definitely align with the point that you're trying to mention, which is that there needs to be very genuine critiques of these systems as they exist in their current state. And I don't think we necessarily see a need for the node count on something like an arbitrary mini trust to increase just because of the trust assumptions that they're assuming from the foundation. But I would expect that if there's demand from users or developers for that to increase, or how maybe we even see very large issues that force them to increase, maybe the geographical distribution of those nodes, then I could see that being like a potential future where they would want to improve that.
00:33:42.260 - 00:34:27.912, Speaker A: Yeah, I think the industry, I mean, one thing that I'm very envious of, of Ethereum, I think in part this is just because the community's been around for the longest, is their ability to tell a story and tell the narrative and like push that out. So I think they've been very good at telling the l two narrative, but I don't think they've fairly kind of assess the L2s against even other non ethereum layer ones and applying the same kind of rubric of scrutiny that they do to kind of their own kind of bags.
00:34:28.046 - 00:35:14.099, Speaker B: Yeah, I would definitely agree. There definitely is bias that I see there. I would say that I've seen a good amount of legitimate criticism within the ethereum centric space from at least those in my network where again, you're going to a specific l two event and the first thing that happens is basically someone saying, hey, this is everything that is wrong, and setting the tone to some degree. But to your point, I think there are, at least in their current state, a lot of unfair comparisons between L2 systems as they exist today versus how they want to exist in the future. I think that's a big part that you have to consider as well. People are describing that end state as the way that things are currently, and that's not the case.
00:35:14.839 - 00:35:44.092, Speaker A: And maybe to wrap up this, do you think volitions ultimately will play a role in that in the end state or. Because my point of view, I still think they need to scale the number of parties. In some sense they're kind of like act as full nodes to the data availability committee. Do you think those need to scale?
00:35:44.236 - 00:36:46.870, Speaker B: I think it just depends on what they're trying to achieve and the demand that they're trying to meet. I think there are going to be a lot of applications, whether that be games or more novel applications of this software stack, that we are going to be willing to take on those compromises. It's like if I get rugged on the history of my lens profile or something, maybe that's not the end of the world, but okay, if I get rugged on a large position in Defi, then that's maybe a compromise that myself as a user, or even potentially developers that are trying to launch their businesses on top of these networks aren't willing to accept. If I had to guess, I don't think we're explicitly going to see faults there that result in change. But I do expect that we see some missteps on that end of the spectrum where hell, look at something like what would happen with Ronin. People try to experiment on that end of the spectrum. If they don't do it properly, it becomes catastrophic.
00:36:46.870 - 00:37:03.230, Speaker B: I think that's the, the pros and cons that people have to weigh out is that when things do go bad this low in the stack, it's really bad and it's really hard to recover from as well. For both the protocol as well as the applications that build on top of it.
00:37:03.570 - 00:37:25.006, Speaker A: To that point though, then wouldn't it be more advantageous just to build on these newer networks that are coming out that are high throughput and low latency, that have higher Nakamoto coefficient, have higher full nodes and you get the honest minority assumptions with the like clients?
00:37:25.158 - 00:38:05.950, Speaker B: Yeah, I think it's absolutely like an outcome that I expect there to be demand there for sure. I just think especially when, if you don't even dig into the decentralization or the security of these networks, but you think holistically about what gives them value or what brings developers there. I think there is a lot of nuance there and that kind of dives into the spectrum of new domain specific languages and virtual machines we've seen what type of infrastructure or what type of blockchain architecture are they launching on top of and why? There's definitely benefits to the things that you said. So I think there will be demand there and there's probably an argument for teams to leverage that technology just depending on what exactly their use cases.
00:38:07.370 - 00:39:11.582, Speaker A: Yeah, unfortunately, and this is why again, I would love the common language because I think when you actually go to these big companies or even being able to educate retail in some sense, being able to provide these more apples to apples comparison, I think not only help institutionals onboard into the ecosystem, but also give a better understanding into retail and what assumptions they're making by using the chains or what properties they're getting from the chain. As you mentioned, if something does go bad, it's very bad. Having standard language across the industry would be great. But on the virtual machine side, touching upon that briefly now, there's the more Lindy the EVM, but there's newer virtual machines that are coming out. What is your view on the virtual machine landscape and how do you see it playing out of, for like the end of game?
00:39:11.726 - 00:41:03.396, Speaker B: Yeah, I think we've finally reached a stage of maturity in this space where it's like we've seen all of the things that can go wrong with the design trade offs that we made in 2015 or 2016, in the case of the EVM. And there's absolutely room for teams that are basically coming in and attempting to articulate the lessons learned from those domain specific languages and those virtual machines and introduce that kind of new paradigms or new toolkits. I think one of the things that I consider a lot when I'm looking at these projects is based on my time in this space. I think one thing that people often undervalue or under target is the amount of what I call the activation energy that's required to initialize and proliferate these new stacks. But I'm definitely very, very excited and bullish by teams that are coming to market with net new dsls and vms, just because I think there are such large learnings as you'll often come across on crypto, Twitter and elsewhere when it comes to the limitations of the EVM. On the contrary to that, though, maybe quickly, I think there is a part that people have to understand as far as how larger entities, or even larger application developers, some of the institutions that you mentioned, how they underwrite risk in this space, again, beyond the protocols that are actually running the chain. But when it comes to the code that they're operating on top of, and the lendingness of that, an institution that is already uncomfortable leveraging blockchain technology is probably much more likely to leverage Aave two on Ethereum versus AavE v three, and the standards and tooling that exist around these more traditional vms.
00:41:03.396 - 00:41:25.200, Speaker B: And DSLS has had such a significant head start for creating, again, certain types of applications. I think so. I think we're going to see a lot of these maybe applications in the gaming and other spheres that are more novel experimenting with these new dsls and vms just because there's inherent benefits to doing so. But maybe I'll pause there.
00:41:25.990 - 00:41:41.566, Speaker A: Do you think long term, single threaded virtual machines like the EVM will have its place or be relevant over the high performance virtual machines that are parallel?
00:41:41.718 - 00:42:34.810, Speaker B: Yeah, I think depending on how you define long term, I could see a future where eventually we shift away from these architectures again. This might be a crude analogy, but you think about how some corporations operate today on systems that are from way, way too far back to make you feel comfortable, even as of recently boarding a southwest flight over Christmas. I think we will slowly start seeing those systems get replaced if you really play out over time, especially just given the fact that state is what is valuable when it comes to the composability of the space. And obviously these parallelizable vms, I think have a huge advantage there as far as helping proliferate and offer cheaper and more efficient access to that state.
00:42:38.990 - 00:43:26.146, Speaker A: I'm not super optimistic on the single thread of virtual machines. I think in large part there's definitely some lendiness, but I think just because there's so few devs and there's actually so few users that people largely overestimate the dominance of these things so far. And so I'm super interested to see once we actually get to going back to earlier, more mass adoption, say 100 million monthly active users, and that could be spread across how many ever chains. But what is the dominant virtual machine and dominant network that those active addresses are on? Yeah, I just think it's too early to tell.
00:43:26.258 - 00:44:43.890, Speaker B: Yeah, I would definitely agree with that. I definitely also, I think see some of your perspective as far as like maybe that activation energy isn't as high as some would say. But I think the other thing that's really exciting here and that I think people are starting to come around to, is that like you can launch these virtual machines and these net new execution environments on like already kind of performant Lindy stack. So if we're not even talking about like the lendingist of the application like code that's operating, that's operating these user applications, I think there's also this aspect where we're seeing teams come to market with, with these net new vms that can be launched on already performant and proven network infrastructure under them. I think that'll be really exciting because I think that's what makes me most excited about that space, is you see these teams basically saying, hey, we're going to launch this VM with eight different configurations depending on where the demand is. I think that's going to be a trend that we continue to see proliferate. We've even seen this with the Solana VM, with teams like Eclipse, et cetera, that are looking to bring the benefits of that virtual machine, but onto a different set of trade offs from the architecture it's operating on top of.
00:44:44.710 - 00:45:23.694, Speaker A: I also think the VM space right now is so early that a lot of different design people want to experiment with the design. But over the long term I do think similar to layer ones, we coalesce on a few. I don't think having a bunch of different virtual machines or hundreds or thousands is going to be beneficial because then developers have to rewrite their apps or port them and make the code changes. And so yeah, I think it's all so early that people are trying different things, but once one actually starts to get lots of adoption, it's going to be hard to break. But I don't think we've actually seen that as of yet.
00:45:23.742 - 00:45:52.390, Speaker B: Yeah, and I think there's also this aspect. I don't want to speak too much on this because I don't think I'm as educated as I would want to be on it. There's, I think some of these generalized vms as well that are coming to market that are just really opening up. Like, hey, you can launch whatever type of code you want on this, and hell, maybe you're not even having to rewrite your code because you're able to leverage it based on the architecture, though. So again, don't want to get into that too much because I don't feel like I'm too much of a subject matter expert there. But we'll be excited to see how that develops over the coming years as well.
00:45:53.050 - 00:46:28.274, Speaker A: Definitely. Well, we've talked a lot on just end user verification and ultimately mass adoption, the different blockchains and their architectures, different virtual machines to get us there. But outside of that, I think you and I both think a lot about custody and different applications. In interest of time, maybe touch briefly on some of your high level thoughts on custody solutions and even how that ultimately gets incorporated within wallets and how we can make better wallet experiences.
00:46:28.422 - 00:47:31.760, Speaker B: Yeah, absolutely. I think historically, again, we've seen users basically have two options leading up to maybe, let's just say 2021. You either are fully self custodied and you're potentially blind signing on the ledger, et cetera, and that introduces its own set of risk for Purdue entrance. And then on the other side, we've seen both, I think, the benefits and obviously the fatal flaws of centralized custody. I think for the first time this cycle, a lot of what excites me in this space is these solutions that exist in the middle, and I've kind of, like, I think mentioned them as these kind of shared custody or partial custody solutions. What I'm talking about here is not the Coinbase wallet extension, but if you go into Coinbase's exchange app and you go to their web3 browser, you're actually launching an NPC wallet where you essentially have your private keys stored on your device and you're leveraging that security model. But at the same time, if I recall correctly, you're never seeing a seed phrase here, and you basically have traditional web two style account recovery.
00:47:31.760 - 00:48:44.500, Speaker B: That Coinbase is NPC architecture that also protects however many billions of assets they're custodying, it allows users to get access to that. I think that's really exciting. We've also seen a lot of innovation here from various teams in the wallet space that are looking to introduce smart contract wallets on chain that also can introduce this shared custody experience. But I think that the one thing is we have to stop throwing users off the deep end and acting like everyone has had the privilege that some of us have had to learn these systems when maybe you don't have as much exposed. Someone like myself can have their grid and be running, rolling their own rpcs, but we need to be giving people solutions that exist in the middle and almost allow them to kind of like progress and kind of like go through like grade school before they jump to high school when it comes to self custody, because I think I do have hope that like people can kind of be independent down the road. But like we, it's so obvious that like we need better tools and guardrails, et cetera, in order to empower that endgame. And in the meantime, we need solutions that exist in the middle in order to best service users.
00:48:45.200 - 00:50:04.428, Speaker A: I do agree. I mean, in large part, regardless of kind of which layer one or L2 you kind of build upon today, I think the end goal really is self custody and web3, with a good amount of decentralization, whatever that may be. But the real thing is the self custody of the assets outside of exchanges. Wallets really are going to become the focal point of everybody's day to day interactions and how they really interact with chains, how they pay for things. And so today that self custody is so hard. Like you mentioned, blind signing, it's going to be difficult and is difficult to ultimately onboard normies in the sense that, one, it's so like the infrastructure is, I mean, gas costs can be relatively high, but then two, like, they have no idea whether what they're approving is legit or not, or you get a discord link or whatever. And so, yeah, wallets are definitely going to continue to be an interesting point and something that needs work for the next coming years, unlike those I was going to mention.
00:50:04.484 - 00:50:55.940, Speaker B: Maybe one other quick thing before we break from this. We've seen both a ton of experimentation, a ton of early stage products. My web3 security market map right now is 150 different entities when it comes to these new solutions that are looking to serve as guardrails for wallets. They basically service an API that wallets can do. This combination of transaction simulation and transaction reputation or confidence scoring, I think that's going to be a big part of this as well. Again, not that that is in line with, I think, this decentralized ethos at the end of the day, but I think that very much services this middle ground to the point now where we have some of these APIs already contextualizing, even EIP 712 messages on C port. And I hope that that both continues to get funding and continues to see pressure on the wallets to integrate those sorts of solutions.
00:50:55.940 - 00:51:03.540, Speaker B: It's more of a band aid than it is an end all solution, but I'm really excited about the teams that are exploring that as well.
00:51:04.800 - 00:51:53.414, Speaker A: Yeah, still very early in the idmas of what kind of the end goal or the end state of wallets and wallet security look like. Excited as well to continue to watch that front. Maybe kind of like wrapping up the conversation for the last couple of minutes. What like areas of, I mean, we've talked a lot about infrastructure and now wallets. What are some key areas of focus that you're actually looking forward to in 2023, whether like DeFi, like nfts, I guess. What do you think will actually bring in normies to get to that hundred million plus mark of active addresses?
00:51:53.542 - 00:53:20.648, Speaker B: Yeah, I always joke that DeFi was a game without a skin, and when the incentives are right and these mechanisms are in these applications, that's how you onboard people. When people realize, oh, hey, maybe a lot of it was speculative driven during the last cycle as far as, oh, I can make my first Uniswap trade, I can own an NFT on Opensea, et cetera. I think continuing to empower end users with net new markets and maybe those are markets outside of traditional tokens. I think there's been a lot of discussion and projects that are working in the space of essentially creating sovereign user data and basically giving people access to sell and potentially monetize their data in a more direct way versus the status quo of, of the ad monopolies or duopolies that exist. That's one thing that I'm really excited about, and one of the main things that gets me excited in the NFT space is people using this on chain data in a more generalized and less valuable way, so to speak. Chatting with a lot of teams right now that I think have really interesting and novel ideas around empowering applications to assist their users to create that sort of kind of like, I think a lot of people have been kind of calling them data backpacks, et cetera. But I think that's ultimately like what has to be the incentive to drive people.
00:53:20.648 - 00:53:55.530, Speaker B: It's like you're either going to play a game that you don't really know, has like blockchain in the backend until you like, go to sell something, or I think it's like applications that can create like net new economies and net new markets for people to participate in. Because like at the end of the day, like empowering users with direct incentives is, I think ultimately what this space is essentially trying to arbitrage in many ways. So that's, I guess, kind of directionally what excites me a lot in that space as far as the types of applications that could be that catalyst for the kind of next wave of adoption that we see.
00:53:57.070 - 00:54:42.100, Speaker A: Yeah, I'm super interested to see what 2023 holds. I think no one or very few people anticipated kind of the NFT bull market. How many people NFTs would ultimately onboard into, or how many people would onboard because of nfTs. I think the electric capital report was saying, I think 80% of people's first interactions with self custody was NFTs, which is pretty remarkable. Yeah, I'm very curious to see what the next catalyst will be. Cool. Well, maybe like wrapping things up on.
00:54:42.100 - 00:54:51.928, Speaker A: I kind of, in my previous podcast, I used to end the podcast on like, spicy questions and I haven't done it for a while, but I think it may be good to bring it back.
00:54:51.984 - 00:54:53.220, Speaker B: We gotta bring it back.
00:54:55.770 - 00:55:07.630, Speaker A: Maybe starting off. What do you think would be your most spicy opinion that you hold in crypto that not very many believe or do you think will eventually play out?
00:55:08.490 - 00:56:27.692, Speaker B: Unfortunately, my spicy take has taken a little bit of a shift over the past four weeks with the whole ordinals on bitcoin trend. But yeah, I've always joked and teased, I think a lot of crypto native friends around my general bearishness on bitcoin as a network. I want to say anything about the asset side of things, but I think it is a good end goal for these networks to want to ossify in some sense where they just become this standard that doesn't need to change and the change happens elsewhere. But when I think the best things that could be happening for bitcoin, some people would argue it's maintaining the 21 million supply cap meme and having this purist vision of what Satoshi wanted, like this chain to be. But I think that's kind of like diverges from reality. Like, sure it can service like a very niche reality where the world kind of blows up and like all these people are underground in their bunkers with their bitcoin, but I think these networks have an inherent need to adapt to the environment or the economies that they're kind of interacting with. And yesterday I'm looking at how like, complicated it is for people to try to create trustless exchanges of these ordinal nfts on bitcoin.
00:56:27.692 - 00:57:07.850, Speaker B: And I'm just like, guys, at what point are we just losing the plot? But I would say that that's one of my spicier takes. And again, this is, as someone who was very empowered by bitcoin as a network going all the way back over ten years now, I just think there's a lot more competition in the space than that. It'll always hold a close place in my heart and I always want to see that network proliferate. But I think there's kind of this catch 22, as I described it, where the ossification of its social consensus is both its biggest strength as well as its achilles heel. So I think that would be maybe my spicy take for now.
00:57:08.870 - 00:57:16.610, Speaker A: So bitcoin should stay to ten minute block times and just digital gold.
00:57:17.030 - 00:58:12.870, Speaker B: Again, I think it does service a market and I think there is a demand and there obviously is a notoriety. So I won't comment on the investment thesis that people have there, but I want that network to proliferate. But I think there does have to be this kind of recognition that I think. I had a tweet on this a few weeks back that was the only upgrade that the social consensus of that network has achieved over the past 2000 days, had 2% network adoption, and this was obviously preordinal. So I was joking yesterday on Twitter, like, oh, I was way too, like, I should have waited a few weeks before I tweeted that, because I think it's increased to like 10% top reorders now. But again, I hope that network does well. I just think there's a lot more kind of players in the field, so to speak, now, and many that are kind of gunning for, I think what it, the original vision of that network was versus what it actually exists as today makes sense.
00:58:13.970 - 00:58:19.870, Speaker A: What probability would you assign to Ethereum no longer being the dominant smart contract platform?
00:58:21.570 - 00:58:23.950, Speaker B: The EVM or Ethereum the network?
00:58:26.290 - 00:58:28.150, Speaker A: Maybe both, but you can.
00:58:29.410 - 00:58:35.660, Speaker B: How would you define dominant? Is this us dollar value transacting across chain?
00:58:36.360 - 00:59:09.460, Speaker A: Not in TVL. I think the most interesting metric on all these blockchains is really active addresses. I think that's our best way, at least today, to determine network usage. I would say active addresses and then transaction count 30, not the highest, but yeah, I would say active addresses and then I guess over the long term, like maybe like developers.
00:59:10.080 - 00:59:24.482, Speaker B: Yeah, I do maybe break from your confidence in the daily active address and stuff. I could share some threads I had on this and maybe you can throw them in the show notes or something. I don't think.
00:59:24.506 - 00:59:25.950, Speaker A: What do you think is a better metric?
00:59:26.570 - 01:00:15.078, Speaker B: I think it's just more nuanced than that. I think anyone that attempts to look at daily active addresses and compare it apples to apples across chains, there can be signal there. But relying on that as a sole metric, I think is, I don't want to say disingenuous, but I just think it's not a reasonable way to measure utility. I've been interested by, I think it's Michael over on the optimism team. I think that has done a good job on Dune of trying to get more granular and like just again provide more context versus having this like, you know, this like single metric that people are using. And he's looking at like just like a number of kind of like more nuanced, like activity on chain versus just, you know, the ability for someone to, you know, deposit state rent into a Solana account or something like that and send, you know, a few land ports every day or whatever it is, maybe.
01:00:15.134 - 01:00:45.208, Speaker A: Like to break it down even further. Like active addresses that are like fee paying, so they're actively signing and fee paying. What probability would you prescribe? Well, I think Polygon, the top three right now are Solana, Polygon and ETh. But over the long term, what do you think is the probability that ethereum is no longer the dominant smart contract platform based on active fee payers and the developer ecosystem?
01:00:45.344 - 01:00:53.118, Speaker B: Yeah, I think the nuance there is that at least for eth, l one, it will shift how you define what it include.
01:00:53.174 - 01:00:53.758, Speaker A: L two.
01:00:53.854 - 01:00:55.090, Speaker B: Yeah, okay, fair enough.
01:00:55.550 - 01:01:07.610, Speaker A: All l two s and eth. Do you think all that, when I think of ethereum, I think of, I include the l two ecosystem, like all of them. So include all the l two s and the base layer.
01:01:08.950 - 01:01:12.934, Speaker B: And by dominant, again we're saying account.
01:01:13.022 - 01:01:18.970, Speaker A: Paying addresses and account paying addresses ecosystem across all l two s and l one s.
01:01:22.230 - 01:02:34.380, Speaker B: I would say it's probably like very, very low. Like you and I could spin up a chain and have people paying fees, like, not trying to kind of like dig or like jump around the question, but like, that's kind of the point of like what I think isn't fair around like actually like measuring utility with that sort of a measure. But I would say it's pretty low. Like I don't think that if you wanted to measure it from a quantity perspective, that network will reach as many people even when you combine l two s, just because I think there's a very specific type of use case around secure defi and secure applications that services very well. And to your point earlier, there are such a wider spectrum of opportunities for people to pursue in other areas where all it takes is an app like Stepn or a token like bonk, et cetera, to really, or even better, wallet experience, et cetera, where there is potential for these ecosystems that lap the progress that's been made on Ethereum specifically or in the Ethereum ecosystem. I would say it's pretty low, but I also would just preface that with you and I could spin up a chain. We can have people that are paying fees, and really, it's a bunch of different addresses, but it's just a python script that we're running.
01:02:36.600 - 01:02:54.940, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, we can definitely debate this more, but maybe last question, last spicy question. Which ecosystem? Whether l one or l two, are you most excited about going forward for 2023?
01:02:58.760 - 01:04:29.760, Speaker B: It's kind of interesting. I don't want to maybe call out or highlight specific projects, but I think one of the things I am very, very excited about are people bringing these vms that have shown success and have shown technical benefits versus the historical EVM model. I'm excited about those coming to very robust blockchain architectures underpinning them. I'm excited about the potential also for the teams and ecosystems that are bringing people in, regardless of the amount of funding that they have. I'm excited for that to become more diverse, where it's like you do have these ecosystems that are focusing on different areas and even different partnerships with traditional entities, et cetera. And I'm excited about how broad that is now versus what it was in 2018, the previous valley of the bear market, where it was just people still attempting to launch icos a little bit too late and drive the speculative mania that was on Ethereum. I would say broadly, I'm excited about people launching new technology on proven architectures, proven blockchain architectures that I think give people the best of both worlds in some sense, where they can have things like more native vm level account abstraction, while also inheriting the security that I think is important for developers to take on the responsibility on behalf of their users for.
01:04:29.760 - 01:04:58.940, Speaker B: And that could be a number of chains. I don't know if I necessarily want to name out specific ones, but overall I'm just incredibly optimistic about the amount of people that have had the privilege, based on the last cycle to continue innovating in this space and bringing new tools and that hopefully evolving into much different applications than we've historically seen or different use cases that we've seen historically.
01:05:00.150 - 01:05:20.750, Speaker A: Definitely. Cool. Well, we'll end it there. Really appreciate you coming on the podcast, Joe. Thanks for sharing all your takes, what you kind of look for in these different ecosystems, how you think about it, what you're looking forward to in 2023, and all the spicy questions. Thank you again, appreciate it. Logan.
