00:00:08.320 - 00:01:11.782, Speaker A: I'm Austin and this is validated in today's episode. I'm speaking with Dave Stetson, a former senior lawyer at OFAC, the Office of Foreign Assets control, and Mike Mosher, a former acting director of FincEN, the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. My colleague Amira Valiani, head of policy at the Salon foundation, also joins me as co host. As that stack of names and titles implies, this episode is a discussion about how the US government deals with illicit activity in web3, particularly as it pertains to national security. To help give context to the overall conversation, we start things off with a primer on OFAC and FinCEn. We pose a few hypothetical scenarios that refer back to web two regulatory precedents to get a sense of how these federal offices think about dealing with bad actors on the Internet. If you were paying attention to the crypto news cycle last summer, you'll recall that tornado cash, a privacy focused cryptocurrency mixer, was placed on OFAC's SDN list, the list for specially designated nationals after North Korea used the protocol to launder hundreds of millions of dollars to allegedly fund nuclear weapons.
00:01:11.782 - 00:02:32.936, Speaker A: For reasons we discuss at length, folks in the crypto community and the tech space at large criticized OFAC's decision as vague and overreaching in its scope. We consider alternatives for how the government could have handled the tornado cash situation and the way in which government does and does not regulate other industries that have facilitated illicit activity as a byproduct of normal business operations. While the tornado cash sanction is old news at this point, thoughtful conversations about the intersection of blockchain, national security and technology ethics are always relevant. The Digital Asset Anti Money Laundering act, aka the Warren Marshall Bill, threatens to hold blockchain validators responsible for illicit activity on chain and many of us in this space believe this bill misrepresents and misunderstands blockchain technology, I think theres a compelling argument to be made that smart contract blockchain networks are actually better categorized like the systems today that run the Internet base layer, credibly neutral infrastructure thats largely a telecommunications and messaging protocol. Todays Internet is just as much a financial instrument for delivering ads, diapers and derivatives as blockchain is. This is one of my favorite conversations weve had on the show. Mike and Dave are a rare combination of experts in how the government thinks about this topic, while also understanding blockchain at a technical level.
00:02:32.936 - 00:02:59.460, Speaker A: For those looking for a vision of what positive sum engagement with regulators could and should look like, I hope this episode can be a template. As always send us your thoughts and suggestions@validatedalana.org. Dot lets dive in. Mike and Dave, welcome to validate it. So I want to start out with what are Fincen and ofAc?
00:02:59.612 - 00:03:42.348, Speaker B: Sure, I can start. This is Dave and I can speak about ofac a little bit and then leave it to Michael to speak about Fincen. So OFAC is the Office of Foreign Assets control within the Treasury Department and it is the agency that administers, implements and enforces us sanctions regimes. It's been around for a while. I think it dates its history back to World War two, when there were efforts to freeze and immobilize the assets of the adversaries in World War two. It's evolved a lot over the years and it now is the agency that has both policymaking functions around making decisions about when and how to deploy sanctions, as well as licensing and enforcement that enable it to administer the sanctions once they're imposed and to punish those who violate the sanctions.
00:03:42.516 - 00:03:43.940, Speaker C: And what's fincen?
00:03:44.132 - 00:04:37.886, Speaker D: Yeah, so Fincen is related. They're both undersecretary in the Department of Treasury. But FinCEN is the Financial Crimes Enforcement network, which has two roles. It's both the financial intelligence unit for the US. So it collects information that's reported from suspicious activity, reporting from financial institutions, and then distributes that to what could be law enforcement, for instance, seeing tips that there's going to be domestic violent extremism, like when the Capitol riots happened, something like that, kidnappings, it could be very operational, something like that, or it could be trends analysis, such as during COVID In the beginning, there was a lot of fraud and scams and so that would get distributed back out to the public in the form of alerts. So the idea is to be a clearinghouse that gets out to the public as well, and financial institutions as well. And then it's also the administrator of the Bank Secrecy act, which is the primary anti money laundering authority for the US.
00:04:38.070 - 00:05:04.216, Speaker C: And so I'm curious, so like FinCEn is doing all the investigation, you're figuring out like what is actually happening at the heart of all this sort of like bad actor activity. And OFAC is sort of a tool to help enforce against one of those actors. What does it, what does it look like? Maybe you guys can take an example of when you're at treasury, but when we talk about catching and sanctioning a bad guy, take us through what that journey looks like.
00:05:04.350 - 00:06:15.924, Speaker B: Sure. So one of the main legal authorities that OFAC uses is a statute called the International Emergency Economic Powers act, or IIPA most of the recent sanctions efforts start with the US government using that AIPA authority to identify some type of a threat to us national security, us foreign policy or the US economy, and declaring what they call a national emergency to deal with the threat. And then the US government will also, usually through an executive order that comes out from the president, will establish certain criteria for imposing sanctions. So an executive order will be issued under that IIPA statute empowering the US government to impose sanctions on persons, individuals or entities who engage in certain specified activities that are deemed to be that type of national security or foreign policy or economic threat. And then where OFAC comes in, also through an interagency process so it is coordinated with some of the other us government agencies, is once that executive order or sanctions listing authorities in place. OFAC has a unit that investigates potential targets. And this is actually one of the areas that Michael used to work in when he was at OFAC.
00:06:15.924 - 00:06:40.844, Speaker B: So they investigate potential targets, identify the individuals and entities who are engaging in the conduct that could warrant being placed on the list. And then that ultimately gets reviewed through an internal process at OFAC vetted with other us government agencies, and then ultimately will result in that person or that entity being named to OFAC's sanctions list, which is known as the specially designated nationals or SDN list.
00:06:41.344 - 00:07:08.460, Speaker C: So that's the high level process. And how would this look in action? And maybe we could take like an Internet example, how does OFAC sort of look at someone who might have a Gmail account in a country where we might have after savvy sanction, and I say emailing to request someone send me a bunch of uranium? And how do we think about sort of like that as a case study and deciding whether or not to impose sanctions on Google, what does that process actually look like?
00:07:08.572 - 00:07:52.066, Speaker B: Certainly. So I think the way that the analysis would start is that with respect to, say, North Korea or Iran and a number of other jurisdictions that are the target of comprehensive sanctions, there is an AIPA authority in place that prohibits imports or exports of services to or from that jurisdiction. So this is actually a different type of OFAC sanction. I was speaking earlier about those list based sanctions where they put a particular person, a particular individual or company on the SDN list. The other thing that OFAC does is impose these blanket prohibitions on transactions that involve a particular jurisdiction. So North Korea is one of those, Iran is one of those. And among those prohibitions is a prohibition on importing or exporting services to or from that jurisdiction.
00:07:52.066 - 00:08:13.514, Speaker B: So the way that a Gmail account would be looked at for, say, an individual who's sitting in North Korea. OFAC would view that as a provision of an Internet based service to that individual and just like any other service to someone in that jurisdiction, because that ban on services is in place. That would be a violation unless it was authorized by OFAC under that licensing.
00:08:13.554 - 00:09:43.354, Speaker D: Authority OFAC has, which I would just add, there's also a number of authorizations or exemptions out there for a lot of different personal communications and other information flows. I think using North Korea is helpful because theres very few exemptions and authorizations related to that. But, for instance, in the Iran context, there are actually quite a few authorizations or exemptions from these, not necessarily that would allow Google services. So I think the, there's nuance in there around things like coursera and educational information flow, but there's like a general license that authorized all sorts of technological services to people in Iran, including around recently actually updated for like human rights actors and getting technology for counter surveillance and to allow the Internet infrastructure to operate to further sort of free exchange of ideas, which dovetails with the Berman amendment, which is a whole other conversation. But just to say that's ways in which there are reasons why the US government and OFAC has specifically said, yes, we need to have this sort of economic statecraft, and there's corrupt and authoritarian regimes out there doing things that we want to take action against. In fact, just today there were fact sanctions on zimbabwean officials related to corruption. But we recognize that people within these countries need access to technology, including for counter authoritarian work, which is the point of the sanctions.
00:09:44.234 - 00:10:00.854, Speaker A: Yeah. So we're going to get to how this all applies to blockchain in a second. But there's still a preliminary question I wanted to ask, which is cash considered a service? In the model we outlined, Gmail is potentially liable because that's a provision of a digital service. Doesn't treasury provide currency services?
00:10:01.194 - 00:10:25.128, Speaker B: So I would say cash itself would not be likely to be viewed as a service. I think at its root, cash would be more likely to be viewed as a good. I think the way that these regulations tend to reach movements of cash or transfers of cash or electronic funds transfers is by viewing the processing of that movement of the cash as a service.
00:10:25.296 - 00:10:41.234, Speaker D: Yeah, which actually, Austin, actually, I don't know where you were at, because I'll let you do it, but I'll just say this leads to some really interesting conversations to the extent that you consider bitcoin or crypto cache like, because it can be peer to peer and basically essentially a bearer instrument.
00:10:41.354 - 00:11:12.060, Speaker A: Yeah, this is exactly where I was going to try and move the conversation. Because if you think of cryptocurrency as a commodity and a p two p system, is the network responsible for the actions of an individual? I want to get into this question with a simple example and then we can work our way back to the tornado cash sanctions. Let's say we have a us based individual who transacts with someone in North Korea over the bitcoin network. There seems to be this assumption that the entire bitcoin network is in some way liable for that. Is that an accurate description of where some of the legal thinking is today?
00:11:12.252 - 00:12:15.364, Speaker D: There were bills out there that would envision this. And I think before even getting into that, I would just say we make a hard distinction sometimes, maybe to our detriment at times about web3 to web two and one. And I think this is one where if you're listening to this or reading the Warren Marshall Bill and you're at Google or let's say one password, you should really be reading all of these bills and thinking, wait a minute, isn't that essentially a key management solution? Isn't that what lastpass keeper one password does? There's all sorts of password key. I mean, a key is a password essentially. There's all sorts of these management solutions that allow you to go in and take action and provision that are providers in that space that are certainly probably not doing meaningful OFAC compliance. Other than that they check when Dave uses his, if he uses his credit card to buy it, it checks that hes not on a list. But it doesnt call up Dave and say wed like a complete due diligence to make sure youre not a member of ISIS.
00:12:15.364 - 00:12:35.376, Speaker D: Theres a lot of groups on the list. Its not just your wallet, its all these other memberships. Youre not doing that. And I think also if youre a cloud services provider that does distributed computing, like even AWs and Google Cloud, id be reading some of this and thinking, wait a minute, weren't these already exempted? Now why are we undoing this? That's a bit of a detour, but.
00:12:35.520 - 00:13:41.134, Speaker C: I think, yeah, well, so I want to like maybe we take a step back because I think there's a couple of questions here. This gets to the heart of like how do we think about sanctioning of infrastructure versus the sanctioning of like, things that are done on top of that infrastructure and where blockchain gets murky is like the infrastructure has native tokens allied with it which I think, like, end up sort of getting implicated, and a lot of questions about, like, what does constitute sanctionable activity? My understanding is that there's the bitcoin network, which is not sanctioned, but if I were to transfer. Use the bitcoin network to send bitcoin to someone in North Korea, that would constitute sanctionable behavior, right? Because I am actually using this network to perform a service or provide funding to someone in, like, in a country that has sort of broad based sanctions on top of it. So I want to make that distinction, right. As it currently stands, by using this particular network, it's not like I am de facto subject to sanctionable behavior, because maybe someone in North Korea uses it, but if I send money to someone in North Korea, that is actually sanctional behavior, is that distinction correct?
00:13:41.294 - 00:14:39.054, Speaker B: Yes, I think that's exactly the way that OFAC would look at it. And I think part of the way that they approach this, which I think is natural, but it definitely leads to areas where more clarity needs to be provided and where old models that worked in the fiat world don't translate to the blockchain world with any type of ease or facility, is that OFAC is used to being able to find a financial institution gatekeeper on one end or the other, or both of a transaction. So to break it back to the fiat world, just as the example, if you were sending dollars to North Korea, there would be a violation by a us person that sent the dollar, violation by the US bank that processed it. And I think part of where the regulatory framework is intending or inclined to evolve here is to figure out what, if anything, is the analogy to the financial institution that would be involved in these transactions, or how do they cope with the fact that there is not a financial institution involved in these transactions.
00:14:39.214 - 00:15:47.414, Speaker D: So, like Dave listed out, the financial institution would probably be liable, Amira, for sending it to begin with. I think no one would expect liability for Verizon that provided the data packets that were allowed to transmit, and the DNS resolver that allowed the front end of her Wells Fargo website to resolve and send the data packets. And I think in that, there are even validators, even though that name is more commonly used in web3, it already existed. In web two, there's validators of data packets related to HTML and RSS feeds. The validator piece, because we've used a lot of financial transaction terminology in web3, it has this feel that you're stamping transactions as valid, but in fact, it's really just checking the correctness of a data packet according to automated rules, the automated functions that are processing data in that fiat transaction, you wouldn't look to them and expect them to be held liable.
00:15:47.714 - 00:15:59.778, Speaker A: Yeah. So this is something I want to get into. If I send money via my bank to someone who is on the sanctions list, would swift be liable if it was an international wire transfer? I don't actually know the answer here.
00:15:59.866 - 00:16:03.554, Speaker C: I see that it's about to get spicy, so let's get here.
00:16:03.594 - 00:16:04.214, Speaker D: Yeah.
00:16:04.794 - 00:16:40.634, Speaker B: Right. So I would say Swift, and I think this goes to exactly the distinction that we've been speaking about here. Right. Swift is, I think, sometimes misunderstood as the entity that actually moves the money. But the t in Swift stands for telecommunication. The only thing that Swift is doing is it's a messaging platform between the banks, and then the banks act on those messages to move the money, make credits and debits on their ledgers and so on. So the only thing that Swift is doing is providing a communication channel between the banks with respect to the movement of these funds.
00:16:40.634 - 00:16:45.202, Speaker B: So I would say in that scenario that you raised Austin, that Swift would not be liable.
00:16:45.378 - 00:17:13.438, Speaker A: Okay, let's roll up one level higher. Let's talk about a situation where Amira sends Ethereum from her wallet via tornado cash to someone who's on the sanction list. The function of tornado cash here is it's a messaging protocol. Like, one of the core things about blockchain is the coins never actually move from one wallet to another wallet. We're just reassigning ownership, and that ownership is reflected in the blockchain's ledger. So why is tornado cache seen differently than Swift in the previous example?
00:17:13.566 - 00:17:32.954, Speaker C: Can we actually back up really quick before we get into tornado cash? Because I think these distinctions are really important to draw. So in this example, I use Ethereum to send ETH to someone in North Korea. Is the ethereum network liable in that case, or is it sort of similar to swift? Where do you come down on the network itself?
00:17:33.634 - 00:18:36.504, Speaker B: I think the way that OFAC or the US regulators would look at that would be to focus, in particular, because they only have jurisdiction over US persons. Right. To focus on whether there were us actors involved in that network and whether they were in a position to identify the fact that the beneficiary of this transfer was in the sanctioned jurisdiction. And then because the overall expectation of OFAC in sanctions compliance generally is to have a risk based compliance program, I think they would say that us persons that are involved in that transaction, that have the ability to discern that it's going to North Korea should be putting in place some type of a risk based compliance measure to interdict and prevent that. Now, of course, one of the hallmarks of these technologies is that you aren't going to know that it's going to North Korea. And so I think the regulators dont expect us persons to achieve the impossible or to know the unknowable.
00:18:36.844 - 00:19:24.506, Speaker A: It sometimes does feel like they do expect us to know the impossible, though. And this is speaking as someone whos not in the regulation trenches day to day, but as someone who sees their effects. One of the things id love to do as a thought experiment is how could treasury be liable in a situation like this? You can make an argument that treasury has not done everything it could to stop the use of cash in the drug trade. Obviously, there's huge amounts of money that have been spent trying to stop the drug trade, but from a technology standpoint, we know there's a lot more that could be done. And it's no coincidence there's more hundred dollar bills in circulation than $1 bills. They fit in a duffel bag really well. Like, there are technologies we can incorporate into the $100 bill to prevent them from being used as part of the drug trade, like chemical trace signatures, other sorts of things, but treasury hasn't implemented them.
00:19:24.506 - 00:19:37.146, Speaker A: And now when you turn around and look at the way some of these crypto regulation bills are being written, it does feel like there's a bit of an impossible request being made to blockchain networks. That doesn't seem like it's being made to other actors in the financial system.
00:19:37.290 - 00:19:57.404, Speaker C: Yeah, there's a lot in there. I mean, it feels like maybe we should go to tornado cash first, because I think that's, like, maybe most responsive to the set of questions. And as someone who's, like a former sort of national security professional, it's like, really helpful to get the perspective of someone who's, like, never touched government before. Right. To be like, all right, I don't know. Treasury doesn't actually. I don't know what Treasury's obligations on the drug trade.
00:19:57.404 - 00:20:16.264, Speaker C: There's a bunch of agencies out there. FinCEn does part of this, but. So let's actually talk about tornado cash. So, like, maybe Mike or Dave, it'd be good to just have. Maybe Mike will throw it to you, like, what happened in tornado cash? Like, just like, from the facts perspective, like, what did treasury do here? And then we could talk about whether or not it feels valid.
00:20:16.884 - 00:20:17.316, Speaker A: Sure.
00:20:17.380 - 00:20:45.260, Speaker D: Yeah. So there were two actions, actually. 1st August, 8 of last year. OFAC sanctioned tornado cash. And that was sort of defined in the original listing for its alleged role in laundering. Actually, it was over $455 million worth of cryptocurrency stolen by a north korean linked hacking organization called Lazarus Group. And Lazarus group has been a very well known national security issue for quite a long time.
00:20:45.260 - 00:21:41.944, Speaker D: And the sense is that 455 million in crypto at a time when, if you remember back, ransomware was also at a peak, North Korea, as an issue was also peaking due to their sort of missile tests. And so the original sanctioning was the first time that smart contracts were sanctioned or designated listed on the list. Usually there's some sort of, at the very end, this is very technical, but at the very end of a listing, it'll maybe have in brackets like, here's the program it was listed under, and then here's what it was. It was an entity or whatever it was or organization. This actually didn't have that on that one, I believe. And at the time, it was sort of, I think including tech folks that were beyond crypto, were looking at this as, like, code being sanctioned and designated. There wasnt really a huge description of the organization itself, or what does that mean? A lot of people took it to be that the smart contract was being designated.
00:21:41.944 - 00:22:51.242, Speaker D: And then I think maybe Dave and I were more in the weeds thinking like, oh, my gosh, wait, is it block property or is it designated? What does this mean? Is it property? And then leading to all kinds of conversations about First Amendment. Is this code is speech? What about code and then commercial speech? Well, what about code that's active and involved in commerce in some form. But I think the big move was that prior cryptocurrency related designations, it was wallets. So you suddenly move to an actual smart contract, and that has all sorts of implications for even the implementation of sanctions and the enforcement, one of which. Well, let's get to that in a second. But let me get to the second designation, which was they did a, there were some lawsuits, as Amira noted, which is not totally unusual for OFAC, particularly in a national security situation, which we had with North Korea at the time, is to move pretty quickly and then go back and spend more time sort of reviewing the record and seeing if there's something that they want to make clearer or update or tighten. And that's what they did on November 8 of last year, where they delisted and redesignated tornado cash.
00:22:51.242 - 00:24:12.252, Speaker D: And this time, they sort of broadened the justification, emphasizing that it was specifically supporting north korean hackers, including made the tie of how that was benefiting the weapons of mass destruction program in North Korea, sort of shoring up the justification for it. And I think the other piece of it that's relevant to all this is that they sort of named it as an entity and put out an faq that also sort of explained, like, you know, if you've been dusted, we're not going to take enforcement action on that. And you can potentially get a license to get your money out if you have money in there. So sort of trying to address the collateral impact issue and then also addressing the sort of what is sanctioned, reminding people no developers were sanctioned or designated to put on the list. This was an organization and basically saying, this is an unincorporated association, which in many ways would harken back to Austin's narco groups that are also not incorporated, or they are with front companies in Delaware probably Monday, but they're as a function, they're not incorporated associations. There's a lot to dig into that even itself, I think, because while it's true that OFAC has designated unincorporated associations before, Dave will know even better than me because he's seen thousands of these packages. But, like, that's not a, hey, we all decided that Amir and Austin are together, and they probably work together.
00:24:12.252 - 00:24:49.874, Speaker D: They probably have an unincorporated association. It's like you actually lay out, this is how these people are operating towards a common goal. This is how we know that their interests are aligned. There's essentially a command and control element to this. It's not just sort of picking people out and deciding that they're an unincorporated association. In fact, in the russian organized crime space in particular, there's been a lot of debate about different groups being designated of. Like, well, are they really a thing that operates with a common interest, or is it just that occasionally their interests collide and they might even align, or they might not? And is that right to call it an association?
00:24:50.034 - 00:24:57.106, Speaker C: Well, also in this case, what is the association? It's like a bunch of code that's been deployed to GitHub and used to process these.
00:24:57.290 - 00:25:51.044, Speaker D: Yeah, I think that's part of the question. If you're looking at it from OFAC's perspective, I think they would say the people who contributed to this code that they saw as being a mixer that was going to be used to obfuscate $455 million worth of cryptocurrency by north korean hackers to support the w and D program, that they all knew what they were making, and they made a mixer on purpose. I think the thing that makes it surprising if you look back into the history of OFAC designations, is also, well, okay. But even chainalysis, who had the most negative assessment of how much illicit activity was going on, and others had less. But they said around 30% of it could be tied to illicit activity. But that means 70% of the users were at least not identifiably engaging in anything illicit, which that's an enormous amount of collateral impact that I wouldn't necessarily expect.
00:25:51.824 - 00:26:21.498, Speaker A: The challenge I have with this is there's no question that tornado cash was not built to help North Korea. In no world is there any evidence for that. It just happens to be how the thing was used. And to me, it doesnt seem much different than London real estate or New York real estate. These are properties that are not built to be an offshore stash for the wealth of russian oligarchs. They just happen to be. And we dont see real estate developers brought up on charges for selling apartments at exorbitant prices to foreign nationals.
00:26:21.498 - 00:26:50.480, Speaker A: And so this one felt a little strange because it wasnt that they were going after a technology that had any explicit intention to be used in this way. It was privacy preserving technology that happened to be used in this way. You know, it reminds me a lot of the encryption debates that go on every 20 years. When someone in law enforcement and Congress decides we need to break end to end encryption, they drum up all kinds of reasons for it. This happened in the nineties. This happened again after 911. This happened again a few years ago.
00:26:50.480 - 00:26:59.710, Speaker A: And so I wonder how much of this is good faith and how much of this is security apparatuses trying to do what they do, which is always accumulate more information and more power.
00:26:59.862 - 00:27:45.514, Speaker C: I'll jump in here and I'll defend the US government, which is sort of an interesting hot take. I think what this really gets into your point, Austin, is what I hear from a lot of folks I talk to who are sort of working at the intersection of national security and crypto is this accusation of decentralization theater. The idea here that I think you're raising is like, it's just code. These things are out there for people to use. There's no intent built into it. It's kind of crazy to hold an individual or organization liable when it just sort of exists in the ether the same way that this cup exists. And I think the big accusation from the government's perspective is sometimes the industry makes itself out to be way more decentralized than it is.
00:27:45.514 - 00:28:48.162, Speaker C: There actually are points of failure. This isn't sort of a thing that just exists in the ether, no pun intended. It is something that people can actually take action behind. And so I think what's really interesting is in the original designation, the undersecretary of treasury, Brad Nelson, said despite public assurances otherwise, tornado Cash has repeatedly failed to impose effective controls designed to stop it from laundering funds from malicious cyber actors on a regular basis and without basic measures to address risks. This is super interesting. It means that he went there and he was like, we've had communications with tornado cash, or at least we've tried to communicate with this organization, implying that there's an organization there and they didn't actually take steps to comply. And so the question there is, from the perspective of industry, what's actually the threshold at which it no longer makes sense from the perspective of someone like an undersecretary of treasury to engage directly or expect a response and just believe that these things are out there to be used.
00:28:48.338 - 00:29:33.568, Speaker D: I think the part of the thing that was, and this is why it seems a bit odd to me, the route that went was just that tornado cash itself was explicitly using the free chain analysis API to do some form of the basic sanctions blocking. And so it seemed odd to go right to designation. And maybe there were conversations that we don't know about. But I feel like in a normal situation, well, when I would go to Dave Stetson to clear something, he would not have cleared a package for me. If I said, Dave, no big deal. There's a bunch of us persons involved, which we know because they're on Twitter and they're saying that they're affiliated with tornado cash. And the tornado cache Twitter feed itself has said they're using the chainalysis API.
00:29:33.568 - 00:30:26.332, Speaker D: So at a minimum, you could dm whoever's running the tornado cache Twitter that's saying we're using chainlises API and say we should have a conversation. We think this isn't enough, or we get it that there's a lot of legitimate users just like a VPN, but 30% is just too high and 500 million is too much. And we need to come up with, let's work together in some form. I think if I went to Dave and said, there's us persons involved, we're just going to sanction them, he would say, no, you're not, but we can. I could be wrong, but we'll have a conversation with Department of Justice, probably. And then I think it would be. And then we would also go into this collateral impact analysis of like, well, wait a minute, you're saying it was designed, I mean, Austin mentioned this as well, and Amir, but like you're saying this was designed aid North Korea, but 70% of it was not tied to illicit activity.
00:30:26.332 - 00:30:40.748, Speaker D: So it's either failing miserably or something's happening. Although I still think if 30% of Wells Fargo's activity was illicit, something would 100% happen. I don't think it would be a designation, but there would be something. So let me turn it over to Dave.
00:30:40.876 - 00:31:23.626, Speaker B: Right. Well, I think on that point, I mean, I think that's a really interesting issue to explore in terms of. I think that in making these types of listing decisions or designation decisions, I think OFAC is much more focused on the consequences of what quote unquote organization is doing than on the intent that was behind its establishment or its creation. And I think that certainly leads to a lot of overbroad consequences when these listings happen. But I think that's something that OFAC accepts as inherent in a lot of their sanctions listings. So they put major russian banks on the OFAC list in response to the war in Ukraine. The largest retail bank in Russia is on the OFAC list.
00:31:23.626 - 00:31:59.704, Speaker B: Probably 98% of the deposits at that bank have nothing to do with the war in Ukraine. But OFAC froze 100% of the assets of that bank within us jurisdiction because they found that it met one of these criteria for a sanctions listing. So they don't think that it's a necessary factor for the code or the organization or for the activity to have been initiated with a purpose of helping North Korea or a bad actor. If the result is that they're helping the bad actor, thats enough for effect to want to take action.
00:32:07.084 - 00:32:34.016, Speaker A: So going back to the russian bank example, this is a large retail bank, and the vast, vast majority of activity is not related to the war in Ukraine. Do these sanctions actually accomplish their goals? I dont think anyone is going to argue with the example of preventing Nazis from getting access to funds during World War Two, but it's a big step from that to say that anyone using tornado cash should be under the same regime that was used to prevent the Nazis from accessing financial instruments.
00:32:34.200 - 00:33:38.500, Speaker B: Right? Right. So I think the question of whether sanctions are effective or meet their goals is a very difficult one to answer for a lot of reasons, one of which is that one of the purposes of sanctions in many cases is to prevent people from even trying to get away with certain activity. So there's sort of dog that doesn't bark type of question, and then there's of course, the fact that a lot of these policy decisions and sanctions listings have consequences that play out over time and that they can't be measured immediately. And that in some ways, the US government is playing the long game with these types of actions. But I would say with respect to tornado cash in particular, I think if one of the consequences of the OFAC listing, which I understand to be the case, is that the website has been taken down, it's sort of harder for actors to be able to use tornado cash, at least in transactions that otherwise touched the United States. I think OFAC would look at that as a policy success. And in terms of the over breadth, I think this goes to one of the points we touched on briefly earlier around this ability to issue licenses.
00:33:38.500 - 00:34:31.120, Speaker B: And Michael mentioned this as well, I think, which is that I think what OFAC would say is that they have a remedy for the innocent bystander whose funds get locked up in Tornado cash and was doing nothing wrong by using the privacy enhancing aspects of it, and had no intent to engage in illicit activity or launder ransomware proceeds. And I think what OFAC would say and has said in one of the faqs that they put out is that they have this licensing authority that is designed to kind of unstick those frozen funds, unfreeze those frozen funds for the innocent parties, and that that is how they strike that balance between maybe it's the 30% of illicit and 70% not illicit, and that they will use that licensing authority rather than forbear from taking any action in response to what they said at the time was $7 billion worth of laundering that had happened through the protocol.
00:34:31.312 - 00:34:41.584, Speaker C: Is it a fair remedy, though? Is this actually feasible for the average person to go apply for an OFAC exemption to get their salary or money tied up in tornado cash?
00:34:41.624 - 00:34:41.896, Speaker D: Yeah.
00:34:41.960 - 00:34:43.432, Speaker A: How many have actually been issued?
00:34:43.528 - 00:35:22.874, Speaker D: That's a good question. They don't publicly list them. So I don't know. I do think including if you compare to sort of the russian retail bank example, and I don't know specifically which ones in particular, but in many of those cases, it wouldn't just be a specific licensing where everybody has to hire a lawyer and go in and possibly pay a lawyer more than the amount that you actually have in tornado cash to get this back. They would do a, what's called a wind down license that would say, we know there's a lot of legitimate operators in this. You have 90 days, you know, to remove your assets. And after that, we're watching sort of, and it would allow them to.
00:35:22.874 - 00:36:05.456, Speaker D: It would allow people, sort of innocent users to refer to any outgoing bank. Like, look, there's a wind down license. I can move this stuff out. I think at a scope of 70% I would sort of normally expect some sort of wind down license. I know it's a complicated space, but when we've done bank designations at OFAC, like in Honduras and other places that were had narco connections, I mean, there were people on the ground the next day figuring out wind down licenses, recognizing that there are people that are trying to pay their mortgage that have nothing to do with this. There were faqs. I think it was all, it's hard to say, too slow because of hack is so under resourced for what it's supposed to do.
00:36:05.456 - 00:36:45.728, Speaker D: It's sort of ridiculous. But the flip side is, I would expect this to have that sort of wind down license that wouldn't require somebody that you could have dollar 250 in there. I mean that's not going to get you started with most lawyers. And I don't think it's even good for OFAC to have everybody writing their own license applications and to have the time and ability to do that. And I think Austin's questions of effectiveness points to another issue. Why I think it should have been more of an enforcement posture, if anything, than a designation, is just that the way that these function is even calibrating for the collateral impact through licensing, ideally through general licensing. These are behavior change mechanisms, not punishment explicitly.
00:36:45.728 - 00:38:10.414, Speaker D: And so to even be asking the question did they work? Is like you're asking that because that is the purpose, is to change behavior. So it's unclear how sort of an immutable smart contract is going to change behavior and how it could ever get delisted. So it seems an odd tool to use if you're presuming that there's no way that it could get off the list, which also means that all the 70% of people, unless they're going to shell out to hire a law firm to come in and get a specific license or spend the time learning oFAC to do that, theyre just locked in there potentially indefinitely. And so its a complicated one because as Dave rightly points out, well, from a total practical standpoint of was it effective? The liquidity has precipitously dropped in tornado cash and there arent many licit users that are going to go to tornado cash, even though its the perfectly legitimate means for 70% of the users to be a dev doing some work that didn't want to once they got paid $250. Now whoever paid them now knows their wallet address for life. And so it's like maintaining your VPN that, yes, some people have abused it, but there's a lot of good reasons why we want people riding Amtrak or staying in hotels to use VPN's. And so I think normally you would have like its effective, yes, in that it dropped the liquidity, but effective in that it could ever be delisted.
00:38:10.414 - 00:38:15.514, Speaker D: Its hard for me to imagine how they would even be possible to be delisted.
00:38:16.254 - 00:39:35.744, Speaker B: Maybe one more point on the effectiveness thing, just to look at one potential other way that OFAC would look to measure the effectiveness of actions like this is what they, I think would embrace as the chilling effect of actions like this. Right. And this sort of goes back to the quote we were talking about earlier from the undersecretary about they clearly have this perception that there were things, additional measures that could have been done that the organization behind tornado Cash was not willing to do. And that was part of the reason why they went forward with this designation. So I think having announced that and having made that statement that the undersecretary made, I think they're looking to strike fear into people who may be developing similar protocols, that if the treasury comes knocking and says, why don't you do x, y or z, that they at least should be engaging on that. And if to the point about whether you can do the impossible or know the unknowable, if what treasury thinks can be done actually cannot be done, then I would expect, and maybe I'm a little bit overly optimistic about good government here, but I would expect that a reasonable policymaker would accept the argument that they are simply mistaken if they think that x, y or z could be done. But for now, of course, we're kind of shadowboxing because we don't know what the ask was and what tornado Cash's response to it was.
00:39:35.744 - 00:40:05.664, Speaker B: But I think for as long as treasury has this perception that there are additional steps that could be taken that were not taken in tornado caches case, I think those who are potentially putting out similar types of smart contracts or developing similar protocols are now incentivized to think more about whether there's more that could be done in this area to strike that balance between the illicit and the illicit in a way that is more suitable to what the US government sees as the policy goals.
00:40:06.164 - 00:41:14.298, Speaker D: One quick addition to that, because I think all great points, and I think it's important to be thinking in the most generous terms to OFAC because they are well intentioned public servants. And I think if anything, this was a mandate from the NSC saying, this is too much money to North Korea, do it. And I think that's why you see a redesignation when they had time to catch their breath. But I also think that sort of collateral impact points to why I think sanctions was probably the wrong tool for this. You could potentially do enforcement or do what other engagement. But the collateral impact of the chilling, I think because you're talking about open source development, I think is beyond anything that you would see in a normal financial situation where there was a recent action actually against Wells Fargo, while we're picking on them, involved in some sanctioned screening, like some software, basically financial messaging software, that wasn't doing sanctions screening appropriately. This wasn't Linus torts, Volt and a hundred thousand other people that put in one little pull request to GitHub.
00:41:14.298 - 00:42:03.076, Speaker D: They didn't know what exactly it was going to be used for. And it went in, it was like a whole bunch of software developers hired by Wells Fargo to specifically make financial software infrastructure that everyone knew was going to be used to move billions of dollars a week. All us persons, probably from Wells Fargo, based in the US, and had people repeatedly internally saying, guys, this is not working. This is a huge risk. It's not working. And over and over and over again. Whereas I think you have something in the open source space like this, where you could have one piece of contribution to a planck or a snark or a ZK proof or something that somebody pulled from your Apache license over here and put it in over here because they were allowed to.
00:42:03.076 - 00:42:52.002, Speaker D: And now did you just contribute to something? Was it reasonably foreseeable? Is reasonably foreseeable. Even the test, and because people weren't specifically enforced against, that could appeal or listed in designation, that could appeal. You have this collateral chilling where people that are in some way associated through GitHub as having been involved in some form with tornado cash are getting deplatformed. And because there's no specific listing or anything for them to appeal against, it's sort of just this. It is like a shadow ban, but it's developers that their livelihood is doing development work that might be secure. I mean, you could have security workers who are, these are people that are into cybersecurity that are thinking, well, this is like a VPN, this is really important. I'm doing this one little piece.
00:42:52.002 - 00:43:36.614, Speaker D: I don't know that someone's going to abuse it dramatically. And it happened to take off. And so Lazarus Group decided it was very usable. But are you way over chilling sort of open source software development, which, and actually the Atlantic Council recently published an awesome piece of about how open source development is the backbone of infrastructure in the US at this point. For software, you want open source software development. There's a reason it's taken off from the early Linux days to now where it's the predominant, actually California state recently created some of their software for the state functioning using an open source software bidding process that actually created it. I think it was 70% under budget.
00:43:36.614 - 00:44:20.042, Speaker D: And then when it was code audited, people said actually this is fantastic. It's just had a million eyes on it and it's some of the best stuff out there. So I think you don't want to be in a position of chilling people from feeling like I can't contribute in even a small way. Like, sure, if you get in the way that OFAC has traditionally functioned, you have the sort of, even though intent is not a specific part of it, you have what's. These are circumstantial indicators that somebody built something to specifically launder for North Korea or whatever. I think that's a different situation, but I just think the percentages here are a bit off. And there's no question that 554 million to North Korea had become an unacceptable amount.
00:44:20.042 - 00:44:30.094, Speaker D: So I think I really see this as a North Korea action, not an attack on devs by any means. It's more that the collateral impact I think, to me is sort of over the line.
00:44:30.534 - 00:45:19.610, Speaker C: I want to make sure that we pivot in the last few minutes to talk about this new ward Marshall bill, because I'd love to get both of your takes on it and sort of how we think about it, because it's another more legislative approach to tackling illicit finance and crypto. This bill is first released at the end of last year, and it's expected to be rereleased anytime now. And basically what it seeks to do is categorize validators, minors. I think MeV searchers are even in the bill, or past versions of the bill, as financial institutions that are subject to bank secrecy act obligations. And this is my impression of it is it just feels like it misunderstands how this technology works. But then I go in and I chat with folks who are authors of the bill. They're quite adamant that this is same rules, same regulations as we have in the financial system.
00:45:19.610 - 00:45:41.178, Speaker C: And Mike, I know you and I have talked ad nauseam about why this may or may not be same rules, same regulation. I'm curious, is it the same rules and same regulation? As the financial system or is this actually, are they thinking about things pretty differently from how we traditionally think about categorizing validators or messaging platforms, for example?
00:45:41.346 - 00:46:42.714, Speaker D: Yeah, Amira, I don't see it as same rules because as we discussed, there are even versions of validators in web one and web two, like data processing and DNS. Resolving and packet switching has been happening since the T in Swift was telecom in the early days. This has always been the infrastructure of communications. So we've may have done it to ourselves a little by calling things wallets instead of key management. But I don't think this is same rule, same risk. And also I think that's the way you frame it is good because the point should be what are the risks and how do we address them? Not lets make everything a financial intermediary and ICANN, lastpass and Google cloud can all become like JPMorgan. Everyone will have a 3000 person compliance department thats reading everything and will be completely safe because I think the reality is coming from a national security background, its just things are just going to go darker in other ways.
00:46:42.714 - 00:47:35.424, Speaker D: Thats not going to be the answer to it. So it shouldnt be. Let's make everything fit the old rules. What's the risk that we're trying to address here and how do we address it and frankly have that conversation then of like, well, wait a minute, in the Wells Fargo transaction, are we requiring Cloudflare and Google, are we requiring Google in general to read all of the emails and documents that Amira creates? Because any given one of those could be the email that's telling someone how to get weapons to Russia. Like, we don't, we consider that data, it's data processing. And there's, yes, they shouldn't give the account directly to Vladimir Putin, but they aren't reading every, well, they're reading all of Amir's emails to sell her things, but they're not reading them for sanctions compliance. So we've decided under the old rules, it's okay for marketing but we're not going to do it for sanctions compliance.
00:47:35.424 - 00:47:53.924, Speaker D: To suddenly say okay now packet switchers and syntactic validators for code to make sure there aren't errors in it. You should be giving everybody a frisk before they send it. It just seems like a strange way to approach it when the risk hasn't been defined.
00:47:54.304 - 00:49:09.836, Speaker B: Right. I was just going to just pick up on that point about the risk being defined and going back to that notion of risk based compliance, being that each actor, particularly each us actor, is expected to put in place mechanisms that respond to the risks that are identifiable to them, and that there's a rule of reason with respect to that as well. So one example that I often give is, in theory, if an individual who's on the SDN list shows up at a Starbucks in New York City and wants to buy a coffee, it's prohibited for Starbucks to sell that person a coffee. Does Starbucks take everyone's name and screen them against the SDN list before they hand them a Venti pike place? No, they don't. And so there's a bit of a sense of just because information is accessible to you that you could use to deploy for sanctioned screening, and maybe it is IP address information with respect to a transaction that's happening on the blockchain. OFAC has said in a number of cases that where that information is being collected, there's a strong presumption that it should be used for sanctions compliance purposes. But at some point, there's a rule of reason that says that Starbucks doesn't have to screen the name of everyone who's buying a coffee.
00:49:09.836 - 00:49:57.874, Speaker B: And I think the challenge in the war and Marshall legislation is what the ideal outcome would be. And whether this is what the bill would achieve, I think is very much an open question. But what the ideal outcome would be for a subset of the actors that are in a position to take those risk based steps to have the obligation to do it. And that's actually what would be most similar to the existing rules for the traditional financial institutions, which is not that Gmail is screening your email, not that swift is screening those messages, because there are other players in the ecosystem on whom those burdens are placed with respect to anti money laundering, namely the financial institutions that are involved. So sort of treating everyone, including those who are merely transmitting information, as being the same as a traditional bank, seems like an overbroad response to the issue.
00:49:58.574 - 00:50:55.014, Speaker A: Yeah, the Starbucks example is interesting because there's nothing stopping us today from putting a facial scanner on every cash register in the United States. We can laugh about that because it's a little ridiculous of an idea, but from a technology standpoint, we have all the technology we need to have an incredibly strong surveillance state pushing sanctions enforcement at every cash register in America. And this is why I think the blockchain piece of it is so interesting, because the way the blockchain technology is built, it is easier to implement this kind of surveillance, but it's also just as easy in the traditional world. And I guess from my perspective, the reason that this feels like it's worth fighting against in blockchain is not just for the sake of blockchain, but because you could very quickly see a push to bring this exact kind of financial surveillance into people's day to day lives where you have facial recognition systems at the Starbucks to make sure someone's not on a certain list. But it seems like people are not necessarily thinking about it from that risk profile.
00:50:55.354 - 00:51:13.134, Speaker C: There's also a differentiator between how Internet and technologies built in the United States and blockchain in particular, versus how it's built in other countries. Right. And sort of the values posture that we take has resonance beyond our own borders. And that becomes like really true with how we think about technology.
00:51:13.834 - 00:51:57.048, Speaker D: Yeah, I think so. I mean, this is why this is, well, two things, I think that's why. One, I think the bill should be defining the risk and why the response to that is the right cost benefit analysis, which I think is why we don't have. I mean, the chinese method of sort of facial scanning and everything is electronic, state controlled. Money makes sense for them, I guess. But I think it's demonstrable that that is not sort of the foundation of the US as a hub for personal sovereignty, which has led to the, the innovation that's made the US sort of an economic powerhouse, or at least an innovation powerhouse to date. And I think that's the sort of cost benefit that has to be made.
00:51:57.048 - 00:52:56.830, Speaker D: And I think it's also when you're not defining the risk, it gets easy to sort of make fixes that fit whatever you want. But we spent years with listening to folks complaining that the reason that ransomware was happening was because of crypto, including those of us in the national security space saying, no, actually its a cybersecurity issue. And in FinCEN, in fact, we convened a bunch of people and said were not going to take action on crypto, were actually going to treat the cybersecurity issue, which is bringing in cybersecurity experts and lets build a better infrastructure that resists ransomware. In the last crypto crime report from chain Elysis, crypto payments to ransomware were down 60%. And if you look at what was it that led to the payments being down 60%, it wasn't because we banned crypto. It's because people focused on proper cybersecurity so that they didn't have to pay to begin with, which was insurance companies saying, we're not going to insure you unless you do vulnerability testing, unless you do multi factor authentication, unless you do data backups. So all these things.
00:52:56.830 - 00:53:27.744, Speaker D: While everybody was talking about crypto, it was distracting from people focusing on the fact that that actually here's a bunch of concrete things that can get done that will actually reduce it as opposed to just talking about what's not the risk. So I do think it's really important that in these bills, and it happens in rulemaking more as a requirement, but you need to define the risk. And why does the cost benefit make sense, whereas that bill is just sort of an overbroad. Let's treat everybody like a bank.
00:53:28.244 - 00:53:45.084, Speaker C: Yeah, I really like where we've arrived in this conversation because we're really getting to the principles of how do we weigh values like privacy against some of the changes that technology could usher in? And this is something that's applicable not just in blockchain but across the board. So appreciate your teasing this out with us, guys.
00:53:47.944 - 00:53:57.564, Speaker A: Validated is produced by Ray Belli with help from Ross Cohen, Brandon Ector, Emira Valiani and Ainsley Medford engineering by Tyler Morazette.
