00:00:08.090 - 00:00:59.658, Speaker A: Hey, bankless Nation, welcome to this newest episode of the Meet the Nation series. Today I'm talking with Carson Cook from the Tokenmac project. Tokenmac is a brand new system that is kind of currently in its bootstrapping phase, getting its project right out the door. And it is called, Carson called this a liquidity utility. And so we go through the entire show as to what that means. What is a liquidity utility? And the conclusion that I came to is that Tokenmack is a system of dials and levers and tools that allow people to more strategically and point liquidity across Defi. And so this might be a fantastic tool for dows who want to make sure that the liquidity behind their token is highly optimized and strategic and not just a chaos of mess of just a thousand different participants all doing their own strategy.
00:00:59.658 - 00:01:32.118, Speaker A: What if we got all these participants together, pool liquidity, and had a more focused strategy with regards to the liquidity for a token? But it goes much beyond that. But I will leave that part of the conversation for Carson himself in the actual show. So let's go ahead and get right into it. But first, a moment to talk about some of these fantastic sponsors that make the show possible. Living a bankless life requires taking control of your own private keys. Not your keys, not your crypto. That's why so many in the bankless nation already have their ledger hardware wallets, which makes proper private key management a breeze.
00:01:32.118 - 00:02:10.166, Speaker A: But the ledger ecosystem is more than just a secure hardware wallet. Ledger is the combination of the ledger hardware wallet and the Ledger live app. And if you're used to seeing all of your crypto services and favorite dapps all in one place, ledger is where you want to be. Not only does Ledger let you buy crypto assets straight from the app, but it also hooks into decentralized exchange aggregators like Paraswap, which makes sure that you are getting the best prices on your trades without your assets ever leaving your control. Defi never stops growing, and the ledger live app grows alongside with it. So click the link in the show notes to see all the defi apps that ledger live has. And stay tuned as more and more apps come online.
00:02:10.166 - 00:02:48.402, Speaker A: And if you don't have a ledger hardware wallet, what are you even waiting for? Go to ledger.com, grab your ledger, download ledger live, and get all of your dapps all in one place. Arbitrum is an Ethereum scaling solution that is going to completely change how we use DFI. If you've been using Ethereum for the past twelve months, you've probably noticed the high gas fees and the slow confirmation times that have been plaguing DFI. Too many people want to use Ethereum, and it doesn't have enough capacity for all of us. That's where Arbitrum comes in. Arbitrum is a layer two to Ethereum, which means arbitrum can increase Ethereum's throughput by orders of magnitude at a fraction of the cost of what we are used to paying.
00:02:48.402 - 00:03:40.494, Speaker A: When interacting with Arbitrum, you can get the performance of a centralized exchange while tapping into Ethereum's level of security and decentralization. This is why people are calling this Ethereum's broadband moment, where we get to add performance onto decentralization and security. If you're a developer and you want to save on gas costs and make an overall better experience for your users, go to developer offchainlabs.com to get started building on Arbitrum if you're a user, keep an eye out for your favorite DFI apps building on Arbitrum Arbitrum has been working with over 300 teams, including Ethereum's top infrastructure projects, and will be opening up to all users shortly. There are so many apps coming online to Arbitram, so you may want to pack your bags in preparation for the great migration to the arbitrum layer two to keep up to speed with Arbitrum. Follow them on Twitter at arbitrum and join their discord. All right, bankless nation.
00:03:40.494 - 00:03:58.680, Speaker A: I'm here with Carson Cook, who is the founder of Tokamac. And Tokamac comes to me from just a number of recommendations, and I believe we are also putting out something on the bankless newsletter. So that actually might be coming out the same time as this video if we can get things coordinated. So, Carson, welcome to the bankless meet the nation show.
00:03:59.150 - 00:04:00.906, Speaker B: Thanks for having me. Excited to be here.
00:04:01.008 - 00:04:04.810, Speaker A: So let's go ahead and get right into it. What is Tokamac?
00:04:05.390 - 00:04:36.238, Speaker B: So Tokamac is a decentralized market maker or decentralized liquidity provider. For Defi, it's essentially the answer to the question, what happens if you pull apart a market making or trading firm into its constituents parts, the capital that is used to trade, the strategic decisions that the executives at a firm would usually make in order to route the liquidity or sort of set the trader's mark on what they can trade and where, and then finally the trading expertise and technology that actually sets the bids and offers into the markets.
00:04:36.414 - 00:04:44.550, Speaker A: Okay, so this is a decentralized trading firm, or would it maybe be more appropriate to just call it a trading firm, but as a dow.
00:04:44.970 - 00:05:44.902, Speaker B: This is a dow and a protocol, and it's sort of a proxy to a trading firm, but you can think of it actually more as a liquidity utility. So it came from that sort of question, but the answer ended up being, decentralize this thing into a utility. We basically were observing that all dows, sort of across DFI, web three, et cetera, were suffering from the same thing, which was illiquid markets, and they were living and dying by liquidity. And we started to realize that liquidity was playing this very important role in the space, almost to the level that bandwidth played in the early days of the Internet. So pre broadband Internet, you just didn't have enough bandwidth to build really interesting applications on top. Broadband came along, and then all of a sudden, you could do things like Netflix, cloud gaming, streaming gaming, et cetera. Similarly, within the area of blockchain, where value flow is replacing the data flow of the Internet, what we realized was every project has separated their user from their application with a token, and that means that liquidity plays that same role as bandwidth.
00:05:44.902 - 00:05:51.078, Speaker B: And with Tokenmap, we're building this liquidity utility, which will enable sort of the broadband moment of liquidity for defi.
00:05:51.254 - 00:05:58.078, Speaker A: Okay, so it sounds like it's a kind of a hybrid protocol, human led organization, right?
00:05:58.244 - 00:06:36.022, Speaker B: Yeah, you can think of it as a protocol first and foremost. But the holders of our native token, which is called Toca, T-O-K-E are the liquidity directors. So when I mentioned those sort of executives at a trading firm, those executives are actually the holder of our token. And those are what we call liquidity directors that determine where the TVL or the assets in our protocol flow. So at launch, we're going to have support for Sushiswap, Uniswap, Balancer, and zero X, and we'll add more exchanges and amms over time. And these liquidity directors are basically giving votes each cycle, which start week long, on what assets should have liquidity and where that should flow, sort of across the space. So you might vote.
00:06:36.022 - 00:06:51.162, Speaker B: I want to see SNX liquidity, and I want to see it on Sushiswap as an example. And the incentives rebalance everything to both attract more, in this case, SNX liquidity, into the system, and then be routed down into the venue, in this case, Sushiswap.
00:06:51.306 - 00:07:00.930, Speaker A: So who would you say would be, like, the ideal customer or user of Tokamac who is in the most need of what the services that are being offered?
00:07:01.670 - 00:07:52.420, Speaker B: Yeah, great question. So we built this with dows and protocols in mind, really builders, but this is much broader than that. So founding teams will like this. Right now they're in the case, in the situation of needing to bootstrap their liquidity, that's very challenging. If someone's building some protocol that might be web three and gaming related, they shouldn't have to be an expert on liquidity and all of this abstract stuff that comes along with trading markets. But they sort of need to navigate that in order to get this liquidity again so that users can interact with their token. And ultimately the protocol due to that, what we saw coming from the trading world was that in this space, if you can solve something that's really built for those users, and ultimately for the community of all these token holders, as well as investors, traders, vcs, exchanges, all of them basically benefit from the ability to flow this massive decentralized liquidity provider wherever it's needed in real time.
00:07:52.870 - 00:08:05.718, Speaker A: Okay, so I'm still trying to get my head wrapped around the actual product and the system. Is it correct to say that Tokenmac is just a liquidity optimization engine? Is that a good way to put it?
00:08:05.884 - 00:08:46.354, Speaker B: You can think of it as that's, I think, a good way to put it. And you can think of just digging one level further into what a liquidity optimization engine would be. It's really a liquidity generator and director or router. So the way it brings liquidity in is through this mechanism of incentives. So imagine for a second, we have five different, we call them reactors, but five different tokens that you can choose from in terms of directing that liquidity to a venue. You basically stake your toca, our native token, into those reactors, which through a feedback loop of real time incentives, increases the incentives for liquidity providers to come in with that token. So say it's the AAVE reactor, more token holders, lps with AAVE come in.
00:08:46.354 - 00:09:21.306, Speaker B: And importantly for those users, they're actually doing single sided. They're supporting liquidity and essentially lping, but it's single sided for them. So instead of having to go to a uniswap or sushiswap, have Ave and Eth put them both in and deal with LP tokens. They put one in, earn rewards through the system, and then once it's in there, they then direct sort of at this network think level from all of the system of Toka holders, or all of the token holders collectively, our prorata voting where that liquidity goes into the end exchanges. So you can think of it as not only generating the liquidity by incentives, but then also routing it into the different exchanges and amms.
00:09:21.498 - 00:09:46.306, Speaker A: So when I think of liquidity, like generating liquidity, that kind of seems like a weird phrase because to me, liquidity comes from just like there's just more buyers and sellers, there's overall more participants. So how does liquidity get generated? If you are not just creating new buyers and sellers and trading volume, where does that actually become generated? How does that manifest?
00:09:46.418 - 00:10:32.200, Speaker B: Yep. So there's at least two definitions or uses of the word liquidity that I'll kind of attempt to define in a second here. And then there's even one much more broad bucket that DeFi has sort of adopted, and that can make things pretty confusing sometimes when talking about this. So DeFi often just says, like, hey, like, liquidity are tokens wherever they go, and that's a legitimate definition. But we're actually thinking of this more in the sense of liquidity that you can trade with. So in particular, we're supporting two sided trading markets, basically bid offer or amms on a curve, because that gets to this whole bandwidth play where we think that what's going to be unlocked, protocol to protocol, and where DeFi is heading, it's critical that you have this very tight slippage. Great experience for traders, which are not only traders, but also users and protocols here in order to move one thing of value into another.
00:10:32.200 - 00:11:04.122, Speaker B: So within sort of that broad definition of liquidity, there is a definition of kind of how much is in there available to trade. And then there's the question of trading volume. And often people conflate trading volume with liquidity. So trading volume is something we can't control. That completely depends on the actual secondary market of traders, which can be users protocols and actual traders and investors. Right, but that depends on is someone going to actually come in and hit the order book or buy from an amm, sell to an amm, et cetera. What we can control is we're at this meta liquidity layer.
00:11:04.122 - 00:11:40.714, Speaker B: I should also say we're not an exchange. I think that's probably clear by now, but that's something that sometimes is misconstrued. We're kind of the exchange's best friend to route liquidity into them. And exchanges can use this to sort of battle with each other and try to get more liquidity into themselves as well. But effectively, we are just deepening the bids and offers on order Booker RFQ type models, or increasing the depth of the pool. In the case of amms like Sushiswap and Uniswap balancer, et cetera and then the trading volume, that just all depends on people coming to those end venues and actually buying or selling into those different pools or protocols. So that's kind of how we pull apart and think of this.
00:11:40.714 - 00:12:03.934, Speaker B: So we can actually source liquidity in the more traditional definition of the word by putting incentives to get tokens to flow into our system, which then get routed across all of these other routed and rebalanced across all of these trading venues. And then the trading volume comes as sort of a secondary action to that when traders actually come into those venues and buy or sell from the liquidity provided by tokamac into those venues.
00:12:04.062 - 00:12:15.926, Speaker A: Right. So is Tokomac opinionated about the price of assets or is the protocol completely neutral about the direction of assets and how does that go down?
00:12:16.108 - 00:12:50.402, Speaker B: Yep, completely neutral. And this sort of came from our past experience market making. The sort of traditional approach of a market maker, unlike a lot of long short portfolios and other traders, investors and firms in the space, is generally you have inventory of assets, you make money from the spread. So in a sideways moving market, you're on the bid, you're buying here, you're on the offer, selling here, of course, you get what's called run over as the prices go up and down. But over time, you kind of make that spread. Plus you make the fees, plus you can make rewards like sushi, for example, on Sushiswap. And so that's effectively now you can think of this at the protocol level.
00:12:50.402 - 00:13:57.234, Speaker B: That's what the protocol is doing. So because you have lps, if you think about take a step back from Defi, in general, liquidity providers, regardless of what protocol you're talking about, at least I'm generalizing here, but you can really think of those things as loans, right? Most of the protocols don't. There's some exceptions now, but most of them, if you have third party liquidity providers, they're depositing and they're basically giving a loan to the protocol, they can withdraw it when they want. So here, because you have that, the way the whole system works, where liquidity providers have entered basically the tokens and then the ether, the stables that go along with it, that means that the system itself is neutral, because when we get, say, the ALCX in the system or something, it's neutral to the ALCX because third party liquidity providers have entered in, the system has the asset and the liability. So because of all that, the whole system is essentially market neutral. When you look at the system in total, and there's going to be an upcoming gitbook and medium article that's going to explain this in detail for anyone interested in diving in. And then it's just as it's making the spread, the trading fees, and in the case of venues like sushiswap, sushi rewards, that's basically building up within the protocol.
00:13:57.234 - 00:14:06.086, Speaker B: And the toka holders are the ones that own the protocol. So the Toka holders actually have a claim essentially on this growing defi trading weighted basket of assets.
00:14:06.278 - 00:14:34.398, Speaker A: So let's go through a story of a particular token as it goes through the token market experience. So let's use the bank token, for example, from the bankless dow, not terribly liquid. And if it was, that would unlock a bunch of cool things that the DAo could do. If it was more liquid, how can Tokenmac make the bank token? What's like the onboarding process? What's step one? And then where does the story go after that?
00:14:34.484 - 00:15:02.086, Speaker B: Yes. So in the end state, and then I'm going to come back to what the next event is for, sort of how we bootstrap this. But in the end state, the way this works is we want an experience very similar to a lot of the amms, where you drop a token hash in and you provide the liquidity and boom, the pool is live. Now it's different. We're at a higher level, we're at this metal liquidity layer. So the way this would work is the Dow itself or holders of it come and say, hey, here's the token. They drop the token hash in and they say, we're now going to stand up a reserve.
00:15:02.086 - 00:15:31.586, Speaker B: The only thing the system really needs in order to get one started is a certain amount of reserve of the token. So generally the Dow provides this, and what this does is serves as sort of a final backstop. There's really interesting il mitigation techniques here that link together a surplus deficit management within the system, as well as localized sort of rebalancing or slashing mechanics on Toka stakers. There's never globalized losses with that. It's always local to a specific reactor. More info coming on that soon. And then last this reserve.
00:15:31.586 - 00:16:03.514, Speaker B: So the reserve always makes sure that we have enough sideline that anyone who acts as a liquidity provider is always made whole and can always redeem one for one. And that's very important, because when you think about composability, there's so many things that will be built on top of this. Every time someone puts in an asset, they get back a t asset. So if you put in let's just use SNX again as an example. You put in SNX, you get back TSNX, and that can be redeemed. Like that's out in the system, providing liquidity for the SNX token across the space. And at any point, you can then redeem your SNX back one for one with the T asset.
00:16:03.514 - 00:16:52.810, Speaker B: So coming back to you, that was a bit of a sidebar. But coming back to your actual question, the process for a new or existing protocol would be they come, they provide a certain amount of their token into the reserve. There's no set amount that they need to do, if that is $100,000 of the asset or $10 million of the asset. It basically says how powerful their actual reactor which turns on can be, because there's a multiplier for how much liquidity from the actual third party liquidity providers, which can be spread across the community that that reactor can provide. So I'll just use an example. If you had a $5 million reserve that you stood up in ABC token initially, when we're running this thing very conservatively, it would mean that actual reactor can provide $15 million of ABC paired with $15 million of ether stable. So $30 million of liquidity can be provided for that project across DFI.
00:16:52.810 - 00:17:20.986, Speaker B: So stand up the reserve the reactor turns on, and then at that point, the incentive feedback loop starts. So all of a sudden, toca holders can stake in as liquidity directors, ABC holders can provide the assets as liquidity providers. And then basically you have this rebalancing that happens where the reward feedback loop happens. And effectively you bootstrap now in the inventory liquidity you need, and you're now using the liquidity directors to route those into sushiswap, Uniswap, balancer, zero x at launch, and more exchanges in the future.
00:17:21.168 - 00:17:59.234, Speaker A: Okay, so the case for Tokenmac, like the bull case for Tokenmac, is that it takes in a bunch of assets that therefore it's liability because those assets are going to go out in the future. In theory, maybe they don't, but they are a liability nonetheless. And then using Tokenmac, like its own pool of capital, starts to collect trading fees. And that stays inside of the system. I'm assuming some part of it goes, do any part of those trading fees go to the people that posted the reserve or. Yes. Yeah, because they're to some degree the liquidity providers.
00:17:59.234 - 00:18:05.126, Speaker A: And then some amount of the fees is also retained by the token max system. And that stays in the system.
00:18:05.308 - 00:18:32.686, Speaker B: Yep. So effectively what you have is, I'll put the reserve to the side for a second, because those are the ones provided by the dows. But for the community at large that can participate as liquidity providers or liquidity directors, initially, what we're doing is decentralizing the protocol. So you're earning everything in Toka and the protocol itself. So not our team, not even really the DAO, it's not in our multi Sig, but right into a contract, we're earning these rewards. And the toka holders have a claim on that. Now, at the beginning, they don't have the ability to sort of redeem that.
00:18:32.686 - 00:19:01.926, Speaker B: But down the road, should the Toka community determine that they want to vote this on, it could be that you could actually burn your Toka or somehow redeem with a buyback in order to pull out your share of this defi weighted portfolio of assets that it builds. So you can think of at the beginning, the fundamental value of toka is that this is tokenized liquidity. Like each unit of Toka is one unit of liquidity. You get your prorata share. It's a little bit like governance on steroids. From one perspective, you can think of it as tokenized liquidity. The other perspective, you can think of it as kind of governance on steroids.
00:19:01.926 - 00:19:51.818, Speaker B: Because now, instead of just thumbs up, thumbs down on improvement proposals, you're actually impacting the real time operation of the system by voting where the liquidity goes. And you, and you alone have that vote. There's no sort of threshold. If you're a shrimp or whale, you can direct that much liquidity in any reactor you want out to the end venues over time. Then to your point about the fees, the spread, the rewards, et cetera, since that's building up a protocol, these protocol controlled assets, we call them, it means that over time, the utility or the value of toca is not just that it's tokenized liquidity, but also that it's backed by this sort of growing black hole of assets. And internally, we talk about the moment of the singularity, which is when that grows big enough to where you actually don't need third party lps. So eventually you can actually have the system, have all the self contained assets it needs to basically run itself.
00:19:51.818 - 00:20:15.250, Speaker B: It's still governed by the toca holders, and they're still routing this liquidity utility and directing it basically with their toca. But at that point, you don't need third party lps, and you can do really interesting things. And eventually that should mean spreads can go to zero or near zero. And that's when this thing really starts to approximate sort of broadband moment and bandwidth.
00:20:15.670 - 00:20:25.662, Speaker A: So where are all the places that liquidity can be pointed to? And why might toka holders point them in different spots based on certain market conditions?
00:20:25.806 - 00:21:18.950, Speaker B: Yes. So this gets to almost more the art than the science of liquidity, and there's no necessarily one answer. So we think that in the future, dows will basically vote on or knight someone as their liquidity director that sort of uses their reserve of toca. And by the way, one thing I didn't say that we might not come back to, so I'll just say it here, is these projects, when they stand up their reserve in the early days, at a minimum, we have a process either through a sort of a tradfi swap where we're basically lending to each other, or through a trade where they can get enough token to be a powerful liquidity director day one. And then we get enough of the tokens that we stand up the reserve as the backstop for the reactor. So both protocols kind of win, and any protocols that are interested should just reach out to me or the team and we can discuss. We've had a lot already reaching out to us in the last weeks since launch, but basically coming back to where they would route it to and why.
00:21:18.950 - 00:21:57.326, Speaker B: If you're a founder or someone on the founding team of a dao, you might know, okay, over on this venue, we know that we have the protocols linking together in this way, or there's something interesting on the protocol that plugs into liquidity on sushiswap, or in the future, some more exotic venues that we plug into. So they might know, hey, we really want to increase the liquidity, or what I call the bandwidth really, of the system there, because we know other protocols, or our protocol uses it in this unique way. Others might look and say, hey, we're already incentivizing uniswap. We have pretty deep liquidity there. Let's just double down and vote most of it there. This gets to the art of science. Or they might say, we have the deep liquidity on uniswap.
00:21:57.326 - 00:22:28.406, Speaker B: Let's also get some from other incentives. Let's get some deep liquidity from Tokamak onto Sushiswap and onto balancer. So they might start voting around there. And so there's really no short answer to it, or one size fits all. It's really what the criteria, both in terms of kind of traders and users out in the system and where the trading activity is. And we're going to give the user not only the tool, but also the feedback loop to see how effective it was. So after the different cycles, they can look and see, okay, here's where cycles are what we use for each sort of cycle or segment of liquidity deployment.
00:22:28.406 - 00:23:04.646, Speaker B: So after it, they can say, okay, of all of the ave in this reactor, 60% was voted here, 30% was here, 20 was here, and so on. And then they can see per unit of liquidity, or per quantity of tokens that were voted somewhere, how much trading volume actually happened there. So they can see did they get good bang for their buck wherever they routed the liquidity? And was there actual use by traders, users, protocols, et cetera, of the liquidity that was provided there? And then that will mean for the next cycles, the network will just likely, at least for those that are paying attention to that signal, will start rebalancing, kind of, and adjusting where the liquidity goes. As a result of that feedback, can.
00:23:04.748 - 00:23:08.770, Speaker A: Liquidity be routed to some like a lending protocol, like Ave or compound?
00:23:08.850 - 00:23:59.106, Speaker B: Yeah, it's a great question. So at launch, no, but there's nothing, and that was really because we were hyper focused on sort of this two sided trading market bandwidth. But there's nothing that says this couldn't go, we couldn't expand this like our first path probably is to expand to more exchanges. We'll probably exhaust that fairly quickly then there's nothing that says this can't route into things like urine vaults, rari Aave compound cream, like any of these lend borrow protocols, or any of these other more exotic things. And I think that's probably where the future will go. And that's a natural way that this can expand the other thing along that kind of line of thought thinking is, at launch we're on l one, however, we found a really interesting way to make it. Once you stake your token, you can rebalance your votes of which reactors you want to direct liquidity, and where you want to vote without paying any more gas.
00:23:59.106 - 00:24:35.586, Speaker B: We were very conscious of the current state of gas in the system, and making sure that this was the best experience possible for users. So we did a lot in our architecture to make sure that that was the case going forward. What we want to do is we want to expand not only into l two, but also other chains as it develops. And you can imagine since we have these cycles where we rebalance the liquidity, we can actually, the end state of this will be take the tokens wherever they are. So any to any we call it. So take the tokens wherever and then allow the liquidity directors to direct that liquidity to any, regardless whether that's on ethereum, base layer, higher layers, other chains, et cetera. As long as there's a tunnel to get to and back.
00:24:35.586 - 00:24:40.278, Speaker B: For that, we can rebalance on our different liquidity cycles. So that's also where this is going.
00:24:40.444 - 00:25:51.818, Speaker A: Hey guys, I hope you are enjoying this. Meet the nation with Carson coming up in the second half of the show, we finish off the conversation as to what a token liquidity utility looks like and where are all the points that tokens can be pointed to in defi? What's the difference between a t token that is the liquidity token that comes out of Tokamac and the difference between that and a normal LP token out of uniswap? And then of course, I asked Carson to show me or tell me a story about the maximally successful version of Tokamak. If this thing just hits all the boxes and executes according to the vision, what does that look like? And those answers to those questions I always find are very fun to ideate about. And so before we get into the second half of this current conversation with Carson, we must pause and talk about some of these fantastic sponsors that make the show possible. When you shop for plane tickets, you probably use kayak, Expedia, or Google to compare ticket prices. So why would you limit yourself to just one exchange when you trade crypto? When you make your trades, you want to make sure that you are getting the best possible price on your trade and that you aren't paying high gas costs that you could have otherwise avoided. That's why you should be using matcha.
00:25:51.818 - 00:26:40.214, Speaker A: Matcha routes your orders across all the various Defi exchanges on Ethereum, polygon, binance, smart chain and gives you the best possible prices without taking any commissions. Matcha has smart order routing that splits your order across multiple liquidity sources. If matcha sees that it gets you better pricing. Trading on matcha is super easy because it pools the liquidity for me into a single, easy to use platform. Matcha also allows you to make limit orders on chain so you can set and forget your defi trades and they will go through automatically while you're away. New to matcha is an integrated fiat onramp, so you can purchase crypto directly with your credit or debit card and have that fiat be instantly traded for any token that has liquidity. When you're making a trade, head over to Matcha XYZ, slash bankless and connect your wallet to start getting the best prices and most liquidity.
00:26:40.214 - 00:27:14.834, Speaker A: When you trade your crypto assets. Bankless is proud to be supported by Uniswap. Uniswap is a new paradigm in asset exchange infrastructure. Instead of a cumbersome order book system where trades are matched with other humans, Uniswap is an autonomous piece of software on Ethereum, which is what Ryan and I call a money robot. No human counterparties or centralized intermediaries, just autonomous code on Ethereum. Input the token you want to sell and receive the token you want to buy. Something brand new in the Uniswap ecosystem is the Uniswap grants program is now accepting applications for grants.
00:27:14.834 - 00:27:42.282, Speaker A: We have been saying this for a while, and we'll say it again. Dows have money and they are in need of labor. If you think that you have something to contribute to the Uniswap Dow, apply for a grant to Uniswap. Just look at the size of the Uniswap treasury. It's almost $3 billion. This mountain of capital is looking for labor. Do you have something of value to contribute to the uniswap? Dao, no matter how big or small your idea is, you can apply for a uni grant@unigrants.org
00:27:42.282 - 00:28:26.606, Speaker A: and help steer uniswap in the direction that you think it should go. That's exactly what we did to get Uniswap to be a sponsor for bankless, and you can do the same for your project. Thank you, Uniswap, for sponsoring bankless. So for daos that have a token, and again, for me, just bankless Dao comes to mind. Tokenmac can be this, like you said, this liquidity utility. And so bankless Dow could use Tokenmac to put bank tokens in the ecosystem, wherever it wants it to go, for whatever purposes that they need to be served. Right? For some reason, if they do indeed want a lot of bank supply lending inside of compound, maybe that's where they vote for that to go.
00:28:26.606 - 00:29:05.980, Speaker A: First, compound would have to accept bank as collateral, and then you guys would also have to actually onboard lending protocols. So right now, maybe it's just more of a, oh, for some reason, bankless dow wants a ton of liquidity, specifically on sushiswap or on zero x, and for whatever reason. But now tokenmac allows that for that to happen. So it's kind of like taking this very chaotic, uncoordinated game of liquidity, which is done and fragmented by just a bajillion different players, and then focuses it into one single entity, which can do things a little bit more purposeful and intentful and maybe a little bit more strategic. How am I doing so far?
00:29:06.510 - 00:29:36.866, Speaker B: That's a perfect description. And I'll say just to go beyond not just one singleized entity, right. But one singular decentralized entity, importantly, where you have control. And this is what is kind of the crux of it for the builders and the founders of these different dows. It's going to turn not only a huge headache and a current cost center, massive cost center. And I've heard the horror stories and I came from the market making and trading world, so I knew how that worked. And I realized this is not fair and it's not right to builders.
00:29:36.866 - 00:30:10.058, Speaker B: And there's a better, more defi centric way to do this. And so it was basically like, hey, let's just upend the industry that I came from, by the way. It can be good for market makers still that understand this and realize how to plug into it because they can market make much bigger sort of pools of capital with this down the road. But they have to learn from this and adapt and figure out this new way of working so effectively. What you said is exactly correct. So let's use the case of bank. Most of the builders right now, right when they're thinking about their pie chart of where all their tokens goes, they usually have some amount that are for emissions, which might go to their single asset staking pool.
00:30:10.058 - 00:30:33.186, Speaker B: And that thing might be doing something useful on the protocol. Might not, might just be that they're removing sell pressure. Some cases they're doing something really novel, some cases not. But they're paying out either revenue or emissions, inflation, whatever you want to call it, in their token. So they have a certain piece of the pie that's there. They have another piece of the pie that generally go to their pool twos, right? They say they pick uniswap or sushiswap. They put that in, say, take your lps, stake them here and we'll pay them because they know they need liquidity.
00:30:33.186 - 00:31:20.162, Speaker B: What we can do is actually replace those two with a single pool. Because if instead, and we've had a couple of different dows already reach out to us on this, and I know there's going to be a lot more because we haven't started pushing this, you can say, hey, instead of worrying about two pieces of the pie that you now have to budget to your single asset staker and this complex process for, for your pool, two for the people that actually are LP staking instead, if you have ABC or let's use bank, just incentivize one pool that is T bank. So then your users have to take bank, put it into tokamac, which means then through all the mechanics we were talking about, your liquidity is solved sort of across defi pay out your inflationary rewards to a T bank. So the users to the T bank stakers, so the users take the T bank that they get back from Tokamac. These are T assets. We're kind of like a assets, a assets, c assets, et cetera. Take those T assets, stake them in.
00:31:20.162 - 00:31:49.470, Speaker B: Now all of a sudden you're paying out inflation to one pool. You've cut down what you've budgeted roughly in half in terms of the inflation of the protocol, and you're still solving liquidity, sort of in a manner that's very simple for users, because now they can just take one token, stake it in there, and never have to deal with sort of LP tokens and making sure that, hey, I've got a million dollars of bank, but I don't have a million dollars of eth with it, so I guess I can't LP now they can just take the ones they have, put it in there, and then still earn the rewards from the protocol that they're trying to support.
00:31:49.540 - 00:31:59.710, Speaker A: Outside of Tokenac, does Tokenmac have its own supply of USDC and ETH and other pairs that it provides liquidity towards all of these dows that needs tokens?
00:31:59.870 - 00:32:37.982, Speaker B: Yes. So at launch, we'll be using our own internal reserve for Ethan, meaning that the DAO owns of ETH and stables in order to pair with the DAO provided ones that we don't have access to at the moment in order to turn on their reactors. So let's just use bank as an example. If bank has a reactor and we have the bank reserve that's provided by the bankless dow here, what would happen basically is the tokens. Anytime the liquidity directors are routing that, let's say, to sushi swap. So 2 million bank goes to sushi swap. Our manager contracts basically identify how much of the ETH, or stable, for the target pool it needs to pull.
00:32:37.982 - 00:32:51.470, Speaker B: It pulls that in on each liquidity cycle, then it deposits that into the amm. And so it basically is pulling between these different single sided pools and then orchestrating them across all of the different target exchanges. In that manner.
00:32:51.630 - 00:33:05.042, Speaker A: Can the USDC or ETH in the token Mac, like treasury, can that be somehow provided across multiple assets at all? Like it can provide liquidity to bank and to other tokens all simultaneously?
00:33:05.186 - 00:33:07.394, Speaker B: Correct. It's one big pool, so it isn't.
00:33:07.442 - 00:33:11.260, Speaker A: Sort of, is that where the magic comes from?
00:33:11.710 - 00:33:39.746, Speaker B: That is one piece of the magic. And there's about six more pieces of the magic, which I can definitely route you and your listeners here too. Once we have the article out, it's a bunch of different things working in concert. You can kind of think of it like this. Let's use Ave, for example. Ave or compound, right? At any given point in times when they take deposits, they're lending out and they're just playing with the APRs in order to try to guarantee that a bank run can't happen. Right.
00:33:39.746 - 00:33:57.526, Speaker B: At any point in time, they actually don't have the assets in the system. So if everyone withdrew, you couldn't make people whole. But the magic of incentives are with the apRs. They're good. We have those, but we have so many more levers than that. So because of how il works, right, impermanent loss. When something goes into deficit, you actually get a surplus somewhere else.
00:33:57.526 - 00:34:41.874, Speaker B: Now, it doesn't cover all of this. And this gets to where the liquidity directors not only direct, but they also are collateralizing a reactor. So as these things move around, we can not only play with the apRs, but there's also this sort of magic that we do. And I'm not trying to use that to make people think something spooky or crazy is going on. We're going to divulge exactly how this works in an article coming up. But effectively, when you have that ability to have surpluses elsewhere in an end to end pool system that can cover a certain amount of the deficit in the event that one is underwater and everyone does withdraw. And the cycles also help this, you can pull that amount, plus you can pull a small amount of what we would call slashing, basically, to the localized liquidity directors that were collateralizing that reactor, that will actually happen quite rarely.
00:34:41.874 - 00:35:16.814, Speaker B: And then additionally, you have this reserve to fall back on. So the reserve is basically to make sure that liquidity providers are always made whole. So sort of top of the stack is the liquidity providers. They are always redeemable, one for one. If you put in bank or SNX or ALCX or whatever into the system as a liquidity provider, and you get back the t version of that, you can always redeem that one for one with how the system works. So interestingly, the liquidity providers no longer have, I would agree with kind of that sentiment out there that there's no such thing as Il removal. It's all just mitigation and sort of where you push it around.
00:35:16.814 - 00:35:59.486, Speaker B: And trust me, when you see how this all works, it's really, really interesting. But we do remove from the liquidity provider's perspective, they are not the ones that hold the IL. And that's really interesting because right now users have to be advanced enough to figure out how to put two assets into sushi swap and uniswap. And they've done a good job to make that, especially with like Univ two, where it's not too complex, it's not too hard for users, but that's still friction. Plus then they have to deal with the IL here. If you have the assets, put it in, don't deal with the complexity, and you don't have to deal with the Il, the rest of the system and someplace else going into the liquidity directors, who are the more advanced users, they're the ones that deal with it and where the ultimate risk falls too. So it's a really interesting sort of pulling apart of risk and reassigning it elsewhere, right? Yeah.
00:35:59.508 - 00:36:59.730, Speaker A: And that has always been one of the beauties of Defi, is to extract and precisely point risk, really. That's kind of how defi started with makerdao, right? Like Makerdao was like, let's shove all the risk into ether and MKR and remove all the risk from Dai. And really, that's kind of how Defi started. Can you summarize and compare and contrast the differences between me and say I'm bullish on Aave, and I for some reason think that providing liquidity on AAve on Uniswap is the best form of yield for me. And so I do that with my ave token, and therefore I probably also would also have to own 50% of ETH and to do that on Uniswap. And then I get the Uniswap LP token back and I'm getting some sort of revenue from Uniswap from the trading fees. Can you compare and contrast that Uniswap LP token with a t token from Tokamac?
00:37:00.630 - 00:37:27.514, Speaker B: So first and foremost, you won't have any of the Il as liquidity provider if you go through Tokamak. So you don't have to deal with any of that. You also don't have to deal with making sure that you have enough etH. If you're a whale in a certain project, in this case, like Ave, you don't have to also have enough etH. Now, what you're earning on Tokamac, at least for the sort of first phase of this, is Toka. So you are actually earning more, which actually you can feedback in the system for compounding in really interesting ways. Right.
00:37:27.514 - 00:38:18.470, Speaker B: You can come in as an ave liquidity provider, earn Toca, then take that Toka, put it in the other side of the reactor as liquidity director, earn rewards there so you get really interesting compounding effects. This will sort of coming back to what you were saying, what you do with the LP tokens. Ultimately, if you're a user that can wrap their head around Il not worried about that, had both sides, then I would say the big difference is where were you going and staking that token. So if there was a good pool two or lp staking option for you where you were earning something in a project you believe in, then you're really just balancing the quantity of toca and your belief in Tokamak and Toca over here, and then the quantity of whatever the other asset is someplace else, and the value and your belief in that protocol. So that's kind of the trade off you're making between these two things. And there's going to be really interesting things we can do down the road with composability, where hopefully users won't even have to make that choice nearly as much. And you can stack some of these things.
00:38:18.620 - 00:38:28.190, Speaker A: Is there something that can say about how much trading fees would be generated by simply just lping to Uniswap versus LP Tokenmac?
00:38:28.610 - 00:39:04.726, Speaker B: Yeah. So if you were on Uniswap, I'll start with that one, because obviously on Sushiswap there's also the sushi rewards on Uniswap. For sure. After launch, you're going to make a massive amount further because we're incentivizing this very nicely out and we really want to decentralize this. Right? This isn't just us wanting to give out emissions or inflation, we want the users that are using this to be owners of the protocol. So in the early days, we want to pay out toca and reward people. So you're going to be earning, I won't throw out the percentage because it all depends on how many liquidity providers come in, but trust me, it's going to be way juicier than just going directly into uniswap sushiswap.
00:39:04.726 - 00:39:56.042, Speaker B: Of course you have the sushi rewards, so that pulls back a little bit. But I can also tell you, looking at the thing, with the exception of maybe certain onsen or double reward type pools in general, you're going to be making a lot more also on Tokenmax. So coming there and then even if you want to support the liquidity on Uniswap or sushiswap. If you abstract it away, come into Tokamac as a liquidity provider. It's really the sweetest deal across the board for the liquidity providers entering the system in Tokamac, because you don't deal with Yil, you don't deal with complexity of both, you don't have to manage the LP tokens, rewards are going to be much higher and you can still then, as long as you have some toka, or as long as collectively they're voting, you can still support the liquidity down on the end venues, right? Your tokens can be used to go to sushiswap, uniswap, balancer, zero, x, whatever your target exchange was, but now in a much simpler fashion for users, and you'll be getting paid more as well.
00:39:56.176 - 00:40:04.814, Speaker A: So to finish off this exploration of Tokenmac, can you give me the version of the future in which Tokenmac is maximally successful? What does that look like?
00:40:04.932 - 00:40:44.522, Speaker B: Yeah, so in a version where it's maximally successful, this thing really is the liquidity bandwidth provider in the space. So again, as in DFI and web three and everything that's to come, and as we link in gaming and nfts, all of these things need liquidity bandwidth. And effectively what Tokenmac will be doing is allowing people to buy and sell anything with minimal loss. So our goal, our end goal is to have this thing be a black hole of assets that has any of the assets you could buy or sell within it. That means we don't need liquidity providers. Liquidity directors are directing this in real time so that there's deep liquidity anywhere. And if you have ABC token and the protocol or user needs to get to XYZ token, you can actually do that with no slippage in the market.
00:40:44.522 - 00:41:04.030, Speaker B: We want to move spreads to zero and have the price be the price and no longer have this concept of if I'm buying, I'm paying a higher price, if I'm selling, I'm paying a lower price. That's the moment that we get to the bandwidth of liquidity, and that's where we'll unlock all kinds of things. As these protocols build and build on top of each other, this can be kind of the base layer of liquidity that will enable that.
00:41:04.180 - 00:41:09.266, Speaker A: Very cool. Carson. If people want to find out more about Tokenmac and get involved, where should they go?
00:41:09.448 - 00:41:37.206, Speaker B: Yeah, so you can go to Tokomac XYZ to see our site. You can join our discord there. There's links for all those go to medium at Tokamac to look at I think five or six articles that we have a lot more coming getbook forthcoming. You can follow us at tokenreactor, follow me at Liquidity wizard and just reach out to the team in discord. We're all very especially a couple of them that aren't quite as inundated with requests as me are very responsive. So ask questions. It's a deep rabbit hole.
00:41:37.206 - 00:41:42.554, Speaker B: Don't be intimidated and happy to help and help guide people through the process wherever we can.
00:41:42.672 - 00:41:46.750, Speaker A: Well, Carson, thank you for coming on the show and introducing Tokenmac to the nation.
00:41:47.490 - 00:41:49.358, Speaker B: Thank you so much. Really appreciate it.
00:41:49.524 - 00:42:35.998, Speaker A: Hey, we hope you enjoyed the video. If you did, head over to bankless hq right now to develop your crypto investing skills and learn how to free yourself from banks and gain your financial independence. We recommend joining our daily newsletter, podcast and community as a bankless premium subscriber to get the most out of your bankless experience. You'll get access to our market analysis, our alpha leaks and exclusive content, and even the bankless token for airdrops, raffles and unlocks. If you're interested in crypto, the bankless community is where you want to be. Click the link in the description to become a bankless premium subscriber today. Also, don't forget to subscribe to the channel for in depth interviews with industry leaders, ask me anythings and weekly roll ups where we summarize the week in crypto and other fantastic content.
00:42:35.998 - 00:42:40.330, Speaker A: Thanks everyone for watching and being on the journey as we build out the bankless nation.
