00:00:05.400 - 00:00:05.576, Speaker A: Cool.
00:00:05.576 - 00:00:49.494, Speaker B: Hi everyone. So my name is ADCV, my government name is Adrian. I'm a co founder at a company called Steakhouse Financial. We are a crypto native consulting firm for those who aren't familiar with us, and we originally actually spun out of the makerdao as a group of contributors where we focused on financial reporting and sort of asset liability management. And since then we've sort of specialized in stablecoins and in doing what we call sort of bringing open and transparent finance, which we believe is a better way of organizing our financial activities. And we work with a number of Defi protocols. I've listed a handful of the more active ones.
00:00:49.494 - 00:01:43.282, Speaker B: You know, with Maker, we did a lot of stuff. We're working a lot currently with morpho permissionless lending protocol, and we've also been contributors to Lido Dao, the leading liquid staking protocol on the market at the moment as a sort of finance work stream lead for the past two years. And so what I'm going to talk about is three quick things. Hopefully it's relevant to a lot of you, but I wanted to sort of explain and go into a little bit more detail of the type of advocacy work that we do when we speak to institutions as state. And I wanted to take the time to explain the role of staking and liquid staking in the ecosystem. This might not be news to some of you, but I also wanted to introduce a slightly different framework under which an allocator or an investor might look at this. I wanted to explain the benefits of decentralized liquid staking protocols.
00:01:43.282 - 00:03:11.384, Speaker B: So I'm personally a lido steak teeth enjoyer and advocate for it, but you know, I think many decentralized LST protocols are capable of similar things for institutions. And finally, I wanted to explain business models that are possible with decentralized liquid staking protocols from the perspective of allocators, regulated institutions, and other types of businesses. So touching. Briefly, this is a slide from a colleague of ours who runs a fund called program capital, and who summarizes the role of staking within the ethereum as an Ethereum incentive balance mechanism system, where you have validators on one side and holders of ETH and users of ETH on the other, and where staking is the role at the bottom, which either burns, destroys, or issues tokens to keep the activity in check. Introducing or incentivizing new validators to join, new stakers to join, and together to sort of secure the network and ensure that it remains out of control of any one single entity or organization. The way that an allocator such as program capital or an investor may want to choose to look at Ethereum or investing in Ethereum is from a total return perspective. So although Ethereum is not a, let's say security or a financial asset, you can still consider it in very similar terms, and you can decompose the total return in a similar way.
00:03:11.384 - 00:03:48.396, Speaker B: The way that we're looking at it is sort of from a price return component. And you can do a decomposition of price return into change in earnings, which we consider the change in say last twelve months of fees, the change in the multiple, which is the valuation that the market gives to the fee earning potential over the last twelve months, and the change in supply. So the net issuance or destruction of tokens that are available. And we have a June dashboard. So all of our work, I think pretty much all of our work happens on June analytics. So it's all sort of open source and queryable. We're huge fans of the company.
00:03:48.396 - 00:04:47.910, Speaker B: And you can access a June dashboard that shows this decomposition in real time if you access that link. But what I wanted to focus on was on what we call a work yield or staking issuance. So this staking issuance is on net at the moment dilutive to ETH holders. So even if ETH is a quote unquote deflationary token, stakers are technically earning faster than holders. So the work yield component is dilutive to holders who only have access to the price return. And within that framework of staking, there are different ways of doing this activity. Decentralized liquid staking protocols are essentially software layers that intermediate between the holder of ETH and the sticker and the node operators or validators at the bottom, the crucial aspect is that decentralized liquid staking protocols don't control the governance of the node operators, so they're separate from them, and they don't take custody of the withdrawal keys or the funds.
00:04:47.910 - 00:05:47.834, Speaker B: And this is beneficial because when you stake with a centralized provider such as coinbase or figment or what have you, you concentrate both of those things, even if in some instances you may still have custody of things like the withdrawal key, for example. The benefit of this is that it keeps the staking activities distributed across the network instead of concentrating them in one. And this is valuable from an allocator perspective, because for Ethereum to have any value at all on the long run, its validation activities should take place over as many entities as possible. Now, the state of the market is in this following graph, also derived from a June analytics dashboard. So Hill Dobby on June analytics has a famous graph where he charts all of the different entities that participate in staking. But if you look a little bit closer, you can sort of categorize them into centralized or decentralized. And at the moment there is slightly more centralized staking activity taking place than what we would call decentralized.
00:05:47.834 - 00:06:36.598, Speaker B: And this is a shame. And this is something that we're sort of very advocate about changing by advocating for the use of decentralized liquid staking protocols to do it. Because even if, for example, Lido, which is the largest block on the graph with approximately 26 or 27% market share today, Lido actually represents 37, if I remember correctly, node operators behind. And these node operators don't have control over the single block. And the effect of this, if you look at the right hand side of the graph, is actually quite positive. So one way of measuring concentration in a network is through the HHI or Hirschen. I can never pronounce this, the Hirschendal HHI index, which takes the squares of the market shares and uses it as a sort of metric to see how concentrated a market really is.
00:06:36.598 - 00:07:36.678, Speaker B: And this is taken from a work by ETH researchers, one of their earlier working papers, where they measured the HHI index of Ethereum as a whole and contrasted it on different scenarios where the scenario in the dark blue line is what that index is. If you consider lido as separate entities, which means that the more people use decentralized liquid staking protocols, the lower the concentration of the market, because the stake gets distributed to more node operators. And the other benefit of liquid staking protocols is obviously their liquidity. So one feature of staking is that it locks up ETH away. So on the beacon chain deposit contract, and it makes it unusable until you withdraw or unstick. But the user benefit of liquid staking protocols is that they allow this collateral to be tokenized and to circulate and to be reused. And for this reuse to be useful, it has to be liquid.
00:07:36.678 - 00:08:27.764, Speaker B: And so what we do here, for example, is we measure liquidity in a slightly atypical way relative to deFi. DeFi tends to think of liquidity in terms of TVL, but we try to look at it from a more tradfi angle, measure it in terms of order book depth. So to put together this chart again on June analytics, we basically query aggregator APIs such as one inch or odos, and we measure the amount of steeth, of lido stick teeth that you could trade at any given level of price impact. So on the colors, you see a price impact of 1510 all the way to 200. This is in bips. So this is a price impact all the way up to 2%, and it shows you the level at which you can trade effectively. So you could trade hundreds of millions of dollars up to 2% price impact.
00:08:27.764 - 00:09:15.574, Speaker B: And this is a good measure of how liquid, actually a token or collateral could be. Now, this collateral efficiency enables a lot of different use cases in institutional, in sort of regulated finance. In tradfi, there's asset support for custody. So when someone, for example, holds steak teeth at Coinbase prime, the asset provider, the custodian can take a fee on that. The native minting is another opportunity. So metamask portfolio, for example, provides access to the service and clips a fee for users who stake or unstake. As a trading pair, the collateral efficiency of a trading pair that provides work yield is greater than a trading pair that doesn't.
00:09:15.574 - 00:09:58.226, Speaker B: So when you trade ETH and you're holding ETH for that trading, it earns no work yield. But if you hold an LST, such as staked ETH or reth, then it does. And that provides opportunities for exchanges, for example, to benefit. So Okex and Darabit and other exchanges have begun listing these LSTs on their platforms and generating substantial amounts of trading revenue from it. And then as collateral is, some of the more interesting applications emerge. So, once you stake with an LST, you're able to borrow against it. And this provides similar to like a Lombard loan that would be in tradfi, and the way a CDP in defi terms, and finally, structured products.
00:09:58.226 - 00:10:54.904, Speaker B: So we're seeing the emergence of regulated fund structures that offer directional exposure to Ethereum's total return, but are able to use the liquidity of the underlying assets to offer, for example, a covered call strategy, and to allow people to take more complex directional bets. And these are all sort of trad five business models that are typical in regular finance, but that LSTs allow. And this is a good thing, because in the background, the LSTs are helping secure the decentralization of the Ethereum network. So some real case studies are emerging. Two of the more notable ones, I think, are hash note and Taurus. Taurus is a swiss company based in Geneva, is a regulated custodian that serves 16 private banks in the swiss market. And they recently announced enabling custody and native minting possibilities for their customers.
00:10:54.904 - 00:11:59.410, Speaker B: So Taurus has a sort of middleware integrator will allow access to staked teeth from the perspective of a bank customer of Taurus, enabling it on their platform or hash note, for example, which is, yeah, they do lots of things, but among the products that they offer are regulated fund structures. And some of them include regulated Cayman Islands fund that holds long staked ETH. And so that offers regular investors the opportunity to invest with fiat and gain access to ETH, total return price return, plus the work yield. And then the final sort of major business model that's emerging is obviously ETF's and ETPs, where there are obviously some ETPs on the market, in particular in Switzerland, that are emerging, that offer staking to their holders. They typically stake with centralized providers because it's easier for them. They have a sort of a first touch business development touchpoint. So their custodian will typically have a relationship with a staking provider and offer to stake the ETH.
00:11:59.410 - 00:12:49.064, Speaker B: And you see this with some of the ETF applications in the US that are changing their prospectus applications to say that, hey, we want to stake the ETH that we put in the ETF perhaps one day. And if they do, we can look at coin shares, the A ETH, I think the ticker is it has hundreds of millions of francs in assets under custody, which is a great achievement, and they stake part of it. And one of the ways that they use the staking return is to offer zero management fees, zero headline management fees on the fund. However, there's obviously a compromise, because one of the things that ETF's and etps have to be able to offer is redemption guarantees. So they have to be able to offer liquidity, both going in and going out. And when you have native staking, the illiquidity means that there is a compromise, that you have to find essentially a balance. And so you're restricted.
00:12:49.064 - 00:13:28.538, Speaker B: And these figures that I'm putting up are inferred only from public information. But from their headline return, which is a net APR of 1.25%, you can only infer that up to 40% is actually staked. Whereas if an ETP or an ETF held staked ETH or ReTh or what have you, they would be able to offer the full clip, the full 3.2%. And that's it really. I think I wanted to sort of quickly talk about the different institutional business models and use cases, explain a little bit the state of the staking market. And I wanted to leave as much time as possible for sort of questions.
00:13:28.538 - 00:14:27.710, Speaker B: So all of these case studies and background is derived from sort of work and contact that Stakehouse has had with regulating institutions and with Tradfi. All of this we do, from an advocacy perspective, we don't do investment advice or other, but we believe in decentralized finance, and we advocate for it quite vividly. So I think that was the most of it. And I have a few appendix slides. I anticipate the character of some of the questions, so I'm happy to open the floor. Do we have any questions for Adrian? All right, we have a question over there. So, restaking is a new emergence on the staking market.
00:14:27.710 - 00:15:22.544, Speaker B: It's the idea that actively validated service. So ethereum is in principle an actively validated service. This is sort of jargon for a computer network that needs security in order to provide value of some kind. And one way that networks have typically tried to bootstrap in the past is through simply becoming a layer one. So when you look at Solana or Ripple or what have you or Cosmos, all of these are actively validated services. And they are at a stage where in order to get the level of security that they need to be credibly neutral, they need to incentivize aggressively enough validators and enough holders of the token to come on with restaking. The principle is that you can short circuit this and reuse existing networks that have a strong level of security and use that existing security to validate new actively validated services.
00:15:22.544 - 00:16:10.452, Speaker B: So there are a lot of question marks on this at the moment, namely because there are no actively validated services on the market yet. This is still an in development phenomenon, and this may change the landscape, let's say, in the long run, outside of points and this stuff, which I'll get to, outside of the points, you can imagine that staker who is providing security to another actively validated service, which is, you might make the analogy to a form of leverage or re hypothecation, even if some people don't like the word. And this might provide an additional source of yield. So we would put this in the return framework. We would put this as an additional source of work yield. And this work yield is not riskless. It comes with risk.
00:16:10.452 - 00:16:38.694, Speaker B: Staking is a risk plus activity. You have the risk of losing part of the stake. And the same applies to restaking writ large. You risk a little bit more to gain a little bit more return. Nothing is for free. And so I think this has the potential to change the landscape slightly. My personal view is that in the long run, it's not going to make a huge, huge deal, because the incremental returns are likely not going to be very large.
00:16:38.694 - 00:17:28.006, Speaker B: So this graph is a little bit complicated. Again, it's a graph available on June analytics, which you can access on our, and we're charting in blue the return that you get from the execution layer and the consensus layer. So that provides a total staking APR. And then on top, what we've tried to do is estimate what the long run potential of restaking yields could be in the future. And the way that we've estimated this is we've taken the total amount of sequencer profits on layer two s, which, which are an example of a service that is analogous to a future actively validated service. And we've taken 20% of those profits. And we suggest that that 20% is sort of the upper level of the type of restaking yield that somebody could earn.
00:17:28.006 - 00:18:01.934, Speaker B: And when you divide that by the amount of east that is being quote unquote restaked on Eigen layer, you get 0.75 plus or -0.25% as a sort of long run estimate. And I think this is probably a little bit aggressive, but it's probably in the right ballpark. The thing with the points is that to launch, a lot of these protocols are aggressively issuing new tokens. This is a very typical go to market strategy for Defi protocols. A lot of the time the cost is wildly underestimated.
00:18:01.934 - 00:18:38.144, Speaker B: So protocols end up spending hundreds of millions of dollars to acquire customers who then leave immediately. So it's often not very well calibrated. And the thing with points that's interesting and new is that it's less than a token. So it's like an airline mile. It's like maybe you will be able to redeem this for some amount of value in the future. And the protocols that are issuing these points can then calibrate how much exactly they want to spend. The graph on the top is the implied restaking APR from tokenized Eigen layer points as measured by the price of Kep.
00:18:38.144 - 00:19:10.144, Speaker B: So Kep from kelp Dao is. So this is. Yeah, crypto, we like to. We had a financial crisis with like CDO squares in like 2008, but in crypto you can go up to CDO a million. So now there's price return, work, yield, extra work, yield points that are a promise for future x tokenized. And that's helpful, actually, because it lets you see what the market expectation for resticking yield is. And it's about 40%, which is a lot.
00:19:10.144 - 00:19:30.994, Speaker B: And I'm not suggesting anything, financial advice or anything like it, but this is just, this graph just shows the different range of. We're trying to triangulate hey, what's the expected level of restaking return in the future? The market thinks it's 40%. I personally think it's closer to 0.75. The truth is maybe somewhere in the middle.
00:19:53.034 - 00:20:17.730, Speaker A: Is going to be, I don't know, 14%. Right. But what about the risk of. So every time you restate, right, you are additive of slashing risk. And how do you necessarily quantify, you know, the cost. Right. Because it's not all just pure profit.
00:20:17.730 - 00:20:18.414, Speaker A: Right.
00:20:19.294 - 00:20:21.974, Speaker B: In the case of, okay, maybe 75 bps.
00:20:22.054 - 00:20:30.654, Speaker A: But how many bps, like, you know, risk premium are you paying if you have, like you were paying for insurance?
00:20:30.814 - 00:20:31.554, Speaker B: Yeah.
00:20:33.254 - 00:21:16.854, Speaker A: And I haven't seen anyone really talk about this. I think like when we talk about like the use cases for ABS's, people kind of get a little bit of like, oh, for that, it can do for that. It can do just for that. But in the absence of being able to quantify the risk, it's also difficult to ascertain whether these things are like, viable from a business perspective of actually doing, because you could very well find that the risk is so high that a protocol actually needs to pay people to save more than the value that protocol can generate through whatever service it sells or whatever revenue its protocol generates.
00:21:16.974 - 00:21:44.246, Speaker B: Yeah, I completely agree. We're actually releasing this evening. If you follow our twitter, you'll get first dibs on a report that we wrote that looks into exactly this point. The way that we extend the total return model is with work yield and then for restaking. And you could probably extend that to some degree to regular staking. We have this concept of loss given default. So there's actually two important points that you mentioned.
00:21:44.246 - 00:22:26.062, Speaker B: One is loss given default, which the more you restake, the more you put at risk, because you have one piece of, say, one ETH collateral, and if you restake it to more protocols, you are putting that at risk from more vectors. And those vectors are, you know, they may or may not have correlated risks. They may or may not be functional or sustainable in the long term. And you may experience slashing. So we see a work yield. Yeah, no one knows what these slashing conditions are because they are completely fugazi at the moment. But the way that we conceptualize the loss given default is a sort of inverted parabola, where the more you restick to, eventually you reach a point where it diminishes given the realistic risks.
00:22:26.062 - 00:23:01.570, Speaker B: And so there will be a point like, you're likely not going to be able to restrict to 100 different protocols. The other thing is, on the sustainability of the business model. So coming back a little bit to the core prospect, to the core value proposition of restaking, which is that you can bootstrap a secured service without going through the capital intensive effort of making a brand new layer one. But if you can't afford the payments, you can't afford the security. And a lot of these lrts or restaking providers are, I think we will come to. Yeah, we have like a. I should have put this on the slides.
00:23:01.570 - 00:23:27.788, Speaker B: I knew this was going to go into restaking. I wanted to talk about institutional staking. I knew it was going to go into restaking. We have a simulation of. So we propose two terms. One is, like, under secured and the other one is over secured. And I think it's extremely likely that we're going to see AVSs wildly over committing to a level of security that's well beyond their needs and well beyond their affordability.
00:23:27.788 - 00:24:13.058, Speaker B: And all that will do in the best of cases is drive that stake out and elsewhere to look for yield, because they'll see that they're generating tiny amounts of yield. Because these things can be conceptualized kind of as businesses. And the restaking component is you can think of it kind of like senior debt. Like the restaking layer comes on top and clips the fee in order to provide the security. But if you can't afford the debt payments, you really have to start measuring the avss from the perspective of like, a debt service coverage ratio like you would for a regular business. And the businesses that are under secured and pay too little and where maybe the restaking fees are very high, probably aren't secure enough and incur a higher risk of slashing. So I think managing these becomes way more complex.
00:24:13.058 - 00:24:30.616, Speaker B: Like, staking is already complex enough as it is. AV's is mental. It's not only hypothetical at this stage, but it's also extremely difficult to underwrite from a holder perspective. I think I went over time. Yeah. All right, sorry. Thank you so much.
00:24:30.616 - 00:24:36.424, Speaker B: Follow the stake on Twitter if you want to read the report on restaking. And yeah, happy to chat about it later. Also.
