00:00:01.920 - 00:00:36.110, Speaker A: Hi, everyone. It's great to be here at Modular Summit. The venue is amazing and I hope you guys are all enjoying every moment of your time. One of the best things for attending an event like this is to meet great minded people and highly intelligent people. Yeah. So my name is Jay B. I'm one of the co founders of Milky Way Protocol and we are the first and largest liquid staking provider for Celestia that launched last December.
00:00:36.110 - 00:01:41.410, Speaker A: And today my talk is about something that we've been envisioning and building towards the modular staking portal that serves both liquid staking and restaking protocols. So I found liquid staking opportunity sometime lasts September and our team is assembled around October, in the beginning of October, and with ex colleagues from Tendermint, the founding company behind Cosmos, Josie and June, their co founders. And we're on this journey together. Our objective was clear. So build the first and the best liquid staking solution for Celestia. And we put our heads down together for two months and we successfully managed to launch our fully audited product on December. For some context, existing liquid staking providers could not support celestia base layer because it simply isn't compatible.
00:01:41.410 - 00:03:07.460, Speaker A: I'm sure some of you from the audience already know about this celestia, you know, blockchain. Their core value is minimalism and they don't support execution environment, meaning they don't have smart contract environment, nor what's called the interchange account that cosmos existing liquid staking providers use at their core. So you might wonder, how do we work around this then? So we came up with our own design called the Auth Z delegated multisig design. So it's the design that bypassed the technical constraints of no smart contracts or no interchange account. So if you take a look at the diagram here in the slide, this is basically the, you know, demonstrates liquid staking process. So I'm gonna give you a brief introduction, brief explanation about how it works from a user's, you know, data flow. So there's a staking contract on osmosis layer one blockchain, and users liquid stake their TIA into the staking contract and the contract transfers the deposited TIA back to its base layer, which is Celestia chain specifically to the multisig account that's managed by seven trusted and reputable operators.
00:03:07.460 - 00:03:52.898, Speaker A: And at this point, you might think that Multisig, at the end of the day, it's Multisig. So it's very risky because there has been many, you know, multiple hacks involved with Multisig based protocol in the past. Right. But, you know, our design is significantly reduced the risk of getting hacked because we leverage the native Cosmos SDK module called Authz module. So basically what this module does is to, you know, allow granting a set of permissions from one account to the other. So multi sick key holders don't really need to sign transactions on a day to day basis. I'm not going to go explain the details of how it works at a technical level.
00:03:52.898 - 00:05:13.550, Speaker A: There's a documentation in our website that has in depth technical specifications. So if you feel interested in getting to know more about it, feel free to check it out. Or you can ask me after the call, after the talk. So the beauty of this design is, like I said, private operators, seven operators, they don't need to expose their private keys to the Internet because we use the Auth Z module to grant a set of permissions to this grantee account, and this grantee account executes transactions on behalf of the Multisig account. There are more details into the design, but since there's a documentation that has in depth technical specification, you can read about it if you're interested. So we took the first mover advantage as a liquid staking provider for Celestia, and thankfully we received tremendous support from the community. And the TVL grew to over $50 million in the first month and a number of users continued to grow over time.
00:05:13.550 - 00:06:04.312, Speaker A: And we were actually the first Cosmos liquid staking token listed in Ethereum world as well. And our LST is usable across 15 plus dapps and defi protocols, and it can be usable as a sequencer fee as well. And we have a great partnerships established with Manisha Barachain and movement and all these promising l one s that are going to launch mainist soon. And there are more promising projects that we are in discussions. They're in the pipeline. So modular staking portal, this is the rest taking part. So restaking is something that we've always had interest ever since it was getting so much adoption with Eigen layer in Ethereum.
00:06:04.312 - 00:07:38.460, Speaker A: And we decided to take some time researching and conduct some due diligence on whether restaking is needed in the modular space. So we have spoken to various different parties, whether they're avss on Eigalir, operators on Eigalir, or, you know, upcoming projects in the modular space, to see whether restaking is really needed in the modular space. And we came to conclude that there's a clear demand in the modular space for restaking because they have a pain point of bootstrapping their security in the beginning I'm going to go explain this a little more detail in the next slides. But as you can see in the slide, there are six avss that we have lined up already. They're blackwing and margin working on the margin trading platform and Oho network, their Oracle provider and Dmax and Tucana. They're the multi chain Dex protocols and there's Initia bridge which is essentially IBC bridge that we have solution to allow them to become an avs on re speaking and also the Milky Way roll up as well as we are transitioning to become l two, which is called the initiative ecosystem. So operator centric model is restrictive.
00:07:38.460 - 00:08:28.456, Speaker A: I should have titled this. As you know it is not actually the restaking problem. These are the pain points and areas of improvements that I see in the major restaking protocol. So the first point is a one asset dependency. A lot of the projects that we have spoken to in the modular ecosystem, they have a desire to be secured by multiple assets rather than a single asset because they don't want to, you know, expose themselves to a single asset. And they also mentioned that they want to include their own asset in the future when their market cap rises high enough. So that's why our design, you know, goes for a multi asset design.
00:08:28.456 - 00:09:30.136, Speaker A: We want to allow, as you know, we want to become the permissionless and the practical staking as possible. And the second point is restakers have no control over their capital. So what does that mean? So if you look at the major restaking protocol, they're all operator centric model. So restakers restake their assets and they delegate their restaked asset to a single operator and the operators choose which abscess they want to opt in. So if you want to opt out, a certain AV's like the bridging protocol because they have a bad reputation from previous hacks, or you just don't like it, or for some reason you want to opt out, but you don't have any control over your capital because operator has control over, you know, chooses which ABS's they want to opt in. So. And the third point that we observe is there's no slashing options.
00:09:30.136 - 00:10:22.370, Speaker A: So we think that there should be multiple ways to slash a misbehavior operator, rather than just burning their asset. You can also not give them any rewards for a certain period or you can just jail them for a certain period as well. And the last point is a time inefficiency for operators. So in the operator centric model, operators have a lot of responsibilities. They have to conduct due diligence on which AVSs, they want to opt in. And they also have to do some marketing and sales for, you know, getting as much delegations as possible from investors and restakers. And they also have to read the guideline of AV's how to run, how to set up, you know, how to build a robust infrastructure.
00:10:22.370 - 00:11:21.408, Speaker A: So this is, you know, this gives operator a lot of responsibilities in the model. So we want to change that. So here is our design. We talked, we spoke to a lot of the AVSs operators and on Eigen layer and we also, we researched how a restaking, like the modular restaking layer should evolve in the grand scheme of like the modular vision unfolding. And this is how we came to conclude that the design must be maximally flexible, versatile, and it should be extensible. So we are using the Cosmos SDK framework, which is very customizable, flexible, and it can support multiple virtual machines as well. And it's also battle tested.
00:11:21.408 - 00:12:02.236, Speaker A: So the essence of this all boils, boils down into a single concept called programmable roles, which you can see in the slide that the diagram literally shows. So we have a lot of programmable roles. There's an asset allocation rule which is inside the delegation roles. There are multiple smashing roles as burn gel steak as well. So I'm not going to go explain into like every rules here. You can feel free to read it through in our documentation. But I just want to point out that it's very extensible.
00:12:02.236 - 00:13:15.050, Speaker A: And the whole philosophy behind our restaking design is to solve the pain points, the actual pain points of avss and operators. So the key to success, we think that the key to success to build a restaking protocol is that AV's, you know, must be, you know, to solve the AVss actual pain points. And if they win, then, you know, our restaking protocol wins. And there are multiple, you know, AV's use cases that we are exploring and we can have basically anything that requires its own validation services. And Oracle is one use case that we are having. So the key benefits for Oracle avss, they can bootstrap their security from various different restaked assets and they can also decentralize their price fitters with operators. So the diagram here in the slide is, you know, as you may know, there, there can be multiple types of Oracle designs, whether it's push based or pull based.
00:13:15.050 - 00:14:08.062, Speaker A: But this diagram literally shows the push based Oracle design where price fitters proactively post their, you know, data to the network or a smart contract. So we can, you know, our restaking design can decentralize their price fitters with operations and they can also discover potential clients in other AVss as well. And this is another use case rollups. But I'm specifically referring to l two s in Inisha ecosystem. They're called in Asia. So for those who are not really familiar with inertia, but I'm sure a lot of you here are already familiar with it because in Asia had a big event recently, Interwoven day. So initia is a network of interwoven roll ups.
00:14:08.062 - 00:14:56.770, Speaker A: They're on a mission to redefine the multi chain network. So yeah, their l two is called Minisha. And we have multiple AVss lined up already for our re staking protocol. So the key benefits are literally the same, but we can increase redundancy and we can decentralize batch submission process for manishas. Yeah, there can be other use cases like bridges, DA providers, virtual machines, cryptographic schemes and yeah, you name it, anything that requires its own validation services, they can be our avss. Yeah. Thank you very much for listening today.
00:14:56.770 - 00:15:11.800, Speaker A: Yeah. And we look forward to building and continue to building and evolve our liquid staking and restaking and bring use cases for the modular ecosystem. Thank you. And let's get in touch.
