00:00:00.440 - 00:00:21.974, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Deli Gwei refuel, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Cisano, and today's the 27 September 2021. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So some of you may know who Virgil Griffith is. He's, he's been around for a while. He's like an ethereum og kind of works at, or maybe used to work at now the Ethereum foundation.
00:00:21.974 - 00:01:06.614, Speaker A: But the reason why I'm talking about him today is because Amin Soleimani here, who's another Ethereum Og, put together this thread about Virgil and about kind of I guess, like what he's facing. So for those who don't know, just a quick background here. Virgil is currently facing, I think, up to 20 years in, in prison for attending and presenting at the Pyongyang blockchain conference in North Korea. And the US government is, is the one bringing charges against him for this. And his trial actually starts today, this, this Monday, so today. And it's been quite a while actually since he was kind of like charged with this and just waiting for the trial to begin. He is being represented by some of the best kind of legal representation in the country, the country being the US.
00:01:06.614 - 00:02:02.746, Speaker A: So he's getting like all the help he needs there. But in this thread, Amin basically goes through why he believes that the US government is just trying to make an example out of Virgil, as they did with Aaron here. And for those of you who don't know, Aaron Schwartz is he basically unfortunately committed suicide after he was being charged. I can't remember the exact charges here, but there were, there are, there are some charges for him. Kind of like, guess like downloading some, some academic journals and publishing them or whatever. But essentially, yeah, you can read more about it in this thread from Amino and he links to a few different kind of like posts here. But, you know, in Virgil's cases, Amin says here he's on trial for providing highly technical knowledge in quotes to North Korea, which could in theory help them evade sanctions, which is ridiculous because it's overwhelmingly likely that Virgil didn't teach them anything they couldn't have learned on YouTube, which is exactly what Vitalik said back when it actually, wow, this is a while ago now.
00:02:02.746 - 00:02:50.470, Speaker A: It actually ended up happening. I think December 2019 is when, when Virgil was arrested here and Vitalik back then said that, you know, he refuses to take the convenient path of throwing Virgil under the bus because I firmly believe that that would be wrong and he was signing this position and then he gave his reasoning here, or at least one of the reasons he said, I don't think that what Virgil did gave North Korea any kind of real help in doing anything bad. He delivered a presentation based on publicly available info about open source software. There was no weird hackery, quote, unquote advanced tutoring. And I mean, I agree with this. Like, there's literally nothing that Virgil could have told these people that they couldn't have accessed online themselves through YouTube or through whatever else. So from that point of view, I do believe that these charges being trumped up against Virgil are kind of like, not.
00:02:50.470 - 00:03:07.810, Speaker A: Not something that should stand, I guess, like in a court of law. But we're going to have to see how that plays out. Obviously, as I said, the trial starts today. I take the position that I think that Virgil shouldn't go to prison for this. I don't. But, like. But I'm not sure of, like, all the exact details and everything yet that's going to come out in the trial.
00:03:07.810 - 00:03:44.492, Speaker A: And I'm going to be following it quite closely because I actually did meet Virgil for the first time back in, like, early 2019, I think was April 2019 when I went to Edcon in Sydney. And he was just awesome. Like a really nice guy. Like, I, you know, he's been in ethereum for quite a while, has a very colorful history. While I'm sure if you google it, you can probably find a bit about his a history. But, yeah, I mean, and what he did, as I mentioned, I don't believe it to be anything worthy of, like, 20 years in prison because of the fact that the information that he gave it at a conference essentially was obviously freely available. Now, like, there's the other side of it.
00:03:44.492 - 00:04:22.644, Speaker A: Like, what is what he did? Like, really stupid? Was it, like, really naive? Yes, of course. It was like, you don't go to North Korea, which is a sanctioned country, that obviously the US is sanctioned them, and do anything there. I mean, really, like, going there is just a bad idea to begin with. Right. Unless you're kind of like a journalist or anything like that, and then you have, like, and then, you know, you give the US government a heads up and say you're going there, whatever. But even then, like, I just, I don't know, I feel like it's just not a great idea in general to go. But that doesn't mean that he should be, you know, sent to prison for 20 years for presenting at a conference where the information available, the information he gave is already freely available for these people to access.
00:04:22.644 - 00:04:54.634, Speaker A: But anyway, as I said, like, he's being represented by one of the best kind of like attorneys in the US, Brian Klein. Kleen Klein. And for those of you who don't know who Brian is, he's actually the one who represented eos against the SEC and won. And basically only eos only had to pay a $24 million fine out of the $4 billion that they raised. And they didn't have to admit that their sale of the EOS tokens was a sale of securities. Now we all know it kind of like was, right. And also on top of that, the El sale was like really dodgy.
00:04:54.634 - 00:05:19.744, Speaker A: There was wash trading going on. Eels just in general was like very dodgy, like very scammy. But no, Brian was able to argue against the SEC and win in, you know, win the case essentially. But in general, apparently he's a very, very good lawyer. So great to see that Virgil is getting representation from, from Brian here. I'm, you know, interested to see how the trial goes and what happens there. I'm not sure how long the trial is going to take, but I'll definitely keep you all updated.
00:05:19.744 - 00:06:03.562, Speaker A: But I just felt it was necessary to kind of like highlight this thread. You can go rate it for yourself. It'll be in the YouTube description. But I really think that if Virgil does actually end up being, you know, convicted of this and goes to prison over it, it just sets a really, really bad precedent going forward and it just becomes worse for like everyone within this industry, especially educators in general. Like, I'm an educator as well. Like, you know, if kind of like I'm educating people on how to do things like, I mean, not evading sanctions, obviously, but like how to do things like uncensorable payments on these networks. Like, am I going to come under fire for that sort of thing? So it's kind of something that, I mean, as an industry, we industry we should all be talking about paying attention to and making sure that there aren't like really bad precedents set here.
00:06:03.562 - 00:06:28.126, Speaker A: But we'll have to see. I mean, obviously the US government is really powerful, but they still have to go through the courts just like everyone else does before they could do anything. So, you know, before they can actually sentence someone. So we'll have to see how that plays out. But I mean, yeah, I, quote, tweeted this by saying free Virgil because I do believe that he doesn't deserve to be in prison. Just like I believe people like Ross Ulbricht doesn't even deserve to be, to be in prison for, like, I mean, he's in prison for life, right? It's not 20 years. It's.
00:06:28.126 - 00:07:01.936, Speaker A: It's like multiple life sentences. And I believe he should have clemency as well. But in saying that, that's, that's a whole different kind of, like, bag or bag of worms there or can of worms. Um, I'm not going to get into that, but yeah, go give this a read. It'll be linked in the YouTube description below. All right, so another bit of, I guess, like, I wouldn't call this drama, but something that was talked about a little bit over the last few days on Twitter was around decentralization. And this came about because of the fact that China's, you know, cracking down on crypto trading venues are cracking down on centralized exchanges.
00:07:01.936 - 00:07:36.794, Speaker A: Apparently, Huawei is going to stop accepting trading from mainland China, chinese investors and things like that. So, you know, from that perspective, people have been painting this narrative that, wow, okay, well, decentralized exchanges aren't affected by this. China can't shut down decentralized exchanges. So people are just painting the narrative there and basically saying, you know, let's just all trade on these dexes, which is true to an extent. I mean, some of them have, I guess you could say most of them have, like, admin keys and central points of failure. Still, uniswap doesn't, of course, and I've spoken about that before. But, you know, it all kind of prompted me to put out this tweet where I said decentralization matters.
00:07:36.794 - 00:08:12.834, Speaker A: And Cyrus basically put out another tweet, you know, in kind of like, same vein where he says, you know, imagine thinking that, quote, users don't actually care about decentralized decentralization, end quote, in a world where China just banned all the exchanges. And Gensler similarly trying to crack down in the US, congrats on being tricked, lied to, and misled into buying centralized vc bags. Cyrus takes a very colorful and straightforward approach there, which I actually agree with. I mean, there's a lot of kind of like that stuff going on in this ecosystem where people are just trying to trick you into buying all this different sorts of stuff. But I'm not going to focus on that aspect. On it. Of it.
00:08:12.834 - 00:09:14.190, Speaker A: What I wanted to focus on is this kind of, like, narrative that people kind of try to perpetuate where they said that users don't actually care about decentralization. At the end of the day, whether users care about it or not is not actually, I think that really is worth talking about. Like, users either care about it or they don't like, and we can try and convince them, we can try to educate them. We can try to basically show them the benefits of, of what, you know, what having decentralized decentralization does. But most people just simply either won't care at, you know, at that point in time, or they, they simply, not that I don't care, they simply kind of, like, see it and like, okay, well, cool, whatever. Like, I'm making money over here, so I don't really care about it for now. But when it really comes into focus and comes into view is when this stuff starts happening, right? Like, if for some reason the SEC classified a popular token as a security, say they classified uni token as a security, and that would mean that Coinbase would have to either delist it or create a whole nother venue for trading it and basically become like a registered exchange for trading securities.
00:09:14.190 - 00:09:36.790, Speaker A: And they'd have to go through all this compliance stuff and they would only be able to accept users from certain places and it would be a whole mess. Right. It'd be very, very ridiculous. But the uni token would still be able to be traded on decentralized exchanges like uniswap and things like that. There's nothing the SEC can do to stop that. They have absolutely no power there at all. And, you know, obviously you have to take over the Ethereum network to be able to take over Uniswap.
00:09:36.790 - 00:10:11.990, Speaker A: And, you know, the US government potentially could do that if they put all their resources to it, but the SEC itself can't, can't do that. So that's just like, I guess, like one of the most obvious examples of why decentralization matters, even if users don't actually care about it. Because just because they don't care, maybe they don't care about it now, doesn't mean they're not going to care about it in the future. It's kind of like an insurance policy. At the end of the day, it's like when something goes wrong, you really wish you had insurance. And, you know, and kind of like, same with, with centralization versus decentralization. When something goes wrong, that decentralization could have, you know, avoided, then you, you know, you really wish you had it as the same.
00:10:11.990 - 00:11:26.228, Speaker A: What happened with kind of like, I guess the, the Solana outage where they were offline for 18 hours, and I'm sure a lot of the people that were using Solana really wish that they were you, you know, they were using a network that, that doesn't go offline for 18 hours is decentralized is kind of like more secure and has a better liveness kind of assumption around it. And that kind of like falls into this whole thing. So from that perspective as well, I saw someone kind of quote, tweet, Cyrus tweet, I think, and said we aren't giving users what they care about, we're giving them what they need, like when we're building these sorts of stuff. Because even if, and I've always said this about kind of like, especially when it comes to developers, I've always said that developers have a lot of power in this ecosystem where they basically get to dictate what they, what they kind of put out there. Some will take shortcuts and build centralized stuff and all that sort of stuff. Some won't even know that they're building centralized things because they think that they're building on a decentralized platform and then later on it kind of like comes to light that the base is actually completely centralized and doesn't matter how decentralized their app is, if the base is centralized, then everything else built on top is. So the developers, I think within a theorem, especially the more ideological ones, are making sure that they build decentralized things on purpose because they really want to be able to kind of like give users what they need or what they believe that users need without requiring them to even care or be aware of it.
00:11:26.228 - 00:12:01.766, Speaker A: So I think from that point of view, it's very important. And of course, like people will often say, oh, well, decentralization is a spectrum. Not everything needs nation state level kind of like resistance and, okay, like, I can agree with that. Like, that's the pragmatic approach for sure. But at the same time, I don't actually think there's many things that require a blockchain that can't just be done with a centralized database that has a bridge into a blockchain if you want to be interoperable. You know, if you're basically sacrificing decentralization, then using a blockchain is just like using a shitty database at the end of the day. And, you know, obviously we have the L2s coming online now and everything which are going to make this more scalable.
00:12:01.766 - 00:12:30.378, Speaker A: And actually Paulina had a good tweet here where he said basically, you know, the likes of Dy DX and immutable X have far and away the best UX on the Internet. Yes, even better than web two. So even better than their centralized counterparts. It has sign in with, with web3 wallets or sign in kind of like with your metamask, it's instant transactions, gas free transactions. There's no kind of like ads to subsidize that. No one's kind of like farming your user information or whatever. Arjun and Zksync are coming soon.
00:12:30.378 - 00:13:11.826, Speaker A: And this is not only about Ethereum, it's about the paradigm shattering ZK roll ups and volitions which can retain kind of like this decentralization and security properties of whatever layer one they tap into. And obviously they're going to be tapping into Ethereum. So from that point of view as well, even if you say, oh well, these apps need like a lot of scale. So it's fine that we sacrifice decentralization to achieve this scale for the, for these apps. I mean, even if that was true, I mean, it probably is true for some apps. You can do it better at L2 than you can on some of these kind of like centralized kind of chains at the end of the day. So even from that perspective, I think that as long as your base is decentralized, as long as like the Ethereum base remains decentralized and secure, then you can build whatever you want on top of it.
00:13:11.826 - 00:14:06.378, Speaker A: You don't have to start like a whole new network and then just like centralize the whole thing and then try to kind of like convince everyone that oh, well, no, we actually are decentralized even though you're not, because you sacrificed it in order to achieve skills scale. We can have the best of both worlds with these L2s, especially with like zero knowledge technology. As I've talked about a lot recently, and I'm sure a lot of you have been doing research into it as well, which is definitely very good use of time. And I think that just generally people really don't realize that it's not just blockchain scaling we're talking about here. When it comes to zero knowledge tech, it's literally disrupting web two related things, offering a better service that web two can offer, but doing it in a decentralized and slash distributed way where basically everything becomes super interoperable with each other. And we basically get back to where the Internet was supposed to be. Because over the arc of, I guess the last 20 years, the Internet was supposed to be decentralized.
00:14:06.378 - 00:14:56.954, Speaker A: It just didn't end up that way because the incentives were skewed and kind of like it wasn't architected correctly and it got captured by centralized vested interests. Whereas with kind of like these crypto primitives that we have and with crypto economics and things like that, we really do have a good shot at basically redecentralizing the Internet, taking power away from these super mega corporations that basically own everything. I mean, like, the top ten companies account for most of the centralized companies, I should say account for most of the activity on the Internet. And, you know, they obviously own multiple websites. Like Google has Google and they have YouTube and they also have Android, right? They have all these sorts of things going on. And from that point of view, it just like very much centralizes. So with kind of like web3, with crypto, with, with decentralization, we have like a really, really good shot of fixing all of this and we have the tech to do so.
00:14:56.954 - 00:15:49.700, Speaker A: And, you know, maybe we see these kind of like centralized web two apps and stuff like that eventually either migrate or deploy or develop using these technologies. And they just use Ethereum as their security backbone and maybe some data availability layer like Polygon avail or Celestia or some other ones out there, uh, as kind of like where to store their data as well. So there's a lot of this stuff going on. I think, as I said, the, it's not really, uh, it should, the conversation shouldn't be really framed around, like, if users care about decentralization or not, we should assume that most users are indifferent to it, but we should build as if that, you know, the worst for the worst case scenario. That's why I believe that, uh, and that's why I kind of, like, I'm so ideological about Ethereum and I follow it so closely, is because I believe Ethereum should be built with the worst case scenario in mind. Ethereum should be built to resist nation state attacks. If we can do that, then that's kind of like the final boss.
00:15:49.700 - 00:16:31.240, Speaker A: Like, there's no one, there's nothing bigger than a nation state in terms of the amount of capital they can, they can have, the amount of people they can throw at it. If you can resist nation states, especially big nation states, like, I mean, obviously the final boss would be like a superpower, like the US or China. If you can resist that, then the network is just like, it becomes incredibly resilient and it signals to the world, like, you can build on this and you can have like nation state level resistance. And obviously there's arguments around, like, what apps actually need that not every app does. Like, does your, you know, NFT profile picture need nation state resistance? Maybe it doesn't, I don't know. But I think that Ethereum should still be built in that way. And then you can build all of the other things with various trade offs on top of it.
00:16:31.240 - 00:17:16.194, Speaker A: We shouldn't sacrifice Ethereum's core properties just because it's a generalized platform, and there's going to be some things on built on there that don't require nation state resistance. We should always operate from the assumption that the Ethereum network itself should be able to resist nation states, because the sum of all the value being built on top of it will be greater than probably the sum of like most of the world, to be honest. Eventually, like decades into the future, and from that point of view, there'll be nation states that want to take it down. So we have to resist that. And obviously we have to resist that for users as well, because it will just disrupt users if it got taken down. So yeah, anyway, I'm gonna leave that at that for now. A little bit of a, kind of like not a rant, but like a little bit of a tangent there about decentralization generally and kind of like how I think about it.
00:17:16.194 - 00:18:04.926, Speaker A: Alright, so Ben Edgington, he's back with another what's new in ETH two newsletter. As I've mentioned before, this is my favorite way to keep up with ETH two. I think the major update in here is that Altair, the the first east two network upgrade, now has a main net date of Wednesday 27 October at blocked 74240, sorry, not block 7424, epic 74240, which will be the 1056 UTC on the 27th. So yeah, this is going to be exciting to see it go live. As I've mentioned before, once this is done and dust and live on the network, all focus turns to the merge from all the ETH one and ETH two teams, and they're going to be full steam ahead on that. And there already is a lot of kind of like progress happening there. You know, Ben has kind of like the merge merge updates in his newsletter as well.
00:18:04.926 - 00:18:40.194, Speaker A: He has other updates around staking client diversity that I went over on last Friday's refuel, I believe, or Thursdays, links to different kind of like research explainers and stuff like that. As I said, this is my favorite way to keep up with ETH two. If you aren't subscribed to this yet, I suggest doing so. You can find this linked in the YouTube description, but it's really, really great. And I, and I, and I love just being able to kind of like keep up with everything that's happening because Eavesdoo is a big effort, like just generally between like the merge and sharding and like ongoing research around the bleeding edge stuff and obviously, stuff like Altair, like upgrades and things like that, there's a lot to keep on top of. And Ben does a really great job of curating it. So definitely go check this out.
00:18:40.194 - 00:19:07.074, Speaker A: All right, so DYDX is having a really big last few days. So as Antonio, the founder of DYDX, says here, five years ago, he left Coinbase and eventually founded DYDX. And today being yesterday, for the first time, DyZ is doing more trading volume than Coinbase. So you can see here that at the time of the screenshot, DYDX was doing 3.6, or almost $3.7 billion of 24 hours trading volume, and Coinbase did $3.6 billion.
00:19:07.074 - 00:19:34.524, Speaker A: Now, there's a few caveats here. One, Dy DX has liquidity mining, where people can earn tokens for trading on the platform. And two, Coinbase doesn't have perpetual products. So DyDX is a perpetual exchange. So it's a derivative exchange, whereas Coinbase is pure spot. So there's two major differences there. But I think I saw before as well, that DyDX has also overtaken Bitmex, which is a perpetual exchange in volume, and they're not as big as they once were.
00:19:34.524 - 00:20:34.472, Speaker A: I think the most impressive thing would be Dy DX overtaking binance, or FTX, or even bybit, I think, of the three leading kind of perp exchanges, but they also have spot markets, too. So it's a bit of a, you know, it's a bit of a nuanced comparison here, but this is crazy. I mean, it just shows the power of a token. Remember like a few months ago on the refuel, when I was talking about Dy Dex's growth and how I said to you guys that I expect this to absolutely explode, because the Dy DX experience basically is like a centralized exchange, but without the drawbacks of a centralized exchange, because you have, like, easy sign in with Ethereum, deposit your funds straight in self custody the whole time, get free transactions, all that good stuff, because it's on a ZK roll up, and then you can withdraw to layer one and all that good stuff there. So from that point of view, I mean, I've loved using Dy DX. As I said, I've been just toying with it with like a small amount of funds and stuff like that. I haven't really been doing anything too crazy on there, but there are a lot of people trading lots of volume on here for, you know, half for the tokens, half for.
00:20:34.472 - 00:20:57.276, Speaker A: Because it's a good experience. But it's just funny, like how fast the volume grew. I remember, as I said, I remember, like back when I spoke about this a few months ago, I think Dy Dex was doing ten or $20 million or 24 hours volume on their top markets. I believe yesterday the bitcoin market did over $2 billion of 24 hours volume. So these things can, can really pick up steam when there's a token involved in it. And we've all seen these play out. It's not just with Dy DX, it's with anything.
00:20:57.276 - 00:21:27.182, Speaker A: If you add a token to it, you can really boot shop and kickstart growth. But you have to do it in such a way that that growth kind of like becomes sticky. And I actually think it will for DyDX because they offer such an amazing product that no one else kind of does right now. Like a decentralized exchange on a L2 that feels like a decentralized exchange. I really do believe they're going to have a bunch of sticky capital there, but we won't be able to know for a while. I think they're kind of like incentive program runs for quite a while, and their token price is crazy right now. I think the fully diluted market cap is like $20 billion or something.
00:21:27.182 - 00:21:56.880, Speaker A: So they would be second to uniswap in terms of valuations of, I guess, Defi tokens as what you can call them there. But most of the tokens aren't circulating yet. A lot of them belong to the team and investors, obviously, liquid quitting mining program and stuff like that. And there's a bit of drama around how the DyDX token doesn't actually give holders any share of the revenue. And apparently there's no plan to ever give holders a share of the revenue. So all the trading fees are currently just going to dy DX the foundation. So there's a bit of drama around that.
00:21:56.880 - 00:22:18.650, Speaker A: And apparently it's just meant to be like a pure governance token. But the thing is, governance can't even vote in value capture. Like, they can't vote in fee capture either. This may change in the future. Maybe DyDX is just doing this for regulatory reasons. I say maybe, but like, I suspect that that's the reason why. But you know, regardless of that, I think it's just been amazing to see their growth and kind of like, see how fast it's been as well.
00:22:18.650 - 00:22:40.816, Speaker A: It's only been like a little while since they've been kind of like on L2. And since they launched, their token hasn't been very long, either. So, yeah, crazy growth. Yeah. Shows the power of L2s as well, at the end of the day. All right, so speaking of L2s, I put out this tweet, I think it was on Friday, where I said 2016 to 2021 has been the era of layer ones. I think that 2021 to 2026 will be the era of L2s.
00:22:40.816 - 00:23:07.412, Speaker A: Compute execution or slash execution is a commodity. Decentralization and security are not. Now, I want to unpack this tweet a little bit here. And this goes into some of the stuff that I was talking about last week, I believe, around what Polynyar had said about modular blockchains and things like that. But essentially, what I mean by this is like, 2016 and 2021, you had those monolithic, sorry, not monolith, I guess monolithic, but you had all these l ones competing with each other. Right. And obviously, Ethereum is the clear winner here.
00:23:07.412 - 00:23:42.630, Speaker A: There's really no competition at all of what Ethereum is trying to be that kind of, like, base, maximally decentralized, secure data availability, layer for L2s. But there's been a lot of. A lot of projects spinning up there. And I did mention last week how I think that going forward, it's going to be both more profitable and more pragmatic to be a L2 instead of a layer one. And this is because compute is a commodity. Now, what I mean by this is like, I mean, you guys know what commodities are, right? There's kind of like wheat and oil and stuff like that. These things are like, you know, easy to come across, and it's.
00:23:42.630 - 00:24:10.122, Speaker A: It's, you know, it's not something that. How do I put this? In a way that relates to blockchains, I think, you know, in a way that it relates to compute. The way I'm thinking about it is that, like, any of us can. Can do computation. Like, I can do computation on my pc. You can do your computation on your phone, like, everything. I mean, everyone has, like, a supercomputer in their pocket with their smartphone, right? So from that point of view, compute and execution are a commodity, but decentralization and security are not.
00:24:10.122 - 00:24:29.856, Speaker A: Because I can't run a decentralized network just from my phone or my computer. I can't run it on my own. Not everyone can like, to actually create a decentralized and secure network takes a lot of effort and a lot of time. It is not something that can just be easily spun up. It's not. It's not a commodity, right. It's not something that just comes very easily.
00:24:29.856 - 00:25:14.256, Speaker A: Think of Ethereum, for example. It's taken now from 20, you know, 14 since Ethereum kind of like did their ICO and they started building and then launched in 2015 to today for it to get to a point where it's as decentralized and secure as it is it is today. And by the time the merge comes around, it will have been like probably eight or so years since kind of like Ethereum started being built to getting to proof of stake where we, where we truly believe that that's kind of like the most decentralized and secure kind of like outcome for Ethereum. Now there's other networks as well that are trying to be decentralized and secure. And to spin this up, it's just like very expensive. You have to have a native token, you have to get people to build it, you have to get people to build clients for it. They have to build the whole stack out, right.
00:25:14.256 - 00:25:50.740, Speaker A: You have to have developers kind of like building on and everything like that to gain those network effects. So to build something that's decentralized and secure is like infinitely harder than to build something that just does compute and execution. And this is exactly what L2s do. As I explained last week, L2s just do all of the compute off chain. They don't do it on chain because doing it on chain is nonsensical with Ethereum, because we've seen that if you just do it on chain, the fees are skyrocket. Because we were trying to basically do two things that are at odds with each other. We're trying to create the maximally decentralized and secure base layer, but we're also trying to fit in everyone's transactions into it.
00:25:50.740 - 00:26:32.990, Speaker A: But it's at odds with each other because you can't do that, because to retain the decentralization and security, you need to limit the throughput, you need to limit the compute of layer one. But at L2, there's none of these limits, because as I've explained before, L2s allow you to do as much computation as you want. You can, you can only, you can just have one node. It doesn't even matter, because what really matters is the fact that you're deriving your security from layer one. So essentially you've commoditized the compute at L2, but you've kept the decentralization security of the base layer, which is extremely hard to replicate, if not impossible at this point. To replicate, replicate. And as I've mentioned before, the only two networks that I believe are actually truly decentralized and secure and would stand a chance at resisting a nation state attack.
00:26:32.990 - 00:27:02.760, Speaker A: A bitcoin and ethereum. But bitcoin doesn't have an expressive platform. It probably will never have an expressive platform. You know, all they really would need to add would be to some way to kind of like verify or at least allow these L2s to kind of like put their, their data and put their kind of proofs onto bitcoin. But I don't think that's probably ever going to happen. And because of that, it really is just Ethereum. At the end of the day, Ethereum is the only decentralized and secure network right now that is good enough for an l two ecosystem to blossom around.
00:27:02.760 - 00:27:47.268, Speaker A: And that's what we're seeing. So that's why I believe that, you know, these monolithic layer ones that have tried to do compute at layer one and have sacrificed all of the ideal properties of a blockchain are going to fail in the face of these L2. So basically say, well, I can just leverage Ethereum security. I can do everything that I would love to do in a, you know, in a more centralized layer one where I scale out the compute as high as I can get it, but I can do it at L2 and have to worry about security and decentralization. I can outsource that to Ethereum. I can just worry about my compute, I can just worry about the best way to compute these transactions, to execute these transactions, and then post them to Ethereum, the Ethereum base layer. So I wouldn't be surprised to see an absolute explosion in L2s over the next five years.
00:27:47.268 - 00:29:10.076, Speaker A: Um, you know, we have a lot of teams today, but there's still going to be other teams that come out of nowhere and kind of like surprise people. And maybe they disrupt other teams, maybe they're, they're kind of like working in stealth right now, and they come along and they just have all this awesome tech that they, they bring to bring to the table, and then the L2 ecosystem just gets crazier from there. So that's kind of like what I mean, meant by this tweet at the, at the end of the day, because I think that people really overestimate the fact, sorry, underestimate how powerful L2s are if you just focusing on the compute and execution side of things, because I don't have to focus on anything else. And there's obviously hybrid models like the volitions and validiums that allow you to basically, or allow users to choose where they want to steal their data or have data kind of like stored on a data availability community. But I'm talking about, like, pure roll ups here, like ZK roll ups and optimistic roll ups, where you just basically offload that, all that compute and execution from ethereum layer one to L2. But because it's a commodity, and I guess, like, on that note as well, another example of this is, like, is that all these other kind of. Okay, actually, this is the perfect example, and I should have mentioned this at the start, but the perfect example of why I say compute is a commodity is because look at the EVM side chains that have spun up avalanche, c chain, evm side chain polygons, pls chain, evm side chain, xdai evm side chain, all that sort of stuff like that.
00:29:10.076 - 00:29:36.930, Speaker A: Doesn't take anything to spin up BSc EVM side chain. All it takes is them forking the EVM, forking the Ethereum chain, you know, basically spinning up a few nodes or whatever, running it. And they're able to process the same compute that Ethereum is able to do. They're able to have all the same apps on there. They have the same kind of rules. They have the gas limits, and they can play with the gas limits, right? They can do whatever they want with it. But they don't have Ethereum's decentralization security that can't be forked.
00:29:36.930 - 00:30:33.658, Speaker A: You can, you can fork the compute to your heart's content, but you will not be able to fork this decentralized, decentralization and security that Ethereum has. You have to build that from scratch. So that, that's why I think that's the perfect example of what I mean, when we have these kind of, like, two things that are split and why it makes more sense for L2s to be built going forward, rather than focusing on these kind of, like, monolithic layer ones and hoping to do everything at layer one, like the layer ones, like Solana, they want to do compute and execution, uh, you know, uh, data availability, uh, decentralization security, all that sort of stuff. They want to do it all at layer one, uh, on without sharding, not, and kind of like, just scale it up from there. I've explained before why I don't think that's going to, that's going to work at all, even if that, even if you take away the decentralized, decentralization aspect of it. I just think generally, it's not going to work from a tech standpoint. And why I believe that the hybrid approach, where the layer one is just the data availability and security layer, and the L2 is the compute layer is the way forward.
00:30:33.658 - 00:31:24.986, Speaker A: Anyway, I'm gonna, I'm gonna run out of time if I keep going on about this, so I'm gonna leave it at that and go, go through the rest of these things. Um, here's a quick note on, like, competitor networks ramping up their fud of Ethereum based L2s that I've seen recently, and it was in reference to actually Emon Garncia, the founder and CEO of, of Ava Labs, which built Avalanche, where he put out a tweet where he says one could try to deal with the, the cantankerous l two s, most of which are terrible centralized value leeching l one s in waiting, but they don't let you compose contracts, don't let you withdraw funds easily and fracture your funds. Or one could, one could just bridge to avalanche. So this is obviously fud here. All avalanche has right now is their sea chain. I don't know what their other chains are going to look like, but it's just like they don't have anything except their seachain, which, sorry, the EVM for sea chain, which, as I said, is just like a theorem. You know, just compute, doesn't inherit ethereum security decentralization.
00:31:24.986 - 00:31:58.854, Speaker A: And then Polynyard, quote, tweeted this with a good thread where he said that this is very myopic in the long term. All of this are faults, roll ups, and volitions. Can, can and will be fully decentralized and inherit the security and decentralization properties of whatever is the most secure and decentralized security layer. Hermes is already there, and then polynomial, I mean, goes on in his thread about this. So definitely check out the thread. But this just speaks to what I was kind of like saying before. And on top of that, a L2 has a much, much easier path to decentralization than a layer one does, because a L2, to decentralize, all they have to do is get other people running sequences and validators.
00:31:58.854 - 00:32:27.414, Speaker A: And even if only one person is running it, it doesn't matter, because they're inheriting the decentralization of the layer one. So from that perspective, there's not much that, you know, a single sequencer can do, as we saw with arbitrary. And the sequencer went down, doesn't matter. The. You could just withdraw your funds from layer one if you wanted to. So just give this thread a rate of links in the YouTube description. And I also put out a tweet saying that I love make a Dow and die because maker and I were getting a bit of hate last week or over the weekend.
00:32:27.414 - 00:32:55.830, Speaker A: I mean, I don't know why it's such an amazing product. I get like there's too much USDC backing die and it makes die not fully decentralized and all that sort of stuff. But Maker is the most battle hardened defi app we have today. They've never had a hack. I think the only bad thing that's happened to them is during the flash crash Black swan in March of 2020 where the there was kind of like the bug with the keepers. I've spoken about it before, I won't go into it now, but generally I think they just cop too much flack. I think it's amazing.
00:32:55.830 - 00:33:14.114, Speaker A: I use Maker all the time. I manage it through the Oasis app. I've never had an issue with it. I love the product they build, I love Dai and I just felt like they copped too much flack. So just wanted to give a shout out there. Seller network put out an update that they've introducing Seabridge 2.0. I've talked about kind of like this bridge before.
00:33:14.114 - 00:33:48.216, Speaker A: It's one of those kind of like bridges that allows you to kind of like bridge between side chains, L2s and all that. But Seabreach 2.0 comes with even better user experience with lower costs, simple and efficient lp experience with option to not run a node, a generalized SDK for cross chain nfts and more. You can read I guess, like the full breakdown in their blog post here, which will be linked in the YouTube description. And the last thing I wanted to talk about was this interesting chart from token terminal showing the Ethereum fee burns as a percentage of total transaction fees paid. You can see that it's actually higher than 75% sometimes here, which. And much higher sometimes.
00:33:48.216 - 00:34:22.164, Speaker A: I mean on, you can see what is that September 20 and 21st? It looks like it was like over 90% of the fee revenue was burned, which is crazy, right? Like there were estimates that it would be 70% to 75%, which it seems to be. The average is around that, maybe a bit higher. Some days it's a bit lower, but generally it seems around that. But it's crazy to see these spikes going up and yeah, we're at like over 370,000 total ETH burn now and everything. It's just crazy, right? It's just absolutely insane. Um, which is built obviously over a billion dollars at these prices as well. Um, but yeah, cool, cool little chart from token terminal here.
00:34:22.164 - 00:34:35.844, Speaker A: Uh, if you want to check it out. You can link to the YouTube description, but I think I'm going to end it there because I've gone over time. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
