00:00:00.170 - 00:00:34.226, Speaker A: In this video I'm going to go through staking Ethereum using funds held on the copper platform. So here you can see I'm in the copper interface where I have a d five vault that's been funded with 64.2 e. So that's enough to stake two validators on Ethereum. And I'm going to show you how to do that using the kiln dashboard. So the first thing you'll need to install the copper connect extension. This is a chrome extension that the copper team have developed.
00:00:34.226 - 00:01:08.894, Speaker A: It's actually a fork of metamask and enables you to interact with the kiln dashboard. So here in the kiln dashboard I'm on the Ethereum page. On the left I can see some details about Ethereum staking, and on the right I can actually stake. So first of all, we need to decide the account we're going to stake towards on kiln. Then we pick an amount. So here I'm going to pick 32 e and we connect our wallet. So as I mentioned, the copper connect extension is a fork of metamask.
00:01:08.894 - 00:02:13.824, Speaker A: So we can use select metamask and this actually connects the correct address. Here you can see this is the same address and it's got the same balance that we saw here. Once it's connected, I can verify that this is the correct wallet address. Click on this checkbox and hit stake. Now in the background this is going to provision a validator on the kiln infrastructure and then it's going to suggest a transaction here, which we can now see here, it's suggesting a transaction in the copper connect extension. Right? And so this is the one track and review and confirm. Now, due to the governance rules of my cobra platform, one of my team members will approve this.
00:02:13.824 - 00:03:03.660, Speaker A: And then once that's done, the deposit will actually be processed on chain. And that's it. My vader will be funded once this transaction has been signed in copper, which is doable as all copper transactions using the mobile app. You can see here on Etherscan, the transaction is confirmed. And back in the kiln dashboard I can see that I have a validator that has been funded. Right, so it's in depositing status and will now go through the entry queue and after which it will start to earn rewards. So that's it, that's a run through of staking ETh with the kiln dashboard and copper.
