00:00:00.320 - 00:00:17.500, Speaker A: Not only super cycle gonna go on. There is no second best. There is no second best. There is no second best. Fuck you stupid. You stay poor. I don't think he died at the poor gross.
00:00:17.500 - 00:00:59.120, Speaker A: We're in a super cycle. What are you gonna do with that? Just relax. Welcome. This I'm afraid is going to be a long one. It's so big. But if you want to understand the entire picture of crypto contagion, then bear with me. And if you like what we do on the channel, please do consider subscribing because you know, it's a bear market.
00:00:59.120 - 00:01:26.362, Speaker A: We need to grow, we need to continue doing this work. So follow along, support us Like Comment subscribe, you know what to do. Now on with the good stuff. So listen, I know you're thinking how did we get here? The map just continues to evolve, the picture continues to change. Now you'll know that I'll be hearing the word contagion from all corners. What are you talking about? If one of them's got it then 10 of them have got it now. And if one of them gets out of Cedar Creek, we have a very interesting problem.
00:01:26.362 - 00:01:55.500, Speaker A: But didn't we just escape the clutches of the pandemic? Well, yes, yes, but crypto is really like a house of mirrors where nothing is ever quite what it seems. And it's also a house of cards built on a complex system of levered dependencies. And when one of those fails, it all comes crashing down. And that is what we're covering today. From GBTC to Luna to Celsius, Three Arrows, Capital Voyager and everybody else. The who, the what, the what yes, the when, the why, the why, yes, and the weeping. All that coming up.
00:01:55.500 - 00:02:41.034, Speaker A: Do you know how much money you made in Defi? Valk introduces Merlin, your institutional grade defi portfolio tracker. Simply connect your wallets and access your net worth, yield, earned P and L, total debts, transaction fees for each of your historical positions in USD from lending on Aaver or Trader Joe to getting a full Overview of your LP positions on Uniswap V3. Make Smarter DeFi trading decisions with Merlin. Sign up now for early access before the public launch on July 1. Link in the description. In 2021, Ethereum traders lost over $200 million to malicious bots exploiting their trades. As Defi continues to gain popularity, this number is expected to rise.
00:02:41.034 - 00:03:39.806, Speaker A: IDA Network is a next generation private transaction service for Ethereum, providing traders with MEV protection by submitting transactions directly to miners and away from the prying eyes of harmful bots. Using Eden network for Ethereum transactions results in better and safer trades. Eden Network recently launched Eden Rocket RPC which compiles some of Ethereum's fastest private transaction Networks, resulting in 90% effective hashrate. This makes Eden Rocket RPC the fastest private transaction network available, protecting you from bots. Join the best and get started with Eden Network today and trade safer Is your crypto sitting idle without earning you any passive income on Nexo, you can maximize the value of your crypto in no time and earn rates of up to 17%. Their web platform and mobile app are super easy to use. You can buy crypto with your card instantly and start earning interest paid out daily.
00:03:39.806 - 00:04:11.754, Speaker A: The Nexo Exchange has over 300 market pairs. Every time you swap or buy crypto you get up to 0.5% cashback that's automatically added to your wallet. If you want to finance buying a car or a trip to a faraway place, you can borrow cash by using your crypto or NFT as collateral. You don't lose your crypto and you can get borrowing rates as low as 0% APR. Go to Nexo IO and get started today. Our story starts as every crypto story does with Bitcoin and specifically gbtc.
00:04:11.754 - 00:05:03.718, Speaker A: The Grayscale Bitcoin Trust Grayscale Secret Sauce G is enabling investors to gain exposure to BTC in the form of a security while avoiding the challenges of buying, storing and safe keeping BTC directly. So if you're a trad chad with all the requisite paperwork for chatting in tradfi, then you can chad in the rad fi web3 without having to touch anything remotely risky like self custody, private keys and all your tax stuff. Well, that's a lot simpler as well, but at a Wall street scale as well. Thing is though, it does come with some caveats. So here's how it works. Accredited investors that means pretty much not you and me can purchase GBTC shares of the fund at the net asset value in daily private placements. Then they can sell them on the secondary market to retail investors.
00:05:03.718 - 00:05:44.510, Speaker A: After a six month lockup, the minimum buy in for accredited investors is 50 grand and Grayscale charges a 2% annual account fee which accrues daily. Grayscale then uses those funds to acquire an absolutely monumental stash of Bitcoin. Now initially there was huge demand for the fund, so it traded at a monster premium to BTC 132.5% at its peak in August 2017. Trad retail investors wanting exposure to Bitcoin but not wanting the hassle of those separate tax returns and self custody. Well, they were willing to absorb that premium. Great news for the big dog investors.
00:05:44.510 - 00:06:28.440, Speaker A: For a six month lockup, they were making an absolute killing on the premium, around 30% as long as that premium remained positive. Now there were three principal actors in this play, Bitcoin miners, Three Arrows Capital, who held, believe it or not, around 6% of the trust and BlockFi. But I'm sure you can see the problem here. At a certain point the juice runs out and that premium flips negative. Meaning GBT shares are now trading at a discount. But if you own those shares, you're locked for six months watching helplessly as the tide turns. And these major players ended up underwater on their BTC with nothing but a super cycle to keep them afloat.
00:06:28.440 - 00:07:18.914, Speaker A: A trade that at one time earned 30% was suddenly losing money big time. The fund basically created a $6 billion deficit based on this GBTC discount, with big institutions having to hold shares underwater in the hope that maybe eventually, at some point, they could possibly redeem them for the face value. Now, given Bitcoin's mythical ability to surpass all time highs with the merest flick of a halving, this probably isn't a futile hope. But it does pose severe cash flow problems if you're suddenly faced with a crisis and a crisis we got, we can't stop it. The collapse of Luna was just such a one. But let's remind ourselves how it actually worked. Now if you remember, you could always Redeem Luna for UST dollar for dollar and vice versa.
00:07:18.914 - 00:07:47.434, Speaker A: If Luna was at $50, you, you could redeem it for 50 UST. Similarly, you could also redeem 50 UST for one Luna. You could always redeem one UST for one dollar worth of Luna, even if UST was worth less than a dollar. So this was meant to be a stabilizing mechanism. If UST was trading at $0.99, arbitrageurs or rational economic actors could step in, buy it and redeem it for a dollar worth of Luna, pocketing the profit. That's disgusting.
00:07:47.434 - 00:08:08.266, Speaker A: I know, I feel terrible. Stablecoins require some form of utility to maintain demand and defend their pagan. Usts came from Anchor. Now Anchor protocol was, on the face of it, a kind of money market. And it promised to pay you the so called benchmark interest rate of 20%. Although it slowly dropped to 19 and a half and then 18. But a lot to stake.
00:08:08.266 - 00:08:56.649, Speaker A: Your UST paid for ostensibly by fees from the borrow side of the market where thirsty degenerates would be busy Levering up to chase gains Z Z elsewhere. Except they weren't, were they? Nobody was really borrowing on anchor at all. So now you're thinking, okay, I'm going to borrow a buttload of money and then just stake the UST for those sweet 20% rewards. And that kind of condition gave birth to Abracadabra and the Degen box where you could lever up and lever up and lever up. It's like two more each. But then that all blew up in January, depegging UST and taking Luna from $100 to $46. And UST would probably have gone the same way as other algo experiments like Basis Cash or Titan at that point.
00:08:56.649 - 00:10:15.500, Speaker A: Except we also had the Luna foundation guard and the giant EGO engine that was DO K. The LFG was basically responsible for propping up the reserve that was paying out interest to UST stakers because there was nowhere near enough borrower demand to satisfy those thirsty stakers organically. Now if you're dough, you're hoping that UST as a stablecoin takes off, becomes profitable and then you're off to the races before the LFG runs out of money. It's kind of like an introductory fee on steroids. But following the DJ and box collapse, the bilibili big box players like Jump and Three Arrows Capital, well they came straight up to raise a billion dollars for a bitcoin denominated reserve for ust. And then we know what happened next. This left the big players extremely exposed to Luna and left with a large quantity of egg all over their faces.
00:10:15.500 - 00:10:37.590, Speaker A: Aha. As well as some ill advised tattoos. Mr. Novocratse, we have a dome. And if your treasures, treasures, treasures. Precious treasury is not only stuck in GBTC but you're also disadvantaged. Buy the premium on GBTC and you can't pay back your debts, you're in a lot of trouble.
00:10:37.590 - 00:11:09.764, Speaker A: So the contagion next hit the centralized defi lenders who manage crypto on behalf of investors. And let's break down what they do. It's a pretty simple pitch. Keep your crypto with us, earn interest at a known rate, and if you're overwhelmed and intimidated by the wild west of Defi, this looked pretty good. The websites are nice and friendly, they feel correct. Not like that food themed fuckery of Defi. First it was Celsius getting a haircut in the Badger Dao hack.
00:11:09.764 - 00:11:50.366, Speaker A: Well that was just the start of it. And that brings us to Lido and Staked Eth. See, GBTC wasn't the only illiquidity trap, the degenerates had fallen into the other big one. Well, that was Lido. So staked Eth represents eth tokens earning interest and locked on the beacon chain, these tokens typically trade at a very slight discount to eth. Now, most people count on them to logically maintain parity with Eth and then many use steth to earn interest. But you know, it was also possible to borrow against these steth positions, Eth being seen as, you know, a safe bet.
00:11:50.366 - 00:12:36.490, Speaker A: Celsius promised 6 to 8% interest for anyone depositing eth on the platform. And most of that was likely to have come from staking rewards on the proof of stake Ethereum beacon train. But here's the thing, it is a one way trip to the POS chain. You can't come back and there's no redemption possible till the merge, which is, well, it's repeatedly delayed, isn't it? Now, Lido solved this problem by creating a liquid derivative asset called steth. Steth has often traded at a one to one ratio, but it's not pegged, meaning it doesn't have to trade one to one. It's whatever the market decides is the fair price. But if you're Celsius, you really, really, really need Steth to maintain its ratio at one to one, because you have liabilities that can be called at any time.
00:12:36.490 - 00:13:16.274, Speaker A: And if crypto is taught as one thing, it's that it never does anything by half measures. And when those redemptions come, well, they come fast. And in a bull market, this was all fine and dandy. But with a liquidity crisis and bear market, the steth ETH ratio began to decouple. So to deal with painful liquidation, Celsius and Three Arrows Capital were forced to sell their steth fast, further reducing the discount, leading to more liquidations, leading to more death spirals. After that Steith dump, Three Arrows went quiet. And bear in mind that Three Arrows were never quiet.
00:13:16.274 - 00:13:50.718, Speaker A: It turns out they ghosted everyone. The writing was on the wall and the next wave of contagion began. You wouldn't believe how far and wide the Three Arrows Capital story went. Anyone aligned with Three Arrows, all the assets they held is caught up in it. And of course, Three Arrows has now filed for bankruptcy. It was well known also that Celsius had a potentially tricky position on maker, having borrowed a significant amount of dai. And of course there was much glee on Twitter as the liquidation prize came hovering into view with speculation that sbf, amongst others, was hunting the ailing lender.
00:13:50.718 - 00:14:56.560, Speaker A: But news yesterday came in that Celsius has paid back around $41 million in debt to release 21,962 WBTC, which right now is worth about $487 million. And that recent move up in the last couple of days has has helped them out. But the drama, well, it's far from over. Celsius is currently being investigated by state securities regulators from Texas, Alabama, Kentucky and New Jersey. And just yesterday, the brain behind the 0x b1nft super account dramatically doxed himself as Jason Stone, the founder of KeyFi, to announce a suit against Celsius alleging the company used customer funds to manipulate crypto asset markets, had failed to institute basic accounting controls and those endangered those same deposits and failed to carry through on promises. Big words. The story paints a pretty sorry picture of Celsius being forced to buy ether at historically high prices to honor redemptions and then offering double digit yields, attempting more depositors to pay off yet more redemptions, which as you will have already guessed, is a Ponzi.
00:14:56.560 - 00:15:56.292, Speaker A: So here's a roll call of who else was affected. First up, Voyager Digital, which is probably the most shocking story of all of them. Founded back in 1993, it's a publicly traded digital asset exchange broker that lent Three Arrows over $670 million on an unsecured line of credit. But the chances of seeing that back are pretty slim and will take a very long time to recover, even if they can. But they're more scandal as it turns out that the FDIC insurance advertised by Voyager was in fact a piece of beautiful misdirection, neither protecting customers from Voyager insolvency nor the failure of its own banker. Voyager has now filed for Chapter 11 in a bid to create the restructuring required to make customers in some way whole. But will they be satisfied with junk shares and Voyager tokens, I wonder? That brings us to Defiance Capital, which operates as a kind of sub fund of Three Arrows Capital, and they were also presumably caught up in it.
00:15:56.292 - 00:17:02.256, Speaker A: Ryan Sulkis called out some theories about their exposure, but the defiant Arthur Chong shot back on Twitter, no, we are not done and is actually actively working to resolve the situation. It's a slightly odd tweet, and is followed by an even stranger we are courageous adults, but that's probably just a Google Translate situation. And in A post from May 15, Arthur had some sober words to say we significantly underestimated how powerless the smartest and most capable group of people can be in a hostile environment when the natural physics and fundamentals are against you. Somewhere along the journey Many of us lost our way and I've lost a lot of respect for people I used to hold in high regard. Rigorous debate backed by substantial research and analysis are frowned upon, but instead lazy ad hominem refutation are used to shut down skepticism. While I generally refrain from such behaviour, I did nothing to call out and advised against some of my friends industry associates from behaving in such manner. That said, crypto is the freest market in the world, so such actors will always appear and it is up to the ourselves to be more critical and scrutinizing to prevent such events from ever happening again.
00:17:02.256 - 00:18:38.244, Speaker A: We need to be more professional then there was FinBlox, a crypto savings platform who first imposed a fifteen hundred dollar cap on monthly withdrawals on June 16th and then suspended staking rewards. But as as of the first of July they have begun opening up yield rewards and increasing limits. So they might have gotten away relatively lightly and in an interview with blockworks CEO Peter Huang called the situation a layman moment for the industry, no one is too big to fail, underlining just how powerful a spell Three Arrows had woven over the entire space I put the money on that fucking table, not you. BlockFi has been one of the most covered companies in the news cycle, one of the first to acknowledge a large client now known to be Three Arrows had failed to meet its obligations. Pomp and Morgan Creek were caught up in the crossfire with the infamous rocket ship Get on board with a LockFi rocket ship get On Board clip providing a timely reminder how easy it is to become a chest thumping alpha when things are going well. A leaked call to CoinDesk revealed how far Morgan Creek was willing to go to try and protect their rocket ship investment in BlockFi, raising a rapid equity round to counter a rescue package from FTX, but to no avail because on June 30th BlockFi signed definitive agreements subject to shareholder approval with FTX US for a $400 million revolving credit facility which is subordinate to all credit funds and an option to acquire BlockFi at a variable price of up to $240 million based on performance triggers. Then on Monday, Singapore based Vauld announced it will be suspending withdrawals.
00:18:38.244 - 00:19:36.228, Speaker A: The Vauld management wishes to inform that we're facing financial challenges despite our best efforts. This is due to a combination of circumstances such as the volatile market conditions, the financial difficulties of our key business partners inevitably affecting us and the current market climate which has led to a significant amount of customer withdrawals in excess of $197.7 million since 12 June 2022, when the decline of the cryptocurrency market was triggered by the collapse of Terraform Labs, UST stablecoin, Celsius Network pausing withdrawals, and Three Arrows Capital defaulting on their loans. That story continues. And then there's Genesis, which is owned by the Digital Currency Group DCG, also the owner of CoinDesk, who, as we covered on Monday, is the only listed borrower on Gemini, providing the backbone of that sweet, sweet yield on any cryptocurrency deposit. Genesis originated over $44.3 billion in loans in the first quarter of 2022.
00:19:36.228 - 00:19:56.720, Speaker A: DCG is rumored to have a war chest of around a billion dollars, which should help Genesis deal with any further drawdowns. But it's still going to hurt. And some of that may be coming Gemini's way. Babel Finance, whose tagline is, we have your best interest in mine. Love it, love it. So good. I bet they really clapped themselves on the back when they came up with that.
00:19:56.720 - 00:20:47.854, Speaker A: We have your best interest in mind. Now, they abruptly suspended withdrawals on June 17, citing unusual liquidity pressures. That sounds like something that happens when you eat a particularly spicy curry. It was as recent as 25 May that Babel raised $80 million at a $2 billion valuation, making it the latest crypto darling unicorn whose horn, now, far from a shimmering spike of financial fantasticness, reveals itself to be naught but a limp noodle. It's so big. Babel, however, provides us with a neat bridge to our final case, Maple Finance, via Orthogonal Organal Trading, where it was alleged Babel was in fact in default on a $10 million loan from the USDC pool on Maple. Maple pains to state that Celsius and Three Arrows Capital do not borrow from Maple.
00:20:47.854 - 00:21:42.446, Speaker A: And here we find a list of Maple's borrower concentration from June 22nd. And right at the top of the list is Alameda Research. And this is important because by far the biggest name moving and shaking throughout the whole affair has been sbf. Now, this is deserving of its own separate film, but many comparisons have been made with J.P. morgan's moves in 1907, backstopping the entire industry with the weight of billions behind him. But question to what extent is Alameda itself indebted to lenders at this point? Well, Voyager's bankruptcy filing threw up this neat little insight. Now, remember, this is the same Alameda that extended a $500 million line of credit to Voyager, but actually owes close to $377 million to Voyager.
00:21:42.446 - 00:22:01.954, Speaker A: But like I said, that is a story for another day. So in the meantime, I will leave you with this final word from who else? Jusu. Bullshit. Ridiculous. Stupid. Jisoo has since disappeared from Twitter and is desperately trying to sell his mansions. But we are still here and we will continue to cover these stories.
00:22:01.954 - 00:22:33.370, Speaker A: Like I said, get your ass subscribed. Do it and have a great weekend. This was the Defiant. It's stupid.
