00:00:00.600 - 00:00:30.922, Speaker A: There's not many people I like that much easier for me to handle. Hi everyone, I'm Charlie. Today we're going to talk about design driven innovation. First of all, any designer here or consider you say all right, cool. So a bit background about myself. So I'm working in the privacy and scaling inspiration I leading a small team called Poland Lab. We consider ourselves as a product studio accelerator incubator.
00:00:30.922 - 00:01:18.174, Speaker A: However we want to call. The goal is to bring the PSC technology, xionogical technology to end user application and we collaborate with other EF team. So today's talk is very much inspired by this book. Thank you. So this year I was really trying to find a way to work with the ZK engineer because oftentimes we talk about designing for future, building for future, and as a product designer for a decade, I feel I should kind of figure out a new way to collaborate with ZK Engineer. So I discovered this book called Design Driven innovation. And the goal is here changing the rule of the competition by radically innovating what the.
00:01:18.174 - 00:01:59.650, Speaker A: So innovations start by listening. Oftentimes we listen by what customer want or need and what market is missing. Also look at the trend and observe the weak signal. So design driven innovation is no different, it's by listening. But instead of listening current customer, current market, you listen a Google, a diverse group of people. It can be a designer, it can be social scientist or culture, I don't know, culture innovator or people just work in different industries like you. So what is the design dreamwork innovation.
00:01:59.650 - 00:02:59.344, Speaker A: As you can see, this chart in the y axis is about technology and x axis is the meaning. So most of kind of company or team they are doing marketplace, they can observe what's missing out there and they do a very incremental change. So the technology is not hugely different, can be slowly different and the meaning is also going to stay in the same zone. Then there's another approach called the technology push. They might be doing that very advanced technology, but they have hard time to find what this technology mean at the beginning. For example, a very long time ago about GPS, GPS was used by the military and it didn't have obvious reason for GPS at the beginning. But once the consumer market adopt what meaning and they become very widely spread.
00:02:59.344 - 00:04:12.154, Speaker A: So the design driven is four in this zone, basically it's you can combine the technology and what is meaning, the radical change, or you can just build a product that the technology is not much different, but you have a way to convey the meaning and the product service you are designing for the user you talking to. But what do you mean by the meaning? In this example I'm showing in 2006, while Xbox and PlayStation they are very focused on the technology improvement to kind of help the game console be high performance or slimmer design. But Nintendo Wii, they take another approach by introducing this motion sensor. And they also really radically change the way people playing with game. You are no longer just sitting on your sofa playing game with your family or friends are doing things physically and even more fun. I remember my brother was visiting us from Taiwan to Canada and he was ready to wait in line to get this machine. So that's the meaning what we are talking about here.
00:04:12.154 - 00:05:07.906, Speaker A: So sooner we talk about innovation, need to listen to a group of diverse people. So in here you can start conversation, as I just mentioned, with media, with artists or cultural organization, or even just engineers that work similar to you, but they work in different industry to get this diverse intrinsic immerse and the conversation you can go more rich and you will kind of discover what you trying to convey the meaning for your new product and new service. Compared to human centered design and design driven innovation. Human center is not designed. It's mostly you listen closely. The user you are serving for the current context, how they use and design driven innovation is about triangle. So you listen to them or you propose a solution for them.
00:05:07.906 - 00:05:31.714, Speaker A: And why you listen with the network you are building from the diverse group of people. So I guess. All right, just take temperature check is very abstract for now. I guess so. Yeah, right. Cool. So that's why I'm saying so how do we apply in this case? I would like to talk about this collaboration we start last month.
00:05:31.714 - 00:06:21.970, Speaker A: We met this fellow, he's from next billion fellowship currently. So he is indian and also a journalist. And he has this project called Voice Deck. His mission is to help the local journalists to get Rachel Atti founding. And what we find is very intriguing is, okay, now we definitely see a lot of journalism trust issues. So we see this opportunity maybe we can kind of help toward to build a trust by giving the retroactive funding instead of giving the funding right away. Because oftentimes, as you guys know, those journalists, they might get found by big brand like Sienna or whoever, they might get funding from the government and therefore they have this bias viewing.
00:06:21.970 - 00:07:00.994, Speaker A: And we thought this platform may be a kind of opportunity for us to kind of try to shift that direction as well. So yeah, so we start by talking with a lot of different people. We host two brainstorming workshops. There was 19 people participate. I think what it make it very rich because we had five local journalists from India, they were participating in the session. So it made the brainstorming session very, very rich. And we had a designer from different field and also a marketer to kind of participate, multiple ideas.
00:07:00.994 - 00:07:55.858, Speaker A: But what did we talk about in the brainstorming? So again, it is a virtual arctic founding. So we start from a very low level. So how can we align the concept of virtual arctic founding with India's culture and the society nuance? So this was the moment the indian journalist was telling us that one of journalists was saying his grandma was willing to give a small incentive weekly to issue she care locally. And then next topic we talk about user engagement. So here we were seeing proposal question. What mechanism can blast the trust between platform and journalists and the user? So this was what we kind of mentioned sooner. That distrust between the journalism now is getting big, pretty big, challenging.
00:07:55.858 - 00:08:48.610, Speaker A: So we don't need my kind of nice to add into this brainstorming session. Then the last one, we go like go thinking big, go dream big about feature. So we were saying how do we envision this platform influence the journalist funding globally? So this gets very interesting because you start seeing we might be able to kind of really change how the journalists current business models. So yeah, we get very, very well here. So we start being said, all these brainstorming, we start our interpretation. So yeah, it is a racial idea, funding as a base, but then we realize it's a collective impact we are doing because it's very local and it contains the journalist and the person who got benefits. So it is a collective impact.
00:08:48.610 - 00:09:45.974, Speaker A: And so we kind of told us, okay, we need to build a product more has this collective impact driven. And again, it's a local first because indian culture apparently is very committee centric and we definitely want to add that flavor into the platform and defy general list was telling us the best way of communicating the idea or concept or server is by word of mouth in India. So that's kind of what we kind of interpret. So after this interpretation, we start building kind of website as kind of prototyping just to set out the mission out there. So if you guys want to check, it's voicetech.org, you can visit this website and it is found. So the statement is here that you found individual action to collect the impact here we also kind of propose some app screenshot.
00:09:45.974 - 00:10:33.234, Speaker A: It's early concept, just the idea is kind of okay, we set the mission, set the idea out there and let's receive some feedback. And here we also identify opportunity for PSC using zeonology proof protocol called Anandar because it's very local based and we don't want to people just give opinion without knowing what they're saying. So the ANA how it works, it basically you need to prove that you are indian citizen by uploading. You have this Aadhar PDF and then we'll create a signature. Once they verify themselves they will be able to participate some voting to kind of tell everyone in the platform. Okay yeah. In my village this issue actually is true.
00:10:33.234 - 00:11:43.938, Speaker A: Therefore you can kind of create that trust for other people to find the report. And again it's really about transparency about the transaction, how the money flow from one side to the other. And once the report get found in maybe the previous report they were working with very tight budget and once they got funded they might be able to increase their budget and produce even more higher quality of report or even spend money to kind of trace the government official to resolve the issue. The issue can be electricity or clean water or whatever you can imagine in the local indian village. So now what? So as I just mentioned we found ideation to the website launch. We only spent about one week and we launched our website last week or so just before dev connect I think and we start getting a lot of feedback and yeah, so while we capture other feedback we want to stay strong about for the mission we are building and we don't want that. Okay.
00:11:43.938 - 00:12:26.140, Speaker A: Because somebody said that we should change that. We definitely want to stay strong on our mission here and then we got to get to the build time very soon and we are hoping to launch this first version in February next year. It's a very short build time to be honest. But yeah, we will, I hope we will make it. So if you want to learn more or collaborate with sepula you can scan this QR code to go our discord. Or you want to learn about PSE technology you can go to our website and I will leave a question or challenge for you guys. What meaning you can introduce on the product or service you are building today.
00:12:26.140 - 00:12:27.564, Speaker A: That's it. Thank you very much.
