00:00:00.280 - 00:00:17.654, Speaker A: Hello, everyone. Welcome to another episode of Deli Gwei Refuel, where we cap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Zosano. And today, 18 March 2024. Right, everyone, let's get into it. So before we get into the news from the weekend, just want to remind you guys that there will be no refuel on tomorrow and Wednesday. So Tuesday, Wednesday this week, no refuel.
00:00:17.654 - 00:01:00.106, Speaker A: I should be back on Thursday, but I'm traveling to Sydney tomorrow. Until Thursday, I'm going for a crypto policy event, have a few dinners to attend and meeting up with a bunch of friends that reached out when I kind of put the, the PSA out there last week. So looking forward to that, definitely. But yeah, just another heads up that there'll be no refuel Tuesday Wednesday this week, but I'll be back Thursday. Now that's out of the way, we can get onto the news. So there's some really good news about the ETH ETF that came out on, I think it was the weekend or I guess like late Friday evening for, for people in the US or even in, in Europe here. So Craig Salm, who is the chief legal officer at Grayscale, put out a tweet saying, we just filed grayscale Ethereum trusts amended form 19 b dash for filing.
00:01:00.106 - 00:02:07.188, Speaker A: This is an important step in our effort to uplift ETH to the New York Stock Exchange. Investors want and deserve access to Ethereum in the form of a spot Ethereum ETF. And we believe the case is just as strong as it was for a spit for speak spot bitcoin ETF's. Now, obviously, the reason why this is good news and why this is quite powerful news is because we know that pretty much the only reason I would say, or at least like the main critical reason why the SEC approved the BTC spot ETF's was because of Grayscale's win against them in court about how they denied the ETF's based on basically nothing, the spot ETF's even though they had approved the futures BTC ETF's and Greyscale has been quite, I guess, like adamant and quite clear with their kind of like intentions with the SEC. I think because they haven't said they're going to sue the SEC if the SEC denies the spot ETH ETF's. But I think the fact that they sued over the BTC ones and then won that lawsuit and now they're saying, you know, Craig is now saying where he says, we believe the case is just as strong as it was for spot BTC ETF's, I think you read between the lines, then you can basically see that, yes, they're going to be go and fight this in court if the SEC does deny the ETH ETFC out. So that's obviously positive news.
00:02:07.188 - 00:02:36.584, Speaker A: And of course, the grayscale and Coinbase met with the SEC. I think it was a couple of weeks ago or something to discuss the ETH ETF's. So there is movement happening here, guys, and I know that the Bloomberg guys who've been covering the ETF stuff like to say that it's bearish that there hasn't been much movement around the ETH ETF's. And I totally disagree with that. As I've said before, the ETH are a copy paste job of the BTC ones. There doesn't need to be that much movement around them. Um, and the facts and circumstances, as I've outlined plenty of times already, are basically the same as they were for the spot BTC ETF's.
00:02:36.584 - 00:03:18.490, Speaker A: And I actually saw a take on twitter, I think it was yesterday or the day before, where someone basically said that another reason why there may not be a lot of noise around the ETH ETF's or the spot ETH ETF's this time is because of the fact that last time you remember, like, how much noise there was around the BTC spot ETF. So basically it came a circus. There was so much hype around it, so much noise around it, and maybe the SEC and I guess, like their overlords, so to speak, just don't want to draw attention to this anymore. And their best way of doing that is by not being, you know, public about it or not talking about it or not trying to drive up hype or anything like that. So maybe they're dragging it out as long as they possibly can in order to not generate that much hype. Like, that's obviously pure speculation. It's just a comment that I saw on Twitter, but it made a bit of sense to me, I think.
00:03:18.490 - 00:03:46.472, Speaker A: But I think the more likely scenario is that they know that the ETH ETF is just a copy paste of the BTC one. They don't really have to do much with it. And if they do approve it, it'll be a pretty straightforward kind of process here. But the real positive news, of course, that Grayscale here has. Has basically updated their form. And also that Craig has said that they, being greyscale, believe that the case is just as strong as it was for the spot BTC ETF's. I don't think he would use that wording unless he actually believed it.
00:03:46.472 - 00:04:24.524, Speaker A: Because if it does get taken to court, you know, this might come up in the lawsuit that grayscale brings, again, brings to the SEC. So they're just sticking with a consistent point here, which is obviously critically important, I think. But yeah, I mean, that's, that's really the only news, I guess, since last time I covered this stuff. But I figured it was worth covering. I hope that we hear some more stuff this week. I think that this week would be really nice to hear some stuff about it because we're what? Like less than a month away from mid April where I said that if we didn't hear that much about it by mid April, then you could probably have a high certainty that the ETF's aren't getting approved. But honestly, if we still get these, this kind of like trickling out of information here, I still think that is really good.
00:04:24.524 - 00:04:56.124, Speaker A: And I think that what I'm really looking for is just signal of the SEC and the issuers communicating with each other. Like any signal at all. That's what I'm looking for. But the signal of the issuers updating their forms and especially grayscale putting out this, putting out this wording here is really positive in my view now, we're still two months out, guys. Like, I just over two months out from 23 May, which is the date that we're all, we're all kind of looking at here. And it's pretty crazy how like, it feels like I've already been talking about the ETH for so long, but I really haven't. And kind of like the fact that there's still over two months left.
00:04:56.124 - 00:05:23.842, Speaker A: Like, a lot can happen in that time, guys, you know what it's like in crypto. You know what it's like when you're on crypto twenty four seven and you're in the industry, you kind of feel like time goes both fast and slow. It's like a weird feeling, right? Because I'm feeling like time is going really slow lately, to be honest. I don't know. Maybe I'm just desensitized to all the stuff happening in the markets at this point in my crypto journey. But, but really it does feel like things are happening relatively slower than, than they were. And it does feel like I've been talking about the ATF forever, as I mentioned.
00:05:23.842 - 00:05:51.730, Speaker A: But yeah, I mean, it's, it's over two months still until we get an answer because I don't think the ACCA is going to approve or deny before May 23. I do think they're going to let the clock run out as much as they can, just like they did with the BTC ETF's. But you know what, I would actually be happier if they were if they denied it earlier than later because then we could get the ball rolling on the lawsuits earlier rather than later. But they're not going to do that. I think that if they do deny, it'll be on May 23. If they do approve, it'll be on May 23. We're just going to have to wait for that date, you know, just over two months away.
00:05:51.730 - 00:06:17.904, Speaker A: So not that long away, but still, it's going to feel like a world away because we're going to get this trickling of information out from the issuers, from the SEC, from the back and forth happening. And it's going to be a bit exhausting covering this stuff. But I think it's prudent to cover it because a lot of you guys are really interested in this. You know, a lot of you have actually dmed me and said please don't stop. Please don't stop covering the ETF stuff. I'm not going, I don't plan to stop. But sometimes people will comment on my, um, on my YouTube videos and say like, oh, can you stop talking about the ETH ETF? Like, well, okay.
00:06:17.904 - 00:06:44.382, Speaker A: I mean, you can skip through it because there's time, there's timestamps on the videos, but regardless of that, I'm going to keep talking about it there. But anyway, that's it on the ETF stuff. Moving on. So Ethy announced their DaO and their airdrop details. So the Etherfi obviously is an liquid restaking platform on Ethereum, quite a large one actually. And I should disclose here, I am an advisor to Etherfy and it is a compensated role, of course. So just so you guys know there, but if we go to rated.net
00:06:44.382 - 00:07:26.868, Speaker A: work and we actually look at kind of the market share here, I'm actually just bringing it up on my other, my other screen quickly here for you guys. So if we go to raider.net work and you can see it on my screen in front of you, Ethify is at 1.88% of market share with twelve entities staking as part of their, as part of their network right now. Now I actually think that Etherfy is some really, really good competition for Lido because they have a lot of listings of both their native token and, and also their wrapped, I guess, like their ETH token, the wrapped ETH token, their LST or LRT, whatever you want to call it. Which is great, because I've always said that Lido's main kind of dominance is in liquidity, right? The steth has deep liquidity. It's accepted everywhere.
00:07:26.868 - 00:07:59.868, Speaker A: There's many different places to buy and sell it. Right? So from that perspective, the way you compete is by competing on that front, liquidity, but also competing on the incentives too. Like Ethan has been able to grow so, so quickly because of the fact that they have those incentives where it was the token incentives and then also the points incentives for Eigen layout, which people think, you know, they obviously assume gonna get changed into a token later. So they've really kind of harnessed the financial incentives in order to grow. And it's worked. It's worked wonders. But they're not the only ones, right? You've got swell here as well at 0.76%
00:07:59.868 - 00:08:30.400, Speaker A: market share. They're growing over time, too. But yeah, I mean, it's relevant to talk about either fight today because of what they announced on Twitter around their Dow and their airdrop. Now you can check your airdrop at claim ether fi. Please only follow the URL that is shared by the etherfire Twitter accounts, but also double check that as well, you know, just in case their Twitter account gets hacked. Please don't click anything else. Don't click on replies to their tweet from fake ethy accounts because that's just going to be a phishing website and you're just going to get your funds drained.
00:08:30.400 - 00:08:53.224, Speaker A: So always, you know, triple check before you do anything there. But you can check it. Check your airdrop at that URL. There's a 6% airdrop in season one and a 5% airdrop in season two. Points are still here to stay. And for more information about this, you can visit their blog. In terms of who was eligible for the airdrop, there was eligibility across a bunch of different, different kind of spectrums here on the blog and on the website.
00:08:53.224 - 00:09:10.900, Speaker A: You can actually see all this eligibility is. But I'll quickly kind of read it out for you guys here. So basically, basically, if you did anything within the ether PI ecosystem, you got tokens, essentially because you got points which translated into tokens here. So you are part of the early adopter program. You are a holder of an ether fan. Nft. You're a solo staker.
00:09:10.900 - 00:09:36.524, Speaker A: That should be eat the fire solo staker. So if you were part of the operation solo staker program that they ran, that I actually talked about from like, basically day one. So if you, if you kind of listen to me back then and got involved with operation solo staker, you would have gotten a bit of tokens for that. You're a holder, of course, of their LRT. You hold a position in any of the Defi pools or vaults. You unlocked one or more ether five badges and you referred one or more friends to ether five. So that's the eligibility criteria.
00:09:36.524 - 00:10:09.444, Speaker A: But as I said, you can check at claim dot er dot. Sorry, claim dot ether dot fi. Make sure go to the right URL there. But other than that, before I move on from this, I just wanted to mention one other thing with this airdrop. So, well, just airdrops generally, maybe, but like, specifically with Etherfy, they actually went back to the drawing board shortly after and basically gave everyone more tokens and kind of juiced people's airdrops based on feedback. But what I want to talk about generally is just for a minute or so, because I've talked about this before, it's just like airdrops in general when it comes to airdrops, like, you're not going to be able to please everyone. That's the thing.
00:10:09.444 - 00:10:43.004, Speaker A: That's the kind of catch 22 here with these projects. They need to do the airdrop because if you don't do an airdrop, obviously you're going to get absolutely trashed. If you do zero airdrop, it's just not something you can do anymore. You have to do an airdrop, right? But then it becomes a thing of, okay, well, you know, there's a lot of people sibling the airdrop, you know, there's a lot of people trying to farm it, trying to get their maximum allocation. There's nothing wrong with that in terms of like trying to get your maximum allocation. But these teams are employing more and more, I guess, like methods to filter out siblings. Like if you, for example, if you're like, oh, I want to maximize my airdrop, so I'm going to deposit into Etherfy across 100 different wallets.
00:10:43.004 - 00:10:56.940, Speaker A: And then you get disqualified on those wallets because they know that you're doing that. They can see it all on chain. They figured it out. And then you get upset about that. Well, I'm sorry, but you don't. You can't get upset about that. Like, they're very explicit, these projects that sibyls aren't going to get included in these airdrops.
00:10:56.940 - 00:11:21.882, Speaker A: So you're basically trying to just slip through the cracks. And some people do slip through the cracks, don't get me wrong, but there's that aspect to it. And then there's the aspect of how the airdrop is actually done. You know, like linear airdrop or doing, doing the airdrop basically not based on capital, based on something else. Like there, there are many different ways to do an airdrop, but it's very difficult. And I think linear airdrops are actually probably the best so far. But still, it's not exactly going to be perfect.
00:11:21.882 - 00:11:50.564, Speaker A: I mean, it's never going to be even near perfect, to be honest. But regardless of that, you know, you guys have heard me talk about airdrops a bunch of times before. I'm not going to rehash all of my thoughts on that one. But yeah, congrats to ether five for getting this out there. But you can go check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so Parathouse shared that there is a new 8th related, I guess, like eat research related website called ETH and, sorry, ETH P and Aops IO.
00:11:50.564 - 00:12:35.892, Speaker A: So it's ETH panda ops. Okay. I can't actually see that in the, in the URL there, but it's called ETH panda ops, which is basically a bunch of kind of like articles here that we will be posted by parathos and others all about Ethereum. So their first article is a fork analysis of Den Coon. So if you're interested in these sorts of things and kind of following along with like the nitty gritty of different Ethereum, I guess, like things such as, you know, resource usage of, of nodes after the Denkun upgrade, uh, you know, what the beacon chain look like, participation rate, all that sorts of stuff. You know, basically all the stuff that parathosh tweets about because he does a lot of shadow forks for ethereum and, and he always tweets out this stuff. Now there's going to be a central repository on ETH panda opsia for, for you to basically bookmark and keep checking back on.
00:12:35.892 - 00:13:14.640, Speaker A: So I just wanted to give a shout out there because this is, this is really, really cool. And I think that it's worth kind of reading their first article, which is the Dan Kuhn fork analysis. Cause it has a lot of great, great charts, great stats, great, I guess like context around what each of these means. So yeah, if you're interested in that, I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to go check out. All right, so there is a lot to talk about when it comes to L2s obviously, since Denkun went live with 48, 44, L2s have gone crazy. And there's so much happening on them. So first things first, there is a tweet here from Liam who works at optimism, but basically he tweeted out, beautiful visualization of how l two s are blobbing up.
00:13:14.640 - 00:13:52.334, Speaker A: Ethereum also highlights why the recent span batch upgrade was needed on optimism here. So essentially you can see what it looks like over the last 6 hours of when this, this screenshot was taken of blobs per per buy. Sorry, I should say epic here, which is basically every 13, sorry, every six, six minutes here on ethereum. And you can see what the blobs kind of look like. So essentially different, I guess, like L2s or different roll ups will be posting their blobs and buying different amounts of blobs at different times. You can see that, you know, most of them are pretty good, most of them are pretty, pretty standard. But Stocknet has had a bit of trouble.
00:13:52.334 - 00:14:27.022, Speaker A: Not, not trouble, but like they've been trying to, I guess, like make their blog posting more efficient. And you can see that in the chart. Like they're, they've got like bigger blobs and other, sorry, bigger, I guess, like bigger blob submitters submissions, I should say, than other l two s and roll ups here. But generally it's pretty uniform, especially from like the arbitrum and, and base perspective here. It's pretty, pretty good. And I really like seeing that because it basically shows that there is like a, I guess an order to it here and like an orderly settlement layer, as I've discussed before. Uh, it's a blog post that I actually wrote a while ago where I talked about this, uh, in the Delaware newsletter.
00:14:27.022 - 00:15:11.096, Speaker A: It's probably two years ago now. I talked about this where I basically said that with the advent of, it wasn't known as blobs at the time, but with the advent of like L2 settling down to ethereum, especially in a, in a blob world, essentially what we get is like an orderly settlement layer, because as I've discussed before, these uh, L2s are incentivized to make their blobs as efficient as possible. And we know that in the blob market, the 99% of the time it's going to be consumed by L2. So it can kind of, I guess, make an educated guess of what it's going to look like. And so can the blob submitters, the l two s themselves. And they can kind of create an order to, when they submit their blobs in order to maximize their kind of a cost reduction here. Because, you know, for example, if you're outbidding another L2, maybe there's no point doing that.
00:15:11.096 - 00:15:37.758, Speaker A: There's no point wasting money on that. Maybe you just do an analysis and think, okay, well, this l two is posting a blob here, I'll post my blob here. And then it becomes more orderly that way. Right? Whereas the normal l one fee market is absolute chaos. You're never going to get that sort of order in that free market there, but you definitely will from blobs here. And another way to visualize that is in Tony's little chart here where he said that blobs are posted evenly across the slots of an epic here. And you can see what that looks like.
00:15:37.758 - 00:16:11.726, Speaker A: Basically stock then is consuming a lot of blobs right now. But that's coming down over time and should, should come down even more. But you can see which l two s or which roll ups using what amount blob. So Starknet using the most, I think basis is probably second place here, maybe tied with optimism and ZK sync. But really, once one stark net optimizes their, their kind of blog posting, I think that they're basically all going to look very similar in terms of the amount of blobs that they're using here. So again, falls into what I was saying about like that orderly, orderly settlement layer and what we like seeing with the blobs. But yeah, you can go check out both of those charts for yourself.
00:16:11.726 - 00:16:40.188, Speaker A: I'll link them in the YouTube description below for you to do. All right, moving on. So L2 activity is at all time highs, while L2 fees are at all time lows. And I posted this on Farcaster and Twitter. Basically a screenshot of l two beat at the top showing the activity which is basically the tps across all of the l two chains. And then under it, I posted a screenshot from a new website that I came across called Gas Fees IO. Now this website, Gasfees IO, was created by coffee here.
00:16:40.188 - 00:17:13.462, Speaker A: And I'll link this in the YouTube description for you to check out. But if you actually go to this website, I'll actually go to it on my other screen here and bring it up for you guys is if you actually go to this website, you can see what the current costs are across like different Altus and of course Ethereum main nets. And what they are using. Are they using blobs? Are they not using blobs? You can see at the top here on op mainnet, a uniswap trade currently costs like less than a cent. It's like, it's like a fifth of a cent or something like that. A USDC transfer is a 10th of a cent. An ETH transfer is even lower than that.
00:17:13.462 - 00:17:29.154, Speaker A: And then you can see all the other l two s, like base, zora, arbitrum, zksync. But then you can see what it looks like for scroll. And scroll is not using blobs right now. So their costs are still quite high. They are going to integrate blobs soon, but their Uniswap trade cost is $1.13 and scrolls in l two. I mean, it's a Zkvm L two.
00:17:29.154 - 00:18:07.482, Speaker A: And then you can see Ethereum main net, a swap on Uniswap cost $16. So you can see just the orders of magnitude improvement that we've had here with not only like l two s, generally with core data, which is what you see with scroll, but then of course with blobs, where it's just so, so cheap right now across these, these different ecosystems here. And arbitram is going to get cheaper. You might, you may notice that arbitrary is $0.10 for Uniswap trade right now, which is obviously much higher than, than the others. But today, I believe on the 18th, they're actually doing the other half of their network upgrade in order to make fees cheaper. So I actually think that their fees should drop down to maybe, maybe a little bit higher than OPM base based on my calculations, but not too much higher, higher there.
00:18:07.482 - 00:18:48.524, Speaker A: So it's definitely going to drop down a lot once they implement that. Maybe they've already implemented by the time you're watching this video here. So just a really, really cool new site that you can go check out for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But what I really liked seeing is just the fact that once we kind of like added capacity, I mean, okay, technically we didn't add capacity, if you want to like take the most technical sense here with 48, 44. But what we did was we basically reduced fees by creating a new fee market and creating new space, right, for that, for these, um, L2s to post to that space being blobs. And because of this, essentially what happens is that everyone that wasn't, you know, priced in before because let's say it cost a dollar to swap on on op main, that own base on arbitram now, it's a subscent.
00:18:48.524 - 00:19:19.422, Speaker A: You've got like an influx of new people who are coming in and being like, okay, well, I can trade now, right? Like, I can trade for a lot less than what I could. It's worth my time to be on here. I can speculate on meme coins, whatever else you want to do. But then on top of that, you've also got a lot of the bots that weren't running before. A lot of the, the kind of like, I guess is. So there is Mev happening on these l two s, but it's not like on Mainnet because the l two s currently have like one sequencer, so you can't control the order of the transactions. It's not like you have an mev boost network on there or anything like that, but there is still Mev to be had.
00:19:19.422 - 00:20:00.306, Speaker A: And there are definitely bots on these networks. Of course, you know, they're not just, just humans. So it's kind of that induced demand that, that I was talking about where essentially, because fees are so cheap now and they've gone down like 90 plus percent, there are all these users and of course bots coming onto the chain and getting more value out of it. I mean, I know a lot of people, for instance, are on Zora right now just like minting nfts for free because like the NFT itself costs nothing and then it's basically free because the gas fee is so low. I mean, you can see here on Zora in order to, I don't know what the, actually, I should go here to see this. I don't know what it costs to mint an NFT because it doesn't show that here, but a swap on Zora is like less than a cent still. So an NFT should be even less than that.
00:20:00.306 - 00:20:23.598, Speaker A: I haven't actually looked at the exact kind of cost on that, but I mean, $0.01, guys like you can mint 100 nfts for a dollar. And if these nfts are free, you know, kind of, why wouldn't you? You're just having fun on there. And that's also happening on base. There's a lot of defi activity, more defi activity happening across all of these chains. There's just so much happening. And you can see that exactly play out with the activity dashboard that l two beat has here.
00:20:23.598 - 00:20:51.532, Speaker A: But also on growthepie XYZ, as I've showed before, there's a bunch of stuff happening there as well. So I just wanted to highlight that for you guys because the narrative is kind of ridiculous on, I guess, crypto, Twitter and other places right now. Everyone's saying, you know, ethereum's dead. You know, ethereum is, no one's using a theory, no one's using the l two s, which is just like, not reality at all. And I'm not even just like saying this without evidence. I'm giving you evidence right now. What? What this is, the activity on l two s is at all time highs.
00:20:51.532 - 00:21:13.812, Speaker A: Uh, there are plenty of people using l two s. I mean, I'm using l two s all the time, and my friends are using l two s all the time. Like, to say that no one's using l two s, especially when they have 30 plus billion or 35 plus billion dollars of TVL in them. And especially when, you know, even with the cheaper fees, they're generating a lot of revenue. And ethereum l one is still generating a lot of revenue, still have a lot of usage. It's just ridiculous. So that narrative doesn't match reality at all.
00:21:13.812 - 00:21:51.830, Speaker A: And I figured that was worth kind of backing that up with data. Seem to resonate a lot with people. So, yeah, I really like that we've got this kind of stuff that we can show and we can basically say, hey, you guys are, you know, spreading fud ETH is, is being used more than, more than it ever has. We're scaling via L2s, and the roll up centric roadmap is a reality and it is working. And then other stats around this as well. I saw a tweet here from token terminal who put out that, put out a kind of like, tweet here saying assets are moving from ethereum l one to l two s, and you can see what the bridge deposits look like per l two. So arbitram has had $11 billion bridge to it from l one op main at 5.5
00:21:51.830 - 00:22:11.278, Speaker A: billion blast, 2.7 billion. And then you have the long tail of other l two s here that have, you know, hundreds of millions bridged into them as well. So this is exactly what we want to see. And it's really up only, as you can see here. This is exactly what we want to see because of the fact that obviously l one is super expensive. Obviously we, you know, people are kind of migrating away from l one onto l two s.
00:22:11.278 - 00:22:51.050, Speaker A: And once you're on l two s, you're not going back to l one. Right? Like in the worst case scenario is the only time you probably go back to l one. If, for example, the a L2 was to go offline or was to basically disappear for whatever reason, you can escape back to l one using an escape patch. Obviously, not all of the l two s have an escape hatch right now, and most of them are quite centralized still with multi seqs and things like that. But arbitrum, for example, has an escape hatch to l one, and you can. And you can actually use it if you really needed to in order to even, like, not just withdraw your funds, but, like, unwind positions on arbitrum. If for some reason arbitrum has gone down, and it's been down for, like, 10 hours, and, I mean, it's never done this, but let's just give it a worst case scenario here.
00:22:51.050 - 00:23:11.882, Speaker A: Let's say arbitrum has been offline for, like, 10 hours, and you're thinking to yourself, wow, like, this sucks. I really wish I could get my funds out right now because I'm scared and I'm worried that my font like that. When arbitrum comes back online, maybe I've got, like, a position where it's going to get liquidated or something, or maybe I just don't have faith in the arbitrum team that it's going to be back online. You know, things like that. Right. So you can exit to l one. That's the beauty of the l two s.
00:23:11.882 - 00:23:33.504, Speaker A: I mean, that's the beauty of the roll up centric roadmap, or one of the beauties of it, of course. But I just figured that was worth highlighting for you guys to show you that. But people are definitely migrating from l one to l two, and that's exactly what we want to see happening. That's. That's not like a bug, it's a feature. It's like the biggest feature that we want to see happening. So, yeah, I'll link this in the tweet for you guys to check out for yourself, but kudos to token terminal for putting this out there.
00:23:33.504 - 00:24:01.760, Speaker A: Now, shifting gears here a little bit, still on l two s, but basically to another benefit of l two s or to more stuff happening across l two. So you've got a tweet here from Tim Robinson showing that he was sending dollar 20 of Ethan from base to optimism, using a cross protocol via bungie exchange, and it now costs 1.7 cents and takes 4 seconds. Well, it can now abstract away l two s. Let's make it happen. First while to nail the UX wins the next generation of degens. This is exactly what I've been talking about for so long, guys.
00:24:01.760 - 00:24:44.762, Speaker A: In terms of abstraction, the wallets can directly integrate this. And then essentially any time that you need to go to a different l two, for whatever reason, you can bridge, and it takes very little time. It costs very little. Yeah, you're taking a bit of extra risk using these bridges, but I mean, essentially for taking that risk, you were getting speed, right? And you were getting cheap fees. So that's exactly what's happening here. And I think that that is a big way to at least kind of, I wouldn't say solve liquidity fragmentation, because I don't think liquidity fragmentation can ever be solved because there's always going to be liquidity on different l one s, different l two s, you know, different kind of like centralized exchanges, all that sorts of stuff. But in terms of, like, lowering the friction as much as possible of moving between the different pools of liquidity, because it's not just the different layers, right.
00:24:44.762 - 00:25:23.530, Speaker A: It's a different pools of liquidity. Just lowering that barrier as much as possible and lowering that friction as much as possible is the kind of like, holy grail. And that's why I'm so excited about what Coinbase is doing, where they're basically integrating everyone's Coinbase balance so their centralized exchange Coinbase balance into the Coinbase wallet so that you don't even have to withdraw from the Coinbase exchange to an l two or two l one, ethereum or whatever. You can just get direct access to your funds that are on your Coinbase account within the app, and then there's no need to bridge or anything like that. That is really the end game in my mind. That is really the way to kind of, I guess, collapse the. The costs here.
00:25:23.530 - 00:25:46.236, Speaker A: But, I mean, there are other ways still as well as Tim has tweeted out here, so you can go check that one out. I'll link it in the new subscription below. And there's another thing here from Benji Taylor, who's working on an app called Family. So he was showcasing how fast it is to send USDC in family on base for less than $0.01, all from within a conversation. So you can see here that if I play the video, basically there's a conversation. The video stuffed up.
00:25:46.236 - 00:26:02.832, Speaker A: Thanks, Twitter video. Let me. Let me just kind of refresh this here for you guys so you can see the video. So essentially what happens is that there is a chat. It's like, hey, you know, I want to send you USDC. I'm going to send one USDC across the network here, Face ID to obviously sign the transaction. Sending done.
00:26:02.832 - 00:26:33.622, Speaker A: And it's done. Like, it's literally done for less than a cent. How cool is that? Like, that's just crazy. I mean, I'm looking at this being like we're already at the point where we could actually mass scale this up to a mass user base and then get a better experience than what they have from like centralized apps like Venmo and stuff like that. Because when you really look at it and you really look at how long it takes, I mean, yeah, it's like less than 10 seconds, I think, from. And most of the interaction is like choosing who you want to pay. The actual transaction itself takes like one or 2 seconds to go through and it goes through for less than a cent.
00:26:33.622 - 00:27:08.412, Speaker A: So I really do think that base can become like the de facto payments rail or payments chain of crypto. Like, you have USDC integration in there, that Coinbase has a 25% staking, they own 25% of circle. The issuers of USDC, they run base, right. They have every motivation in the world to make sure that the costs for sending USDC are as low as possible. And for people to onboard to base to do any number of things, not just be a payments layer, but if they can capture the payments layer use case, that is absolutely massive. Because that means that they capture the regular, I guess, kind of retail crowd. Because all the regular mainstream crowd.
00:27:08.412 - 00:27:27.460, Speaker A: Because the mainstream crowd would be like, okay, well, I can just do everything on base. You know, I can just do my payments on there. I can do my dj and stuff on there. I could do my defi stuff on there, I could do my NFT stuff on there. So I really think that base is so heavily underrated still for what it is. I know that there are concerns around the fact that Coinbase runs it. You know, it's centralized right now, and I get that.
00:27:27.460 - 00:28:03.928, Speaker A: But at the same time, they have committed to decentralizing over time and I'm going to hold them to that over time. And I hope the rest of the Ethereum community does as well. You know, Jesse Polak, the lead of base gives me no reason to think that they won't be doing that. And I think for Coinbase, it's actually good for them to decentralize base because it means that they're not going to, they can't be like, I guess, attacked by regulators over it, which is obviously a net positive for them. And they still get a share in the network, obviously because of they can do a bunch of different things like take fees through the Coinbase wallet that, you know, circle, for example, the biggest circle gets, they get fees from that, from conversions and stuff like that. So, and obviously from the yield that they earn from the USD in a bank account. So there's all different ways to monetize here.
00:28:03.928 - 00:28:21.346, Speaker A: So them decentralizing base I think is a plus ev, as we call it move. Like a very plus ev move. I actually don't think that. I think that keeping it centralized is actually a very big liability for them. So I do think that they're going to decentralize it over time. But anyway, you can go check out this video. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do.
00:28:21.346 - 00:28:47.342, Speaker A: So. Now finally here, I just wanted to highlight this really, really cool set of photos that afree posted on Twitter today. So after he has been a longtime Ethereum community member, core developer, been amongst that, I mean, events organizer like he is, I mean he's been in it since before I got into it. I remember when I got into it, he was working on the parody client. He's been in and around a bunch of different teams. I'm not sure what he's doing these days. I don't think he's actually employed with any company these days.
00:28:47.342 - 00:29:12.798, Speaker A: But yeah, I mean anyway, he's been around for a very long time. But what he shared on Twitter was a few pictures of his wall mounted ethereum validator. So as you can see here, he has a pegboard where he's basically wall mounted six raspberry PI's and has a bunch of I guess like full nodes and validators running with a screen attached to it as well. So this is awesome guys. I saw this and it actually inspired me. I'm actually going to do something like this. I'm going to get myself a pegboard and then do something similar here.
00:29:12.798 - 00:29:28.614, Speaker A: I'd love to. In the middle have like an ethereum logo of like using like a rope light. And then I have that light up as like purple or orange. Purple and orange, like my favorite colors. So I love to have those, those up there on that. But that's just me thinking out loud. But I just thought this was really, really cool.
00:29:28.614 - 00:30:00.920, Speaker A: I think that because obviously Ethereum encourages solo staking, home staking, you know, running a full note at home, you can get really creative with it. There's no need to just, I guess, I mean, it depends if you want to get creative with it. I mean if you don't, that's fine, but there's no need to just like have it sitting in the little box and then have it tucked away in a wardrobe or something. You can get really creative with it. Have it on display, make it like an art piece and it really can be an art piece. And you know, the bitcoin community has been doing this for a long time as well because obviously it's very easy to run a bitcoin full node. I would say like just, I mean, I think it's easier than an ethereum full node because it's faster to sync.
00:30:00.920 - 00:30:28.692, Speaker A: But I mean, they're pretty much the same in terms of, in terms of ease of ease of use to kind of run a full node. But then of course you can add validators to a theorem full nodes as well here and add them on low power devices like a raspberry PI or anything else. So yeah, really cool to see that. And I guess I'll just link this in the YouTube description below for you guys to check out all of these pictures. But I think on that note, that's going to be it for today. It's just a reminder again, no refuel tomorrow and Wednesday. I will be back on Thursday with an episode to catch you all up on stuff that I miss over the next couple of days.
00:30:28.692 - 00:30:38.004, Speaker A: But that's it for today. So I thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all on Thursday. Thanks everyone.
