00:00:00.200 - 00:00:20.046, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Delaware refuel, where we cap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Sono, and today's the 14 September 2023. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So apologies for missing yesterday's episode. You know, it's obviously something that I do from time to time. I call it the daily rug fuel instead of the refuel because I rug an episode every now and again.
00:00:20.046 - 00:00:47.294, Speaker A: And unfortunately, I have even worse news than that. Oh, I guess, like, that's not news, but I have some, some kind of, I guess, like disappointing news. Next week, next Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, there will be no refuel, which means that the last refill will be Tuesday, and then you'll have to wait almost an entire week for another refuel. Now, of course, you know what's going to happen during that week. There's going to be a lot of news and I'm not going to be able to cover it. And I'm going to come back on the Monday, the following week, and I'm going to do like a two hour episode. I just know what's going to happen.
00:00:47.294 - 00:01:07.974, Speaker A: So look forward to that. But yeah, Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday. Next week there will be no refuel and there will also be no episode with Eric next Saturday. I'll push that to the week after. Just unfortunately won't be able to do it for various different reasons there. But yeah, just giving you the warning now that next Wednesday, Thursday and Friday will be no refuel. But on that note, let's start today's refuel.
00:01:07.974 - 00:01:49.470, Speaker A: So first up, we have another kind of institution here filing for a spot ETH ETF. So you can see here, James has said that hash decks has filed for a spot ethereum ETF joining ArK invest and 21 shares and Vanek. So this is the fourth one that has, has filed for the spot ETF. Now, this is a bit different to, I guess like a pure spot ETF, where you can see here, James says this application follows essentially the same exact, exact strategy as their proposal to allow their other, their other ETF to hold spot. Bitcoin will be a convert, a combo of futures and spot. So it'll be kind of like a hybrid, where this ETF will hold futures as well as spot. Not sure what the kind of ratio will be.
00:01:49.470 - 00:02:20.150, Speaker A: They're not sure exactly how these products even work, to be honest. The ETF world is very new to me still, and I'm following various accounts as I, as I continue on that cover. The ETF's but there was actually a really good bankless episode with James. I think it was like a month ago now, and I only listened to it yesterday or the day before that. You should go check out as well because James has been really good at keeping on top of this stuff and he's got a wealth of knowledge about ETF's and tradfi and about how all this stuff works. You should definitely go check out that podcast up there. But I guess this just continues the trend of ETF filings that we've seen.
00:02:20.150 - 00:02:56.214, Speaker A: It's funny because it's only been B, two C and ETH so far. It's going to be really interesting to see if any other ETF's are filed. Because for those who don't know, Grayscale has more than just the ETH and GPTC trust products. They have products for a lot of different assets in that, in that same structure. Now of course they're probably going to want to convert all of them to proper ETF's, but the chances of anything else getting an ETF at this point in time is really low. I actually think even eats chances of getting a spot ETF is relatively low for the foreseeable future. Maybe it happens in like 2025 or something.
00:02:56.214 - 00:03:25.066, Speaker A: I'd be very surprised if it happened next year. Btc Etf in my mind is already locked in. I think that's 100% happening, you know, by next year, the latest sort of thing. But yeah, I'm wondering what other assets would be filed for. Because if you look at the top assets in crypto, right by market cap, you go to, you go to coingecko and you look like the top 20 assets. I mean after ETH, if you exclude stable coins, it's BnB. There is no way BNB is getting a spot, a spot ETF, or even maybe a futures ETF, because it's tied to finance.
00:03:25.066 - 00:04:00.530, Speaker A: And we all know that the US is regulatory apparatus is not a fan of binance at all. The SEC has an active case against binance themselves, so. And there are criminal charges against binance too, I believe, as part of that case. Or at least kind of like maybe not criminal charges, like accusations of various activity there. Then after that you have XRP. It's funny because like the, you know, SEC just lost the case against ripple about that, and we all know about that, right? About XRP not being a security and all that stuff. So are they going to approve an XRP ETF? Eh, doubt it, right.
00:04:00.530 - 00:04:29.594, Speaker A: Not anytime soon at least. And then after that you just have the long kind of tail. You have Ada, which is Cardano, you have dogecoin, you have Solana, Tron ton coin, which is like the telegram coin, Polkadot, Polygon, and so on and so forth. Right. So in terms of candidates, there's not many good candidates, I would say there. And as I said, like, I think that it's going to be a very long time before any assets except BTC and ETH get an ETF. And even when it comes to ETH, it's still going to be quite a while away, I think.
00:04:29.594 - 00:05:07.144, Speaker A: But anyway, you can go check out James's tweet about this for yourself and definitely check out that podcast James did with bankless. As I said, it is about a month old, so you'll have to go digging through, but you'll be able to find it there. All right, so the SEC has made another, I guess, like, enforcement action against an NFT project. So this time they went after stoner cats. So you remember stoner cats as that project that Ashton Kutcher and his wife, Mila Kunis, were promoting. I'm not sure how much involvement they had in it, but they were very heavily promoting it. And I think Vitalik actually had a kind of a video that he put up with Ashton Kutcher as well at one stage about it.
00:05:07.144 - 00:05:43.534, Speaker A: But, yeah, so what they've done, the SEC here is they've charged the Stoney Cats to LLC company here with, with doing an unregistered sale of crypto asset securities in the form of nfts. Now, crypto asset securities aren't a thing, by the way, guys. But of course, like, a lot of these things end in settlements. And what happened with this, this SEC action against stoner cats is that the stoner cats raised $8 million, and then they've got a $1 million fine. They have to pay, they have to destroy all these stoner cats nfts that they own. And then I, I think that $1 million fine, or I guess, like. Yeah.
00:05:43.534 - 00:06:09.496, Speaker A: Will be converted into like a pool for investors to essentially be made whole or something like that. The details are kind of, like a bit scarce here, and there are kind of different interpretations of it. But from what I've seen, it really just means that the Stoner cats company profited $7 million from this. Right. So on the one hand, the SEC is saying, well, what you did was, you know, illegal. Yes. You're not admitting fault or anything like that, but what you did was illegal.
00:06:09.496 - 00:06:58.154, Speaker A: It was an unregistered securities offering pay a million dollar fine, but then keep $7 million. So how is this protecting anyone? How is this dissuading anyone from doing this? And this has been a constant thing with the SEC, right, where the biggest and most high profile case of this is the block one lawsuit, block one settlement, I should say. So those of you who don't know, block one, the developers or were the developers or creators of EOS, and they were the ones who did the EOS ICO, where they raised $4 billion worth of ETH. And then, I think it was a couple of years later or something, they got hit by the SEC for an unregistered securities sale of EOS tokens, but they paid a $24 million fine. So out of the $4 billion that they raised, they only paid a $24 million fine. And then they admitted no wrongdoing. EOS is still freely tradable on centralized exchanges and things like that.
00:06:58.154 - 00:08:03.174, Speaker A: And EOS didn't register as a security or anything. So when I look at that as, like, the most egregious example and then all the long tail of examples, the SEC is not protecting anyone. It like, what the calculus here is that, okay, I'll do this sale of a token or NFT or whatever, and maybe I'll get hit by the SEC for it because the SEC doesn't go after everyone, doesn't catch everyone, obviously. But maybe I'll be hit by the SEC, and then I'll just pay a fine, right? And then the fine will be less than the money that I've made. So why wouldn't I do this sort of thing? So it doesn't really dissuade anyone from doing this in my eyes and on top of that as well, like, the SEC has gone after stoner cats here, whereas how many other icos, or I guess, like, not icos, NFT sales, has there been that are actual scams that are actually, like, egregious griffs scams, where I don't believe stoner cats was right. How many of those other things has there been? And, you know, the cynic in me thinks that they went after stoner cats because it was a headline where Ashton Kutcher celebrities attached to it, right? Just like they did with the Kim Kardashian thing with a theory of Max or whatever. It was some scam, a theorem fork or whatever it was at the time.
00:08:03.174 - 00:08:20.562, Speaker A: So when you look at the kind of, I guess, pattern here, it really doesn't protect anyone. It really doesn't dissuade the bad actors or people from, from doing these sorts of things. And also on top of that, it doesn't make much sense. I mean, there was, I think, like, Hester. Hester Pierce. Yeah. This is the screenshot that I've got in front of me.
00:08:20.562 - 00:08:52.802, Speaker A: Hester Pierce and, and another commissioner, I don't know how to say his last name here you die. I don't know, maybe the U is silent it's yet. But yeah, they dissented on this. And they basically said that this is just stupid going after the nfTs, especially because in the settlement, it was mentioned that the secondary sales also factored into the SEC's kind of enforcement action here. But the secondary sales aren't, you know, they're not securities. I mean, it's already been said by a judge that secondary sales of XRP is not a security. Right.
00:08:52.802 - 00:09:50.192, Speaker A: It is not an investment contract. So how can the secondary sales of nfts be that? And then you can just kind of extrapolate this out and you basically start thinking, well, okay, if secondary sales of nfts are considered to be securities, which I don't think they actually said that in the, in the, in the settlement, but they seem to have implied it, that means literally anything that you buy, any collectible, essentially, that you buy and then resell could be considered a security because how many times have we all bought and resold different collectibles, whether they be trading cards or anything else? Right. So what are all of those things? Securities as well? Uh, no, they're not. And the judge ruled against this because there is no investment contract. When you're selling on the secondary market right there, you don't have an investment contract with your counterparty here, and there's no expectation of profit. And from the work that you're doing, like, if I sell a trading card to someone on eBay, there is no reasonable expectation from them that I'm going to increase the value of that trading card for them. Right.
00:09:50.192 - 00:10:12.478, Speaker A: It's not an investment. It's, maybe they're using it as an investment themselves. They're speculating on it, but it's not an investment where I have the responsibility or I've promised to increase its value to, to share profits, stuff like that. So that's all, that's the, how we test, right. That's, that's being applied by the law. But obviously, in this case, with, with stonichites, they're like, oh, well, I'm going to pay this million dollar fine. I walk off with seven mil.
00:10:12.478 - 00:10:30.034, Speaker A: Oh, gee, I cashed out. There's no point fighting this in court. Right. Um, because obviously they've kind of, I think that they failed anyway as a, as a business, as a project. So they're like eh, cut my losses, away we go. So again, no investors protected here in my eyes. And not really anyone dissuaded from doing similar things like this.
00:10:30.034 - 00:10:59.090, Speaker A: But not just honest projects, just scam projects to begin with. Right. So anyway, enough on that one. You can go read the descent for yourself. I will link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right. Many of you will be aware that Lodestar, one of the Ethereum consensus layer clients, was running an incentive program to run the Lodestar software in order to win in a prize pool or sharing a prize pool of 25,000 USDC or US dollars here and you can see the winners have been chosen.
00:10:59.090 - 00:11:35.116, Speaker A: So there's a list of 86 winning validators and you can go check and see if you're on there if you were enrolled in this. But yeah, they say here that the 25,000 USDC will be distributed to these kind of 86 winners if they are the final winners because they always have to validate and make sure of everything there, then you'll get that there. So yeah, I think this is really cool. I think if you look at the amount of people using Lodestar before the incentive program versus people using it now, it obviously moved the needle. Lodestar, I think is, if I'm looking at the client diversity website here, it is the least used client. Yeah, it is. It's at 1.17%
00:11:35.116 - 00:12:01.894, Speaker A: market share on the consensus layer side of things. But I believe it was the most recent one to come out as well. And it is obviously the least well known. But I think that 1.17% is definitely higher than before this incentive program started. I don't have the historical data here, but just, just to illustrate the point here. But yeah, hopefully people just keep using load star because it is a good client and you know they've been using it for the incentive program, but really there's no reason to switch back if it's been running fine, right.
00:12:01.894 - 00:12:23.038, Speaker A: Which I think it has. I don't think that there's been a hiccup on it from what I've seen. So. So yeah, congrats to the winners on that one. And yeah, I mean for those of you out there who are running other clients, maybe you want to give load star a try. All right, so whole ski, the new Ethereum testnet is launching tomorrow on September 15, which is the merger anniversary. How exciting.
00:12:23.038 - 00:12:54.670, Speaker A: Is that already one year since the merge, guys? And I'm pretty sure the price of ETH is like almost the same as it was one year ago today, which is kind of funny because people will be like, oh my God, the price has done nothing. And if I'm actually going to look at the chart here, because I'm curious now. So September 15, 2022, the price of ETH was $1,653. At time of recording, the price of ETH is $101,622. So yeah, pretty much the same price a year on there. But that's okay. We're not in, we're not buying it.
00:12:54.670 - 00:13:12.228, Speaker A: We're not investing in ETH for the short term. We're investing in it for the long term. And obviously, over the last year, it has been a bear crab market. So no expectations there. But yeah, merger anniversary tomorrow. I'll talk more about that tomorrow. But yeah, the whole ski test net will be launching as well, which will soon replace girlie.
00:13:12.228 - 00:13:38.380, Speaker A: And actually clarify that girly, I think, is going to be phased out towards end of the year. So there'll be, I guess like the rest of the year left for girly and then it's gone. And you can see here on the timeline in front of me, this is what it looks like here. If you want to monitor the whole ski testnet launch, you can, you can go to whole ski or whole sky dot beacon chat chain. Dot in, I mean, I'll link this in the YouTube description below that. The URL is a bit hard to say here. Um, but yeah, you can go view that there and you can view the progress of it.
00:13:38.380 - 00:14:20.378, Speaker A: I mean, I'm not expecting any issues here with this testnet, but this testnet is exciting because it is launching with 1.5 million validators with, which is just under, I think, two times the amount of validators we have on the beacon chain now. Actually, we, we actually have a lot more than that. I mean, I, I always forget the number here, but yeah, we have almost 800,000 active validators and when the queue clears, we'll have over 800,000. So yeah, a little under double the amount of validators that we have on Mainnet will be running on Testnet. And they're doing this on purpose because they obviously want to see how the beacon chain handles double the amount of validators we have on the main chain right now. And of course, I said to you guys that there is a discussion to add an EIP to limit the validator growth on Ethereum.
00:14:20.378 - 00:15:03.202, Speaker A: I believe today or tomorrow there's the all core dev call that will decide whether that makes it into Den Koon or not. I've already given my opinion on that, so I'm not going to rehash that here. But yeah, you can go give this a watch if you want tomorrow. Whole ski beacon chain. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so speaking of running Ethereum infrastructure and full nodes and validators, ethereum on Arm tweeted out that they just got a geth node fully synced on an arm $64 129 board, the nano pc t six, which is one of the lowest power boards you can buy, and they sync together in about 13 hours with the new, a kind of update that I talked about the other day. So they say here, geth up and running in 13 hours.
00:15:03.202 - 00:15:36.662, Speaker A: What did you guys do? And they added, Peter, the, the team lead at Geth here, and you can see the full specs of what they actually run this on. So they ran it on a nano pc t six with 16 gig of ram with a two terabyte SSD, geth version 1.13 with a lighthouse as the CL client. Sync time of 13 hours and eight minutes and a db size or a database size of just under 800gb. Now compare this to, I think, the sync time that they had previously. I think this basically cut the sync time in half. I think the previous sync time was around 24 hours on the same machine using geth.
00:15:36.662 - 00:16:20.484, Speaker A: You know, the same spec machine using geth. So basically cut sync time in almost half here, which is a huge achievement, honestly. I mean, the, the faster that a chain can sync that a new kind of like, sorry, new instance of a full node can be spun up and synced, the better for decentralization, for distribution, for getting more people to run full nodes and running it on such a cheap bot. I mean, this is, this is getting crazy now, guys. Like $129 board running, as I said, these specs below here, with just a two terabyte SSD, which is probably the, you know, in some cases more expensive than the actual board, is crazy. We're getting to the point now where I, I mean, running full nodes is obviously something that we want to bring the cost down as much as possible. But then in the future, we're going to have lite clients that can connect to these full nodes as well.
00:16:20.484 - 00:16:59.910, Speaker A: So we're going to have such an awesome decentralized ecosystem where people are running light clients, light nodes, and they're also running, there's a lot of people running full nodes as well, and just low powered hardware. And I've talked about things like operation solo staker from ether Fi and obviously a bunch of other things like Dap node and little boxes you can buy, but that's just the cost of that just going to keep coming down over time. And they were going to be able to run this infrastructure at home, you know, just tucked away in a closet even. I mean it doesn't even generate that much heat, so you can just tuck it away there, forget about it. Only need to, only need to think about it when you, you know, you need to update it and stuff like that. Maybe check on it from time to time to make sure it's still running. You know, it's still running all well and good.
00:16:59.910 - 00:17:37.922, Speaker A: But yeah, I just, I love how easy it is to run an Ethereum full node and the fact that it's getting easier is even better. So yeah, you can go check out this tweet. We'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, Revoke cache has a new feature out today, so if you go to the Revoke cache website, you can actually see this feature in action and I'll go to it on my screen for you guys. So they've got a new feature which basically outlines what your wallet looks like or what your wallet health looks like. Now I've already connected sassle ETH, so I'm going to this section here for you to see what it looks like. So essentially they show you a breakdown of all of the different kind of contracts that you have approved tokens to.
00:17:37.922 - 00:18:20.350, Speaker A: Now once this loads, I mean it's a bit slow to load right now, you can actually see all the tokens over the lifetime of my address or the contracts, I should say over the lifetime of the sassle ETH address that I have approved tokens and nfts for and actually gives you a summary at the top of the total approvals. So mine has 116 approvals with the total value at risk being dollar nine plus the nfts. Now of course I don't really do much of stuff on Sassle ETH and I make sure that I have a lot of good wallet hygiene on there and a lot of these stuff that it's been approved. I mean I don't hold, I don't hold these tokens anymore, right. And if I did I would definitely go and unapprove these things. But it also gives you a wallet health score. So mine's currently bad because of this, because I have so many things that that I haven't unapproved.
00:18:20.350 - 00:18:55.894, Speaker A: But the way I see it is that it's going to cost me gas to like revoke the approvals on all of this. And if I don't have these tokens in my wallet and I, and I don't plan to have these tokens in my wallet, then it's, it's pointless. But in saying that you should definitely go connect your wallet to this and check it all out because you probably have things approved on not, obviously, not your public wallet. I mean, I'm only showing you Cecil ETH because it's my public wallet, but all your other wallets that you should definitely revoke to protect yourself from any future kind of like exploits and things like that. So yeah, you can go check this out for yourself. We'll link it in the YouTube description below. But this is a great new feature from the Revoke cash team here.
00:18:55.894 - 00:19:59.288, Speaker A: All right, so we have an update on optimism. Is fault proof or fraud proof system? So the op labs Twitter account said here this summer, which is, I guess the northern hemisphere summer, significant progress has been made on the op stacks first fault proof system and we are making preparations to test the system on op girly, they say. Yeah, we're really proud of the system's design, how it leverages the strengths of the op stack and the opportunities it will create for the community to contribute to the collective. So yeah, it seems like the fraud proof or fault proof system for the op stack will be on testnet relatively shortly, and then hopefully we get a main net, not too long, maintenance implementation, not too long, long after that. Because that is definitely the biggest piece of, I wouldn't call it FUD, but like criticism that the optimism ecosystem suffers from, and for good reason, right? Like at the end of the day, right now, without fault proofs, you can't call any op stack chains a roll up, right? And you probably can't even call them a L2 or an l two. I know I've been calling them that in the past just for ease of kind of communicating this stuff to you. But right now, you know, it's not technically any of that.
00:19:59.288 - 00:20:30.982, Speaker A: But once this fault proof system is in, it becomes that and advances to the next stage as of the stages that are listed out on l two b.com dot. And then I'm sure eventually they'll open this up to permissionless, kind of like fraud proving and fault proofing, which is, which is always very welcome as well here. But yeah, I just wanted to keep you guys updated on that and to tell you guys that it is close. It is closer than it has probably ever been at this stage, which is nice to see. So great little update here from the OP Labs team. All right, a few Polygon updates to get through today.
00:20:30.982 - 00:20:53.296, Speaker A: So they've announced today that the Polygon 2.0 implementation kicks off with the release of three Polygon improvement proposals, or pips. Now, just should disclose here that, you guys know I'm an advisor to Polygon. Just wanted to disclose that and get that out there, there. But I think this is a massive and exciting upgrade for the polygon ecosystem. You know, I've gone through the Polygon 2.0 roadmap before, so I'm not going to rehash that here.
00:20:53.296 - 00:21:26.854, Speaker A: But these three pips basically include the one to convert matic to poll. So obviously change the matic token to the new poll token. The poll will become poll token, will become the native gas token for the POS chain, and will become the native staking token for the POS chain. And they will also launch the staking layer for the poll token to be used across any of the different polygon chains here. So this is just, I guess like the first kind of step here. They've got other steps. Obviously, they want to convert the POS chain to a validium, which may even become a full roll up eventually.
00:21:26.854 - 00:21:58.688, Speaker A: We'll see how that shakes out as well. And then obviously a lot of stuff around governance too, that they're trying to do. They're actually revamping their whole governance process. But yeah, exciting times in the polygon ecosystem. And as I said, there wasn't just this news. There was some other big news, actually, where the block here announced that the Star network is launching a ZK EVM Ethereum L2 powered by polygons technology. And then Sundip actually expanded on this basis, saying that a star is taking advantage of the polygon chain development kit, or CDK, to build this.
00:21:58.688 - 00:22:52.390, Speaker A: But also he noted, I believe, or he put, brought to my attention that a Star network is apparently the leading, he's a leading blockchain of Japan and he's part of the Polkadot ecosystem. So essentially this is a star basically saying, well, you know, we're in the Polkadot ecosystem, but we want to move to the Ethereum ecosystem and we want to build a L2 using polygons technology on Ethereum. So this goes back to my long held thesis, and I think I've held this for two to three years at this point, that everything would come home to ethereum and another thing that I haven't actually got up here is a tweet that I saw today. I actually shared this in the Delaware discord channel. I'll bring it up for you guys here, because I want. I really want to illustrate something to you about this thesis that I've had because it's related to this. So dap lion, who you guys know as a core devot lodestar, has gave a presentation on gnosis chain as an l two.
00:22:52.390 - 00:23:36.102, Speaker A: And I've said before that I believe that if, you know, any chain was to convert to an l two, gnosis chain is definitely up there as one of the top candidates here. So really, this whole trend of just, like, things coming home to ethereum, right, and basically coming home and converting themselves to an l two and us getting more l two s being spun up than l one s. As I said, a long held thesis of mine, last two to three years at least, where I said that I believed once the l two infrastructure was there for people to build their own l two s, obviously with op stack and the polygon, CdK and arbitrums are stacked as well. I mean, pretty much every l two team has one. Now, people will opt to build an l two instead of an l one. And that's exactly what we are seeing here. We're seeing the conversions and we're seeing people spin up l two s.
00:23:36.102 - 00:24:11.864, Speaker A: I went over the other day, I think it was last week or the week before, all the op stack chains coming online. Now, if you enumerate those against the new l one s, we've already beating the new l one. L1's are a thing of a past. Thing of the past. Now, think about the most high profile layer ones out there, Aptosui, and say, I think are the most high profile new l ones, I should say, that have come out in the last kind of like, you know, twelve to 18 months and been announced. I pretty sure, like, all of them are struggling and struggling hard to really gain adoption, to gain developer activity, to gain any kind of attention on them. And I actually know that there is a team out there.
00:24:11.864 - 00:25:08.424, Speaker A: I think. I don't know this for sure, but I've heard a few things, that there is a team or teams out there that want to build a L2 network on Ethereum based on the move programming language, which is what Aptos uses, and then sui and say, I mean, the layer N network that I talked about the other day is pretty much replacing them because I think that it's either Sui or Sei. I can't remember exactly which one it is wanted to build like a highly performant deFi infrastructure, but we're going to be doing that with L2s and layer N, which is a project building L2s on Ethereum using Eigen layer as a data availability layer. So all of this is just coming home to Ethereum with, you know, teams like polygon leading the charge here, making it easy for people to build their own ZK evms on Ethereum. And this is exactly the thesis that I've had for a very long time around l two s, and it's just really, really great to see it all play out. So, as I said, it all comes home to Ethereum. Guys, there's no doubt in my mind that we're going to see an explosion of L2s as time goes on here.
00:25:08.424 - 00:25:45.864, Speaker A: But on that note as well, if I'm talking about an explosion of L2s, this is actually a perfect segue into some, into a tweet that Stephen Goldfeder put out, who is one of the co founders at off chain Labs. He put out a tweet asking, you know, how many roll ups will there be? And he has an analogy here which I thought was pretty useful. So it's quite a long tweet, but I'll read it out, he said, I don't know, but a helpful analogy that I found is tv channels. Clearly, having all tv shows on a single channel won't work. There's just too much programming. But equally clearly, it wouldn't make sense for every tv show to have its own channel. We'd end up with channels that had no programming for most of the day, and each one would have to find its own advertisers, distributors, etcetera.
00:25:45.864 - 00:26:01.364, Speaker A: And discovery of new programs would be a nightmare. The system we have today is a natural one. Channels are loosely organized by genres. If you like cartoons, you can watch the Cartoon Network. If you like nature, you can watch the National Geographic Channel. And it's not always an exact science. Cartoons about nature could go either way.
00:26:01.364 - 00:26:27.694, Speaker A: I envision a similar world emerging for blockchains. Each app won't have its own network, but like minded apps that appeal to common users will form their own networks. We're already seeing this with Defi and gaming, but I imagine that many more verticals will emerge over time, and it makes sense. The network can be tailored to those apps, and users will be able to easily engage with and discover similar apps with no friction. So will we ultimately have a dozen networks? I think so. Will we have millions I think not. How many exactly will we have? Only time will tell.
00:26:27.694 - 00:27:10.920, Speaker A: Now, of course, this is something that I've been beating the drum about for a while as well, where I said to you guys that I don't think there's going to be that many of these generalized l two s, the ones that kind of like, have a lot of stuff on them, and there will be a long tail of app chains. But I've also said that, like, most of those app chains will not succeed. Most of those app chains will fail, and there really will only be a select few that will, that will succeed in my mind. But on top of this, John here put out an extension of Stephen's tweet, where he said, in this analogy, channels equals only one show can run at a time, which is sequential execution. Streaming platforms can run any show whenever viewers want, which is parallel execution. At first we needed many channels, but now we're consolidating into a handful of relevant platforms. Parallel vms may consolidate.
00:27:10.920 - 00:27:59.654, Speaker A: And that's exactly what happened, right? How many l ones do we have explode and we've just consolidated over time, right? I mean, all these l one s, really, most of them didn't get any usage, but the ones that did, it drained out of that. It came home to Ethereum, and we've consolidated there. Same is true with the l two s. We're having a proliferation of those, but that's going to consolidate over time for various different reasons. And I think, as Stephen has said here, as John has said, as I have said in the past, we are going to consolidate around, you know, not just a handful of these super successful generalized l two networks, generalized roll up networks that service most users and can be, as I said, interoperable and all that good stuff there. And then there'll be a long tail of app chains, and maybe even generalized kind of l two s as well. But if you're looking ten years out and you're looking at kind of like, what's been the most successful, it's definitely going to be that world in my eyes.
00:27:59.654 - 00:28:34.988, Speaker A: I mean, I don't think it's like 100% certainty, but I do think that it's highly likely that that's the world we're going to live in. Not just based on this tv channel analogy, but just based on the fact that at the end of the day, attention is scarce, guys. At the end of the day, things consolidate for ease of use, for user experience, for discoverability, all that stuff there. And you know, as Stephen said here, imagine if you had a channel per show. You know, there are thousands, tens of thousands of different shows and programs in the world. I mean, potentially hundreds of thousands, right? I don't know how many there are now. Imagine trying to have sort through all of that without a way to consolidate it would be a nightmare.
00:28:34.988 - 00:29:09.994, Speaker A: And as Steven said here, most of the time, there wouldn't be anything on those channels anyway, because they're, you know, you cannot. I mean, you'd probably just rerun the same thing over and over again. It'd just be really boring, and it wouldn't appeal to anyone, and no one would really watch it. So having these kind of things segmented into different genres made a lot of sense here. Just like how we're going to probably see things segmented in the roll up space into, like, defi and gaming and various different things out there, especially because these things also require different levels of security as well. Like, gaming doesn't require the same security guarantees as DeFi. So gaming could be like validiums, whereas DeFi needs to be full roll ups because you want that extra security there.
00:29:09.994 - 00:29:44.588, Speaker A: So all of this stuff kind of compounds on each other and consolidates within each other to form the best L2 kind of ecosystem that we can have. All right, so a major announcement out of metamask today. So they've launched metamask snaps into open beta. This is the first step towards Metamask's journey to create a fully permissionless ecosystem with metamask. So what are metamask snaps? Well, it's basically a way for anyone to build their own kind of functionality into metamask. So as a permissionless kind of ecosystem here. Now, what this means today is that metamask have launched with a bunch of snaps that they've.
00:29:44.588 - 00:30:21.760, Speaker A: That they've built, that their metamask team has built that allows for things like, I believe, having bitcoin wallet as part of metamask, which is. Which is pretty, pretty interesting, right? Being able to use metamask as a bitcoin wallet, but also being able to use metamask as pretty much anything wallet people just need to build a snap for. So it's like basically an extension or an add on to metamask that anyone can build in a permissionless way, which I've talked about before. I mean, I talked about this when it first kind of came out here. But, yeah, this is, this is really cool. I think that you can see here there's different categories that snaps fall into, such as, you know, notifications, interoperability, transaction insights, all that good stuff. There I mean, I'm not going to go over this too in too in depth.
00:30:21.760 - 00:30:57.402, Speaker A: You can read this for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But great to see metamask actually making some kind of bigger moves here and improving the wallet. Because as you guys know, metamask is very slow to move generally when it comes to upgrading things and kind of like improving things, but when they do, they seem to do it with a splash. You can go check this out for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, speaking of wallets, I came across this tweet today from know nothing labs who have built an account abstraction wallet that lets users sign transactions with Face ID, eliminating the need for seed phrases and private keys.
00:30:57.402 - 00:31:43.220, Speaker A: And you can check out the demo and no seed phrases. Xyz I think I was saying just the other day that this is the future of wallets, right guys? Where I said that you could basically use your iPhone's inbuilt Face ID in order to create a wallet and sign transactions, which is pretty insane that it's already here to me. I mean, I think I knew the technology already existed, but the fact that we already have something that you can kind of play around with right now at this website is really cool. So if I go register new account, I don't think this is going to work. Now it's going to ask me for Windows hello, which I don't have set up on my pc here. But if you do that from an iPhone, it's going to bring up Face ID and then Face ID is going to create you a new wallet and then you're going to be able to sign transactions using Face ID. There's no seed phrases involved here.
00:31:43.220 - 00:32:15.566, Speaker A: This is entirely secured by Face ID, which is secured by Apple's secure Enclave, which you can see here that they kind of discussed this here about how this all works, and they also discussed how they're using ZK proofs as well and ZK technology in the background here. So yeah, one of the coolest things I've seen lately in the wallet space for sure. And you should definitely go check out this tweet thread, which it explains it in more detail. Link it in the YouTube description below. But I think I'm out of time for today's episode. But yeah, that was a pretty bullish episode in my mind, especially from the tech perspective. I know prices are still kind of whatever, meh.
00:32:15.566 - 00:32:54.810, Speaker A: But who cares, right? Like how bullish is all this tech stuff that's happening, how much innovation is happening not just in the l two space, but in the wallet space. Guys, we are in the golden age of Ethereum right now, and we have been for quite a while, in my opinion. And I think a lot of this stuff is going to become much more apparent once we get, obviously, a bull market where new users come in and they're going to be using all these different products and they're going to get a lot of value out of them. And even things like friend tech, which I haven't mentioned in a while and people wrote off for dead, is still getting a lot of usage, a lot of engagement. I think they had like, you know, 8000 active addresses or daily active addresses or something like that. So. And that's built on an l two, of course, so all, and that's built using different wallet infrastructure too.
00:32:54.810 - 00:33:17.942, Speaker A: So all this is coming together. I mean, you can see the pieces of the puzzle finally coming together after many years of being built. And I really do think that we are in the golden age and we're going to be in this age for quite a while. I think the next few years at least are going to be a wild ride for Ethereum adoption from every different front you can think of there. But anyway, turned on that bullish note for today. Thank you everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up.
00:33:17.942 - 00:33:23.294, Speaker A: Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone. Bye.
