00:00:08.410 - 00:00:36.210, Speaker A: All right. Hello, everyone. My name is Victor Sanchez. I am the CTO for Quinto, the safety first l two for finance. Today I'm going to be introducing what Quinto is. What are we striving for as an l two, how we build this l two, but even more importantly, how you can start building conquinto today. So what are we? We are essentially the first l two using the arbitrum nitro stack.
00:00:36.210 - 00:01:31.350, Speaker A: And of course, we settle on Ethereum Mainet. I'm sure you are familiar with arbitrum and the orbit stack. The orbit concept is, of course, around building l three s. That settled as an l two in arbitrum, however, we run parallel to arbitrum one and to Arbitrum Nova. Settling on Ethereum Mainet the objective for this on why we chose to create using this neutral stack, but settling on Ethereum Mainet, it was of course, because we wanted direct access to that liquidity, that innovation, and essentially having connected to where the talent and the developers are. Our mission as a company and our mission as chain builders is to create a safe space for developers first and foremost. And that safe space is to basically bring together two groups that have been historically at ods when we talked about crypto.
00:01:31.350 - 00:02:18.470, Speaker A: We want to have both Defi and Tradfi finally interacting in a safe space. In order to do that, we have essentially proposed two main core values for what Kinto does and what we represent. Those two main core values are security and usability. This kind of sounds stupidly simple if you think about it, but the reality is that this is extremely important, and it makes the difference between what is needed today for onboarding that next 1 million, 10 million, 100 million users to crypto. How are we going to do this? I'm going to be covering some of those. Basically, security wise. We want a place that, yes, you're going to have to Kyc and you probably as a Quinto, as a crypto native as well.
00:02:18.470 - 00:02:47.726, Speaker A: You are as allergic to the Kyc Kyb Aml concept as any of us were. However, you have done probably KYc already in plenty of other spots when you are inside the crypto space. However, we still are very sensitive to the KYC allergy that you may feel as a developer and as a crypto native when you're talking on that. This is why we have two concepts that matter quite a bit. The first one is the user owned KYC. Your data is yours and only yours. Nothing is going to be stored on chain.
00:02:47.726 - 00:03:33.614, Speaker A: And I'm going to go into the details on how we implemented that to make sure that the data never touches the chain. And most importantly, that your on chain activity and your identity, your PII, are never connected unless you allow them to do that to the apps or protocols that you have on top of our chain. And the second one, of course, is usability. Right now, getting to have a proper wallet, having the experience in your crypto life being as secure as it would be in tradfi, you still need some of the things that we are going to propose today. And thankfully there is account destruction. The concept of account destruction can provide both pillars that we are looking at, at kinto, security and usability. And we're going to speak a little bit on how we build that.
00:03:33.614 - 00:04:16.874, Speaker A: Before that, what are we proposing as Quinto? Essentially, Kinto is again made for developers. It doesn't matter if you're a veteran or if you are just starting, but we're going to have three main core features that I want to speak today about. Number one, Quinto is still very much permissionless and very much decentralized. This means no one can stop you to start today on Quinto, doing your kYc and doing your kyb. Not only that, the moment that we launch governance in a month or two time, you are going to be able to, through governance, approve new KYC and new KYB providers. We are not going to impose onto you which KYC or which KYB provider is going to have access to that data. You already are a coinbase user.
00:04:16.874 - 00:04:38.146, Speaker A: That's great. You probably use splat. In that case, you can select that KYC provider to onboard your Kinto experience. Second, we are fully EVM compatible. We know where the talent and where most of the already built community and value are. We want not to reinvent the wheel here. Kinto is fully EVM compatible.
00:04:38.146 - 00:05:21.870, Speaker A: Finally, we're going to offer to these stratfi and defi protocols especially we are targeting obviously financial applications. One of the kind of first booms in Kinto is going to be real world assets rwas. And what we are offering here is the ability to be fully compliant on top of Quinto. However, if today you want to be fully compliant as a developer or as a user, it's an absolute nightmare. Imagine this. You have to go either to an l, one that is a private garden, and then you go through all the pain of the KyC at the Kyb process, only to find yourself isolated from the TVL, isolated from the talent and isolated for theorem ecosystem. Or you can select to go in one of the many protocols that are doing an excellent job in an l one, like Ethereum mainet.
00:05:21.870 - 00:06:15.586, Speaker A: But then you're going to have to Kyc one time for this protocol, one time for that protocol, and yet another one for the third and fourth one. The idea here is change the level of abstraction. We are going to put the Kyc, the bouncer at the gate at the Kyc l two level. So essentially anyone that is inside that network, we know that has been Kyc. And not only that, thanks to the Kinto id, our API, we're going to be able to give you information about, is this user sanctioned in this country? Is this user from this or that jurisdiction? Has this user been flagged as an Ofa country or from our AML system? And you're going to be able to access all of that information as a protocol with just one line of code. So in order to talk about Quinto, we also need to talk about the four differences that we have activated on our l two. Number one, eoas are disabled by default.
00:06:15.586 - 00:06:44.442, Speaker A: On Quinto, eoas can only be signers of your smart accounts. This is extremely important. Eoas are the cornerstone of self custody. We know that very well. However, they are also the cornerstone of bad usability associated to those eoas. What if we give you something different for Kinto, we disabilitated EOA. So what are we going to do instead? We're going to give every single user that connects to our network, and this is part already of our onboarding that you can do today.
00:06:44.442 - 00:07:09.250, Speaker A: We're going to give them a smart contract wallet based, of course, on EIP 4337, compatible with everything that has been developed so far. And this is going to be the safest, most important wallet that you have ever owned. We'll see how in a second. Finally, all users need to have a valid kinto id. This is a soul bound nft that you create as part of your KYC process. And think about it like you would think about your passport. This information is yours and only yours.
00:07:09.250 - 00:08:17.660, Speaker A: However, on chain, we're going to be able to stamp this passport either positively or negatively. Positively with your jurisdiction, with potential flags that are useful for applications like is this user us accredited investor, for instance, or negatively, are you sanctioned in this country that I'm interested on making you compliant? If I am an RWA and I have reporting needs myself. Fourth one, we are applying these KYC and these compliance rules in the guest level. We modified slightly the arbitrum stack. So basically, we are guaranteeing that anyone that either doesn't have a kinto id hasn't gone through that process and therefore could be a counterparty risk for any of our protocols that are going to be deploying and acting on quinto cannot interact with the chain. And at the same time, if you have been sanctioned either for one of our security systems for AML fraud, you are on and off a country, et cetera, we are able to stop you at the Geth level before you get to interact with any contracts at all in the chain. This is really important for the security aspect as well.
00:08:17.660 - 00:09:09.418, Speaker A: So I'm going to start with the coding a second here and the process that the user follow. But before that I wanted to dedicate a second here to maybe exercise, I don't know if you have done it on what creating a chain? Creating an l. Two actually entitles and I wanted to introduce a little bit this concept of it really takes a village to make a functional LTO as secure and as useful as Kinto. So obviously at the core of this village is our stack. After stocking and testing many stacks, optimism, CK and finally arbitrum. We decided, among other many things, due to the wonderful team and community, the already locked TDL and very well tested technology to go with arbitrum. Of course, for our infrastructure, we are running with Caldera from day one as our roll up as a service part of our website and our services.
00:09:09.418 - 00:10:01.446, Speaker A: Some of the things that are needed run in both Netlify and fauna. We care a lot about the geography, about the extension, and about the scalability of the network. We have now partnership with anchor, quicknote and novice to make sure that you can access Kinto from anywhere. Security chain analysis every single signer or every single wallet that has ever interact with the users that are going through the KYC, go to the kyt chain analysis point and we are connected to hypernative analyzing with both static rules and AI black boxing rules, these accounts that are interacting, and every contract deployment as well. This is very important because as I mentioned before, you cannot interact in the chain unless you have a valid kinto id. Whenever we get a hypernative, sorry, alarm, right. Either for one of those static rules or for one of those AI rules, we are able to immediately flag that account and stop you on your tracks.
00:10:01.446 - 00:10:39.402, Speaker A: If you just developed or deployed a contract that we believe that could be dangerous, of course we fire first, we ask questions later that can be removed as part of that. So if for any reason your passport gets stamped with a bad flag, that bad flag can be removed. But first we protect the user and the chain within later. As I said before, we don't impose the Kyc or the kyb provided that we want to use. You are going to be able to select from three today, platt, synapse and on Fido in a few days. So whatever you are more comfortable with because of their jurisdiction, because you have already used them before and it's going to be quicker. You choose.
00:10:39.402 - 00:11:02.506, Speaker A: We don't care for data availability. We have partnership with Celestia. We're going to be one of the first chains launching with the espresso decentralized sequencer. Very important explorers. We have blockscout, trusty, of course, but also lore. Extremely interesting bridging thanks to the super bridge of the socket team. We are using Pinglico for our banner.
00:11:02.506 - 00:11:38.102, Speaker A: We are using wallet U deals like Turnkey and dynamic to make sure that this experience is as seamless as possible. Our home ramp is with Kado. And finally, we know a little bit more about our users and we assign them endgame credits, our launch incentive through the mind Berlin API. So how does it work? I'm going to arrive for the first time on Quinto, whether as a developer or as a user. And the first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to select one KYC or KYB provider that I'm already familiar with. The second step is going to be going through that third party interface. It could be very quick, literally minutes, or it could be very slow.
00:11:38.102 - 00:12:10.142, Speaker A: If your document or something like that, there is been 24, 48 hours to wait as you do this piece. Finally, we are going to be storing that Pii. But it's not us, it's one more. The KYC or the KYB provider. What happens next is essentially on that callback we are going to create for you your first signer of the Mamori wallet, that wallet that I mentioned before, based on account extraction. This is going to be, of course, a non custodial primary address for your wallet. We are also going to mint for you your Kinto id.
00:12:10.142 - 00:12:34.218, Speaker A: That first piece that tells us a few things about you, right? That we already know from the KYB process. And you have given us that permission to stamp your passport with the first two things that we know. You have been KYC. Welcome. And we know now your jurisdiction as well. Finally, we are going to go and deploy your Quinto smart account, your memory wallet. So what is this memory wallet? This memory wallet is obviously the smart account wallet.
00:12:34.218 - 00:13:09.158, Speaker A: Eip four three seven compatible as I mentioned before, and I promise you that this is going to be the safest yet invisible wallet. For Kinto, this is going to be the safest wallet that many of your users have ever had. The reason being is multisig by default. And we all know how hard it is to set up your first ledger for your uncle, or for your father, or for your grandpa. Not to mention if you try to actually give them a nosy safe to manage. It's horrible, right? It's a horrible experience. However, thanks to the multisig by default on our account, we have made this extremely easy.
00:13:09.158 - 00:13:59.558, Speaker A: We give you your first signer, that chunky signer that I mentioned as part of our process, and then you can connect other sources of authentications through dynamic, through your own hardware wallets, directly into this multisig. And you're going to be able to apply rules. Maybe you want to only ask for one signature if it's a small transaction, or for all of them if you are doing something much higher. So we have different policies that we can assign to these wallets when we create them. Finally, this wallet is also kind of embedded inside those KYC and AML compliant checks. So we make sure that when you are interacting with these stratfi protocols or these RWA protocols that have compliance needs and you want to use them, right? You want to be able to invest in treasuries or to be able to use collateral, typical from d five, but then invest it into real world assets. You want to be able to do that, and you're going to be able to do so with this.
00:13:59.558 - 00:14:59.078, Speaker A: Finally, it takes about 20 seconds to do all the operations that are needed to create your wallet, to fund it the first time, and things like that, because everything is pasky based. So I'm sure you have seen already plenty of demos on how paskis can change crypto, but right now, my face or my fingerprint can be one of those signers, and I can be very quick on how I do these pasky based signatures. Of course, because we are KYC, Kyb based, you have the ability as well to directly use something like KYC based recovery. If you were to lose all of the signers that are part of that multi SIG and you are unable to recover, you always can go to the KYC or KYB process again to recover that original key from the recovery wallet. And finally, again, the easy and straightforward ux to make all of this possible. So a few things. I promised that I will show you some code, and I have only a few minutes left here, so let's see what I can do whenever I'm using this kinder wallet.
00:14:59.078 - 00:16:00.126, Speaker A: So the first thing is obviously because we have disabled eoas, everything needs to go through the account destruction entry point, right? So in order to do that, we have added a few utils that comes with the wallet factory itself. So if you don't want to go directly through the entry point and encode your deployment of a contract through a user operation, and I'm going to show you how to do that in a second. You can use some of our API utils, as I mentioned in the wallet factory. So this will allow you to call directly, even from an eoa, from a developer perspective, to deploy those contracts, even though they will be of course associated to your eoa that has that valid Kinto id that I mentioned before. So wallet factory deploy contract is the method that will allow this. I will provide links for all of this at the end of this conference. The other thing that is extremely important, and when we are talking about usability, our dream for Quinto is that at the end, as a developer, you are going to know that Quinto is a crypto network, crypto as the base.
00:16:00.126 - 00:16:33.834, Speaker A: But we want users to forget about that. And in order to forget about that, we want them to forget about the complications of the non custodial wallets. That's why we created these smart accounts with the different signers. And of course we want to create as well the ability of have what they seem to experience as gasless operation. This is why all contracts and all wallets can actually be a sponsor through our paymaster. Again, EIP 437 base. You can check on the balance of that wallet or on the contract that you are deploying and making sure that your users never pay for that.
00:16:33.834 - 00:17:32.970, Speaker A: You can charge them later as part of your own operation, but this way they don't need to have any currency, any part of it already on their wallet, so they can have that gasless experience without having to worry if I have or not the native currency in order to pay for it. Finally, user operations. Of course, if you are using account destruction, you are going to have to encapsulate all of your operations to this piece we have created in our repository of the kinto core, the create user Operation helper, if you like. It's very easy. And here you see another very important aspect of our wallet, and it's the ability to wireless and block applications. So the first thing that you will do as a developer is making sure that you wireless the new application that you are developing, in this case the very complex counter, so you can wireless that app, sending the addresses that are forming part of those app and different flags that you can mark. And again, happy to share the API at the end of this part.
00:17:32.970 - 00:18:07.254, Speaker A: So finally you're going to be calling one more, right? You're adding one more user operation. This is why again, user operations can make this very, very quickly, because we can send several at once. We are going to be sending that whitelisting operation and our first increment encoding with the signature on that part. And again, we are going to provide the util so you can do this in an extremely easy way. Finally, either you as a developer or the bundler will pick it up. You can just call the entry point, handle operations and you will process those operations from top to bottom as shown in here. I promise you one liners, right, for everything else.
00:18:07.254 - 00:18:33.438, Speaker A: I know that I'm almost done, but I didn't want it to go away without showing you this. How do we know if your user is KYC? One line kinto id is KYC. How do you know if it has one or another? Trade trades are listed on our website. You can go right now to those documents. Number one is the worst. You have been blocked by one of those security alerts. But in there you will have anything from USA accredited investors and many others that are part of this.
00:18:33.438 - 00:19:16.090, Speaker A: You can check if someone has those traits directly in there. And some of those traits are actually ISO three. One six is one country code, so you can know as well the jurisdiction with only one line of code. Finally, the most important method probably is sanctioned, safe in a given country. Again, one line of code, which for many protocols, apps and even layers like us was literally an absolute nightmare to code. All right, so there are plenty of more one liners where these ones came from. I'm going to share right now these addresses for the Quinto one liners and our Kinto id, our repo in GitHub, Kinto XYC.
00:19:16.090 - 00:19:53.250, Speaker A: And of course you can go with very large amount of detail in Docs Kinto XYC please follow us on Twitter kinto xyC. There is also a discord that you can join with plenty of developers already starting doing this and I even have 29 seconds for a question if you have it. If not, we have a booth as well on the main stage starting tomorrow. I will be happy to take any of your questions together with Feder, which is right there, and he is one of our developers. Thank you very much for paying attention to this today. Looking forward to tell you more about Kinto. Cheers.
