00:00:00.880 - 00:00:19.590, Speaker A: What's up everyone? Taiki here. And today I wanted to share my portfolio strategy for 2024. If you like the content, please like and subscribe and check out. The premium discord link will be in the description below. So this video might not be what you're expecting. I'm not gonna come out here and show you dozens of altcoin gems. I think there are enough crypto YouTubers and Twitter influencers that can spoon feed you that info.
00:00:19.590 - 00:01:35.480, Speaker A: Instead, I want to make a different type of video focused around portfolio construction, building a well balanced portfolio, and using Defi to amplify your risk adjusted returns. I think this is important because I think if you're entering crypto, a lot of people think that, okay, why would I buy bitcoin or eat when I can just go out the risk curve and make a 100 x? And of course, I wish that happens for you. I mean, I hope that happens for you. And on average, something that's high risk does mean that, you know, the average returns tend to be higher. Of course, you have to also account for the fact that there's, it's not a linear relationship, there is some level of standard deviation, and something can be high risk and beverage just like an awful investment, bitcoin can go up 2% and your altcoin will go down 10%, bitcoin goes down 3% and your altcoin goes down 99%. You have to think about the markets in this type of framework, I believe, and a lot of people focus on home run trades that go 1000 x, but you also to account for lower risk strategies that actually make you a bunch of money. And if you can identify these types of tools, it can actually help you navigate the portfolio in a much more confident way, where you are in control of your own destiny and you're not just relying on some random coin being pumped by insiders and whatnot.
00:01:35.480 - 00:02:01.986, Speaker A: It's really, really easy to make money in a bull market, I'm sure last cycle, or if you're coming back to the markets, chances are you made some money in the bull market, you felt some dopamine, and then you got rugged. FDX, SPF, Luna, three ac. Right, rugged. And the hardest part of crypto and the markets in general is to keep that wealth. It's a very, very volatile market. It's very reflexive. Where the higher an asset goes, the cheaper it looks.
00:02:01.986 - 00:02:40.508, Speaker A: The lower it goes, the more expensive it looks, and it's going to be a virtuous cycle. I'm not quite sure if this cycle will become a super cycle. I do think we're going to see some big boom and bust cycles just because there's not that much real world applications equipped right now. However, it's pretty clear that retail is back, speculation is back, bitcoin is approaching all time highs. Meme coins are pumping. So of course we have to account for the risk in the markets, but also understand that, well, there's a lot to be made here. So how can I set up my portfolio so that I can make money in a bull market, but also have some downside volatility? So I think the first thing I want to talk about is ego.
00:02:40.508 - 00:03:09.112, Speaker A: I think managing ego is very important, especially in crypto, because crypto is, I would say, over 90% male. And dudes tend to have an ego. We want to compare our dicks, we want to compare our portfolio size and be like, you know what, you're only up 10% today. I'm up 20%, you loser. It's kind of like this mentality of it's not enough that I succeed, others must fail. This is true in the financial markets. In tech, it's toxic masculinity, whatever you want to call it, it exists.
00:03:09.112 - 00:03:42.490, Speaker A: And of course we all want to buy something for 100 x and sell the top and just, just chill out. But this is very, very unrealistic. Instead, I think what we should do is to build our own framework with some self awareness because everyone's personality is different, everyone's risk tolerance is different. So you can't just copy trade someone else just because they're doing well. You also have to account for your own personality. If you can't, you know, deal with a 20% drawdown, then chances are you have to opt for more safer strategies. And if you're a full out dgens, then yeah, like, you know, like, fuck it, we ball.
00:03:42.490 - 00:04:16.500, Speaker A: So in terms of market cycles, of course, I think, you know, a lot of people just want to be able to just buy a meme coin or like, whatever coin, right? Do some research and then sell the top. And me personally, I'm not going to overestimate my ability to time those things. I fully understand that. I am a person. I feel euphoric on the way up and I feel really, really bad on the way down. So am I really gonna have a big ego and be like, you know what, this time around I'll be able to sell the top. So let me just leverage long in the markets now.
00:04:16.500 - 00:04:48.550, Speaker A: Let me just buy some meme coins and just sell the top. No, I'm not gonna pretend like I can do that. So if I wanted to escape this cycle, not too hurt, not too damaged, I just need to create a viable profit taking strategy that fits my own personality. That's realistic. Anything that revolves around selling the hub, that's very unrealistic. You might be able to do it, but it's very unrealistic for me. I just want to create some plan that allows me to capture the upside in a bull market, but also grounds me when things are beginning to turn.
00:04:48.550 - 00:05:46.522, Speaker A: If I can escape this next bear with a 30% drawdown, I'll be your fork. Actually, I know that sounds ridiculous, but a 30% drawdown in a crypto bear market, I think that's winning for most people, if you think about it that way. I think what everyone should do is to start developing a plan right now and to stick to it. You don't have to do it right now, but just start thinking about how am I going to take profits and then make sure it's reasonable and realistic. And in this video, I'll share what I'm personally doing and maybe it can help you think about your personal strategy that way, or you can just look at me like a boomer and say that this guy's stupid. But hopefully this video is somewhat useful in helping you figure out, okay, like, I can't just expect myself to sell the top. I need to have a realistic plan and be okay that I'm not gonna, you know, be an amazing market timer.
00:05:46.522 - 00:06:48.862, Speaker A: So this is my strategy, and I'll go further and like, go more in detail later in the video. But this year, and maybe next year, if the bull market is still going on, I'm gonna just denominate my portfolio in LP tokens. I will treat LP tokens as my crypto savings account and constantly measure opportunity cost against my LP tokens. And you might be asking, so, like, what the hell does that mean? Okay, like, I'm just entering crypto, what the hell is an LP token? And you might, this might be your second cycle and you might have forgotten what an LP token is. So I know I'm going to defer to this video. So I recorded a video with Ben Cohen a little bit, almost three years, three years ago actually, when I went on his channel and discussed, okay, what is yield farming, what is providing liquidity? And the simplest way to imagine being a liquidity provider is imagine you have some USDC and ETH and you want to provide liquidity for other traders to trade within, like trade in and out of, let's say ETH and USDC. So you're going to deposit some Eth, some USDC into a fish roll.
00:06:48.862 - 00:07:34.048, Speaker A: And people, other traders will be using this fish roll to sell and buy, and you'll be able to charge a fee from these traders and therefore earn a yield. So that's like a simple way of thinking about these LP tokens by being a liquidity provider, by being an LP, you have a 50 50 pool, 50%, 50% of two assets that increase in value from swap fees and also additional yield, farming incentives from protocols that will pay you to be an LP on their platform. So more on that later. But just examples, a few examples. For example, a bitcoin USDC pool where you have $1,000 worth of bitcoin paired with $1,000 with the USDC. So that's $2,000 worth of value, and people are trading in and out. So if bitcoin goes up, then your LP value will go up.
00:07:34.048 - 00:08:06.960, Speaker A: Not as much as, you know, just like hollowing bitcoin, but it'll still go up. If bitcoin goes down, then the value of your LP token will go down, but you will be outperforming people. That's 100% long bitcoin, for example, because you still have some 50% stablecoin exposure. And on top of that, you'll be earning fees and then token incentives, inflationary token incentives that you can use to farm and dump or accumulate to whatever you want to do. There's also GLP and GLP on GMX and Jupiter, which is my personal favorites, but I'll talk about that later. And then things like Tricrypto on curve and convex. So, for example, this is a decentralized exchange at DEx on arbitrum called Camelot.
00:08:06.960 - 00:08:48.748, Speaker A: And this thing has $7 million worth of liquidity Tvl total value locked. It's USDC ETH paired, and then it's earning a 300% APr in the past seven days. So 270% from swap fees, so from people trading in and out, and then 28% from additional token incentives paid in the arbitrum token. So this is just one example. You can find this anywhere, to be honest. But the idea is, well, if I just denominate my portfolio into these LP tokens, then chances are I'll be able to navigate market volatility and also think about opportunity cost. And I think the idea is, yeah, like if you're bullish, then yeah, like you're.
00:08:48.748 - 00:09:18.340, Speaker A: You might be better off just holding 100% ether, for example. But if you do want to protect yourself, from this downside. Yeah. Like, why not be an LP? If the markets go sideways, you'll outperform a lot of other people just because you're earning fees and you're also earning inflationary token rewards. So LP's like, LP tokens get a bad rap in a bull market because it's gonna like, it's gonna underperform if the markets are going up only. However, if the markets are going sideways or just down, it'll significantly outperform. And I'll show you some examples later in the video.
00:09:18.340 - 00:09:58.172, Speaker A: And this was a strategy that I was talking about in December of 2022. So this was post FTX when bitcoin was trading at $16,000 and ETH was roughly at $1,000. And at the time I was second guessing life. I had no idea what I was doing. Why am I running a company? Why am I doing a YouTube channel in crypto when everything seems to be blowing up? But at the time, I was like, you know what, this feels really bad, but screw it. I'm going to just pile into these lp tokens because, well, at least, you know, if the markets go down a little bit, that's still fine, right? Because I'm still earning fees. But if the markets go up, then cool, you know, like my basket of assets are going up.
00:09:58.172 - 00:10:27.590, Speaker A: I'm also earning incentives, fees and whatnot. And it's a more comfortable way to deploy capital into the markets just because there is an APR associated with these types of LP pools. So one example is curved crypto. I mean, you don't really have to understand how this works. But for example, this is a USDC bitcoin and eTH vault. So it's 33% of stable coins, 33% worth of bitcoin, and 33% worth of ETH. So if the markets go up, then the value will go up.
00:10:27.590 - 00:11:22.154, Speaker A: But on top of that, you'll be earning 13% paid in the CRV token and also swap fees on top. So this isn't that exciting anymore. So I'm not really advocating for truck crypto, but near the bottom of 2022, I just bought a bunch of this. And of course I was better off just holding bitcoin, but also I had a lot easier time just buying into this just because I'm earning freeze, I'm farming. Why the hell not? This was farmer tyke in 2022. But yeah, like, I'll farm and dump crv, I'll farm and dump all these other tokens, and then I'll use this yield to slowly accumulate longer term banks, whether it be in the majors or altcoins that I just like. But you know, it's psychologically better just because if I'm earning these farm tokens then I can just dump it to buy something I actually like and then that can also be my way of DCA ing into the markets.
00:11:22.154 - 00:12:14.720, Speaker A: Just an idea. So I really think LP tokens are the true time in the markets. It's timing in the market type of asset and I'll talk about an example later with GLP. And this is cool because, yeah, I mean in a bear market it's really, really hard to find good sources of yield just because everything is down and most of the yield is paid in tokens. But in a born market it's great because well, if token price is going up, then the yield also goes up. It's very reflexive and it's really not that hard to find opportunities in the markets where you can take profits from an altcoin, buy bitcoin, USDC like an LP pair and then be paid, let's say over 100% APR. I actually think that it's like a really interesting strategy and if you kind of notice the trend in the markets, there are new chains launching all the time and they're all competing with one another.
00:12:14.720 - 00:12:52.532, Speaker A: And therefore in order to capture your liquidity, they're going to give you a bunch of incentives. And for example, Starknet, I know people don't like the airdrop mechanism, but they're allocating 40 million tokens to be used for liquidity mining. So even if you don't like the token, why not go over there, deploy capital into projects that's vouched and vetted by the Starknet team and just form and dump the token. Why not? It's worth roughly $16 billion right now. There's blast, which I don't really feel strongly about blast, to be honest. But if they're going to give me tokens, then yeah, like I'll farm a dumb bit. There's mode network, I mean, honestly, there's dozens and hundreds of chains that's going to launch this cycle.
00:12:52.532 - 00:13:55.094, Speaker A: They're all going to have tokens, they're all going to pay us to farm and whatnot and bridge. So why not take advantage of that? New chains, new tokens, huge incentives. So let's say I buy an altcoin, and by the way, when I talk about this, I'm not saying that I'm never going to touch altcoins. I mean, I own a bunch of altcoins, right? I'm more talking about the idea that, well, by the time I want to take profits, it's really hard to sell tokens that's going up because, I mean, you know, if something went from one dollar to five dollars, why can it hit $50? And then we constantly ask ourselves, okay, like, do I still hold, do I sell? And obviously like, no one really knows the answer. But if I have this mental framework and the simple heuristic of just taking profits into LP tokens, then that's also going to be another way to hedge myself from my own stupidity and greed. Because the reason people get burned in bull markets is because they are way too greedy at the, the table end of it. Using a baseball analogy, you know, like a nine inning game, altcoins tend to go crazy in the 7th, 8th and 9th inning just because like that's when everyone just piles in.
00:13:55.094 - 00:14:44.070, Speaker A: Everyone forgets everyone, you know, everyone forgets their own risk management, I guess, parameters, they just ape everything. And at some point we run out of new buyers and all these tokens are inflating, as in every day, single day. Like the supply is expanding for all these things. So if there's no incremental buyer, then everything will collapse. And that's kind of how, you know, the markets go up and then come down. And if you just, you know, just take profits into LP tokens, it also is a good way to think about, I guess, your own self awareness. Because thinking about, I guess, the tail end of bull markets, let's say you are 100% allocated, you sell a quarter of your coins into cash and then you tell yourself, okay, I'm not gonna just, I'm not, I'm not gonna ape, I'm just gonna keep this in my wallet and just, you know, just use it as a safety blanket.
00:14:44.070 - 00:15:26.090, Speaker A: But also, if we are in a bull market, chances are every single day, every single week, there's gonna be a new narrative. People are gonna be showing you, hey, like, buy this, it's a billion dollar market cap, it's gonna get the $10 billion mark Cuban is in it. Like whatever, right? People are gonna just throw up all sorts of narratives and it's gonna be really, really easy for you to be like, yeah, you know what? Like I have 25% cash, I'll throw 5% into that token and the next week 5% into that token, 5% into that token, and then after a month you're 100% allocated again. And maybe the market just rugs you like at that point. So maybe this is just personal, but it's just really, really hard to just own stable coins. It just feels like we're burning a hole in our pockets. It's constantly being devalued.
00:15:26.090 - 00:16:18.480, Speaker A: Of course there is a time and place for stable coins, but just naked holding them doesn't feel that great. And on the other hand, let's say I have the strategy of just taking profits into an E USD CLP. Well then I'm going to feel less fomo because well, if the market's going up, I'm still going to make money because my basket is going up and I'm also earning these inflation token incentives. And if we're in a bull market then chances are these tokens are also going up which I can use to farm and dump and buy other stuff. So if I have this LP position, I have to be very convinced in my edge to exit that position and ape some new shitcoin. If you just have cash, it's really, really easy to just sell it into buy something garbage. But if you're just LP and you're earning yield and it's going up, then you really have to start constantly thinking about opportunity cost.
00:16:18.480 - 00:17:20.462, Speaker A: Is it really worth exiting this LP token just to buy this new shitcoin, to pay some fees, to pay some taxes? Not sure. So you know, by adding a little bit of friction, I mean it's not that much friction, it'll take you like 30 seconds, but just by adding a little bit more friction and just because how these assets work, I think, you know, for me personally at least, if I just constantly, just slowly take profits into these LP tokens, I'm gonna have a really, really hard time losing in this market. Am I going to 100 x my portfolio, am I going to catch 1000 xs? Unlikely. I might, but I'm not going to bet on that. But if I'm doing well, like generally well in the markets, and I'm picking good coins that goes up to three x and I take profits to these LP tokens, then even when the bear market hits, I'm not going to be that hurt because my portfolio is pretty much bulletproof. It doesn't mean it's not going to go down, but it's not going to go down over 50%. For example, you have to understand that everything is a trade.
00:17:20.462 - 00:18:07.296, Speaker A: If you buy a coin and you're holding that coin, that is a trade. I often ask my audience, if you like. Sometimes people ask me, hey, I'm down on this coin, should I sell? And they own 5% of their portfolio into that coin. And then I told them well, if you sold all your coins, would you buy back 5% of your position? And most often the answer is no. It's just that once you own a token, it's really, really hard to sell if it's down and you kind of have this attachment to whatever tokens that you actually end up holding. But you have to understand that choosing to hold and not sell is also a trade, because you can technically sell that coin to buy bitcoin or any other coin. And you always have to think about opportunity cost, and the market doesn't care about your p and l.
00:18:07.296 - 00:18:56.110, Speaker A: The market is the market. So basically, you know, this is a long way away, saying if my default position, if I'm denominating my portfolio into LP tokens, then that just means that if I'm buying an altcoin, I better be outperforming an ETh USDC position that's paying, let's say 100 200% APY. If I can't, then I'm better off just sitting in that LP token. So if my default is to just, you know, like own a bunch of productive assets like these LP tokens, then I have to be more thoughtful and I have to think more critically about my market views and portfolio exposure into new narratives. Because trust me, in a bull market, there are new narratives every single day, every single week. It's going to be really, really hard for you to time things perfectly. So you have to have some form of humility.
00:18:56.110 - 00:20:02.620, Speaker A: You have to be able to say, you know what? Like this week, I'm not going to participate, I'm just going to chill, I'm going to farm, and then I'll let the market dictate what I should do. And if you think about it that way, then the only trades that you'll take, if you do sell your RRP tokens, you really have to be high conviction. And generally trades that are higher conviction tend to do better than things that are less high conviction. If you're just throwing money around across 20 different tokens and say yeah, whatever, then chances are you're going to underperform the majority of the market participants. That being said, now that you generally understand how I'm thinking about the markets with LP tokens and using LP tokens as a tool, I do want to talk about two products that I have my money in right now that I think is a phenomenal product that I think is worth your consideration. And even if you don't participate and, you know, don't buy into this, at least think about it, at least think about it and then sleep on it, right? Maybe. Maybe this is not applicable for you in the next three months, but maybe it will be applicable, let's say, in Q four, like this year.
00:20:02.620 - 00:20:39.862, Speaker A: If that's all I do, if all this video does is allow make you think more critically, then I think I've done my job. So, that being said, let's talk about the first product, which is GMX and GLP. So I've been a fan of GMX since basically two years ago. I recorded this hour long report on GMX and I made a lot of videos. And one of the products, from a farmer's point of view, is GLP. And I'll talk about what GLP is later, but I do want to first talk about the price performance of GLP. So GLP is a liquidity pool.
00:20:39.862 - 00:21:32.928, Speaker A: So it's 50% stablecoins, roughly, and 50% risk assets, and it's generating a bunch of fees. And the light blue line that you see here is how you would have done if you just held on to GLPD ever since GLP was created, at least on arbitrum. So I went through the effort of actually calculating what the price of GLP was on these dates. So, GLP price at the top of bitcoin, like 69,000 bitcoin in November 2021. June 13, when we saw the infamous three ac candle where they got liquidated, the infamous FTX candle on November 9, and then March 4, what the price of GOP is now at the date of recording. So blue is GOP with fees. So this is assuming that if you just took all your swap fees and inflationary token emissions and auto converted it back into GLP, how it would have done.
00:21:32.928 - 00:21:49.508, Speaker A: So it's a productive asset. It's a yield bearing asset. So this is the price of GLP at these dates. At the top, it was dollar 42. When three AC capitulated, it was $1.09. When FTX collapsed, it was dollar 25. And now it's roughly trading at $2.
00:21:49.508 - 00:22:26.198, Speaker A: I think this is very, very interesting, because from the top to the three ac candle, this was a 23% drawdown in GLP, which is not great, right? Not great. But given the fact that bitcoin went from sixty nine k to roughly 20 to 30k, you know, with the three ac candle, a 23% drawdown. Yeah, like, sign me up. I will for sure take that. And what's interesting is that June of 2022, the price of bitcoin was higher than when it was November. Because in June, it was like 20 to then November, it was 16k. But despite that, it was only a 12% drawdown.
00:22:26.198 - 00:23:05.664, Speaker A: So even though bitcoin drew down 80% from the top, right, in twelve months from the top to the Pico bottom with the FTx candle, GLP only experienced a 12% drawdown. And also, right, I mean, right now it's trading at $2. Even though bitcoin is not at its all time highs yet, it's up 40% since the last all time high. And not like just the all time of a GOP, but the last all time high of the crypto markets. How is this possible? You might be asking. So now I do want to discuss how GLP works and why it's such a good way to at least, you know, take profits into. So GLP is a 50 50 pro, like I mentioned, that acts as a counterparty to on chain perp traders.
00:23:05.664 - 00:23:40.468, Speaker A: So if you're trading perps on chain, you know, you're using leverage and, you know, it's mostly consisting of Djens, retail dgens. And since retail tends to be long and lose money, unfortunately, right, 90% of traders lose. You know, if you take, I have like roughly 100,000 subscribers. If you ask every single one of them, if you're a profitable trader, chances are most of them will raise their hand. But statistically, 90,000 of them are going to be losing traders. So, you know, retail tends to get cocky. They think they can time bottoms whatnot and they can trade, but, you know, ultimately the markets are casino.
00:23:40.468 - 00:24:15.002, Speaker A: And if you can be part of a casino, then you're going to make money. So as a result, it tends, like GLP, the asset tends to significantly outperform in bear markets. So this is GLP on arbitrum. Sorry, avalanche. Its target weight is 10% in the Avax token, 20% in ETH, and then 23% ish in bitcoin, and then 47% in USDC. So if, I know people are constantly paying fees to trade, they're paying funding rates that go to GOP holders and all the time, you know, they're being liquidated and whatnot. So when traders win, it comes out of the basket.
00:24:15.002 - 00:24:47.714, Speaker A: So you do, you know, take on some risk. But if traders lose, their losses are added to the basket. So you make money and swap fees and funding rates accrue to people that hold GLP. And this is since inception, the performance of traders. So, I mean, in a bear market, traders got wrecked. And this is basically why GOP significantly outperformed, because all these trader losses, like almost $10 million gets added back to the GOP pool. And of course, in, like, a bull market, you know, people tend to be long, so it kind of goes up.
00:24:47.714 - 00:25:27.446, Speaker A: So like I mentioned, LP tokens tend to underperform when the markets are going up only, but it significantly outperforms when markets are going sideways or down. So if you think about it that way, then, yeah, like taking profits in the GLP, not a bad idea, because if we do hit a bear market, then it's going to outperform the entire market. But, I mean, even if we are in a up only market environment, the value of GOP will continue to go up. You know, like, I mean, I own some GOP. Like, my value, the GOP value is up a lot, significantly, and I'm very, very happy. Of course, I was much better off, like two x longing bitcoin. But I'm not going to have an ego.
00:25:27.446 - 00:26:07.740, Speaker A: I'm just going to say, you know what, I'm going to denominate my portfolio in GLP and GOP like assets. And there are other protocols, like hyper liquid, for example, where, I mean, literally, the markets are bony, but traders are getting wrecked. I mean, this is the danger of leverage trading. If you can do it well, then, yeah, that's great. But the reality is most people just get wrecked. And if you can beat a house of these per platforms on chain, then, yeah, I mean, it's pretty easy to weather the volatility. And that's why GOP, the price chart looks like this, where it's up 40% from its last all time highs, but also only drew down 12% when FTX literally crashed the markets.
00:26:07.740 - 00:26:32.210, Speaker A: A really good bear market asset. So, you know, GOP does have smart contract risk, of course, as does anything on chain and trader P and L risk. But it has been chugging along for a few years. In the grand scheme of things, a few years is nothing. But in crypto and Defi, a few years is a long time. Right. Any project that's still around for the last couple of years, I think they somewhat deserve to be in more on the blue chip category.
00:26:32.210 - 00:27:42.030, Speaker A: And then something I think about a lot is, I should have just held the GOP for the past two years. I've been trying all these things like farming, airdrop farming, trading, buying and selling narratives, whatever, right? But I would have been a lot wealthier, much happier if I just held the GOP and just enjoy life. And I think this is like, one of the mentality that you have to have. It doesn't have to be GOP, right? Imagine any USDC pool. You really don't want to be in a position, let's say two years from now, like telling yourself, wow, like, I tried trading all these crypto markets, but I was just better off farming e two SDC, right? Like you have to think about the possibility of that. And even if that's not like your bull market strategy, that could be a pretty good bear market strategy because there is a chance that this is a super cycle and we keep going up and, you know, we don't see these big drawdowns, but there's also a chance that we do see big drawdowns. And, you know, you want to be allocated in a way where like if you're in ETh USDC, if we did a super cycle, then you're gonna make money, you'll underperform a little bit, but you're still gonna make much money.
00:27:42.030 - 00:28:21.432, Speaker A: And then if the markets go down, then at least you're playing from a position of strength where people that's like Max long are just seeing their life flash before their eyes. But if you're just sitting in LP tokens, then you'll be like, oh, that coin is cheap. Let me dump my farm token and buy that thing. I think it's a really, really like a pretty, pretty good way to think about the markets. And maybe this doesn't apply to you right now, of course, because the markets are pumping, but you know, maybe this topic becomes more relevant a couple months from now. But I just like wanted to put it in your head. And the other asset I like a lot is JLP.
00:28:21.432 - 00:28:46.960, Speaker A: So this is Jupiter Perps lP on Solana. Jupiter is the Dex aggregator. It's the front end of Solana, and they also have a similar product called JLpenty. And literally look at, I mean, look at this, right? It's literally up. Only when I look at this, I think to myself, like, did we just create an infinite money printer? Like, this is ridiculous. And it's easy to think that, well, like, surely this has to come down. But that's not really how it works because this is the price of the LP token.
00:28:46.960 - 00:29:18.570, Speaker A: And an LP token is roughly, actually, let me show you the actual basket. So right now GLP is yielding 100% APy. So let's say that, no, I mean, it's not gonna happen, but let's say they're, the yield stays flat and the market stays flat for whatever reason, you know, like everyone holding bitcoin is going to be flat. But if these apois sustain, then you'll be up two x, right? Because people are trading in and out. They're getting wrecked in fees, they're paying funding rates, and then all the fees accrue back to the LP token. And there you go. I mean, it makes a bunch of money.
00:29:18.570 - 00:29:42.288, Speaker A: So this is an LP. So I need my camera so I can see the numbers here, but it's roughly 40% Solana, 9% ETH, 8% bitcoin, and 43% stable coins. And the price of GLP is 228, roughly. And you can see that right now, they're slowly raising caps. Right now. The Aum limit, assets under management limit is 190. And, you know, this constantly gets filled.
00:29:42.288 - 00:30:05.476, Speaker A: So whenever the Aum gets lifted, the cap gets lifted. It gets filled in 24 to 48 hours. So, honestly, like, I bought this thing at a premium, like, sometime in February, I believe. But, I mean, I've been a very happy camper because I'm literally denominating my portfolio on GLP. And, like, my. I guess, like my base pair or something. Like, my base asset is looking like this.
00:30:05.476 - 00:30:42.050, Speaker A: Like, oh, my God, sign me up. GLp works exactly the same as GLP. There are additional smart contract risks because, I mean, they forked how it works, like the fees and, like, the structure and whatnot, but they had to recode this and rust because, you know, GMX is an arbitram solidity and Solana is rust based. So there is some additional smart contract risk as a result because it's less lengthy. But we already know what the system looks like with GLP and whatnot, and it works. The fees are so predatory with these types of assets that it's really, really hard to lose time in the market. Speeds timing the markets.
00:30:42.050 - 00:31:07.708, Speaker A: Whenever someone opens a position on perps, they pay ten basis points, which is 0.1%. Whenever they close a position, they pay ten base points. So, I mean, that's a lot. You know, it's really hard to win when the platform is charging you this much. But retail agents don't care because they think they have an edge. They're going to keep trading, they're going to keep gambling, and, you know, cool, right? Give me all the fees. You know, also, if people are swapping in and out of assets, there's a dynamic rate, and then there's also the borrow rate.
00:31:07.708 - 00:31:58.612, Speaker A: So if you're borrowing money to leverage trade, then, you know, you're being paid one basis, or you're going to pay a basis point at the per hour, roughly. So all these fees accrue back to JLP and you know, it looks like this partly because Slon is going up, bitcoin is going up, eth is going up, but also people are trading in and out. All the fees are occurring back. And you can think about, okay, well, if the markets go down, yes, the GOP price will go down, but it's going to go down less than the market just because chances are people get liquidated and they're going to be paying fees to close their position because they're panicking that that's like a good way to think about it. So one thing I will say is that if you go to, like I mentioned, the price of GLP is 228 and the price of JLP is trading at 238. So it is trading at a three to 4% premium. And this is just because there's so much demand for this asset that people are willing to pay a premium, right.
00:31:58.612 - 00:32:32.284, Speaker A: There are people. People are willing to pay up for like the, I guess, like the basket, like the actual price of the basket because they want to capture like the rates, right. JLP has liquidity on like Texas, like orca. So if you want to buy JLP, you just have to go to Jupiter and just, you know, buy it with a USDC. That's kind of how it works. So right now it is trading at a premium, but maybe it's worth paying. I honestly don't know.
00:32:32.284 - 00:32:52.110, Speaker A: Right. I honestly don't care because all I care about is, okay, I am denominating my portfolio in this asset. It's going to go up. And then you have to ask yourself the question, if I'm going to buy a shitcoin, do I really want to sell this asset to buy a shitcoin? Maybe. Maybe. But at least I have to think about it. That's at least one way to think about it.
00:32:52.110 - 00:33:42.830, Speaker A: Of course, 70% of the fees go to GLP, 30% go to the Dow. And since you are contributing to Jupiter's usage, right, perps and the Dow is making money, I think I'll also receive a decent airdrop for Jupiter season two. So that's also adding to the imaginary APY. One thing about airdrop farming and yield farming is that, you know, you also have to think about the imaginary API, right? Because if I get an airdrop, then, you know, maybe I can add 50% APY to the calculation. And I also just noticed this, but I know that, you know, liquidity, like for this screenshot, the liquidity is very low, but there's a few million dollars with the liquidity on chain. So if you want to buy like 100k or like 50k or whatever, you're not going to take that much slippage. I just noticed this, I wanted to include that in there, so let's wrap it up.
00:33:42.830 - 00:34:30.560, Speaker A: What did I say? You know, I'm going to just not have an ego. I'm not going to pretend like I can time the market. So I have to create a viable profit taking method or a viable profit taking strategy that fits my own personality. I understand that if I take profits into stable coins, it's going to be really hard to hold on to those stable coins because there's so many opportunities popping up the markets. So if I can take my profits into an LP token, it's going to add a little bit more friction just because I have to set it up, I have to unwind it if I want to sell. So I have to think a lot more critically if I want to sell my LP tokens to eight brothers or coins. And I think setting that up for me personally, like I said, this is my plan.
00:34:30.560 - 00:35:02.913, Speaker A: I think it's going to bode well for me in this bull market. It doesn't mean that I'm not playing anything. I've made videos. For example, most recently I talked about Matic, buying Matic and staking matic. But if I make money on that, at some point I'm going to sell and then take profits into bitcoin, USDC, etc. JLP, GLP, right? There's gonna be endless amount of opportunities for these LP tokens. Given how many new chains are launching with new token incentives, that I don't think it's gonna be that hard to incorporate this into anyone's strategy.
00:35:02.913 - 00:35:42.182, Speaker A: To be frank, whether you have small size or big size, it's really easy to make money in crypto, but really hard to keep it. Instead of having a God complex and just saying I am the best, I'm gonna sell the top. Chad. Chad Dabda, right? Just don't do that, okay, maybe, maybe you're special, but you know, if I had to bet on it, I would say that, you know, most of us are not special. You know, we are just praying and hoping that we make, we make money from this market and we know we get to keep it. So instead of having this God complex, just create a realistic plan. Like maybe lp tokens are too complex, so maybe you have a plan to just sell some every month and then, you know, withdraw it to your bank account so it's harder to bridge out.
00:35:42.182 - 00:36:14.080, Speaker A: I mean, that could work, but for me, I specialize in defi yield farming, airdrop farming. I run a research company, so I like to use these on chain tools just because I'm personally really comfortable with them. I've used it for many years now, but I'm just sharing, I guess, my story and whatnot. Ego dominates crypto this cycle. I want to be more humble. I think one of the problems I had last cycle, and I guess this is less relatable. Relatable, I guess.
00:36:14.080 - 00:36:48.216, Speaker A: But, like, my YouTube channel, it really blew up in April to May of 2021. I had like a thousand subscribers before then. And then I hit like 30, 40,000 subscribers. And then by the market top, like, November of 2021, I was, like, writing, like, new plays, new narratives. It was going great. I had like, almost 100,000 subscribers. And, you know, I kind of had this ego, right, this part of me where I make videos and people watch them, and I want to keep making videos because I want people to watch my videos.
00:36:48.216 - 00:37:35.566, Speaker A: And naturally, I wasn't thinking consciously of this, but in hindsight, I realized that because I was making crypto videos, it was making me more djen, right? Because I wanted to make more videos. It made me look for more opportunities. Even though maybe the best decision was to just sit, because no one wants to listen to a youtuber that's saying, hey, like, I'm farming stable coins, right? Like, no one, no one. No one gives a fuck, to be honest. But people want to see, like, hey, like, oh, this guy's aping into that coin, and then it gets views. And I think there was a part of me that just wanted to keep going, so I just kept, like, buying stuff. Even though the bear market started, of course.
00:37:35.566 - 00:38:41.720, Speaker A: I mean, fortunately, like, I didn't blow up and whatnot, and I did relatively okay, and I'm doing okay now. But I think this cycle, I want to learn from my past mistakes. And even if I'm not the type of youtuber that's gonna get people, like, 100 x gains, if my role this cycle is to just help people think about using defi for profit taking, build better ways, have better ideas for portfolio constructions, and if I can just help people in that sense, I think that's going to mean the world to me. So, no, this cycle, I want to be on my humble arc. Not gonna lie, I've been pretty degen in my personal portfolio. But, you know, I aspire to, you know, be on this humble arc. Maybe, you know, I am being too humble, even though I say I'm Degen just because, you know, I own these LP assets and not like, dogecoin and, like, meme coins and, like, pepe and stuff, but it's okay, you know, like, I'm okay underperforming those d gens because I just want to create a plan that works for me.
00:38:41.720 - 00:39:08.342, Speaker A: You know, I tend to be less risk averse than most people, even though this video is more, like, more around, you know, being risk averse. But, you know, I just, like, want to share this idea in case it helped you. Yeah. So, you know, I'm. I'm gonna be okay. Like, not catching every single pump. Like, who cares? Like, I'm gonna be okay with that.
00:39:08.342 - 00:39:45.980, Speaker A: However, I'm not gonna be okay with myself if I repeat the same mistakes from my cycle. So, in a way, it's somewhat of a regret minimization tool. Yeah. LP tokens are a regret minimization and risk management tool for crypto markets. Of course, you do have to download a metamask and learn defi concepts like LP and whatnot. But I do think that if you want to make it in crypto, you have to use the chain, right? Like, if your entire plan is to just buy coins on centralized exchanges and to sit on them, you know, sure, you can make money, but that's not really how the real money is made. The real money is made through experimentation, being early to things, trying out new things.
00:39:45.980 - 00:40:37.148, Speaker A: And maybe you'll be rewarded through air drops or just pure capital appreciation, capital gains, and, you know, GLP, good assets. And if GLP is performing like this last cycle, then I think newer products like JLP can even upfront GLP, even though it has some additional risks, and even if the yields get diluted. Imagine, like, all these new chains popping up, like l two starknet blast. Every single one of them are going to have LP forms. So, you know, I can even see a scenario where people that just farm e two SDC, like, rotating across different chains, they just might outperform a lot of other people just because they're going to get wrecked, like, buying the top and, like, you know, being liquidated and whatnot. So, yeah, like. Like I mentioned, you know, people just need to develop a plan that works for you.
00:40:37.148 - 00:41:16.412, Speaker A: This is what I'm doing. And even if you don't care for this type of strategy, I just hope I made you think at least, right? If I can just make you think a little bit more in the coming weeks and months, as the markets get more euphoric, you know, you're gonna go on Twitter, you're gonna go on YouTube, everyone's talking about like a million dollar bitcoin. But, you know, if there's, you know, someone at the back, if in the back of your head, you're like, okay, well, yeah, I can go up, but maybe I'll sell some to LP and just try it out. Then I think, you know, I'll be doing my job as an educator, as, you know, a research. Yeah. Like, as a researcher in the space. And I hope this video was useful to you.
00:41:16.412 - 00:41:28.548, Speaker A: So thank you guys, for watching. If you want to see what I'm doing, what I'm farming, how I'm navigating markets, check out the premium discord and the research reports link will be in the description below. Thank you, guys for watching, and have fun farming out there. Bye.
