00:00:01.920 - 00:00:41.630, Speaker A: Okay, thanks. So, good morning, or good afternoon for everyone. So today what we're going to do is we're going to finish the proof that we started last course for the local resolution singularities. So the plan is to go over each one of the steps and cover it in detail. That's the plan for today. I want to start by recalling a bit where what we did and where we are, so that things get a little bit easier. So first of all, what is the result that we want to prove? We are fixing a queue, a quasi analytic class and quasi analytic manifold and a simple normal crossing divisor.
00:00:41.630 - 00:01:23.544, Speaker A: So as we see this, this is going to be important from a combinatorial perspective. We're going to define certain. What I mean by this is that the proof is going to be approved by induction. So fixing a simple normal crossing divisor and having a result in terms of the synchronomic crossing divisor is actually easier to prove than we thought it. And then we take privileged ideal shift. And the statement said that for every point there's going to exist a neighborhood of this point and some finite family of morphisms which are compositions of finite sequence of local ones up. So we're going to call this by property one.
00:01:23.544 - 00:02:00.984, Speaker A: Sigma is a semi proper covariant of this u. And in the end we get something which is one, or the definition that we gave and the numbers that we were following. Then we established that the proof would follow three kind of techniques. First, the combinatorial ones. Then we're going to have some inductive statements, and then we're going to do some logarithmic calculus. For the combinatorial techniques, we established what was what we call combinatorial ideal, just an idea generated by monomials. That was it.
00:02:00.984 - 00:02:55.484, Speaker A: And then we established here an important sub sheath of the sheaf of derivations, which are the sheaf of derivations, which are tangent to the exceptional divisor, play an important role, as we later see. And, and with this we define some how it acts over the ideal sheath, maybe the definition of its pen. The time things were not allowing me to. Oh, anyways, things that were not allowing me to erase. We saw a couple of examples. What does this mean? And then we defined what is the combinatorial blowing up? And one of the key properties of a combinatorial blow up, which is the fact that it preserves the pullback of log differentials, is the log differentials of the new exceptional device. We call this the key lemma.
00:02:55.484 - 00:03:44.264, Speaker A: And I will come back to it so this was an important property. And the second important result that we had was that. Is it here? No, it's there is that if you have a combinatorial ideal, so an idea generated by a finite monomials, then we were able to resolve the singularities of this idea, even with an extra condition of thesis stronger, which we call one prime, which is that the sequence of bonus up was actually combinatorial. Then we provided like an idea of the proof was left over on exercise. Then we covered what are going to be the inductive statements. So we start to define what are the steps that we're going to follow in the proof. There were three main steps for the proof, not for the technique.
00:03:44.264 - 00:04:16.182, Speaker A: So we said that we were going to prove only for hyper surface. The idea here is that the general case is harder. Notation wise, it's not really harder proof idea wise. The ideas are really the same. But there's going to be some tricks with, as we're going to see with the von Dermont Matrix, we will have to invert some matrixes, and it's just much easier if you just have one function. This is going to appear later on. And then we establish what are these induction hypotheses.
00:04:16.182 - 00:05:08.124, Speaker A: We first said that, well, the first thing is that apart from a certain family of local bones up, which is semi proper and satisfy even the fact that they are combinatorial, we will have that for every point in the prey image of a zero. So we fix it, a point, a zero on our manifold. This is the b of the beginning, right, of the statement of the theorem. Then, for every point that is in the fiber of it, either we are done, the idea is already monomial, or there exists adapted coordinate systems where we have a nice looking normal form like this one. So u gamma is a monomial. And here we have a distinguished variable, which is not exceptional, w. And the only thing that we distinguish it is because this way we don't, we can, we can have the fact that we are writing some sort of, it's not really a polynomial, but some sort of Weiss transform.
00:05:08.124 - 00:05:42.554, Speaker A: Weak, very weak Weiss transform, because here the unit is multiplying w to the d and not the polynomial itself. Right. And then we said that we're going to define it, but later on we define in a better way what is going to be this d here as an invariant. As a step two, we said, well, we're going to gain two things out of this normal form. We're going to gain that instead of d minus one is going to become d minus two. This is going to be the hypersurface of maximum contact. If you know already a little about resolution rights, you might have heard about transformations.
00:05:42.554 - 00:06:26.154, Speaker A: And moreover, the coefficients that we had here, the AI are going to become some monomial times, either a unit or something which is constant equal to zero. That is, there was nothing here to begin with. And the environment, I do say that yes, the environment keeps the same. Last but not least, we're going to make this invariant drop by again some sequence of blue zones. So the last steps to make this invariant drop, and maybe I should say here not only the invariant, but with the normal form, right? I should add that it's not only that, this environment, at that point, when we wrote this inductive statement, it didn't make a difference. But we now see that the normal form is dependent also on extra condition. I will come back to this a bit later.
00:06:26.154 - 00:06:58.074, Speaker A: Then we started the log differential couples to build up what we needed for this proof. So we establish the environment that we're going to use. So the environment we're going to use is essentially the same as the order. But in respect to the derivations which are tangent to the exception divisors, a little bit of a difference. But besides that, it's some sort of log order of the ideal. So we established that there was some sequence of ideals which were closed by these differentials. We established what was the closure of it all, the infinity one.
00:06:58.074 - 00:07:55.450, Speaker A: In quasi analytic case, since it's not a theorem, we're going to need it. And then we said that the environment is going to be the minimum of this k, such that locally at least they are equal to the closure to the infinity one. Again, the remark is that if Ka is no theorem, for example, if it's analytic, then this is always smaller than infinity. We saw some examples of how to compute the z invariant, and we ended with the key properties, the properties that we're going to follow from it. So maybe I just recall, have this idea, the sequence of ideals, the closure, the environment that we're taking, these key properties basically had a dichotomy in between them. I called them a and b. The part a is just a question of using the fact that combinatorial blows up preserve the differential tangent to the exception divisor.
00:07:55.450 - 00:08:50.986, Speaker A: So this was that key lemma that we talked about, right? So based on that, we said, okay, so if we have a combinatorial going up, then the whole sequence of ideals is going to pull back to the new sequence of ideals. That is, if I take j as the pullback of I, and then I define everything in the same way, but just with the new exceptional divisor. Then I get that this is the pullback of the same height of the sequence of the one of the previous one before. So in particular, I do know that the environment cannot, can only drop, cannot go up, because I know that it's going to stabilize at most at the same place. So this was direct from the key lemma. And then we established three other properties, which is what we're going to need and which we did not give up. The first one was basically the definition.
00:08:50.986 - 00:09:25.494, Speaker A: So if we give this invariant equals to zero, this means that the closure di infinity is equal to the ideal itself. And the hypothesis here is, we are supposing that I infinity, the closure is monomial. Then of course, in this case, I is monomial itself. Now, always under this hypothesis is one important thing. I said that there was this dichotomy. So if this idea is not monomial, we're going to use this property here a, and actually to make it become monomial. And once it is monomial, you're going to use this three kind of, these three observations.
00:09:25.494 - 00:10:35.878, Speaker A: The first one that if the invariant is zero, then the idea is, and the second one, which you didn't prove, but I'm going to do it now, is that for all points a, the environment that we're considering is going to be finite, right? So if the closure idea is monomial, then the invariant that we're considering is finite. So the proof is actually based on the usual order. So we can take, let us consider the usual order of an idea. What is this? Oops, not yet. This is just the maximum aluminum. Never remember to always check max of k n such that the ideal at the point a. So I can just write like this, right? Maybe I should follow the notation that I was following later on the idea of germs.
00:10:35.878 - 00:12:26.692, Speaker A: There is contained in the maximal ideal at that point to the power k. This is the usual order, the usual order that we can also compute by the same sequence of differentials. Provided we take all of the derivatives, not only the ones which are tangent to the exceptional divisor, then it's defined the same way, spread stabilizes. Then in this case, we note that, well, the order of the infinity term is equal to the order of some u gamma, where gamma is like we know that this is a monomial after all. So this is going to be the order of this monomial. This is just equal to gamma on the other hand, and we also know that since u gamma belongs to the disclosure ideal, it belongs, sorry, it contains, this ideal contains, by definition, all of the ideas, which then imply that all of them have orders strictly bigger than gamma. Moreover, it also implies that and if the order is equal to gamma, then the ideal has to be equal to the infinity one, right? There's no other option.
00:12:26.692 - 00:13:55.528, Speaker A: If it is equal to gamma, it contains u gamma, and it's divided by u gamma, it needs v gamma itself. So in this case, by the definition of which I recall here, we see that, well, it's not possible that all of these ideals have order strictly bigger than gamma. One of them has to be ordered equal to gamma, so that the sum of all of them has order equal to the model of gamma, we conclude that there exists k zero such that a k zero epsilon is equal to. So this was the first observation, right? So this environment is now finite, provided that we can prove that this closure idea was. And then the third property that we're going to use is that if we know that it's going to be finite, but we're just giving it a name. So this was the d, and this is bigger than zero. And we also are making this hypothesis, simplifying hypothesis that I is a hypersurface, then we can find the normal forms that we wanted from step one.
00:13:55.528 - 00:14:53.662, Speaker A: That is, there existed e adopted coordinate systems such that we have that normal form with the weak viceroy form that we talked about. So this is the next thing that we want to prove. So this is going to give us a condition to get the normal form directly. We just need to prove that this idea with monomania. So let me provide at least the idea of the proof with some maybe size in the middle of it. Yeah, we look at the form of power series at a of the function f, and this is going to be given by u to the gamma. So I recall this idea here is monomial.
00:14:53.662 - 00:15:45.856, Speaker A: So just as before, it's going to be equal to a u to the power gamma, and this u to the power gamma has to contain all of the elements of f. By definition, this ideal here contains all of the other ideals. So it divides all elements, particularly divides f. So I can already start with u gamma, and then let's say that I can write this as an f zero of v plus a sum here, u alpha f alpha of v. You can do like this. So the remark now is that after an infinite certain quantity of derivations here, this final idea is going to be u gamma itself. So therefore, f zero v cannot be equal to zero.
00:15:45.856 - 00:16:48.524, Speaker A: So claim, I'm just going to point it out because I'm going to indicate the proof. This creates an issue from time to time. So let's follow it this, so the claim is that f of zero would be, is not constant, equal to zero. And the proof is which, I leave it as an exercise, but it just indicates otherwise. One could prove that the order of r infinity e has to be bigger. The model of gamma. The simple fact is that all of the derivations that are tangent to the exceptional divisor are going to keep the order of u alpha.
00:16:48.524 - 00:17:23.223, Speaker A: So you cannot decrease the order of these terms by applying derivatives. Well, you can derive, you can decrease the one that is here, sorry. But you cannot decrease below u gamma plus alpha. So this indicates that this one cannot be zero. You have to have some, some term here, and this is going to be also a quasi analytic function. Well, I'm not saying that yet. So now by, apart from a change of, so since it's not equal to zero, since the form of all of series is not equal to zero, the function itself also is not equal to zero.
00:17:23.223 - 00:18:46.364, Speaker A: And apart, simply by this, apart from a linear change of coordinates, we may suppose that this f zero, let's say with a distinguished variable wd, is of the form wd plus some other terms here. Um, just move on. And I just indicated, but place, I didn't even give a name, I just wrote here, arrest where is exactly equal to this zero. Right? So you're going to have w to some power d zero. Then you're going to have a rest, that either is going to be of order bigger than this, bigger than the zero, or of terms which are of order smaller in degree, smaller in w than d zero. Just some rest. Maybe the best way to write is just that.
00:18:46.364 - 00:19:55.624, Speaker A: And once you have this, then it becomes simple, right? We just need to think and we consider, we do need our normal forms to be in the quasinality class. So we have to use the axons to find it. So we can see that ugam AI of uv, it's nothing but the derivative in respect to w I times of f u v w restricted to w equals zero. So this is the derivative of a function. In the quadrant, class is in the same class, and the restriction is also in the same class. So this belongs to q. And moreover, like division by monomials, also preserve the fact that they are in a class AI does belong to.
00:19:55.624 - 00:21:05.764, Speaker A: Maybe I should have put in here, sorry, I factorial, it belongs to q, and in the last term we can just take f minus the sum of u gamma w I a, which does belong to gamma, the ring, this is going to be equal to u gamma wd, the same one here. So this is d zero times f tilde, which therefore belongs to q. Division by monomial preserves the fact that we are in the quadrantic path. We can only conclude that f tilde is in q and it's a unit, because this f zero here is, has a derivative, has this form, right? So it's d zero derivative is different from zero. So, so will be for f children. So this essentially finishes this proof or indicates how we can finish the normal form. Okay, so now that we have this observations, this a and b, let's start by proving each one of the steps.
00:21:05.764 - 00:22:23.440, Speaker A: So just to recall, now we start with an arbitrary ideal, and our objective is actually to find this normal form at every one of the points. This is what we want. So we consider this table could be arbitrary. Consider I equal to l, take d in m and take the formal expansion. So I'm going to write like this, v equals to u alpha f alpha, v for alpha, and this natural numbers to r. Okay, we take this form of expansion and let us consider the idea, which is also calling in the literature, toroidal hole. I'm just going to throw out a hole which is this.
00:22:23.440 - 00:23:58.502, Speaker A: It is the monomial u alpha such that f of alpha v is not zero. So we're going to consider this idea. Now I want to make a, okay, so just an important remark here. T is well defined everywhere that the coordinate system is well defined, particularly in an open set of the point b that we fixed. And now the key lemma here that we are going to prove in a second. But before we're going to see why this key lemma allows us to finish, is the, the, if we take the toroidal hole and we take its formal expansion. So if we look at, if we take the idea, when you look at its completion and look at the idea that it generates in the completion of the ring.
00:23:58.502 - 00:24:37.874, Speaker A: So we are really just looking at the formal power series at the point b. So just R formal power series in U and V, this is going to be equal to the closure by e, but also, of course, for its completion. So we're just claiming that these two ideals are up to formal power series the same. Now, before proving the lemma, I just want to show that this is all that we need. If we know this, then we're going to conclude in a very simple way that we have the normal form that we were searching for. So what is the idea? There's a question. Yes.
00:24:37.874 - 00:24:57.326, Speaker A: I cannot hear anyone. No question. No question. I guess it was a noise. It was a noise. Okay, thank you. So, yeah, let's do this.
00:24:57.326 - 00:26:18.744, Speaker A: So, before proving the lemma, let's, let's see why we, why this is enough. So like, yeah, dilemma is proved and understand the same. Okay, so we consider a combinatorial sequence, or there exists a commodore, because I, by the proposition that we program, because I didn't give a name. So we know that t admits a local resolution, such as. Fine, the fact that our local combinational parabola is up and is semi moreover, for every point a in the for all point a, which are in the prey image of this point b. So recall that we established this notation that the sigma was going to be all of the sigma laminas together. It's just the process that we're making altogether.
00:26:18.744 - 00:27:27.934, Speaker A: So all points in the fiber, we're gonna have that formally, it ua is going to be, oops, the Kuban of design infinity, since t is principal, is monomial. Sorry. Since t is monomial, this one is monomial. Since we took a resolution similarities of it. This implies that actually the pullback not only formally, but of the ideal itself. So it is formally a monomial. So itself is monomial.
00:27:27.934 - 00:29:07.178, Speaker A: Moreover, we know by condition a and by condition a. Let me do this. I'm going to be denote by j the pullback of I, and by condition property, sorry, property a. We know that the exposure, we know that the closure of it is going to be equal, the pullback of infinity. Ok, this was coming from that key lemma, and the observation that the entire sequence pulls back each step of the way. So the infinity also does that. And now we are in the case that the closure ideal is monomial, we conclude by what we just proved.
00:29:07.178 - 00:29:59.224, Speaker A: B three. So b three was exactly saying that if we are monomial, then we do know that the invariant is more than equal to infinity. And then we just establish this invariant was d and we got the normal form that we wanted. So the only thing to prove is the lemma. We just need to show that they are formally equivalent. And what we're going to do is to actually show that we're going to use the noserianity of the formal power series. So let me identify, let QB.
00:29:59.224 - 00:30:25.494, Speaker A: We can identify the ring of form of our series like this. It is no theorem. This means that the formal expansion of f can be generated by just a finite number of monomials. And I'm going to do it in monomials in u and v. Just to simplify the proof. It's, it's not necessary. I don't think we do that in the paper.
00:30:25.494 - 00:32:24.014, Speaker A: But just to simplify here, the proof, I'm going to do so. So there exists alpha one alpha d. Maybe I should say where maybe, no, I should say where in nr and beta one beta d in ns, such that the formal power series of f at the point b is nothing but u alpha I v that I times some function fi uv, where fi of b of zero. Here we are centered at zero is nonzero. This is the condition that we have. And now I'm going to just choose, let us choose derivation x in the derivative tangent to the two e, where this guy is just going to be of the form PI ui dui plus one two s sj, vj, dvj. So in here I'm doing kind of artificially some monomial coordinates in terms of v to simplify the proof.
00:32:24.014 - 00:33:07.150, Speaker A: Okay. We can choose them in such a way. So the first statement is always true for a, for a derivation like this. When we take this derivation of u, alpha I, v beta I, this is just going to give us a constant ki, which is the name ki times the same monomial alpha I v bi. So this is always true. It's simply from the fact that the vector q is linear. Right.
00:33:07.150 - 00:33:37.690, Speaker A: And we already had done this computation for a monomial. So we know that we take something like this. Then we're going to obtain the same monomial times a times a constant. And the property from, from here that we want to choose in such a way that, and all of this k's are distinct. So you can always do this. Right. We just need to take the t's and the s's, which are like safe choice q, algebraically independent.
00:33:37.690 - 00:34:08.994, Speaker A: You're good, right. But depending on the alpha and the beta, you can even choose simpler things. Indeed, if you just use one square root of two PI, et cetera, you're going to be able to do this. So you can always choose a vector field like this. And the important thing is that when we apply to each one of them, then we get a different, a different value here ki times something different. Very nice. So now we want to compute this closure idea, right? And at least formally.
00:34:08.994 - 00:35:02.644, Speaker A: So we're going to observe that this vector field acts in a nice, in a nice way here. Note that if we take x of fp, then this is going to give us a sum of qi, u of I v b I. Sorry. Which multiplies fi u v plus some term of order one, which is actually the derivative of fi in terms of x. Right. This is just x of f I. Since this is, this vector field is singular, I know that this is at least of order.
00:35:02.644 - 00:35:47.414, Speaker A: I'm just going to keep track by saying that it's order one. Yeah. Equals one to d. So if we continue this process and I write here x k. No, k is a bad, is a bad, right. Here, xj of sp, then what we're going to get one 2d, we derive several times this part. So it's going to appear ki to the power j u alpha I v beta I, the same f I and some term of order one, whatever is this term of order one.
00:35:47.414 - 00:36:21.998, Speaker A: So we see that these are the monomers. We want to show that they are in some closure ideal. So I'm going to now look at this in a matricial form, this equation in a matrical form. So I'm going to look at it as here, a column vector given by x j of s b, where this j goes from zero to. I already know how many times I need to do it. D minus one. Well, what's, let's do it simpler.
00:36:21.998 - 00:36:50.396, Speaker A: No, no, better like this, because I didn't ask ki to be non zero. So I need to do this d minus one. So this is the number, the number of terms that are appearing here is d. Right. It's exactly the number of monomials that are appearing in the expansion that we just used. So you have the entries here, and this is going to be equal to what is going to be a big matrix here, where the entries of this matrix is going to be given by this ki. And I'm going to multiply by these terms.
00:36:50.396 - 00:37:23.514, Speaker A: So they're going to be given by ki to the power j. Right. Which multiply the fi of uv plus terms of order one. And as a column, as a column matrix here. The thing that we need to finish to multiply is the monom that are here. U alpha I z delta I. Now this matrix here, I want to evaluate it at zero.
00:37:23.514 - 00:38:16.366, Speaker A: Let's evaluate it at zero. So at zero, what we obtain is a matrix which is given by kij. And these terms are just units, right? These are just constants which are units. So if you look this close, this is nothing like the determinant. If we take the determinant, this is essentially a bonder mode matrix. So invertible, its determinant is different from zero. So it's going to be also, the determinant is going to be different from zero in a neighborhood.
00:38:16.366 - 00:40:41.634, Speaker A: So we can invert this, if we can invert, what we're saying is that we can write each one of the monomials u alpha v beta js as a combination of the derivatives x j f b. Right? So we conclude that u alpha I v beta j belongs to this ideal. Here again, since we can invert it, it's going to be a combination, a linear combination of the derivatives in respect to vector field x to the power j. We do it several times, and therefore it is going to be in the closure when we take all of the possible derivations by log derivatives. And now if we do have these ideals that are here, we know that if we derive in v, after deriving in v beta I times in v, u of I belongs to disclosure id for all I from one to d. And now we are essentially done, right, because we know now that this, therefore we know that the ideal I, the original ideal I, is contained by the definition of what the Taylor expansion of n is contained in alpha one, alpha d, which is closed by delta e, right? If we apply the differential, this is a combinatorial ideal. So it's going to be closed by this, these differentials.
00:40:41.634 - 00:42:27.646, Speaker A: And, and the same idea is contained in the infinity one, putting in here, in the infinity one, we conclude from here. But they have to be, ah, sorry about this, belongs formally. So we conclude that they have to be, to be equal formal. And of course, again, by the definition, these are the, you know that the toroidal always contains these ideas. It. So this gives us the first step in order to prove the other two steps, they're going to be very simple. So the step two, and we can do this in a more or less quick way.
00:42:27.646 - 00:43:45.962, Speaker A: Step two, the only difference that we had is that there would appear that d minus two term. So what we're going to do is what is called a Chinhauser transform. So we recall that f at b was of the form u gamma wd f t, right? And we do the Czinghauser transform, which has a very important history in resolution singularity. So we look at the derivation of this function of order d minus one. We obtain that this is w times some unit plus this d ad minus one. Well, d minus one factorial here. And this satisfies implicit factor zero.
00:43:45.962 - 00:45:15.010, Speaker A: It satisfies implicit function theorem in W. And therefore, if it satisfies in w, we can make the change of coordinates w tilde equals to w minus some function. The solution of this equation d of uv. So that once we do this change of coordinates, what is going to happen is that this equation is just going to become w tilde times a unit. We get abnormal forms. So abusing notation and writing again everything in terms of just w instead of w Tilde, this is just going to be again the w, the wd f. But now the big difference is that we're gonna finish one step early in d minus two just by using the terminal.
00:45:15.010 - 00:46:43.354, Speaker A: We just did standard transformation and now we use induction on the dimension to principalize AI's apply resolution of singularities to each term AI uv in order to obtain step two, that is, in order to obtain that apart from this sequence of loins up, we can write it as this u gamma wd f tilde plus y zero to d minus two wi and here is going to appear nu alpha I bi uv either bi of this b or zero different from zero or equivalent equals to zero. This was the prepared normal form that we wanted. And now the last step is actually going to be very similar. It's very similar to the first step in some sense. So this was the normal form that we wanted, right. We applied resolution of singularities to each one of the coefficients. We can do that by induction in step three.
00:46:43.354 - 00:47:21.424, Speaker A: There's a small trick here. I'm going to do it. It can be clean, this trick can be cleaned. I do not need to actually to make a blowing up with coordination one center, but I'm going to just do it. Okay, so we blow up with center w equals zero. So nothing going to change. It's an isomorphism, the only thing that changes and the node by f, the new exceptional divisor.
00:47:21.424 - 00:48:16.868, Speaker A: So the only thing that changes is the exceptional divisor. So in particular, d of f is now generated by the view, the UI by the device as before js and now by w dw. So before w was a non exceptional variable, it appeared only as a Dw here. Now it's appearing w dw. And I'm going to just make an observation here, which is the following. If I take WdW and I apply to this f, oh sorry, it's not a normal form, it's not formal. This is just, there's nothing here.
00:48:16.868 - 00:48:52.584, Speaker A: It's just f of b. And we apply to f. What we're going to get is u gamma d. I'm going to write like this f c some term of order one again for the same reason, plus I AI u. Sorry. Now it's bad. I do need razor.
00:48:52.584 - 00:50:24.128, Speaker A: Let's write again, Cody. Wd s two the plug for the term of order one plus I, u alpha I bi and now we have the w to the power I. So if we do this j times, this is going to give us u gamma d to the power j w d f some term of order one I to the power j u alpha I. So now let me write you wibi, and I note that I have in total d minus one monomials. I have d minus one monomials, and I again have a van der Mont matrix. Right? I have the I to the power j. They're all different.
00:50:24.128 - 00:51:31.204, Speaker A: Every I is different. And here I have d to the power j. So with the same argument as in step one, wd and u alpha I, w I, b I is contained in id minus one. Why id minus one? Because in here we only need, we can start with the zero derivatives, and we only need at most d minus one, other derivatives to get the vulnerable matrix right. We start from zero, no derivative at all. And then with d minus one derivatives, we're going to be able to have the square matrix that we want. Since we have in total here d minus one one.
00:51:31.204 - 00:52:46.464, Speaker A: So we know that this guy is contained there. Actually, we can show, because this is again combinatorial ideal, we can conclude, just as before, that id minus one is actually equal wd u of I w I. And I write the bi here just to say that it might be zero. Right? So what we are concluding is that me f of I at this point, b is now equal to d minus one. So how do we finish? We need to still have that final normal form. We do. Just as in lemma one, now we have a combinatorial ideal, we apply combinatorial resolution two, id minus one, we conclude from a.
00:52:46.464 - 00:53:13.680, Speaker A: A says that we're going to keep the environment equal, and b three, which gives us the normal form that we were searching. But now with a d, which is smaller or equal than the previous d minus one. And this finishes the proof. So I'm going to stop here. Apparently, I pass the time. Yeah, I stop at the time. So I'm going to stop here.
00:53:13.680 - 00:54:32.264, Speaker A: And just to say, what's the point of the next lecture, I'm going to talk about a new technique, the different technique as the technical ammunition of morphemes. And when I talk about its proof, which is going to actually happen only next week, I'm going to compare it with the proof that we just did here. And most of things are going to adapt in almost a simple way from what we did here, the case of modernization of amorphous. There's going to be a couple of more complicated points, and I wanted to point out one of them right away, which are different from the analytic to the quasi analytic case in general. And one of the points that I wanted to point out that we can see here is that in the first step, we used a certain remark that was very convenient for us here, that this toroidal hole is well defined everywhere in the coordinate system, when the coordinate system is well defined. So this is a coincidence to a certain degree, because we are using monomials here in the general case of the normalization problem, then we're going to use soup shifts of the shifts of derivations. But we are interested in something else, and the terms that are going to appear here in this closure ideal.
00:54:32.264 - 00:55:06.934, Speaker A: Right. In this closure ideal that we are interested in, we're still going to have a nice formal description of it, but we won't be able to say that the formal description is convergent. We cannot use this little remark, and it's actually positive, a serious difference between the analytic what we can and the quasi analytic case later on. Okay, so I will finish here. I already passed the time, so thanks a lot, everyone. I'll stop here. Thanks a lot, Andre, stop the recording.
