00:00:06.650 - 00:00:20.414, Speaker A: So with that, I want to welcome our first amazing, incredible speaker, Molly, on stage. I'll ask Molly to turn on her camera and kick us off with this amazing event. Hi, Molly. How's it going?
00:00:20.612 - 00:00:23.614, Speaker B: Going good. Hi, Kartek. Excited to be here.
00:00:23.812 - 00:00:27.320, Speaker A: Excited to have you. This this is going to be exciting. 400 people.
00:00:27.850 - 00:01:03.790, Speaker B: Amazing. Well, welcome, everyone. I know this is an exciting kickoff to the day and the weekend, and so pumped to share a little bit more about FalcoIn Virtual Machine, what it is, what you can do with it. I'm going to share a lot of my favorite ideas, the things I'm most excited about people potentially building, maybe in this summit, actually. So really excited to share that with you. But you have an awesome lineup for the rest of the day as well, to dive into even more depth and how to get started. I know we have some folks who are coming from the existing kind of FBM community.
00:01:03.790 - 00:01:33.814, Speaker B: We have other folks who are brand new to this. So I'll try and fit both audiences, but you'll be getting even more layers of depth from other people kind of throughout the course of the day. So give me a second, I'll share my screen, and we'll get started. All right, anyone tell me if that looks terrible. Otherwise we're jumping into it. So, for context, my name is Molly. I lead the PL engineering and research team at Protocol Labs, which is building the Falcon Virtual machine.
00:01:33.814 - 00:03:09.750, Speaker B: So the core of all of the technology that then enables all of you amazing builders to write your own amazing, smart contracts or new layers of programmability. And that's really what we're most excited for with Fem, is bringing all of this on chain programmability, being able to act with Filecoin actors or bring any existing DeFi or lending or other contract over to the Filecoin network. This has not been available in Filecoin, so there's lots of latent demand for people to be able to kind of access and bring their own programs into Filecoin. There's a lot of opportunity as well to kind of use everything about computing that we know and love to improve Filecoin in all sorts of great ways. Automating, repetitive tasks, making sure that when people are wanting to store data, that they can do so persistently over time without having to get reinvolved in the network to renew their deals after five years, and making sure that as we generate new contracts, they're solving real problems for people. We sit in Felcoin world at this really exciting intersection where people are both building kind of core infrastructure tools, but also combining them with the new, really exciting, kind of like blockchain financial primitives that exist out there. And so I'll tell you a little bit more about some of the areas that I'm most excited about, but this is kind of like a whole new horizon of what's ever existed before, and we're really excited for you to trail blaze for others to follow and others to see.
00:03:09.750 - 00:04:01.670, Speaker B: You are the Lewis and Clarks of going into this and we're really excited to see what you uncover. This is a super big deal for us because there's now all of these new applications that can possibly exist and it enables developers like you to customize what the Filecoin network can do for us. Besides storage and retrieval, there's all sorts of exciting things like data dows, liquid staking, lending, decentralized compute and a lot of other ones being able to replicate and repair deals over time. NFTs with built in, long term, persistent and verifiable storage, just all sorts of exciting things become possible. And you are becoming the builders of all of what Filecoins can do for the world. And we're really excited to have you. And I want to dive into a couple of these in more detail because some people are probably thinking like data dows.
00:04:01.670 - 00:05:15.214, Speaker B: What's that? What does that mean? So maybe to explain a couple of the potential things that become possible here first and most obviously is staking and loans. This is a super huge opportunity. We have not had a set of available VM primitives that allow people to build contracts like connecting our FalcoIn token holders with storage providers who are offering core services into the FalcoIn network. And so this can kind of bridge that gap, help token holders put their resources to work within the FalcoIn economy and similarly help those storage providers get access to FalcoIn liquidity so that they can make more and more storage deals to store useful data. Because in the Falcon network that requires them to put up collateral so that the network can ensure that they're offering those services really effectively. And this is a really exciting option as well because those are their resources in a useful network, an opportunity for share in their yield coming from that allocation. And so that's super exciting.
00:05:15.214 - 00:06:23.640, Speaker B: Another really exciting thing that becomes possible with FBM is all of that information on how a storage provider has been behaving in the network in Filecoin over time. What has been their success rate in deals, how much data have they stored, how reliable are they as a participant in this network? All of that information is available on chain. And so you can actually generate reputation scores for these storage providers and use that on chain data to power smart contracts that are making much smarter allocation decisions. For what interest rate should be required? What sort of collateral? Should be required from storage providers. All of those things you're informed with all of this rich on chain data to make really good decisions about how to allocate those resources and you can even do these, of course as collectives and dows and mining pools and all sorts of really exciting things. And so we're super excited about people who are building in this space and also building primitives that others can build upon. As Kartik mentioned, there's lots of bounties specifically for people who dive into this area.
00:06:23.640 - 00:07:42.960, Speaker B: Actually, one other thing to mention here that's a useful primitive to hold onto. There's a way for storage providers to set the multi SIG of their kind of like the wallet that we call it an owner address, but it's the wallet in which they get block rewards from the network, which is separate from some of the other wallets they have for their workers who are doing work within the network. And so that owner address can be a multifig which can then be shared between multiple different parties and that can increasingly secure lender assets with other third parties to make sure that the storage provider is kind of guaranteed to behave correctly within that system. Another area that's super exciting, there's already a couple of groups that have started building in this space, but still a lot more opportunity to push forward is around perpetual storage deals. We know that lots of people when engaging with blockchain storage networks or even in hackathons like this, they really want to just store data long term. They want to write once and not have to worry about it. Right now, FalcoIn network optimizes for about one and a half year storage deals, which is already pretty long compared to something like AWS, where you have a monthly bill you have to keep paying.
00:07:42.960 - 00:08:59.018, Speaker B: But when we're thinking about long term assets like all of the Neutrino data that CERN has put on the Filecoin network or the Internet Archive which is storing data on the FalcoIn network, they kind of would really like 1050, maybe even 100 year terms for the data that they're putting on. And they'd be willing to put up a lot more collateral as kind of an endowment for making those deals over the long term. And Filecoin as a network really wants to put users in control of how they're replicating and also the longevity of the data they put in the network. And so a whole new plethora of applications can exist here that are building on top of Falcoin's verifiable storage primitives, but offering all sorts of long term deals. Lighthouse is a good example that's already started doing this long term storage and auto renewing of deals and making sure that you can kind of store once. But I think a lot more kind of like continued innovation in this space is super, super welcome, especially groups that are taking different strategies around how to kind of do long term endowments and things like that. And there's also the core building blocks that make this even easier for other people to build around.
00:08:59.018 - 00:10:18.398, Speaker B: Repair bots that monitor a specific CID, a specific content ID for data, and then automatically repair and make new deals with storage providers. If they ever see the number of Replicas drop or folks that are doing kind of data bounties where all you have to do is give it a CID and then anyone who stores that CID in a deal in the network can unlock the bounty kind of locked up within that contract. These are super useful and super exciting and building on top of proofs of storage that allow you to verifiably check. FalcoIn network does this for you automatically every 24 hours, making sure that all of the data that's been stored in the I think we have over 250, maybe it's 280 at this point. I'm having a hard time keeping track but that's the number of petabytes of data that are stored in the FalcoIn network today. And all of that is being verified and checked every single day to make sure that the exact data that users desired to store is being stored persistently. And so this gives you a lot of benefits and also solves kind of a critical user problem, say, for other web3 networks, for NFT holders, for archivists, for anyone who wants to hold around data for the long term.
00:10:18.398 - 00:11:27.810, Speaker B: And so really excited for people to push in this area and make sure that Falcoin's mission, to make sure that we have a robust foundation for humanities information is achieved. Next area is programmable storage tools. This is super exciting and there's a couple of groups who have been pushing in this area. The example here is the onchain storage solution so you can go and look up that website and see what they've been building. But these are things like multi protocol storage retrieval assurance contracts where you could, for example, put up amount of collateral when a storage provider makes a deal guaranteeing that they are going to serve retrieval requests for that deal. Over time, which then allows you to have very high even in this fully decentralized distributed network have a guarantee and a pot of collateral that you can slash and remove resources from if that storage provider ever doesn't behave correctly. To actually go ahead and start making those reliable retrieval requests.
00:11:27.810 - 00:12:14.120, Speaker B: You can do data bounties now with Filecoin and a ton of other things. And so we're really excited for people to program directly in with Filecoin's actors to start making these things possible. There's also all sorts of interesting things in the kind of like financial DeFi space. So because the FVM is designed to be fully EVM compatible, the FVM design is actually a hypervisor. So we are running literally an entire EVM in the Filecoin network. You can bring ERC, 20 tokens directly into the Phum network here and you can bridge those to token pools and other chains. You can write L, two networks that are plugging into Filecoin to benefit from storage power or security.
00:12:14.120 - 00:13:37.410, Speaker B: There's all sorts of things that are super common in the Ethereum ecosystem which you can use those exact same bones and connect that over here to the Fevum network. And so hopefully there's a lot of EVM compatible chains out there. This makes writing smart contracts that move between chains or kind of have intersections much, much easier because you can write exactly in the languages you're familiar with and the same contracts work in both places. Another super exciting area for FalcoIn, which is FalcoIn is this large distributed storage network. And maybe one of the things that people are excited about is decentralized access controls. We definitely know about the centralized model of the world, but how do you do this when you have many parties who are all collaboratively adding data to a kind of pool of data together? Things like Medusa, which is a threshold encryption network where you have a whole group of parties and they have to all kind of cryptographically agree before, say, access to a piece of data is is unlocked. That's a way of in a decentralized way governing access programmatically for who can access some sort of data collection without even those parties needing to be able to see the thing that they're governing access to itself.
00:13:37.410 - 00:14:43.558, Speaker B: And so this is one of those you split up many different shards of a key and then if you combine together x many shards, you actually unlock a key and all of those shards only get sent to the person who's requesting and has proved that they deserve access to that next chunk of data. So this is super exciting and groups that make use of that can then do all sorts of exciting stuff. An example of that is data dows. And so this might be the thing where you're like what is this? I've heard of dows maybe, but what are data dows? And I don't think this has been possible ever before in any other blockchain network. So this is a super exciting new area for folks to be building in. And the idea here, the concept is you have some decentralized group of people. Maybe this is all of the editors of a Wikipedia page or maybe this is all of the people who are collectively adding new works to some kind of like archival Gutenberg library thing.
00:14:43.558 - 00:15:45.946, Speaker B: And so collectively they gather and curate useful data into a collection together. Maybe they govern and persist that data over time. So that involves pooling some resources to make sure that that data stays available collectively across their group. But then they can also do really interesting things where they have kind of this collective dow structure where they can govern that data set. Govern what data gets added, govern its long term persistence, but also govern its access controls, where you can potentially pay into that multi SIG in order to then get access to kind of the next chunk of data. So that's super exciting and then great, you have that shared treasury of all of the data that you're earning and you get to hop into using that for the long term preservation and growth or for incentivizing even better data to be added to the system. So we're super excited about that.
00:15:45.946 - 00:17:00.546, Speaker B: This whole cycle can very much be automated by smart contracts to actually kind of like hone the growth and monetization of data collections as maybe last but not least, one of the really exciting things is actually being able to do compute over this FalcoIn data. That's step three of our FalcoIn master plan which starts by building the world's largest storage network which we have already achieved by far the largest centralized storage network onboarding and safeguarding humanities data which is work in progress, as we mentioned something like 280 plus petabytes of useful data and then bringing compute to that data and enabling all sorts of exciting applications. And this is a super exciting area to unlock. Now, this is one of the most valuable collections of open source data. We have kind of like an amazing set of data sets already stored on Filecoin that are already available and accessible here. There's Landsat, there's all, I don't even know, 100 million NFTs the million song data set, flickr commons, internet archives. So there's a lot of useful data sets that are already stored on FalcoIn and many more that are coming.
00:17:00.546 - 00:18:26.442, Speaker B: And so this is a really awesome opportunity for compute networks that want to kind of interact or compute over these large scale pieces of data and where you want to send the compute to the data itself instead of having the kind of like retrieval and bandwidth requirements of fetching all that data and centralizing it. And so this is already a really exciting area in web3 where you have multiple other chains storing the chain history of their blockchains in Filecoin. Obviously Filecoin is a decentralized verifiable storage layer that fits really well with what other blockchain needs for long term storage. And so I know Solana for example, is already storing and backing up their chain state to Filecoin which is really exciting but a great opportunity for more other blockchains to do similarly and find ways to do this kind of like more scalably and in ways that make that chain state accessible to other blockchains. So you can use Filecoin as a data availability layer as well, which is a huge need for especially layer two blockchains with validator size requirements. Right now we also expect that many layer two compute networks are going to optimize for different parts. Some are going to maybe be very privacy focused, some very verifiability focused, some really focused on performance.
00:18:26.442 - 00:19:49.770, Speaker B: And this is using all sorts of kind of exciting new tools, ZKPs, fully homomorphic encryption, all sorts of things like that to help power things like machine learning pipelines and other things that are interacting with data stored in Filecoin. And we want to use this really to help power the entire DSI movement, especially around large scale data science where scientists can better collaborate using data dows on shared data sets. They can publish those and earn rewards for valuably processing this data and making it more and more useful for different groups and just in general accelerate this whole data analytics industry which is a huge, huge community and a lot of value to be created there for the entire world. And so one of the things we're working on really in support of all of this is making sure that we're scaling the filecoin chain as well. Hopefully all of the amazing smart contracts that you here are creating are going to add a lot of kind of additional activity to the FalcoI network. And we have a next gen scalability solution called Interplanetary Consensus which is actually launching their testnet in like a couple of weeks. But that's aimed to come in kind of post Fem launch which will then kind of enable seamless transferring of state and scaling the filecoin chain massively.
00:19:49.770 - 00:21:04.398, Speaker B: So really all of these things together help us build a scalable blockchain that really helps unlock kind of like web scale applications. Hopefully the next set of DApps that need large scale storage, fast processing and also computation over that storage will see a great home in Falcon and the tools you guys are building. And so quick rundown. I know I'm probably at time and should hop but about how FVM has been designed to kind of unlock some of these really exciting use cases. FVM is seen as a hypervisor and this allows us to plug in multiple second layer VMs on top of kind of this virtual hypervisor layer. And so what this looks like is that you can have both Filecoin's built in actors, but you can also have entire other VMs things like the kind of like EVM, which is the first one that we have brought in creating Fevm, but also additional entire networks as well. You could add say the Agoric VM or you could add the Cosmos VM and get access to IBC.
00:21:04.398 - 00:21:48.474, Speaker B: And that's a really exciting direction that we think this whole area is going to move. Right now we've really focused on bringing EVM on top of Fem, but the milestone after that is focusing on kind of native WASM actors that are going to be running in bare metal Fem mode, which can give you even more access to kind of the core functioning of the system. So here's our quick roadmap. This is where we are today on ETH Global. As you can see from my background, we've already had a ton of milestones related to building the Fem. The first one was in February of 2022. Fem is actually already powering the FalcoIn network.
00:21:48.474 - 00:22:49.250, Speaker B: We launched Fem into FalcoIn main net in July 2022, but we have not yet enabled that programmability layer or brought all of the amazing tools around EVM into Falcon yet. And that is what is coming in our February release here for milestone two, one. And so we already have our testnet up, which many of you guys are going to be working with later today. We're doing amazing hackathons like this one. And really, this is helping us build kind of like all of that great momentum into our main net launch date. And then coming after that, we have additional releases, m Two Two and M Three, which are adding both access to those bare Metal WASM actors, but also deeper protocol improvements that are going to unlock additional parts of FBM. We've been running an FBM early Builders program for the past number of months with this amazing group of participants.
00:22:49.250 - 00:23:24.026, Speaker B: And I think we have over 100 people that have participated and they've created all sorts of useful tools for you to learn from, build on top of, and synthesize into your applications. And so there's an awesome FBM Actor Playground, which is an amazing place to get started. Go check out this video from Jim Pick. There's assembly script rust and TinyGo SDKs. And there's a lot of reusable components in here that you can build on top of in your hacks. You only have weekends, so we want to make you super productive. And they've also started building kind of early contracts in a number of areas.
00:23:24.026 - 00:24:14.430, Speaker B: Some of the groups thinking about NFTs, perpetual storage, liquid Staking, Data dows and so likely have some early things for you to harness, learn from iterate on, collaborate with. Really exciting thing there. But we also have a lot of new open opportunities that no one's dived deeply into yet that are super, super exciting around cross chain bridging or thinking about data discoverability or cross chain liquidity or all sorts of other really exciting things. And so we're pumped for people to dive into those areas as well. When it comes to resources, definitely check out the Fem Developer Forum. There's a lot of great questions, documentation, answers in here. There's some great blog posts already for how to deploy your first smart contract to Fem.
00:24:14.430 - 00:24:48.550, Speaker B: And definitely all of the videos from the Fem Foundry program are a great place to learn more. But you're going to be meeting a lot of these wonderful humans. This is the team that's building kind of the core layer of the FBM. You're going to be hearing from Sarah in just a second, but all of these faces are going to be popping in and out of these sessions and there to help you and help you find amazing opportunities. And we're really excited to see what you build. Feel free to if you want to gut check your idea, you can message me on Twitter. I'm MoMac 28.
00:24:48.550 - 00:25:03.608, Speaker B: Or if you're in the filecoin Slack, I'm MoMac maybe just MoMac Two there and feel free to get in touch. I'm super excited to hear what you're building and give you any advice that might be useful. You awesome.
00:25:03.774 - 00:25:14.900, Speaker A: Thanks a lot. Molly. This is incredible. This was a whole massive overview that got a lot of people excited. And thanks for clarifying. What data dowser? Those are the most common question we got. And this is a good overview.
