00:00:00.520 - 00:00:41.314, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Way Refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today is the 9 December 2020. Let's get right into it for today, everyone. So I spoke a lot yesterday about a lot of these kind of regulatory rumors that are going on with regards to, you know, centralized crypto exchanges. People are kind of thinking they're going to put in some new rules that basically, you know, ban you from withdrawing to your own wallet and things like that from these exchanges. You know, I mentioned yesterday how I didn't think they're going to go that far, at least in the US. But then this kind of news came out yesterday around France.
00:00:41.314 - 00:01:15.648, Speaker A: And apparently France is, as you can see on the, on the headline here, they're on the verge of imposing mandatory KYC rules for all crypto transactions, which, which is pretty bad, right. That's taking it to like the extremes here. So basically what it would mean. And if we go through the article here. Well, let's, let's start with the reason they're doing this. So they cite that the main reason for these, you know, stricter measures are the recent terrorist attacks in France. And I'm like, okay, you know, this is always the case when they're introducing some unpopular regulations, right? They'll, they'll slap a label on it.
00:01:15.648 - 00:01:45.200, Speaker A: They'll be like, okay, it's, you know, terrorists. It's to prevent terrorism. It's like to prevent money laundering. It's to save the children. Right? You know, you put some of that stuff on it and people just like, oh, you know, this, this must be a good regulations because it's trying to protect, you know, the children or it's trying to stop terrorism. And it's always the same thing where these kind of excuses, I guess, or reasoning is given that doesn't really make much sense to just put these really stringent regulations in. And usually it's because of another reason that they don't want to tell you.
00:01:45.200 - 00:02:15.678, Speaker A: Usually it's just because governments love to control things, right? Or maybe there's a, there's a player that's bigger, that wants this in place to kind of like stifle the growth of a certain industry. You know, I wouldn't put it past banks wanting to stifle the growth of a theorem and defi, if they're at that point, I don't think they're at that point yet. I don't think they really care about what we're doing. Yet because it's so early. But this is just. Yeah, this is not great. What this would do, is it basically would, let's, let's read through here.
00:02:15.678 - 00:02:43.154, Speaker A: So, yeah, it would basically require crypto firms to harden their KYC on their wet, on their exchange, which we already see. Right. You already do have to do KYC on pretty much every centralized exchange. You know, I think binance still lets you kind of do two BTC a day withdrawal without KYC. But they're not based in the US or anything like that. They're not based, I guess they're not even based in Europe. Right.
00:02:43.154 - 00:03:18.114, Speaker A: They're based, like, I, no one really knows where they're based. That's speculated during the Cayman islands and things like that. But, you know, the exchanges that are fully regulated in, like the US, in Europe, in, I mean, Australia, where I am and things like that, they already all do KYC. You can't even buy any crypto or do anything without Kyc. But, you know, this, this kind of new, new regulations or I guess like new new rules would make it, it would harden this, this KYC stuff, but it would also regulate crypto to crypto transactions. Now, I don't know. I mean, there's not that many details here, but I don't know, like, how they would police this.
00:03:18.114 - 00:04:17.122, Speaker A: Like, which crypto to crypto transactions is it, if you're trading ETH to bitcoin or bitcoin to ETH or whatever, on a centralized exchange, they're going to basically require you to, I don't know, you know, do KYC again, or give your reasoning for making that trade or whatever? Or are they going to try and regulate, say, you withdraw a theorem to your own address? Are they going to monitor you and see what you're doing and see how you're trading that on a decentralized exchange? Obviously, that's, like, very hard to police, if not impossible. And it also doesn't make much sense because why is the centralized exchange now, you know, just because I bought ETH on there, why are they now liable to track me when I've taken it off their exchange? Right. I'm kind of out of their world, so I don't know what kind of this is about. If I had to guess, I had to assume it would be about just crypto to crypto within a centralized exchange. But again, that's already tracked by a lot of exchanges. Right? That's already, all the records are there. So I don't know what more the exchanges can do here.
00:04:17.122 - 00:04:42.222, Speaker A: But, yeah, a bit of ominous news out of France here. Yeah, I mean, there's the full article here you can go read. There's probably some more details in here. I won't read through the whole thing on the video, but, I mean, they mentioned here the full KYC of all crypto transactions means that all crypto exchanges and other firms will have to verify their customers irrespective of transaction size. I mean, that's. That's already done in a lot of places. Maybe in France.
00:04:42.222 - 00:04:59.142, Speaker A: That's not the case. I don't know. And apparently mandatory registration will be put in place for crypto to crypto exchanges. Yeah, I mean, I don't know. Maybe they just don't have these regulations in place. They definitely do in Australia already. So we'll keep an eye on that.
00:04:59.142 - 00:05:19.324, Speaker A: We'll keep tabs on that. And there's still those rumors about the US introducing these new regulations as well. I was talking to a bunch of people about that today, and, you know, people on the fence. I was basically of the opinion that just, like, we're just speculating, we don't actually know. And, you know, if you make trading decisions based on. On this stuff, then that's. That's your choice.
00:05:19.324 - 00:05:36.458, Speaker A: But I personally am not, you know, I'm not selling crypto in anticipation of some unfavorable regulations being put in place. Right. It's just, it's a huge risk, you know, adding current tax events. Right. You have to think about all these things. And is the risk kind of worth it based on just some rumors? And for me, it's not. But maybe for you it is.
00:05:36.458 - 00:06:13.934, Speaker A: You know, maybe you want to take some risk off the table as well, regardless of what tax you would owe if you did. So. So, yeah, something to keep in mind, as I said yesterday as well, I'll be keeping an eye on this and keeping you guys updated with it. All right, so for those of you that haven't staked your ETH yet and that don't want to kind of do it on your own, you want to use a third party staking provider. There's a new website called Staking ether.com that basically has a list of all the, I guess, staking providers, or at least known staking providers. And we'll give you a quick rundown of, like, how much you'll earn, kind of like, I think, net of fees.
00:06:13.934 - 00:06:40.354, Speaker A: So basically you have, like, you know, bitcoin, Suisse here, which is a big, big player, coinbase, binance, staking. You know, there's a bunch here, right? Bison trails and you can click through and then it'll give you, I think it'll either take you to the website or maybe nothing happens when I click. Oh, there we go. It loaded. Yeah. So it'll basically let you stake directly through here on this site. So if you put in 1000 USD.
00:06:40.354 - 00:07:10.684, Speaker A: Okay, I won't let you stake on the site. It's got a calculator. Sorry. So if you put in like, you know, you want to stake 10,000 USD, it'll tell you what your daily earning will be, what your monthly earning and yearly earning will be based on the current rate. And if you want to stake, you click stake now, it'll take you to the website. So it's just a good little website to compare the different solutions out there, you know, see what fees you'd be paying, all this sort of stuff. And, you know, I know these services are going to be very popular with people that don't have the minimum 32 ETH, because if you don't have the minimum, you can't stake on your own yet.
00:07:10.684 - 00:07:57.036, Speaker A: Like rocket pool is listed here. But rocket pool, as far as I know, isn't, isn't live just yet, and it's probably not going to be live for a little while still. So, yeah, if you're itching to stake and you don't have 32 ETH and you, like, you want to do it right now, it's perfect to go on this website and choose which provider you want to go with. I'm not going to recommend any myself because I haven't done due diligence on all of them. I'm familiar with some of them, but I'm not going to give you my own, you know, personal recommendation here. But I will tell you that, make sure that you realize that if you do this, you, you know, there's a higher risk of you losing your ETH either due to an exit scam or the staking provider messing up and getting you slashed or things like that. That's happened in the past.
00:07:57.036 - 00:08:31.276, Speaker A: So be very careful. Make sure you, you kind of select the trusted brand and do your research before going into it. Don't just like Fomo in, so to speak. All right, Ben Edgington put out an update about his what's new in ETH two newsletter today. So for those who don't know, this is the best newsletter single best newsletter in the entire Ethereum space for keeping up with ETH two. And it's available at ETH two news. Ben does the best job out of anyone that I've seen of summarizing everything that's happening within the Ethereum two space and making sure that you're on top with it.
00:08:31.276 - 00:09:13.468, Speaker A: On top of it, basically he posted a short update today saying that he had people come up to him and want to sponsor the newsletter. You know, this is how you can do. So like if you want to advertise in the newsletter, you make a payment to him of 1.25 ETH for a max of 80 characters or 2.5 ETH for 180 characters and then you can basically advertise on there. Now this isn't an endorsement or anything and I'm not trying to like advertise his advertising for example. But I just wanted to give a shout out here because Ben's, I mean he says here his newsletters viewed by between three and 3010 thousand people gets that many impressions per issue which is usually every one to two weeks.
00:09:13.468 - 00:09:41.740, Speaker A: It's just an amazing newsletter. He's done it for free for so long now. So I do hope that he gets, you know, paid for his ongoing work. Yeah, it's extremely valuable work. He's also got a git coin grant so definitely go check that out as well to support him. Yeah, so I think that, yeah, I mean if you are interested in advertising in a very ethereum or aetherium 2.0 kind of, you know, world or readership, I think this is the best, best place to do it.
00:09:41.740 - 00:10:17.984, Speaker A: So just wanted to give a quick shout out to Ben there. Alright. A walkie from gitcoin. So get coins. Our founder posted a little I guess, picture today basically discussing that bitcoin grants is going kind of non custodial, going towards this kind of progressive decentralization route. So at the moment Gitcoin grants is quite centralized in a lot of different aspects, but they want to move towards this kind of progressive decentralization over time. So they started with like a multi sig for the funds, for like the matching funds for the grant.
00:10:17.984 - 00:11:06.816, Speaker A: So that it's not just gitcoin that controls all the matching funds. I'm on the multi sig along along with a bunch of other people in the community like David Hoffman and Eric Connor Hudson Jameson. So you know, we're on that with the Af and some DeFi protocol kind of owners as well. So that was like the first step. They want to move on to like kind of the next steps now where the, you know, you can see on the, on the, I guess the chart here that, you know, we have like during the round, like before the round with, with multi sig sorry, during the round and after round and distributing the kind of the money out to the, to the grant owners and stuff like that. But what is kind of non custodial right now is like the direct donation. So when someone makes a donation to you, it goes directly to your Ethereum theorem account.
00:11:06.816 - 00:11:46.614, Speaker A: Sorry. Whereas on layer one or L2, whereas the, as I mentioned, like the matching funds are still kind of like behind, you know, these mutton, these kind of um, multi secret things like that. And there's still KYC as well for a lot of these things. I don't know if they're going to be able to get around KYC for a while. You like, if you have a grant and you, you know, owed some money from the matching, matching, you need to do KYC and that's just like because they're based in the US and there's all regulations and laws around that. So yeah, this is really interesting. I am looking forward to seeing this, this go forward, get coin to decentralize more.
00:11:46.614 - 00:12:35.746, Speaker A: Obviously, I think that, you know, Gitcoin being as important as it is, needs to, you know, embrace I guess, embody the ideals of decentralization within our ecosystem. I think they're perfectly positioned to do so. They're going to get so much support from so many different people no matter what they do. You know, maybe, I don't know, I'm just speculating here. Maybe one day they launch a governance token, right? It could, that could happen and I think that they would have the best distribution ever because you just distribute that governance token, you kind of airdrop it to frequent users of gitcoin. Right. And people that have donated during all the rounds and you know, you kind of have like, I guess, like, you know, you're not just airdropping it to random people, you're airdropping it to people who have actually used your, your kind of use the platform and also you can kind of airdrop more to people that have used it more frequently, to people that have donated more.
00:12:35.746 - 00:13:08.574, Speaker A: So I actually think that a token for gitcoin makes a lot of sense as a governance token and I really, you know, maybe they'll do it, maybe they won't. I don't know if they will or not. But it makes the most sense out of like probably any project that I know of because you know, you have a passionate set of holders immediately, which would be really cool. But yeah, go check this out. I'll link it in the show notes, of course, and go, go give it a look and definitely give feedback to Awaki, if you have some, because he's always looking for feedback here. He's great. He always takes any feedback I send him on board.
00:13:08.574 - 00:13:30.590, Speaker A: He never tries to, you know, never dismisses it, never gets upset. Right. You know, even when I'm bugging him about like ui glitches and things like that on the, on the website. So he's, he's great. So definitely go, you know, message him or just tweet at him if you have any ideas around this. An update out of the foam project today. So this project's been around for quite a while.
00:13:30.590 - 00:14:31.394, Speaker A: If I had to kind of think back, I think it was around in 2017, but they've been quietly building for quite a while. So for those who don't know foam, I guess they're trying to do a bunch of different things. If I had to simplify it. I mean, their original goal was like decentralized kind of positioning systems, aka decentralized, decentralized gps. But I think they've moved even beyond that and they're basically trying to decentralize like the hardware layer of these networks. So as you can see in their blog post or they did their update today, they've kind of made this thing called a ethereum transaction relay network where you could basically have this little device called the foam lite, which is a general purpose Ethereum radio relay node that anyone can build today to accelerate the use cases in Internet of things. So basically having like, I guess, your own node that doesn't rely on I guess, maybe the Internet or like, you know, centralized kind of networking and hardware to coordinate with the Ethereum network.
00:14:31.394 - 00:15:31.684, Speaker A: It's funny because I'm thinking of like right now I'm thinking of bitcoin. And you know, the company blockstream likes to talk about this satellite that they launched into space where you can actually relay your bitcoin transactions off the satellite. Now I actually think that's quite cool, right? And I would like to see more research done into this area and developments done into this area because, you know, if we make, make these networks, right, and you make them super decentralized, but then we have all these endpoints like, you know, the ISP's and the data centers and all these, if they're all like centralized still, then there's bottlenecks there, right? And then, and then if a kind of motivated nation state can possibly take down a network or parts of a network or parts of how it's working, you know, very easily. So, yeah, cool to see foam still building out things here. As I said, an old project, but still building. There's a lot of these out there that you see updates from time to. From time to time.
00:15:31.684 - 00:15:55.132, Speaker A: And, yeah, I mean, as I said, I followed this for quite a while now, and I think what they're building is. Is going to be useful. It's just, it's one of those things where it's like super early. Right. This is stuff that's like bleeding edge stuff that, you know, and hardware is much easier, much harder to adopt than software because it's physical, and software just, you know, can disseminate a lot easier. Right. You can just download an app on your phone as soon as someone releases it.
00:15:55.132 - 00:16:18.092, Speaker A: But with hardware, it's a lot harder to scale it up as opposed to software, unless you're already a hardware manufacturer, like Apple, for example, that already has that. That supply chain in place and that demand in place. It's a lot harder for new entrants to do this. So. Yeah. Keen to see what else foam bring out in the future. Interesting tweet from Eric Connor today about the ETH two deposit contract.
00:16:18.092 - 00:16:42.058, Speaker A: So at the moment, it's adding 40,000 ETH per day. So basically, you could say it's eating 40,000 ETH per day. And I wrote more about this in the daily newsletter. So if you want to go get more context around it, definitely go read that one from today. But basically, what I wanted to focus on here is that, you know, I think at this point we're at 1.2 million or over 1.2 million ETH staked.
00:16:42.058 - 00:17:00.590, Speaker A: And I've mentioned how I expect that number to keep going up. I don't know if it's going to keep going up by 40,000 a day. Right? You don't. You don't know. Like, you really don't. But, you know, Eric notes here that if this pace continues, there'll be 15 million ETH in the contract this time next year. So in a year's time now, I don't think this pace is going to continue.
00:17:00.590 - 00:17:30.980, Speaker A: I think we're going to slow down over time. I think, you know, we might get to a few million faster than we think. But 15 million ETH, it's a huge chunk of the active kind of supply, or, like general supply. I guess it's, if I had to do some napkin math in my head, twelve or 13% of the supply or something, if we got that, that'd be amazing. But again, that's a lot of the supply. I don't know if that's going to be sent across, especially in phase zero where it's basically locked. But it remains to be seen how that plays out.
00:17:30.980 - 00:18:01.386, Speaker A: But still interesting stat to, to keep an eye on and see if this kind of falls over time. As I said, I fully expect it to fall. I don't expect 40,000 ETH per day to flow in, but still good. Something cool to keep an eye on. All right, an interesting tweet thread from Ross Middleton of diversify. I think he put this out late last night after the other daily way refuel. So he gave a quick update summary of the top algorithmic stable coins, elastic assets and rebase token projects.
00:18:01.386 - 00:18:25.914, Speaker A: So he lists six here. People will know about Ampleforth already yam battle based, and there's, there's a few newer ones, a basis cash, empty set dollar and dynamic set dollar that have come out. And he basically gives a really nice breakdown here of each of them in the thread. I won't read through the whole thing. I think there's other ones as well. This, this person mentions dollar protocol. This person mentions dig.
00:18:25.914 - 00:19:28.662, Speaker A: I mean, there's so many of these experiments playing out and these rebase coins are quite funny. I actually refer to Rebase tokens as bull market assets because they, they kind of ponzi ish, right? They require fresh new people buying into it in order for the, I guess the rebases to happen. Like for example, ample and Yam need to be over a dollar for the rebase to happen, for a positive rebase to happen. And you know that it's hard to do that when for those who aren't familiar with the rebasing mechanism, basically, you know, it rebases, tries to get back to a dollar and then people that see that, right, and that are holding it, you know, they might see that and be like, oh, you know, I've lost value. But what's really happened is that they're, the tokens that they've holding have actually gone up because of the rebasing mechanism. Now the reason I say they're bull market assets is because it's, unless there's like fresh new buyers coming in, these rebates, rebases don't happen. The whole mechanism doesn't work and you don't really get any gains from this.
00:19:28.662 - 00:19:59.644, Speaker A: And it actually, death spirals the other way where it goes into negative rebase territory and you're losing a lot of money. So, and I don't think like, you know, funds and stuff are buying up these, these things, right? They're very dangerous. I don't think that you know, institutions are buying up these things. I think it's normally retail investors that are doing this right. Just everyday investors trying to make a buck. So that's why, you know, I think these things will be more popular in, like, a retail mania or. Or like a little like what we saw in defi summer with, like, a little mini bull market within these things.
00:19:59.644 - 00:20:17.460, Speaker A: Like, ampleforth went crazy, but now it's like, you know, after it went up crazily, it went down crazily as well. So, yeah, good to keep an eye on these projects. I think there's something here. I just think that we need to run all these experiments, basically, to get to that something. Right. And it's going to take a while. People are going to lose money.
00:20:17.460 - 00:20:48.514, Speaker A: People are going to make money. It's the same with everything in DeFi right now in terms of experimentation. So pretty cool to see all these projects. Do note that if you decide to put your money into them, it is very likely you will lose money because these things are extremely volatile, more volatile than normal crypto assets. So do your research before, you know, playing around with these things at all. That's. I mean, I implore you to do that because I've seen a lot of people, you know, just go into it and they're like, okay, why do I have less tokens than what I had? And that's because a negative rebase happened, and they weren't aware of that.
00:20:48.514 - 00:21:14.214, Speaker A: So it's quite scary when you see that, right? As a user, you see your tokens have gone down, which means you are lost month, you've lost money, and you don't know why. So definitely, you know, do your due diligence there. All right, last thing to talk about is this from Dharma. So Dharma has a. An app called the. I guess the Dharma mobile app, where they let you buy crypto directly from your bank account. Up to $25,000 per week.
00:21:14.214 - 00:21:48.514, Speaker A: This isn't available in many jurisdictions. In the US, they just added Illinois today, but it's only available in a few other jurisdictions. But this is really cool because it basically allows people that are really new to crypto to buy assets off of Uniswap up to week, which is a pretty big limit. And it makes the buying process really easy for these people. So just cool to see Dharma expanding this to other states. I'm sure it's hard for them, given the regulatory kind of landscape in the US right now. So I'm sure they're going to keep working on it and keep getting more states added here but, yeah.
00:21:48.514 - 00:21:57.674, Speaker A: Cool to see that. Just more ways to access crypto. Right. And more ways to access it. And bypass the centralized exchanges. Which are kind of gatekeepers. In that they won't list a lot of these assets.
00:21:57.674 - 00:22:14.772, Speaker A: So Dharma, giving people a way to access it really easily is really great. So props to Dharma for that. All right, everyone, that's it for this, today's daily. Great refuel. Thank you again for watching or listening. Definitely subscribe to the YouTube channel if you haven't already. Give the video a thumbs up.
00:22:14.772 - 00:22:16.964, Speaker A: And I'll see you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
