00:00:00.280 - 00:00:32.980, Speaker A: Perfect. So, good morning, everyone. Thank you for being here, and thank you for the organizers for inviting me to present this paper. I'm also delighted to kick off this conference because the lineup is quite impressive. So I look forward to your comments and also to the other presentations. All right, so this is joint work with Paul Schneider, who is at the Swiss Finance Institute in Lucano. So, to give you a brief outline of the talk today, I will start by motivating the approach, continue with the theoretical framework, empirical analysis, and then wrap up with the conclusion.
00:00:32.980 - 00:01:19.554, Speaker A: So, essentially, for the motivation, we are going to depart from two facts. First, we know that the absence of arbitrage is going to be a fundamental pillar of asset pricing. And then we also know that linear asset pricing models are going to be widely used, both in academia, industry, for prediction, pricing and benchmarking. Now, we know that while they can rule out statistical arbitrage in large cross sections, they can imply the existence of arbitrage opportunities in smaller samples. So, think about the ROS apts. So, let me build more upon this idea. So, we are going to depart from the new arbitrage condition, and we know that in those cases we are going to have a stochastic discount factor.
00:01:19.554 - 00:02:03.378, Speaker A: Okay, there is a small lag. So, such that for every asset in expectation, the product between the SDF M and its excess return has to be equal to zero. Right? Now, we know from economic theory that we can make prediction about the stochastic discount factor, often up to some parameters. So think about the CAPM we have that the SDF is going to depend on the market return. However, we also know that linear models are not going to always satisfy the positivity constraint, right? So unless we are going to. Okay, so I did what Victor did yesterday during his presentation. All right.
00:02:03.378 - 00:03:14.246, Speaker A: So unless we are going to impose some strong restrictions on these parameters, we are not going to have that the positivity constraint is always going to be satisfied. And what does this mean? It means that we can have arbitrage opportunities for nonlinear payoffs such as options. Right? And we also know that linear models are not going to perform very well, especially during bad times. So what we do in this paper, we are going to ask, how can no arbitrage help us correct linear models? So, in particular, what we are going to do, we are going to add the smallest modification to the linear asset pricing models, such that taken together, they are going to satisfy this no arbitrage condition. So we are going to have an economically motivated correction. M is going to be orthogonal discount factor. We are going to have a linear model and a non linear part, you may ask, why not have simply an exponential function and be sure that we always have a positive stochastic discount factor, right? Well, it turns out that this nice decomposition or this additive form is going to have some very nice properties.
00:03:14.246 - 00:04:08.172, Speaker A: And in particular, with the linear model, we are always going to price basic assets like stocks and bonds, whereas this nonlinear component is going to be there in order to ensure that our SDF is always going to be positive. So we have that all of this model is going to have a minimum volatility. The linear model is going to price basic assets like stocks and bonds, whereas the nonlinear part is going to be there to satisfy the fact that m should be positive. So the no arbitrage condition is going to be satisfied. Since the nonlinear part is going to be orthogonal to the linear model, it also means that it's going to have no price impact for the basic assets. Now, for the linear model, we also want to be agnostic about what should be the correct factor model. So we're not going to specify the factors.
00:04:08.172 - 00:05:08.740, Speaker A: We are going to follow the intuition from Hansen and Jorgenaten and recognize that the model with the minimum volatility should be the one that is like a linear combination of the assets that are available to indexers. So essentially, what we are going to do for the linear component, we are going to take the classical Hansen Jagannathon model. This is going to be linear, and this nonlinear component, the M circle, is going to be nonlinear, and it's going to be a polynomial. So think about the polynomial of even degree. And the nice features that it's going to satisfy is the fact that it's going to have minimal volatility, no price impact, and is going to be orthogonal to the linear model. And more importantly, this is going to be the only specification that allows you to disentangle the two. So, in our framework, we are always going to nest the linear model as a special case, whereas this nonlinear component is only there to ensure that the non arbitrage condition is always satisfied.
00:05:08.740 - 00:05:48.090, Speaker A: And we are going to work with conditional models. So this nonlinearity is going to be satisfied not only in sample for the observed data points, but also for the entire state space. All right, so what do we do? We are going to let the data choose what is going to be the optimal stochastic discount factor. And again, this is going to be conditional, and we are going to use prices of basic assets. So, think about stocks and bonds. And the only condition that we are going to impose is going to be no arbitrage. Now, of course, our framework is going to be very general, and you can apply to many types of different assets or markets.
00:05:48.090 - 00:06:30.640, Speaker A: In the end, the paper is called international arbitrage premium. So what we are going to do, we are going to use data from international markets, and we believe that this is a perfect laboratory for various reasons. First, because previous literature has shown that exchange rates have a strong factor structure. So if you want to give a fighting chance to these linear models, you should focus on something that has a strong factor structure. Second, we know that foreign exchange markets are going to be highly liquid, so they are going to be less prone to financial frictions that could be present in less liquid markets. And when compared to equities, they're going to have a cross section which is relatively small. Right.
00:06:30.640 - 00:07:41.244, Speaker A: So then we don't have to. Sorry, then we don't have to have some regularization techniques in order to shrink this cross section. Yes, exactly. Sure. So this is an excellent question. So why do we have this framework? Well, because we always want to benchmark against linear models. So this is going to be the only specification that is going to allow us to benchmark against linear.
00:07:41.244 - 00:08:31.864, Speaker A: Whereas if you start with a nonlinear model, already, you cannot have this decomposition in which the nonlinear part is going to be orthogonal to the linear model. And still to date, linear models are used like 99% of the time, both in industry and academia. So that's why we wanted to benchmark against the linear models. So you can think of it as the stochastic discount factor that is going to be positive and is going to have minimum variance, and this is going to be conditional. Now, of course, Hansen and Gianetan also have a version of their model which is non negative. However, it has an option payoff type. So that's going to be much more difficult to estimate in practice, especially if you want to estimate it conditionally, whereas by working with polynomials, it's going to be much easier for us to estimate these conditional expectations.
00:08:31.864 - 00:09:23.792, Speaker A: All right, so what do we do then? We are going to define this nonlinear arbitrage correction, which is going to be the profit generated by the linear models. So we are going to have, McIrcle is going to be the payoff. So think about the realization of this nonlinear component, and then we are going to subtract its price. And essentially, here we are only left with this m circle to the power of two, only because we know that the two components, the linear model and the nonlinear model, are going to be orthogonal. Right? So when you apply DSDF to the nonlinear part, you are only left with this m circle star squared. All right. So then we ask what are going to be the properties of this NAc.
00:09:23.792 - 00:10:30.914, Speaker A: So the nonlinear arbitrage component, but also of the stochastic discount factor. And in particular, we are going to ask, what is the economic content embedded in this NAC? Can it help us price nonlinear payoffs that are not included in the estimation of the linear model? And then we are also going to ask whether it's related to some existing economic indicators. Right? So is it something new that we uncover or is it already subsumed by existing measures? And what we find is the following. We are going to find that the nonlinear arbitrage correction is going to help us explain the cross section of FX option returns. And empirically we are going to find that our component is going to be able to predict future violations of the law of one price in the data. Our NAC is constructed such that example satisfies the no arbitrage condition. It turns out that exposed, if you look at the relationship between it and observed violations from the law of one pricing, the data, we're able to both explain and predict them.
00:10:30.914 - 00:11:30.488, Speaker A: And overall, we find that linear asset pricing models are going to perform well on average and during normal times, such that they have a low nonlinear component, whereas they are going to imply a higher NAc. So they are going to perform worse during distress periods. All right, so before I go to the theory, let me introduce a very basic, simple example to illustrate why the linear model can imply some arbitrage opportunities, especially for nonlinear payoffs. So consider, again for simplicity, the linear factor model, which is the capm. And for simplicity, I'm going to drop the time subscripts. We know that r is going to be the market excess return, and we also know that typically beta has to be positive. So I'm plotting here the linear model as a function of the x's return for different values of the excess return, and for a beta which is equal to two.
00:11:30.488 - 00:12:44.984, Speaker A: So this is a very simple basic example. Just to illustrate this idea, the triangles are going to be data that are observed in practice at which this linear model is going to be positive, right? Whereas if you were to compare it with the horizontal line, there are going to exist some regions that are not observing the data, but where this linear model can become negative, right? So again, this is a simple example. If you were to construct a multi factor model, it's going to be much easier for this condition to be violated. Why is this a problem? Well, consider the following, consider a call option with the typical payoff in which we have the maximum between the return in the strike price, where the strike price is going to be equal to one divided by beta. So this is going to be a call option that pays off exactly when the linear model becomes negative. If we were to price it using the linear model, we know that the linear model becomes negative, especially in those cases in which this option is going to pay off. So this is going to constitute a weak arbitrage portfolio, right? Because we have something that has a non negative payoff, something that is negative.
00:12:44.984 - 00:13:33.504, Speaker A: So we have the classical definition of a weak arbitrage portfolio. So what is the idea? The idea is that we want to add a nonlinear component such that we make sure that our stochastic discount factor is going to be positive, right? So, to the linear component, we add this nonlinear part, and they are always going to be positive. All right, so let me go to the theory part. For the theoretical framework. We are going to assume a very general framework in which markets are incomplete. So we know that in these cases, we can have like an infinite number of different stochastic discount factors that are going to do the job. We want to focus on our representative benchmark, and that's why we are going to choose the minimum variance SDF.
00:13:33.504 - 00:14:24.490, Speaker A: We are going to let r denote the vector of excess returns, and we are also going to price the risk free rate. So the optimization that we are going to solve is the following. We want to minimize the second moment of the stochastic discount factor such that it correctly prices excess returns, and we are going to fix its mean to be the inverse of the risk free rate. This is standard, right? What is new is the fact that we are going to impose this positivity and m is going to be polynomial. Of course, this has to be a polynomial of even degree in order to make sure that it's going to be positive. And in our optimization, we are going to consider a polynomial of second degree. Now, of course, in order to solve for this optimization, one would need a model for the conditional expectations.
00:14:24.490 - 00:15:05.064, Speaker A: We want to be model free. So essentially, we are going to borrow from the machine learning literature. So, in order to solve for these conditional expectations, we are simply going to run linear regression on nonlinear factors or components. The optimal solution can be decomposed in a linear component and a nonlinear correction. And then we define our NAc to be this profit, which is going to be implied by linear models. So again, the difference between the payoff or realization and, and the price. So let me pause here for a second to focus a bit on what is this NAC? Yes.
00:15:29.104 - 00:15:52.510, Speaker B: But if I put this as an order, does it guarantee to give you better price? I mean, possible price, but does it actually give you the correct price? In other words, does the pricing error is going to be better than using the ba? I mean, you still have pricing error, right? You are not going to find all the options.
00:15:52.582 - 00:15:53.126, Speaker A: Right.
00:15:53.270 - 00:16:00.194, Speaker B: So simply putting a positive one there, we might embarrass you, but doesn't necessarily give you better prices.
00:16:00.574 - 00:16:24.864, Speaker A: I completely agree. So this is an excellent comment. That's why I hope I'm going to convince you. We are going to show two exercises why we believe that this is going to be a sensible asset pricing model, because we can price not only this linear assets in sample, we can also price out of sample better FX option returns, and also s and P 500 option returns.
00:16:32.324 - 00:16:41.104, Speaker B: In a setting where you can actually calculate the price of an option, let's say in the back, shows well that whether you enclose your info drop.
00:16:46.954 - 00:16:47.314, Speaker A: How.
00:16:47.354 - 00:17:06.894, Speaker B: The price is going to become, I can actually calculate the correct price. I can calculate what the model, and I can actually see the pricing error. If you go to data, you really don't know what exactly you don't have complete understanding. So that's my path of where I.
00:17:08.964 - 00:17:55.174, Speaker A: Sure. So that's not what we try to do in this paper, but what we do to show that by including these nonlinear components, you do improve the pricing of options, of nonlinear payoffs. I'm going to show you that this NAC is going to, together with the linear component, is going to explain around 30% of the FX option returns. Whereas if you were to add additionally to the model. So if you want to price a variant swap, you increase this pricing ability to 50%. All right, so what is this NAC? How should we think about it? Well, we should think about it as being a trade against the arbitrage that is going to be implied by the linear model. Right.
00:17:55.174 - 00:18:42.874, Speaker A: And if we were to compute its expectation, it's going to have a uniformly negative response premium. Right? Because again, the realization is going to be constructed such that on average is zero, because it needs to have no price impact for the linear assets. So think about stocks and bonds. So we are only left with this component here, and we are going to have uniformly negative risk premium. So intuitively, this is going to be like an insurance premium. And in economic terms, we are going to argue that it measures arbitrage propensity. You can think about the fact that whenever this nonlinear component is going to be large, it's much more likely for the linear model to imply some arbitrage opportunities for nonlinear payoffs.
00:18:42.874 - 00:19:39.644, Speaker A: All right, so let me go to the data for the empirical analysis. Again, we are going to focus on international markets. We have monthly returns from January 1985 to June 2020, and we are going to focus on the national stocks and bonds. So for the bonds, we are going to have the short term bonds. So think about the one month deposit rates in different developed economies, and then we are going to have the aggregate equity. So, like the market in each of these developed economies, we are going to take the domestic market to be the US, whereas as foreign markets, we have the british pound, the swiss pound, japanese yen, euro, australian dollar, canadian dollar, and the New Zealand dollar as conditioning variables. We are going to follow exit and we are going to focus on interest rate differential, but also on the realized volatility of the exchange rates.
00:19:39.644 - 00:20:30.714, Speaker A: The way we are going to solve this optimization is by assuming that investors do bilateral trading. If I am a us investor and Lars is a canadian investor, I am going to trade domestically my stock and bond, but internationally, through the exchange rate, I can also trade the canadian bond and stock. And likewise Lars can trade the canadian bond and stock, whereas through the exchange rate, he can also trade the US stock and bond. So of course, we are going to end up with seven different measures, both domestically and internationally. So then we want to aggregate them in order to be able to plot its time series properties. So we are going to simply take an average, but this is going to be consistent if we consider, for instance, different weighting schemes. So in terms of GDP growth and so on.
00:20:30.714 - 00:21:22.474, Speaker A: All right, so this is the time series of our arbitrage propensity index. And in the top panel, I'm plotting the US one, so the domestic, whereas in the bottom panel, it's the international one through time. So they start in 1985 until 2020. And you can see hopefully this is zero. So it's constructed to be, since it's going to have a negative risk premium mean is going to be slightly below zero. And you see that it's going to spike a lot during crisis periods. So during the Black Wednesday, the Black Monday financial crisis, but also the COVID-19 so it means that it's especially during financial crisis that this nonlinear component is going to be much more important.
00:21:22.474 - 00:22:33.468, Speaker A: So what about the linear component of the SDF? Does it also feature, like, sensible time series properties? And we do find it to spike also during these bad times. So this is consistent with the idea that we are going to have an asset pricing model that spikes during times when the marginal utility of investors is going to be high. Right? And it's going to have a mean which hovers around one, because we are also fixing the price of the risk free rate. So, of course, for the test assets that we consider and for these markets, our linear model is never going to be negative in sample. But again, this doesn't mean that it cannot be negative out of sample or if you were to consider the entire state space of the conditioning variables. Right? So our methodology is going to be important because it's going to allow, to allow us to validate the model, especially out of sample. So what does this mean in general for the pricing of nonlinear payoffs? Well, it means that even in a setting where the linear component is not zero, we do have a nonlinear part which is going to be quite substantial, especially during crisis periods.
00:22:33.468 - 00:24:02.982, Speaker A: So it means that if you were to use a linear model to price nonlinear payoffs, during normal times, you will be overpricing them, whereas during bad times, you will underprice these options. But again, our model is not constructed to ensure correct prices of the options we validated out of sample to see if this nonlinear component is, it's actually going to be economically meaningful or not, by testing if we can price these options or if it's just noise. All right? But the first question that we ask is whether this nonlinear component, the nonlinear arbitrage correction, can help us understand better observed financial market dislocations in the data. And for this, we have, like, two particular examples. The first one is covered interest rate parity violations that have been observed in the data, especially after the financial crisis, right? So essentially what the CIP violations tell us is that, in general, this used to be like the textbook example of no arbitrage condition, that you can always have a very strong relationship between the forward and the spot exchange rate and the interest rate differential. And this used to hold until the financial crisis, right, when we started observing large dislocations between these markets. And second, we also have a market dislocation index, which is constructed by my colleague Paolo.
00:24:02.982 - 00:24:47.024, Speaker A: And he actually uses three violations from this law of one price. He also has the CIP violations, the triangular arbitrage. So the fact that if we know the exchange rate between us, Canada and Switzerland, if we know two of them, it's enough to infer the third. But in practice, you do tend to observe some discrepancies between those three different exchange rates. And finally, he also has, like, ADR violations. So american depository receives. So whenever a foreign company is going to allow foreign investors to trade one share, you will see that this share is going to trade at a different price than it will trade in in the domestic market.
00:24:47.024 - 00:25:46.514, Speaker A: All right, so what am I reporting here? I have both contemporaneous regressions and predictive regressions. The first column is going to be this market dislocation index, whereas the remaining ones are going to be the violations from the CIP condition at different maturities. And you see that in both cases, there is a statistically positive relationship between the two. And if you were to look at the r squared, you see that this is actually going to be higher for the predictive regressions. So, intuitively, our index is constructed such that exanti is consistent with an arbitrage condition, and we find it at exposed. It's also able to identify, or it's related to observed violations from the law of one pricing the data. So, this, to us, is some initial evidence to the fact that we are indeed picking up something which is related to arbitrage propensity.
00:25:46.514 - 00:26:48.666, Speaker A: And then, of course, we ask, what is the relationship between our nonlinear arbitrage correction, so, this component, and nonlinear payoffs in the data. So, first, we ask, what if investors can additionally trade options or variant swap? So, to our original optimization problem, we are going to add an additional pricing constraint by which we are going to price, essentially the exchange rate return squared. So, we know from Martin 2017 that this is like a simple variance swap. We don't actually know the price, but we can derive a bound for it by looking at the out of the money options. And then we rederive our nonlinear component. And here I'm plotting the two. So, in red, I'm having the original nonlinear arbitrage correction, whereas the dotted black line is going to be the one that also includes information from the options.
00:26:48.666 - 00:27:23.554, Speaker A: And you see that the two are going to be very correlated. It's only during the financial crisis that you are going to observe large deviations. So, essentially, this means that trading variance swaps is also particularly important in the FX market during crisis periods. All right, so these were the time series properties. Now we ask whether we can actually price option returns by using, or by including additionally this nonlinear component. So, here I'm recording the definition. This is the definition of our NAC.
00:27:23.554 - 00:28:39.264, Speaker A: We define something similar also in terms of the linear component. So I'm taking its payoff minus its price, so you can think of them as being the profit. In the first panel, these are the Fama Macbeth regression on FX option returns. So we are going to have in total like 35 test assets, because for Fx option returns, most of the Fx options are going to have only five different deltas, whereas for the maturity, we are going to fix it at one month. And you see that this nonlinear component is going to require a statistically significant premium. And we are able to explain around 30% of the cross sectional variation of the effects option returns. Now, if we were to add the variance, swap to the linear component, and notice that now, even if the linear part accommodates a non linear payoff, it still not ensure that it's going to be positive, right? Unless you make further assumptions for the different coefficients, we see that if we add this variance component, we are able to increase the explanatory power now to 52%.
00:28:39.264 - 00:30:12.564, Speaker A: If we were to plot them, they seem to line up quite nicely around this 45 degree line. So the idea is that we are going to have a framework in which we can price options without actually using information from option themselves. So what's cool about our non linear arbitrage correction index is that it only embeds information from basic assets like international stocks and bonds. And using this information, we are able to price fx option. So we can. So here we are still always minimizing the variance of the STL. So to the extent to which you can think that this has an equivalent interpretation in the return spaces, maximizing the sharpe ratio, this is exactly what we are doing here.
00:30:12.564 - 00:31:17.424, Speaker A: Exactly. So if you could engineer with existing options this payoff, then this would be the optimal portfolio. If not intuitively, you can think of our nonlinear component as being the minimum cost that trader would have to incur in order to protect against arbitrage opportunities. Whereas if you were to actually form a portfolio of options from existing options in the market in order to replicate this payoff, likely the cost is going to be higher. Sure, we haven't done that, but sure, this is something that we can do. Did you have a question? Okay, perfect. All right.
00:31:17.424 - 00:32:07.642, Speaker A: So going back to an earlier question, of course we know that if you have a positive SDF, it's not necessarily sure to be also like a sensible asset pricing model, right? We can simply take the risk free rate, square it, and perhaps we can use it in order to price returns. But then we will have like a huge pricing error. So in order to further validate our model, we are going to test it first in the cross section by using other types of assets on which we do not actually project. So for that, we do another form of bet out of sample in the cross section, and we are going to consider two sets of test assets. First, we have the interest rate and momentum sorted for any exchange portfolio portfolios. And then we have the S and P 500 option portfolios. And both are taken from the paper of Heckley and Manila.
00:32:07.642 - 00:33:06.744, Speaker A: So I'm plotting here just the scatter plot between the mean return with respect to the one predicted by our model. And you see that especially in the case of the option portfolio, we are going to have a very good fit. So this makes us believe that what we recover, it's not something that doesn't have any significant sensible pricing. Also out of sample in the cross section. And more than that, we also do an out of sample in the time series dimension, right? So we have a truly purely out of test because we train the data starting from January 1975 1st until to December 1984. And then we start estimating it on a rolling basis by including this monthly sequential increments. And what we find is that our model is going to be statistically significant and we are going to have also a pricing performance out of sample, which is equal to 40%.
00:33:06.744 - 00:34:16.038, Speaker A: All right, so then we ask what can be some potential determinants of our nonlinear arbitrage correction, right? If you remember, the time series plot with which I started, NAC had the countercyclical pattern. Right? So perhaps you talked about VIX or some other measures of financial uncertainty or funding liquidity constraints. Right. So I'm plotting here in the first plot, the NAC with respect to the financial uncertainty index. This is taken from a paper of Gerado, Ludvigson and Ng. And basically what they do there, they compute the conditional volatility of the residual from a large set of economic indicators, around 150, in which they look at the cross section of equities, but also VIX and other economic indicators like GDP growth and so on. And you can see that our NAC is always going to be the black dotted line, whereas the others, in different colors, are going to be these indices that we consider.
00:34:16.038 - 00:34:37.918, Speaker A: And you can see that they're going to be positively correlated. We also investigate its relationship with respect to the VIX, because we know that this is another very popular financial uncertainty or fear index. And finally, we also ask whether this is going to be related with measures of financial intermediary constraints.
00:34:38.006 - 00:34:38.230, Speaker B: Right?
00:34:38.262 - 00:35:46.446, Speaker A: This is also motivated by a growing literature arguing that the marginal investor in different asset classes is going to be the intermediary and unnecessarily the household. So I'm plotting here the relationship with respect to the intermediary leverage ratio squared, again, taken from Hegeli and Manila. The reason why we report the squared and not the typical intermediary capital risk factor is because our measure is also going to be nonlinear. And in fact, if you were to compute the correlation between the two, these are not going to be correlated, whereas the linear component of our SDF that we extract is going to have a high correlation with the intermediary capital risk factor. And finally, we have an additional measure of funding liquidity constraints, which is going to be the debt spread. So of course, by eyeballing, you can see that they are going to be positively correlated. We also test this relationship more formally in the data by running regressions, and you can see that all of these different indicators are going to exhibit a strong and positive relationship with ours.
00:35:46.446 - 00:36:31.130, Speaker A: However, if you were to look at the actual r square. So how much of the time series variation do these different indicators explain? At maximum, they can explain 25%. Right. So it does mean that we recover something that is not entirely subsumed by existing economic indicators. So our NAC is non redundant. It's theoretically motivated from the no arbitrage condition, and is going to be economically important or meaningful, because we have shown to be able to price the cross section of nonlinear payoffs like fx option returns. Then we ask whether it is an AC special, right?
00:36:31.162 - 00:36:55.634, Speaker B: Yes, pet, I have a question concerning the linear component can get negative. Then the multiple characters can verify. First of all, how high will be. Second question, why don't fight when the market return is low?
00:36:57.894 - 00:37:58.794, Speaker A: So of course, two things. Okay, so maybe, let me show you some plots and the summary statistics. Maybe it's better to just go directly to the last slide. Okay, so this is related to your first question, because in the end, what we do, we learn from the data, whatever the distribution of the returns that we focus on are going to have. But then we also ask, how does NAC is going to perform if we were to have like some specific distributions, right? So if we were to plot it against the gaussian log returns. And here we always consider like an annualized mean of 11% and different scenarios for the annualized volatility. Of course, it's going to be harder to do so when we have an analyzed volatility, which is lower, right.
00:37:58.794 - 00:39:01.214, Speaker A: With a low volatility, it's also going to be hard to match very high analyzed mean. And you can see that for the excess return, you don't really have this problem, this u shape pattern, right. For the fact that for very large excess returns, you would also observe this kicking in. Whereas of course, if you were to consider like distribution that has fatter tails, for very extreme cases, you would see this happening. But again, it's very, very mild. And indeed, these are for regions of returns or excess returns that were never observed, at least in the ISO sample that we consider. So this makes us believe that what we recover is going to be economically sensitive or sensible in the sense that it's not going to, it's going to be consistent with marginal utility theory, right? As you increase the return, you also have like a decreasing pattern in your SEF.
00:39:01.214 - 00:40:26.982, Speaker A: But again, it doesn't mean that you will have arbitrage opportunities for options only when the SDF becomes negative, because as we show the, or the question that you asked, you can have NAC being positive also when m star, the linear component is going to be positive in sample as well. It simply means that in those cases, if you were to apply the linear model, you would be underpricing the options. All right? So if you remember the time series properties that we had, also for the linear model, they also used to spike during bad periods. So then we ask perhaps it's the linear component that is going to be related to these financial indicators. And we showed that indeed this is going to be less the case than for our nonlinear arbitrage correction. So, since I showed you that our NAC is going to be related to measures of financial uncertainty, but also to measures of liquidity, we then ask, okay, perhaps in our linear model, we failed to include some factors that were relevant. So we redo the exercise by including this uncertainty and liquidity factor.
00:40:26.982 - 00:41:45.206, Speaker A: And you should expect that if our nonlinear component was true, truly redundant, it should be closer to zero, right? If not exactly zero. Whereas I'm plotting here the new one in red, the old one in black, and you can see that they are going to exhibit positive correlation, and also that the new one is going to be quite significant. So it's not the case that only by including uncertainty and liquidity, you can truly get rid of these nonlinear components. And lastly, we also ask, what is the relationship with respect to existing polynomial models? Right? So here we have benchmark from Bob. He has a cubic model in which he derives the SDF as a function of the return on aggregate wealth, and he can sign these different coefficients from utility theory, essentially, right? But bear in mind that this is going to be like a one factor model, whereas in our framework, we are going to have multi factor models. And while utility theory can help us find these different coefficients for a one factor model, it cannot help us do so in a multi factor models. And in a multi factor models, we know that cross terms are going to be important.
00:41:45.206 - 00:42:36.964, Speaker A: And also in practice, you can think that cross terms are going to be important if you were to think about the leverage effect. So, we do care about the relationship between an asset return mean and its volatility. Now, before I plot the time series property, recall that ours is going to be the one that has minimal volatility and is going to have no price impact for basic assets like stocks and bonds. Right? So you should expect that ours is going to be like orders of magnitude lower. And indeed, this is what we find. So ours is going to be the one in black. The one extracted from this cubic model is going to be very large, very volatile, and more importantly, it's going to have price impact for the linear model or the assets that enter the span of the linear model, like international stocks and bonds.
00:42:36.964 - 00:43:44.364, Speaker A: And if we were to plot the scatter plot between the two, you can see that they are going to deviate quite substantially, especially in the tails. So if you were to think to have a takeaway is that ours is going to minimize the Hanson journey distance with respect to all positive polynomial stochastic discount factor, and it's going to be the only specification that is going to yield the minimum variance stochastic discount factors that is conditional and can have as a special case, the linear model. All right, so let me wrap up. What do we do in this paper, we are going to develop a measure of arbitrage propensity. This is taken entirely from asset returns. It's fully conditional, it's fast to compute, it only embeds information from international equities and bonds. We show that empirically, it's able to explain the cross section of option returns, and it's also going to be related and able to predict future violations from the law of one pricing.
00:43:44.364 - 00:44:01.780, Speaker A: The data empirically, we find that linear asset pricing models are going to perform well on average and during normal times, whereas they're going to perform worse during crisis periods, when this nonlinear arbitrage correction is going to be much more relevant. Thank you.
00:44:01.892 - 00:44:02.484, Speaker B: Thank you very much.
