00:00:00.490 - 00:00:53.130, Speaker A: Okay, developers, welcome back. This video is brought to you by DeFi chain, and in this video we're going to be looking at their proof of stake blockchain on the bitcoin network, dedicated to bringing decentralized financial applications and services to everyone. If you're new here, I'm Calvin Torah, and on eat the blocks, we help web two developers transition into web three. You, um. The two cofounders, Julian and Yuzen of DFI chain, met in 2016 and worked on a few projects together, but lost touch until 2019. That's when a brainstorm they had ended up becoming DFI chain. Julian has been credited as a leading authority in the crypto and blockchain space, and Yuzen was the creator of the first CBDC of the Bahamas, the sand dollar.
00:00:53.130 - 00:01:47.946, Speaker A: They also cofounded Cake DFI, a highly transparent, one stop solution for lending and staking. Crypto. DFI chain is a decentralized proof of stake blockchain. Their main net, went live on May 11, 2020, to coincide with bitcoin's third halving event. It was created as a software fork of the Bitcoin network to enable the ability to build DFI applications with the security and immutability of bitcoin. DFI chain's decentralized exchange offers fast transaction speeds, low fees, and a fully decentralized trading environment. Max transaction speeds are just above 2400 liquidity mining staking decentralized stocks like mirror protocol and decentralized loans, similar to Makerdao, but with more functionality.
00:01:47.946 - 00:03:04.050, Speaker A: Most interestingly, DeFi chain is the only blockchain that offers decentralized assets on bitcoin. These assets are tokens on the blockchain designed to give you price exposure, although not ownership, to assets such as stocks, bonds, etfs and more, without leaving the DeFi ecosystem. DeFi chain comes with a new concept called D tokens, and these can be minted by anybody on the network. Decentralized assets are one of the most innovative and revolutionary products of DeFi chain. These D tokens are not securities issued by a company or a large institution, meaning they give users price exposure, but not ownership, voting rights, dividends, or any other benefits available to stockholders. Now, when it comes to d tokens, users are no longer required to deposit at least 50% of the collateral in the form of DfI token. After the fort Canning road upgrade, DFI chain's native stablecoin, DUSD, is treated the same way as the mandatory 50% DFI in vaults with a fixed price of means that users are no longer required to provide at least 50% of the collateral in the form of DfI when minting new D tokens.
00:03:04.050 - 00:03:39.758, Speaker A: Now you can just mint new D tokens by providing only DUsd as collateral. If you want, you can then mint your d token and take out a decentralized loan. You can then use this d token loan to trade on the network's Dex, use it for liquidity mining, or just hold it as an investment. In order to close your loan and get back your crypto, you need to pay back your d token loan with interest. And all of this is outlined when taking out the loan to begin with. Now, one of the advantages of these d tokens is the ability to maintain your privacy. You just need the wallet on your phone and no verification is required.
00:03:39.758 - 00:04:10.714, Speaker A: And because they're on your phone, you always have access to your d tokens. You're also able to buy smaller amounts of d tokens. So if someone mints a d Tesla token, you can buy 0.1 of that token. You can also transfer your d tokens into a liquidity pool and earn additional returns for providing liquidity. I think it's important to note that you're not buying the stock itself. These tokens we're looking at here live solely on Defi chain, and their price isn't related to the company itself.
00:04:10.714 - 00:05:10.766, Speaker A: Rather than tracking and reflecting the actual stock price, these D tokens track and reflect a number of variable factors to closely follow the stock price, and it uses oracles to capture those feeds. The price of d tokens may not always mirror the underlying asset's price because of fluctuations in the supply and demand of d tokens. Now, in more recent news, it looks like the continual strong demand for d tokens meant they were trading at a premium of ten to 15% above the prices for similar equities. And this kind of discouraged investors from taking a position in D tokens. And because of this, they recently rolled out the Fort Canning Road hard fork, which fixes the premium pricing issue of D tokens. As a result of this, D token values will remain within a 5% range of real world share prices. DFI chain users have a low risk short term arbitrage opportunity if the price of a D token is more than 5% away from the true price.
00:05:10.766 - 00:06:04.970, Speaker A: D token prices are brought within a 5% range of the respective stock's price every seven days or every certain number of blocks. You can see they've put a lot of effort into onboarding users. They have six wallet options from the DFI chain mobile app for iPhone and Android. The DFX mobile app for storing, receiving and sending tokens simply. They also have a desktop app that allows you to transact, perform liquidity, mining, swapping, and it includes a full node. Then they have a wallet for raspberry PI, a CLI terminal version, and last but not least, an electrum version for treasury use cases. Defi Chain has an entire website dedicated to community projects, YouTube videos, articles and blog posts.
00:06:04.970 - 00:06:45.738, Speaker A: It's a really good effort on curating all of the content around this network. So we can see here on tools and apps we have a list of projects that are currently on the network. There seem to be quite a few options for tax calculators. We have APR checkers, Dex price and chart apps, and Defi chain Bridge, and then all the platforms where you can buy and sell DFI. Then on the community projects tab we can see what people are building on the network. We have things like Defi chain punk nfts, masternode monitors and analytics dashboards. Now I really like it when projects publish their roadmap with easy to understand goals.
00:06:45.738 - 00:07:29.754, Speaker A: We can see here on their site that we're looking forward to a browser, wallet extension, futures and options, NFT support and ledger support for this year. Lots of things coming up now. Not forgetting we can see here on their GitHub that quite a few of their community members are voting for EVM support. So I think we could be looking at something coming out very soon and that's going to allow Ethereum developers to get some of their dapps on the network. Also looking at all the things they achieved last year laid out here. Things like achieving 100% carbon neutral blockchain status, which is important to many people, as well as things like releasing their block Explorer D five scan. Also, we're looking at some big goals for the coming future between three and ten years.
00:07:29.754 - 00:08:18.938, Speaker A: We're looking at up to 50 times leverage on collateral. They're also looking to become the de facto blockchain for transactions between countries and sovereign states. DFI is the native token for DFI chain, and it's listed on the leading exchanges like Cucoin, Bitrex, Bitru and others. The DFI token has seen steady growth in price, gaining over 50% in the first few months that it started trading. Now, you can't transfer native tokens like bitcoin and Ethereum to your DfI chain wallet, but you can mint D, bitcoin and derium using the DfI token as collateral. On the block Explorer we can see the current price along with the locked value of over 1.5 billion circulating supply is over 500 million.
00:08:18.938 - 00:09:24.046, Speaker A: We can see here the recent transactions as expected, but here we can see there is some decent activity. We also get to check out the Dex pool pairs for d tokens. Looking at their developer section we get sent to the GitHub repo. We can see that DeFi chain is a fork on bitcoin core from a particular commit, but from this they have done significant modifications like moving from proof of work to proof of stake, community fund support, increased decentralized financial transaction and opcode support, and more. Their readme leads to a few quick start links including running a node, running a node with Docker and also building from scratch. Setting up nodes is exactly the same as running one for bitcoin, so they do suggest to follow the Bitcoin guide while they build out their docs and instructions on their decks page. We can see liquidity mining for up to 100% returns and they have a step by step guide on how to liquidity mine with the DFI chain app.
00:09:24.046 - 00:10:03.946, Speaker A: So let's have a quick look into how to get started with that. So first we download the app from their downloads page, navigate to the liquidity tab on the desktop app, and we'll be shown some videos to learn more about liquidity mining and how the Dex works. We'll also see the available pool pairs and the total liquidity in each pool along with the APR. From here, we'll decide which pool to work with. You can supply liquidity in Ethereum, bitcoin and USDT. To move forward, you'll need to have enough coins in your DFI wallet. The current version of Defi chain only accepts wrapped tokens, so you can get those from the Dex itself or places like cake DeFi that are integrated with Defi chain.
00:10:03.946 - 00:10:58.346, Speaker A: Once you're ready, you can hit the add liquidity button and choose an address that you want to receive rewards to verify everything is all good and click supply. Once everything has gone through, you'll get a transaction hash that you can view on chain. You'll then have a new liquidity screen showing how much you've committed to the pool. So looking at their socials, their discord is just over 2000 members and their telegram is just under 10,000 members, so there's plenty of activity for you to get a feel for the community and do your own research. DFI chain looks like they are making big strides in the space, and their goals for the next few quarters, as well as the next three to ten years, are looking pretty exciting. Their d tokens are looking promising and I'm really interested to see where this goes in the coming months and years. We'll leave a link in the description below so you can go and check them out for yourselves.
00:10:58.346 - 00:11:11.930, Speaker A: That's all for this video. Thank you for watching and I'll speak to you sooner.
