00:00:00.960 - 00:00:34.826, Speaker A: Alright, everyone, we're gonna get started. So thanks everyone for coming to the 8th daily Gwei Ama as usual. If you want to ask a question during the AMA, you can raise your hand down the bottom. It'll come up on my screen and I'll add you to the stage that you can ask your question. But most of the AMA, I'll be reading questions off of the sheet that I prepared, which is questions that are found in the AMA series Discord channel, where you can also ask questions that I'll get to at the end. This will be recorded and uploaded to YouTube as usual, about 24 hours after the AMA concludes. So if you do end up having to leave early or you've come in late, you'll be able to kind of like watch this there.
00:00:34.826 - 00:01:21.820, Speaker A: So without further ado, I'm going to get started with the first question from the AMA series channel, which I've got on my sheet here, which comes from yawn, the faun who says, regarding the old world banking system versus ethereum, one thing that gets mentioned often is that the old world payment rails are incredibly inefficient. And yes, from my experience, it takes bank of America three days to perform an electronic transfer. And if you need to make a transfer on a weekend, good luck. Could you provide color on what these rails actually are, why they're so slow, and why they don't operate 24/7 surely these banks are using digital systems with databases and digital protocols. That is swift. Given that the old world technology is, I think, digital, why is it such an awful experience? So there's a lot to unpack here. The way I like to look at the old world financial rails is that they're essentially a kind of a system with a bunch of band aids on it.
00:01:21.820 - 00:02:08.894, Speaker A: So these kind of like rails were created a long time ago. Basically, you can even trace it all the way back to the industrial revolution. Uh, and since then, you know, through the tech, uh, through uh, kind of like the years and over the decades and especially through the information age, uh, there were just kind of like new systems spun up, but they were all kind of like patchwork systems where there was no kind of standard. There was, there was no kind of like standard for talking to each other. Then Swift came along and, you know, Swift has its own issues, things like that. You have like thousands of different financial institutions, you know, more than that, tens of thousands all around the world trying to kind of like talk to each other and settle, um, and kind of like settle funds transfers with each other and make sure that it can't be intercepted by kind of, I guess, like hackers or anything like that. It's, it's just a very, very complex system.
00:02:08.894 - 00:02:46.682, Speaker A: And the root of the cause is that there is no global settlement layer for, I guess, like traditional financial system. And this, this is kind of like the crux of it. The settlement assurances that you get from, I guess, the traditional system are very, very different to what you'll get from a blockchain. So, for example, with Ethereum, when you send, like when I send funds to someone on the other side of the world, the arbiter of that transaction is the Ethereum network itself, right? The miners will mine it. It's in the mempool. They'll include it in a block, and then it gets, it goes onto the blockchain. And the only way to revert that transaction is if the miners banded together to kind of like roll back the chain or there was a hard fork to roll back the chain or whatever.
00:02:46.682 - 00:03:32.570, Speaker A: Right? But in the normal case, you get, like, pretty good settlement assurances and it's secured by the entire Ethereum network. You know, obviously the miners and every other kind of participant in that. So that's the kind of like settlement assurance you get when sending an Ethereum transaction, doing a defi interaction, you know, whatever else you do on the Ethereum network. Same goes for the bitcoin, same goes for any other blockchain. The kind of parties that are kind of like giving you those settlement assurances are the, I guess, miners or stakers that are securing the network as well as the rest of the ecosystem that plays their part in keeping the network running from full node runners to community members to different projects on the chain and things like that. So it kind of falls back to that. Whereas in the traditional system, you don't have a global settlement layer, right? You have this patchwork of different systems all throughout the world in different countries.
00:03:32.570 - 00:04:08.666, Speaker A: You, you know, some of them will use swift, some of them will use other, other kind of like tools out there. And they, and because there's no standard, they have to go through the legal system. So if there is a kind of dispute that happens, the dispute has to be done in kind of like through kind of like an arbitration system, and that's through the courts and legal system. You got to get lawyers involved. You know, there's physical contracts drawn up and things like that to make sure that kind of things run smoothly. And there's consequences if, if any of, if anything happens on either end. And then, you know, because of these, all these systems take forever to talk to each other or because you have to go through a manual settlement assurance, sorry, settlement period.
00:04:08.666 - 00:05:09.496, Speaker A: You kind of have this, this thing where it takes like three days for a international wire transfer, for example, or something like that, because you have to go through, you know, you have to go basically route through all these different banks and then all of them have to be sure that the payment is, you know, is legit and it's actually going to get settled on the other end. And then sometimes, uh, depending where you're sending a payment to, you won't actually know where it is in the chain until it arrives at its, at its kind of like destination. So essentially you can send the payment out and then three days later it'll arrive at the destination bank. But during that time you may not even have any visibility and even the banks won't have any visibility on it because it's just, it's basically kind of like a, I guess you could imagine it like a map and there's little different points on the map and each, each point it goes through, it just gets forwarded onto the next. And, and you know, each system, each bank has its own system, each financial institution has its own system to guarantee that this payment is kind of like flowing through, flowing through the system. And sometimes, you know, the money won't even get there and you'll have to go through the bank and you know, go and get them to follow it up for you and all that sort of stuff. Whereas with Ethereum, you don't have that, right.
00:05:09.496 - 00:06:00.046, Speaker A: Like ethereum is literally, I send a transaction to someone and if I was running my own full node, I could have the most trustless assumptions there because I could basically check my full node and say, okay, well, you know, I can see the transaction cents and I can see that it got delivered to this recipient. I, I can see that now their balance has been updated and my balance has been deducted and that's kind of like the settlement done there. Uh, you know, and everyone can see that, right? Like not just me and the receiver, but like everyone, uh, because the, the blockchain is obviously transparent. For better or worse, everyone can see that that transaction was confirmed. And then you can see like how, how many confirmations it has and what block it was in, all that other kind of, I guess, detail that falls into that. And you just don't get that from the traditional system because there was never a global standard built. And as I mentioned, like Swift, I mean, as you mentioned, like Swift, that was an attempt at a global system, but it's too hard to retroactively fit this in because it's just, it's so clunky.
00:06:00.046 - 00:06:46.408, Speaker A: It's a lot of these banks and financial institutions don't want to have to upgrade their, kind of like their systems. It costs a lot of money, there's a lot of legacy and tech debt in there. It's just, it's really, really bad. And that's, that's basically the major reason. And that's why it's actually, it's actually pretty funny because the, the best way to fix this system is to literally just create a brand new one with all of the issues of the old system removed, and create an actual true global settlement layer where we can actually agree on, you know, where we can actually agree on kind of like the settlements and the settlement assurances that the network gives you and stuff like that. So, and when it comes to I guess, settlement assurances as well, as I mentioned with the Ethereum blockchain, you have those assurances. Uh, you know, the, the deeper kind of like the, the chain goes, the more kind of like proof of work is, is accumulated.
00:06:46.408 - 00:07:44.978, Speaker A: The, the stronger the guarantee that the chain might be rolled back or the harder it is to roll back the chain, but you don't have finality. So technically the chain could be rolled back to block zero if it wanted to, if you were able to kind of like get majority hash rate and kind of like fork the chain and do all kind of nasty stuff. In a proof of stake system within Ethereum, we have what's called economic finality, which is essentially a way to economically incentivize the network not to reorg. And that is done through actual finalization. Every twelve minutes, every two epics, the chain is finalized. And essentially what that means is that most of the stake, I think it's two thirds of the stake, are at risk of being kind of I guess, slashed or kind of, I guess by being slashed, those stakers would lose their funds if they were to attempt to reorg or roll back the chain or attack the chain in any kind of way like that. So we have much stronger, actually, settlement insurances under a proof of stake system, at least in Ethereum's context, than we do with Ethereum's proof of work system as well, because there's no kind of like finality there.
00:07:44.978 - 00:08:28.978, Speaker A: But you still have, I guess, the, the insurances of that accumulated proof of work as time goes on. And that, that's getting into like the block chain side of it. But yeah, generally it's just it's just much, it's worth our time to rebuild the whole system from scratch rather than try and fix the existing one, because it's just not going to happen. And the funny thing is, on top of all the reasons I already outlined as to why that won't happen, it's also a closed system. So even if you wanted to improve upon it, you have to get the permission of these financial institutions, these banks, these governments, to actually do anything. They won't let you touch their systems. They won't even let you do anything in the financial world without getting all these kind of, I guess, without going kind of like through this whole process where you have to get sign off from different kind of regulators, where you have to get licenses.
00:08:28.978 - 00:09:11.802, Speaker A: And, I mean, it's a mess, right? This is, there's a reason why you don't really see many financial institutions spin up there. There may be kind of like apps building on top of it, like fintech, but they're very limited. They're definitely very different to what we see in Defi. So, you know, and from that perspective, well, why not just build a new system where it's completely open for anyone to build on? And we've seen how quickly that system has gained adoption and is evolving and invading much, much faster than traditional systems. So, yeah, hopefully that answers your question around, I guess, why the old system is so efficient and why it's really not even worth trying to fix. It's, I would say it's impossible. Like, even if you had thrown so much money at it, it would be impossible to fix a system which is not made to be global and which has so many different kind of moving parts to it.
00:09:11.802 - 00:09:59.738, Speaker A: And it would literally, it would take years. Right? It would, it would be just a very, very slow process. So, yeah, hopefully that answers your question there. You had another one here where you basically asked about transaction finalization with regards to optimistic roll ups. So you typed out a bit here. I'm not going to read out the whole thing because it's quite lengthy, but you essentially, the crux of your question was that how does I think optimism or arbitrum handle disputes? The way these networks work in optimistic roll ups is that they take an optimistic approach to security where they essentially assume that everyone is behaving correctly, behaving in the right manner, and that they're not trying to attack the chain. And if there is kind of like a dispute, then they give this seven day kind of dispute period where it goes to a bunch of different rounds.
00:09:59.738 - 00:10:57.664, Speaker A: And, you know, if I guess, like, the disputer is correct and something foul did happen on the chain, then that disputer would be able to kind of, like, claim a reward for that. They would. The person who kind of, like what was, was trying to defraud the chain would lose money because they have to put up a bond. There's a bunch of, like, game theory that goes into this as well. There's actually a really great post from derebit insights on this that compares kind of like, these, these arbitration processes, but that's essentially how it works with optimistic roll ups. But, you know, your question was basically, does the chain have to be rolled back if there is actually fraud that happens on the chain? And wouldn't that kind of, like, lead to some weird behavior? Because, say, you know, you've given an analogy here where you say you're imagining if I was to give you $100, and then you took that $100 and bought a skateboard, and the guy who sold me the skateboard then went to a fancy restaurant and spent dollar 100, et cetera, et cetera. And then days later, the government came in and said the $100 you gave me was fraudulent.
00:10:57.664 - 00:11:30.314, Speaker A: At this point, the money has already been made several hoop hops, and society is in a state that is dependent on those hops. How could you realistically roll back those hops so that all the transactions revert without severely disrupting society? So I think arbitrum and optimism differ here in how they handle disputes. But the way it works in arbitrum, I think it's arbitrum. It might be optimism, but the way it works in one of them is that the chain continues on. And, you know, if there's kind of, like, a dispute started at one point, the chain will keep kind of like building blocks, and it'll kind of, like, build blocks on. On both sides of. Of kind of like the.
00:11:30.314 - 00:11:54.480, Speaker A: The fork, I guess you could say. Because if someone creates, like, a fraud dispute, then there's, like, a fork in the chain at that point in time, and then you keep building blocks and keep kind of, like, having transactions go there. Um, but, like, you know, when, if the fraud. If at the end of the seven day period, the. I guess the fraud proof is correct, and, um, you know, that there was fraud there, then I think it only affects those transactions. But I'm not totally sure. Like, I'd have to reread the post on this.
00:11:54.480 - 00:12:17.288, Speaker A: It's a good question. I'm not totally sure how arbitrum and optimism handle it. Like, at the kind of, I guess, undetailed level, because this is something that, as I said, there's. There's a bit of game theory that goes into it. They both have different ways of doing it. Like, it's similar in kind of like principle, but different in that they have different approaches to it. And I think arbitrum's arbitration process is a bit slower than optimism.
00:12:17.288 - 00:12:42.640, Speaker A: So there's a bit of intricacies there. But the derabit insights piece, if you just search on Google Darabit insights optimistic roll ups, the piece about that will give you a great explanation of how it works. But from memory, that piece didn't mention a scenario like this. So I would actually have to kind of, like, dig into. Dig into this, see if I can find anything on that for you. But, yeah, I guess, like, that's the kind of answer I can give you for now. So hopefully that answers your question there.
00:12:42.640 - 00:13:26.826, Speaker A: And your last one, you're on the phone that you had here about the shadowy super coder who recently stole $600 million from the poly network. Couldn't he have deposited at least some of the loot on Tornado cash to obfuscate his wallet trail? And if not, why not? He could. I mean, it was a funny kind of, like, hack, right? Because they, they basically stole this money, and then the USDT that they had stolen got frozen because there's a, in these centralized, stable coins, there is a. There's a backdoor mechanism where they can basically free, globally freeze any coins that they want in anyone's wallet. So that got frozen, and then he kind of, like, put some dai, I think it was a USDC, into a curve pool. And, you know, if the funds were to actually be frozen in that curve pool, it would. It would lead to some kind of, like, I guess, de pegging within that pool for a little bit.
00:13:26.826 - 00:13:49.132, Speaker A: It would, it would self correct. Uh, uh, but, yeah, it would cause some, like, weird behavior there. But, you know, to your question, uh, they could have definitely deposited, like, the ETH, for example, into tornado cash to kind of obfuscate the wallet trail here. But it was a lot of ETH. I would have had to do it slowly. Uh, but that could still have been a possibility. But I think just, you know, in this specific case, this, uh, this hacker was very amateur.
00:13:49.132 - 00:14:12.682, Speaker A: I think that they found this bug. They tested it locally, probably first, and they're like, okay, wow, this is going to work. They did it. And then they got all this money, and they're like, okay, how the hell am I going to cash this out now? And in the cybersecurity world. These people are called script kiddies. They're basically, you know, usually young people or at least first time hackers, just trying their luck with different kind of things. And sometimes they stumble upon a gold mine and they don't realize what, you know, until it's happened.
00:14:12.682 - 00:14:33.744, Speaker A: They don't actually realize what they've done. And then, you know, he obviously returned the funds as well. But he made a few other OpSec mistakes, too. He basically sent funds to his wallet that he used in the hack from a centralized exchange that had, that required KYC to withdraw the amount he withdrew. So he was obviously already identified. I haven't heard much about that yet, but. Or at least any follow up there.
00:14:33.744 - 00:14:53.056, Speaker A: But there's a reason he returned the funds. And that was one of them. And the other one, I think, was the fact that he just was very amateur, or he or she, I don't know, maybe it was a group of people, but they were just very, very amateur. And I don't think they totally knew what they were doing. And you could see from, I guess, like the. On what happened on chain, and it was kind of, like, sporadic, and it was. It was quite weird.
00:14:53.056 - 00:15:36.910, Speaker A: Yeah. The smarter hackers definitely do go through tornado cash, or they'll go through something like the Ren bridge, where if they steal bitcoin, especially if it's wrapped bitcoin, they'll trade it for Ren BTC, then they'll go through the Ren bridge and basically go over to the bitcoin network. And then once they've got the bitcoin on the bitcoin network, it's kind of like wash through, and they can do whatever they want with that bitcoin on there, and they can cash it out or whatever. So, yeah, hopefully that answers your question. All right, just a reminder, if anyone in the audience wants to ask a question, you can raise your hand and I'll let you upset I up on stage, but I'll keep working through the list until I see someone pop up there. So this one comes from Monkey King, who asks, why do I have to wait seven days to withdraw my funds from Matic to the Ethereum network? There's no option to do it instantly. What price do you.
00:15:36.910 - 00:16:06.142, Speaker A: And then. Okay, okay, I'll answer this question first. So the seven day withdrawal period is through their plasma bridge. So plasma is actually an, I guess, like the technology that's kind of a precursor to optimistic roll ups. It was very popular in 2017 and a little bit in 2018, and optimism was actually called plasma group back then. So they were working on that. But anyway, to your question here, that requires a seven day arbitration process, just like the optimism and arbitrary networks do.
00:16:06.142 - 00:16:45.054, Speaker A: It's the same kind of process where to withdraw your funds. You have to wait seven days to see if any disputes come up, and then if not, you're able to kind of access your funds there. But there is another. There is a couple of other bridges outside, out of the Matic network. You can go through one of their bridges that uses the POS network as a bridge. I think it takes a few hours, and then there's other bridges, like hot protocol and connects that allow you to do it within minutes, if not sometimes seconds. So, yeah, there are options for you now, you don't have to wait those seven days if you don't want to, but by doing it through kind of like the plasma with chain withdrawal, you get much better security guarantees than you do with the other ones, if that, you know, if that's kind of like something you were concerned about.
00:16:45.054 - 00:17:06.554, Speaker A: So hopefully that answers that. And then you ask, what price do you think Madok will hit end of year? I have no idea. I don't know. Like, I can't answer that question. And, you know, I guess like, I'm an advisor to Polygon as well, so I shouldn't be answering that question, you know? So sorry, I can't kind of, like, answer that one. Okay, I got a question from the audience here, from Reginald Garbs. I'll invite you on stage.
00:17:06.554 - 00:17:28.273, Speaker A: You can ask it. Just gotta accept the invite there, Reginald, and you'll be able to kind of speak on stage. There you go. Your mic's muted.
00:17:31.213 - 00:17:32.193, Speaker B: There we go.
00:17:32.653 - 00:18:17.572, Speaker A: Sorry, have you been following what Hasu's been talking about regarding EGL and Eden? And do you think that's a real threat to the network? I have been following it on Twitter over the last few hours, and I have actually been following AGL for a little while now. So I guess, like, context for people listening. EGL is the Ethereum gas limits. Kind of like, it stands for Ethereum gas limit, but the project that's kind of heading it up is called something like Eagle network. It's this project from blocks route. And what they want to do is they basically have these tokens, and they want to use these tokens to signal to miners of whether to kind of, I guess, like, raise or lower the gas limit. Now, the gas limit within Ethereum is Ethereum's block size, effectively, and the control of that lies with the miners.
00:18:17.572 - 00:19:01.692, Speaker A: So the miners can either vote to increase it or vote to lower it depending on I guess like a variety of factors. Usually they increase it if the core devs say it's okay to do so. They don't really act on their own, but I think blocks route kind of identified this issue. Or at least it's an issue that they think is present right now within the network where there's no real way to signal to miners outside of going through the core devs of what to do with the gas limit. Now the reason has to is, I guess like, I mean, he chose violence today, right? Like he was basically talking about how this is like a, an attack on Ethereum. It is trying to introduce some sort of pseudo on chain governance to Ethereum. Because obviously the more of these tokens that you hold, the kind of like, I guess a greater say you have.
00:19:01.692 - 00:19:40.868, Speaker A: But at the end of the day, no one that I know within the Ethereum community is really supporting this. You know, the, the blockchrout team claims to have support from, from core developers and other community members. I haven't seen that personally. And Peter from the Geth team came out and said that he's not supporting it. I saw a couple other people say that as well. Um, but essentially, yeah, I guess what it's doing is, is as I said, it's trying to introduce this on chain governance mechanism. But at the same time it's also, it's also, I guess a little bit worrying because there's, there's this kind of, um, I guess, open question about minor allegiances within Ethereum now because we're obviously going through the merge hopefully sooner rather than later.
00:19:40.868 - 00:20:44.422, Speaker A: You know, maybe Q 120 22 where we're merging proof of work in, sorry, merging the Ethereum chain, ETH one and ETH two chains and getting off proof of work. So the logic kind of flows. Okay, well, do miners have the best interest of Ethereum at heart if we're basically going to be cutting them off instantly once the merge happens? Like we're going to be essentially making their miners, I guess, like, you know, their mining machines worthless unless they find another chain to mine on and we're basically firing them for lack of a better term there. So the game theory starts to break down where it's like, okay, well, why wouldn't miners basically do what's in their best interest for the next few months or what's most profitable for them to kind of like maximize their profits? And I guess like that's where EGL kind of looks like a little bit of an attack as well because the miners may be more incentivized to kind of like, listen to these token holders and then use that as an excuse to lower or raise the gas limit. If they lower the gas limit, the on chain fees would get higher because we'd have less block space. If they raise it, it would become more difficult to run a full node, you know, and I don't know if they'd raise it. Like, lowering it would probably be more profitable for them.
00:20:44.422 - 00:21:18.654, Speaker A: But again, like, most of the fees, I guess, are being burned now as well. So they're also, they're also probably hurting from that. And then there's a lot of other game theory that goes into it as well, where essentially it's not just, I guess, the gas limit, it's also Mev. Like, do the miners have the interest at heart to kind of keep the ethereum chain running, uh, in, in a healthy way without extracting as much mev as possible? You know, who knows there? So I think that's what, what kind of, like, has. Who's been talking about as well. But, you know, I guess, like, just for clarity, I don't support the AGL method or AGL token or whatever at all. I don't think that on chain governance is a good idea.
00:21:18.654 - 00:22:04.404, Speaker A: I don't think that the decision about the gas limit, which is actually a pretty big technical decision and a pretty, pretty big technical topic, I don't think that should be left up to, you know, just the random people in the community or random token holders. Um, because at the end of the day, most people have no idea what the long term effects of raising the gas limit are. They don't know the clients as well as the core devs do, because once you raise gas limits, things like uncle rates can go up. And if the uncle rates go too high, that means the chain can become unstable. So there's a lot of different things to consider. So, from my point of view, I don't think just putting tokens into the hands of a bunch of random people online and kind of like using that as a signaling mechanism would actually improve the process that we have now. So, yeah, I mean, hopefully that gives a kind of color about what's happening there.
00:22:04.404 - 00:22:45.926, Speaker A: I think has who's definitely taking the right approach with, with kind of calling it out publicly and getting more of the core devs and researchers and everything to signal that they are not in favor of this. And, you know, he's taken an even greater cynical approach here where he's saying this is basically something that VC's are trying to do. Because blocks route is a VC backed company. Their technology, as far as I know, hasn't been adopted that much. They basically make technology for transaction relaying where they promise that you'll be able to kind of like relay transactions faster through the network and kind of like, uh, they offer kind of like a bunch of value added services like that. But I don't think there's been a but much uptake there. So they've kind of done this EGL token now, and I've seen a few of their VC's kind of like pumping it on Twitter.
00:22:45.926 - 00:23:37.442, Speaker A: So there's also that right where it becomes like a pseudo thing where the VC's own a lot of the supply through blocks route. Um, and, and they basically use this as kind of like a signaling mechanism. And the miners may be inclined to listen to it because they, you know, as I said, like the game theory around them is it will break down the closer we get to the merge because of the fact that they just don't have any long term, I guess, kind of allegiance to Ethereum anymore because we're firing them and they know they're getting fired. Like, could you imagine if your boss told, tells you, hey, in six months we're going to fire you? Could you not screw anything up until then? Or could you do your work properly till then? You know, even if you're still getting paid to do it, you will probably do less work, right? Or you'll probably find ways to, I guess I kind of like, make the most of the time that you're there. You're probably kind of like, I don't know if you're. If you're. If you're someone who doesn't really care, give a shit and you hate your, you hated your job anyway, you probably gonna like, steal some offers equipment or maybe you do some dodgy things.
00:23:37.442 - 00:23:55.514, Speaker A: I don't know, it's kind of like. That's a little bit of an analogy there where this is kind of where minors sit today. So it is definitely a bigger issue than just the EGL stuff, and it's going to be interesting to see how it plays out over the next few months. Awesome. Did I answer your question, Reginald?
00:23:57.734 - 00:23:58.158, Speaker B: Yes.
00:23:58.206 - 00:24:09.782, Speaker A: Thank you very much. Appreciate it. No worries. No worries. Thanks for the question. That was a good one. All right, I'll move on to the next one from the sheet here.
00:24:09.782 - 00:25:10.834, Speaker A: So I have one from Dom here who asks, what are the functional differences between WBTC and Ren BTC? If I have BTC sitting in an actual bitcoin wallet am I better off leaving it there, talking long term here, four plus years? Or is it safe enough to risk custodian custodial risk to rapid in defi getting yield and stuff? So the functional differences are that wrapped bitcoin is totally 100,000% centralized because it is managed by a multi sig. I think there's a lot of people on that multi sig. I don't know exactly how many signatures you need to do anything, but last I checked there was like 18 signers on that multisig. But I don't know if it's like a ten of 18 or like a twelve of 18 or whatever it is, I'd have to check on that. But still, like that multi sea controls basically everything with WBTC. But also when you convert BTC to WBTC through something like coin list, it's, it's your BTC is basically in custody there. And you know, you can trade WBTC to BTC on some exchanges and things like that.
00:25:10.834 - 00:25:57.194, Speaker A: But still, it's like a total, total custodial system with Ren BTC. I wouldn't be able to say if it's like fully decentralized or like 100% decentralized, but the way it works is it uses, I believe, multi party computation or NPC, where essentially you send your bitcoin to these, I think they called dark nodes within Ren. Maybe there's a different name for them these days where essentially they take this BTC, they lock it up in using time lock cash contracts, I think they're called on bitcoin. I can't remember the exact name here, but they essentially lock it on the bitcoin side. And then through their kind of NPC system they issue you these ren BTC on ethereum. And then I don't know, like how the decentralization is kept in check with the nodes that are running that NPC. I don't know if there's a multi sig there.
00:25:57.194 - 00:26:43.898, Speaker A: An admin key I believe there was at one point. And I'm assuming those nodes are probably staking some tokens or whatever. But I would say it's, it's definitely probably more decentralized than WBTC, but I'm not sure on the exact level of decentralization there. So if you want to gain some kind of, I guess like yield in defi using your BTC or use it as collateral, you do, you do take on this custodial risk with WBTC and then with REm BTC there's a bunch of other risks as well. Like something could go wrong with the system that kind of, like, loses all your BTC. There could be, like, a major bug or something, you know, something going wrong there as well. So if you're planning to, I guess, like, just hold your BTC for long term, it's maybe better to just keep it in a cold storage on the Bitcoin network, unless you really want to earn kind of, like, some yield on it or use it as collateral.
00:26:43.898 - 00:26:49.854, Speaker A: So, yeah, hopefully that answers that question. All right, Alinara, I'll invite you onto the stage. You can ask you a question.
00:26:52.954 - 00:26:53.922, Speaker B: Hey, good morning.
00:26:54.018 - 00:26:54.914, Speaker A: Hey, how you going?
00:26:54.994 - 00:27:15.126, Speaker B: So the latest refuel, we were talking about the fractionalization of NFTs. We're talking about probably one use case for that is specularization or speculation. I mean, and I was trying to come up with other use cases, speculation. But I'm having a real hard time here because I get owning, for example, the Mona Lisa as an NFT. That's cool. You can put it in your house. You own the Mona Lisa.
00:27:15.126 - 00:27:43.054, Speaker B: But I guess owning the nose of the Mona Lisa isn't as cool as owning the entire piece. So I'm having a real hard time here trying to rationalize a use case for owning a fraction of an NFT. And I guess you could argue that maybe it's one of the use cases is collective ownership. Collective ownership. But there are already daos for collective ownership, where they pull together funds to buy the whole piece. So I don't know if you have any other use case for fractional nfTs.
00:27:43.474 - 00:28:11.238, Speaker A: Yeah, it's a good question. I was going to mention collective ownership. I think you're right that there are daos that offer this right now, a bunch of different daos out there that are collecting art pieces, like pleaserdao and flamingo dao. And there's a few others out there, I believe. But I think what's different about the collective ownership with fractionalization is that you essentially hold, I guess, like, one piece of. I guess, like, you know, one. One fraction of the greater piece, and you kind of, like, have this sense of.
00:28:11.238 - 00:28:32.242, Speaker A: Of collective ownership without having to be part of some kind of dao whatever, right? Like, you could be sharing this ownership with random people throughout the ecosystem. So maybe that that is something that appeals to people. But definitely, I think, like, a dao is a bit more structured, a bit different there. And with. Within a dow, it's. You can't really kind of, like, use it as speculation, because in a Dao, it's not fractionalized. Right.
00:28:32.242 - 00:28:59.062, Speaker A: It's the whole piece. And you know, you can still speculate on it and maybe you have a share of the dao, whatever. But if the dao votes and says, well, we don't want to sell this piece now, but you do want to sell, maybe you can sell your share of the Dao, but you know, there's a lot of these daos don't even have tokens attached to them. So I don't know how that would work. But essentially with fractionalization, it would be a lot easier. Like say you buy a fraction of a crypto punk and then it goes up in value while you just sell that into the market. And you know, you don't have to get anyone's permission to do that.
00:28:59.062 - 00:29:50.150, Speaker A: You don't have to talk to anyone. You can just sell it into the market there. But also, I guess the other use case would be using it as, you know, to provide liquidity or into like a liquidity pool or whatever, or I guess like enhanced liquidity for, for a particular NFT set. But yeah, I mean, I'm sure like there's, there's kind of like people working on, on this sort of stuff and working on more use cases here. I think that I probably haven't spent enough time in the NFT space, especially not in the fractionalization space, to probably be able to come up with like all the use cases. Um, you know, maybe even using it as collateral and things like that would be easier because of the more, uh, the additional liquidity that you're afforded with, with fractionalization. Uh, but I, you know, I went through on the refuel, I guess, like maybe a couple weeks ago now about, uh, party bid, you know, all these people grouped together to bid on an NFT and then it immediately got fractionalized and they kind of like got the frat, the, um, the story to go with it, right.
00:29:50.150 - 00:30:11.944, Speaker A: Because they can say to people, hey, you know, I bid in this as part of like, this kind of like collective bidding process, and then it fractionalized and then I got my piece and we all kind of like experience this together. So there's that aspect to it as well. That kind of like, I guess maybe strengthens the collective ownership aspect of it. But yeah, I guess we're going to have to see what other use cases people come up with. I think people are definitely going to come up with some wacky stuff, that's for sure.
00:30:13.004 - 00:30:34.756, Speaker B: I think it makes sense now that you say it this way, because indeed, a collective ownership Dao is a solution. And if it's liquid enough and you can sell your piece. That's all fine. But not every collective ownership Dao has that. Maybe. So this puts more. How do you say that? It gives the individual user more power instead of having to go through the dao if they want to make.
00:30:34.756 - 00:30:38.940, Speaker B: If they want to do something with this year gives them more power. Okay, thank you. Thank you.
00:30:39.052 - 00:30:49.954, Speaker A: Awesome. Yeah, thanks. Thanks for the question. All right, crypto prowess. I'll invite you up onto the stage. You can ask a question. Hey, how you going?
00:30:52.134 - 00:31:15.150, Speaker B: Oh, good. Thank you so much, man. I just want to thank you for everything you do for the entire community of the cryptoverse. Just big, big ups. My question more relates to as somebody that's kind of coming up in crypto. I recently about, I don't know, five months ago, went full time degen. I'm getting to a point now where I'm just, do you have any resources for somebody to be able to look, to be able to.
00:31:15.150 - 00:31:33.348, Speaker B: How can I start turning this into something where I could start, like, showing some of, like, the profits and being able to. To utilize them in such a fashion that that is going to be able to turn it into a life as well, you know, rather than just stacking stacks? Mm hmm. Mm hmm.
00:31:33.396 - 00:32:16.548, Speaker A: Yeah, that's a good question, I think. I mean, there's multiple ways you can do this here, right? Like, it depends if you've got enough, I guess, like capital to earn. Like a passive yield that's sustainable, you know, that can cover your bills and things like that. That's, you know, obviously really, really great. I mean, but I don't think most people are in that position, depending on where you live, you know, cost of living expenses, all that sort of stuff. Um, but the second kind of thing is that there are plenty of, I guess, like, crypto companies and daos and all this sort of stuff hiring right now. And they really do hire based on, uh, I guess more on, like, how long have you been in the ecosystem? What have you been doing? Kind of like, there's something called a degen score, which you could put your address into, and it would actually give you, like, a score based on kind of what, on chain activities you've done.
00:32:16.548 - 00:32:45.964, Speaker A: So definitely that would be like a resume, you know, an on chain kind of, like resume as well, which would be really cool to kind of, like, present to these teams. But, yeah, I mean, that's, that's the next logical path forward. If you feel like, you know, you, you have done enough within the ecosystem, you understand the lay of the land, and you feel like you can add value to one of these teams in whatever way it is. You know, you can do BD, like business development, marketing, you know, coding. If you're. If you're into that, like, there's roles for basically everyone. And if you feel like you can do that, then that's the next step that I would take from there.
00:32:45.964 - 00:33:26.804, Speaker A: Otherwise, if you do have enough capital to kind of sustain yourself just through some safer yield farming, maybe some stable coin farming, or maybe even even eat staking, whatever, that would be another kind of, like, path forward. But I guess, yeah, it's funny because I think your path is definitely something I felt when I was doing my degen days during Defi summer. It gets to a point where you're like, okay, well, this is getting kind of like, I guess, you know, the money's nice and everything like that, but then you get to a point where you're like, I want more than this. And, you know, I was working at set at the time, but it's still like, I wanted more than that. So I started doing. I mean, I was doing the Daily Gwen newsletter at the time, but then I started kind of, like, being like, okay, well, I need to launch a YouTube channel. I want to keep adding value back to the ecosystem.
00:33:26.804 - 00:34:00.142, Speaker A: So I feel like, you know, you're definitely in that position right now. So I would say, yeah, if you're. If you're in the position to join a team within crypto, there's actually an AMA I did with cryptocurrency jobs or Daniel from cryptocurrency jobs. There's a transcript. If you actually go to the announcement channel in the Discord and scroll up a bit, the transcript is linked there. That'll give you kind of an overview of, I guess, like, some of the most frequently asked questions of, like, how to get a job within crypto, whether that be for a Dao or an existing kind of like, team or whatever, that will probably be a best bet because all of these teams are early stage and you'll be able to add a lot of value. They're not like these monolithic entities.
00:34:00.142 - 00:34:08.514, Speaker A: They're like teams of maybe 1020 people or something like that, and very startup y across the kind of board there. So, yeah, hopefully that that helps you out there.
00:34:09.014 - 00:34:25.486, Speaker B: No, that's excellent. Thank you so much. Yes, I'm definitely wanting to give back more than I am wanting to just be on some passive yield thing. I want to definitely go more down the road of what you're doing here. And help a team bring something to fruition. That's great. So thank you so much.
00:34:25.630 - 00:34:57.186, Speaker A: Yeah, I totally understand and I get exactly where you're coming from, but, yeah, as I said, highly recommend checking out that transcript of that ama. You can find it in the announcement channel, and that'll give you kind of a good idea of, I guess, like how to join a team within the crypto space. Awesome. All right, no more requests to speak. I'll continue through the list here. So got one here from Vogs who says, let's say a couple of people want to start a Defi protocol fund together. How can they safe, safely pool their capital without anyone being able to take the other's money? Let's say the marriage goes sour.
00:34:57.186 - 00:35:41.096, Speaker A: Couldn't the multi seq owners hold each other hostage by not voting to return the funds? Is there any way one can guarantee to be able to get their own share back? And then you have a second question here, which I'll. Which I'll go into in a sec. So, to answer your first question, I mean, you can code a smart contract to do pretty much like anything, right? So you could basically code it up to say, well, there's like a period of time where any of the founders can withdraw their share without needing to go through the multisig. For example, say you put like ten each into it and there's like five of you. Well, you could have it programmed that for the first kind of like three months of the project. If for some reason it's going sour within the first three months, then you can pull your share out and you won't have to get kind of like, sign off from the multisig kind of holders there. Um, you know, that does introduce other problems.
00:35:41.096 - 00:36:24.344, Speaker A: Say, if you've using that ETH to kind of, I guess, um, take on debt to fund activities and stuff like that. Um, which I probably wouldn't be doing anyway. But, yeah, that, that could definitely be a potential kind of like, fallout there. Uh, and there's, you know, come on, kind of more complex schemes you can set up where essentially, um, you, you kind of like, have this kind of like a rage quit mechanism, which was pioneered by Molokdale, where it's similar to being able to withdraw your own share, but essentially kind of like, uh, by doing so, you kind of like, I think there's a penalty that's. That's kind of, I guess, like, suffered as well for kind of doing that and stuff like that. But, yeah, it could definitely be coded up in a way that protects people from kind of, I guess, like having their funds frozen and multi SiG holders not releasing them and things like that. So, yeah, hopefully that answers that question.
00:36:24.344 - 00:36:54.450, Speaker A: And the second question you said here, once the ethereum proof of stake merge has been finalized, would it ever be possible to undo in case there are unforeseen consequences? Yes, for sure. I mean, the way to undo it would just be to go back to proof of work. Right. But it would be very, very messy because you would basically have to choose a block which would basically be the block that you forked over to proof of stake or that the merge happened. So say it's block like 15 million or something like that. You would have to basically say, okay, well, we need to go back to block 15 million. That's a proof of work block.
00:36:54.450 - 00:37:22.868, Speaker A: We need to get the miners to start mining from that block, and away you go from there. It would be incredibly messy, right. Because you would basically be having to probably reverse all the transactions that happened while it was under proof of stake. And essentially, you know, would screw up a lot of the exchanges and stuff like that as well. It would. It would be incredibly messy, like, and I actually don't think it would be something that. I mean, it's possible, but I don't think it would be something that would be able to be done in any kind of way that was actually good for everyone.
00:37:22.868 - 00:37:48.488, Speaker A: I think it would lead to a lot of long term, kind of, like, consequences, and it wouldn't be a very clean thing at all. So this is why it's so critical that the merge goes well the first time, because essentially, I mean, even getting the miners back to kind of mine the chain and getting. And getting up to the same hash rate would be near impossible. And then you'd kind of, like, have these weird things that go on where miners could play some tricks or do whatever they want. I mean, it would be just so messy. There's so many kind of, like, I mean, there's so much game theory to this. It's insane.
00:37:48.488 - 00:38:10.038, Speaker A: Like, this is actually pretty. Once you go down into, like, the rabbit hole of thinking about the merge and how miners and. And kind of like stakers interact here. Like, the. Obviously the stakers are going to be fine. They're happy, like, upgrading, you know, their software to support the merge, there's going to be no kind of, I guess, quarrels from them, but the miners definitely, you know, there's going to be quarrel from. So if.
00:38:10.038 - 00:38:33.706, Speaker A: If they kind of, like, get, you know, get fired and then we come back to them like a week later and say, oh, wow, you know, it's proof of stake thing didn't work out. We need you guys. You know, I don't know what they're going to say. Right. Um, and, you know, I don't know what the ETH price would do in that either. Like if, if we did the merge and then something catastrophic happened and we had to roll back to proof of work, I'm pretty sure the ETH price would crash, like really, really fast. I mean, I don't believe that the market is super efficient, but it would be very efficient in that regard.
00:38:33.706 - 00:38:55.474, Speaker A: And it would, it would kind of look like the Ethereum. Ethereum classic split from 2016. I believe so, yeah. I guess, like long story short, it would be possible to undo it, but there would be, it would be so messy that it probably wouldn't even. I mean, it's not something I even want to think about, to be honest. I want to think about just getting the merge right rather than thinking about the worst case scenario. Maybe the researchers are thinking about that.
00:38:55.474 - 00:39:07.684, Speaker A: But. But yeah, I think we can get the merge right the first time. It's already been done on a bunch of test nets and stuff like that. And we know we can do it. Like, it's not like this thing where it's a theory. It's practically possible. So I'm just looking forward to seeing it get done.
00:39:07.684 - 00:40:09.914, Speaker A: But I mean, you know, the other side of it is obviously the game theory for miners leading up to the merge. Do they start doing funky things because they know they're going to get fired or are there a majority of the miners who are nice and friendly and they're just going to see us through until that merge block and we can kind of like go from there. So we'll see what happens in that regard. Alright, so another one from yorn the faun here, who says according to a law produced from a US Supreme Court case in 1946, an asset is considered to be a security if it passes the Howie test? The criteria for the Howey tests are an investment of money in a common enterprise with the expectation of profits coming from the efforts of a third party. These criteria would imply that Pokemon cards, baseball cards, beanie babies in game skids, skins, and all collectibles for which there are markets and a central producer are all securities and subject to scrutiny of the SEC. Does this mean I have to report my hollow jigglypuff to Gary Gensler, which is, for those who don't know, is the SEC chief at the moment. So, I mean, I'm not an expert in this kind of, like, domain here, but I've thought about this before and I don't think so.
00:40:09.914 - 00:40:57.990, Speaker A: I think the line really is kind of investment of money with the expectation of profits, right? When you kind of, like, buy something, like, say you buy trading cards from the company themselves. Say it's like the Pokemon company, you go, you buy a pack of Pokemon cards and you kind of like, you're buying it with this, you may have the intent of kind of like to invest that money with an expectation of profits, maybe down, later down the line. I think the kind of, I guess, difference here is that you're not investing in the Pokemon company, right? You're not buying a share in them. You're buying one of their products that they've produced, and you're not in a common enterprise with the Pokemon company. You're not on their cap table, which is basically the table of all their investors. Um, you're, you're basically just buying an item that they have produced. And yes, you, you personally may have an expectation of future profit.
00:40:57.990 - 00:41:41.482, Speaker A: And, um, you know, you, you have invested money technically by buying it, but, uh, it is not considered an item that is used for those kind of purposes. Now, the, the case that you're referencing from 1946, I think, was the original case where the Howie test spawned from, as you said, but it was around, like, um, oranges and orange farming and things like that, I believe. I can't remember the exact thing there where essentially it was, this was kind of, like, defined. And it's funny because back then in 1946, you know, there was collectibles and stuff like that. But I think obviously, there wasn't nfts and all those sorts of things. And I think NFt start to blur the line between kind of like a security versus, I guess, a collectible. And it's going to be kind of like, I guess, interesting to see how the SEC tackles that.
00:41:41.482 - 00:42:12.800, Speaker A: There may have to be kind of like, new precedent set for that. But in terms of, like, traditional collectibles, like trading cards and stuff like that, they're definitely not securities because of the fact that you're not investing in the kind of like the company itself. You are not getting any kind of rights or anything. Like, you have no voting rights. You have no rights to shares in kind of like the Pokemon company, for example. And just because you expect to make profits from it doesn't mean that it classifies the thing that you're buying as a security, because it is not meant to be that. Like, when a company issue shares and sells them.
00:42:12.800 - 00:42:41.796, Speaker A: Well, of course, the company is hoping to be profitable, which means that their shares logically would go up in price over, over time. So it's kind of like different, and this is usually done on a case by case basis as well with the SEC, because there's different kind of like moving parts to it. So you have to kind of consider that. But generally that's kind of like how, how I view it and why I view kind of things like collectibles as not, not a security there. Um, so hopefully that answers your question. Maybe, maybe I got some things wrong there. As I said, I'm not an expert, but that's from the reading that I've done, that is generally how it's viewed.
00:42:41.796 - 00:43:28.844, Speaker A: And as I said again, it's always a case by case basis because these things can be complex, there can be different things to it. Like, say with the NFTs, maybe you buy an NFT and it actually does give you kind of like a share in, maybe a dow, and you have an expectation of that share going up in price and, you know, all these sorts of things. It gets very murky when you start kind of going into that rabbit hole. And I do believe the SEC is going to eventually catch up to that and kind of issue guidance around that, but it's going to be a little while before they do that because it's just very, very new. All right, one here from Jvlux who says, is there any information about the feeling of miners after EIP 1559, their revenue revenues have been slashed by 30% to 40% one week after the London fork. And they may not be very enthusiastic about this. Also, knowing in Q 120 20 their business is over.
00:43:28.844 - 00:44:04.668, Speaker A: I'm sure someone is dealing with many of them on a daily basis. So, I mean, I've discussed about the merge, obviously already, so I'm not going to go into that part of it. But I mean, I don't have any direct connections to miners. From what I've been hearing from other people, they don't seem to be kind of like gigging up a stink about it. They, I think they made up for their loss in income from fees with MeV. So a lot of you will have heard about things like flashbots recently where people have been able to kind of, I guess, go to miners and essentially bribe them to put their transactions into a block without going through the public mempool. So they definitely made up money there.
00:44:04.668 - 00:44:27.860, Speaker A: But it's funny because it's kind of hard to tell. The hashrate is back to its all time high. I think almost back to its all time high because the ETH price has gone up as well. So just because they're not getting the fee revenue, but they're still getting the block reward and we're still paying two ETH per block or 4.2% yearly issuance to miners. So it's still quite lucrative, especially as the ETH price is going up. So, yeah, I haven't heard any, like, vocal complaining from miners.
00:44:27.860 - 00:45:05.278, Speaker A: Maybe they're just kind of, like, keeping quiet because they're like, well, we better make the most of this while we can because we're getting fired, you know, around the merge. But as I said, there's a, there's a bunch of game theory coming into play there that's going to be interesting to watch play out. But, yeah, I guess, like, there are dedicated, I think, minor discords, which I haven't ventured into, that may have more color for you, if you're interested, to kind of get their feel around things. But from what I can tell, it hasn't slowed down the hash rate. But it's kind of, like, hard to know because the price went up as well, you know, leading up to 1559. And then after it, we kind of went up in price. So it's hard to know if the hashrate, you know, came online because of that or, I mean, I mean, I know that.
00:45:05.278 - 00:45:36.842, Speaker A: Sorry. I know the hash rate came online because of that, but it's hard to know kind of like how many miners stopped mining because the fear revenue was lost or continued mining because the price went up of ETH and it became, you know, way more profitable for them. I think it's a bit of everything there. It's always a little bit hard to tell, but I think the rule of thumb is that hash rate follows price. So as the price goes up, you have more hashrate on the network. And that may have made up for the fact that the, these kind of, like, miners got, like a little bit of a pay cut with the fee revenue kind of getting burned or most of it getting burned instead of being paid to them. All right, two questions here from max invests.
00:45:36.842 - 00:46:18.702, Speaker A: First one, any alpha on when we are going to move from optimistic roll ups to ZK rollups specifically for arbitrary and optimism? So I don't know if this is alpha, but generally the vibe that I get from the people working on L2, scalability is that ZK rollups are the long term technology that we're going to be focusing on because they don't have the drawbacks of optimistic roll ups. Obviously, the major drawback is the seven day kind of like, um, withdrawal period, and also that arbitration process for detecting fraud. Whereas the roll ups don't have that. They handle it very differently. But currently, ZK roll ups can't do EVM compatible kind of like smart contracts. They, I mean, they're in early stages. I mean, I wouldn't say they can't do them.
00:46:18.702 - 00:47:05.230, Speaker A: I just say that they're in very, very early stages right now. There's sort of this, there's a bit of research and development that has to go into that. But in saying that ZK sync, who are working on ZK rollups, they're promising, I think they promised that this month, it may come next month. You know, with these L2 teams, they always love to kind of like, give dates and never meet them. But on that note, I think, you know, if ZK sync actually releases a fully, you know, I guess, like EVM compatible ZK roll up, that actually works as advertised, where you could just port your smart contract from layer one to L2, or that's definitely gonna change the game there as well. And, and maybe optimistic roll ups end up having to kind of, I guess, you know, obviously compete with ZK rollers, but maybe I would try and optimism just say, okay, well, let's re architect these things, and let's go with the ZK roll up approach. But at the same time, you know, ZK rollups aren't a silver bullet.
00:47:05.230 - 00:47:31.252, Speaker A: None of these scaling solutions are. Optimistic roll ups give you some advantages that ZK roll ups don't. Obviously, one of them right now is EVM compatibility. I think that they can actually get even. You know, EVM compatibility is kind of a loaded term because there's EVM compatibility, and then there's like 80% or 90% EVM compatibility. Because if you're 90% compatible with the EVM and that other 10% requires some changes in the code. Well, that, you know, just kind of like, adds a barrier to entry.
00:47:31.252 - 00:48:10.576, Speaker A: Right. Like, developers have to change some of their code. There are some projects that have specific kind of functions in them that may not work on, on a kind of like ZK roll up or work on optimistic roll up. There's a bunch of kind of intricacies to that, that on the technical side of things that I'm not, you know, an expert in, but I've definitely kind of been hearing things about that, too. But, but, yeah, I mean, from, from kind of like what I'm seeing ZK rollup is the long term winner here within, within the ethereum ecosystem. But I think you can view optimistic rollups is kind of like this bridging this bridge, I guess, to get us to ZK roll up world. And I still do think arbitrary and Optimus are going to do very, very well despite that seven day withdrawal period, because we've already got the bridges like hop and connects and all that.
00:48:10.576 - 00:48:57.764, Speaker A: That'll let us kind of like do the instant withdrawals and kind of, they'll take on the risk and stuff like that. But at the same time, if CK roll ups do deliver on everything that optimistic roll ups do, you know, the EVM compatibility, the smart contracts, whatever, and with those kind of like near instant withdrawals, then, yeah, I mean, it just basically makes optimistic roll ups either obsolete technology or it kind of like makes them a niche technology, which is fine, I think. But, yeah, it's just kind of like cool to see, I guess we have so many solutions now that we're actually talking about the fact that I know some of these may be superseded. So, yeah, hopefully that answers that first question. And the second question you have here, you said you have. I have researched ETH most days for seven months, make videos on it to keep entertained for 100 viewers. But I feel like the next step, a step in helping upgrade my ethnology, is learning some coding.
00:48:57.764 - 00:49:31.892, Speaker A: Do you think that there is any point in doing this for someone with very limited coding experience? So I can give you like my personal experience here at this point in time? You know, I've been like obviously studying and researching the ethereum ecosystem nonstop for like four, four and a half years now. I'm learning as much as I can. I mean, it just gets crazier and crazier as time goes on. And I haven't learned any coding or any solidity or anything in that entire time. I have not done any of the courses, even the beginner ones. I have not even attempted them. And that's just because, one, I don't have the time, and two, I just don't have a reason to do it because I don't plan to be a developer.
00:49:31.892 - 00:50:13.798, Speaker A: I don't plan to do kind of like make a bot to do kind of like arbitrage transactions, stuff like that. I don't plan to do any of that. So I would say that unless you have a reason for doing it, unless you actually want to build something, then, or at least maybe you want to learn more about it so that you can. I guess, like if, like if a hack happens on chain, you can actually read the code and see what went wrong with it. And maybe that's something that, you know, you, you might do as, like, a passion project, then maybe it makes sense. But, yeah, I mean, the ecosystem is just so, I guess, like, crazy that it's just, I mean, if you are learning kind of like, coding, it's, it's definitely not something that's very, that's easy to do, especially from, from scratch. You kind of, like, have to learn all the different, you know, you have to learn solidity, but then you have to learn all the programming principles and things like that and how.
00:50:13.798 - 00:50:34.554, Speaker A: How that all works as well. So I would say only invest the time if you have a real reason for doing so. Um, if not, if you're just doing it for the hell of it, maybe it's not worth your time. But, yeah, at the end of the day, it's your own kind of, like, personal decision there. All right, avd, I'm inviting you up onto the stage to ask a question. There we go. Hey.
00:50:36.754 - 00:50:37.138, Speaker B: Hey.
00:50:37.186 - 00:50:55.546, Speaker A: Thanks for letting me come up. Yeah, so I just got, I've been trying to wrap my head around, like, social tokens or dows, you know, like friends with benefits or I guess bankless as well. I just want to get your opinion on what having a, having a token. Do you think they need a token?
00:50:55.610 - 00:50:57.746, Speaker B: Is it necessary? Mm hmm.
00:50:57.890 - 00:51:40.350, Speaker A: So the way I'm viewing these kind of, like, social clubs that are tied to these tokens is just that, right? They're just like the modern version, or I guess, like the crypto version of like, a social club. Now, social clubs are nothing new. They go back to probably the beginning of humanity, right? Where people got together, formed the club, and did various activities together. Now, we've just taken this, you know, fully digital. We've made it global, where people can kind of, I guess, like, come into the club. If there's a token attached to it, it acts as like a, I guess one, an investment in the club, a social kind of like a coordination mechanism. Um, and also, I guess, like, as a way to promote growth of, of kind of, I guess, the ecosystem, too, because you can kind of, like, give tokens to new.
00:51:40.350 - 00:52:16.680, Speaker A: Sorry, uh, give tokens to club members for doing various things, uh, for contributing or whatever. Or you can use tokens as, like, a gating mechanism where you say to people, well, you know, am iclub super exclusive because you have to spend $10,000 to buy our token, and then you can get into our club. So I think there actually is, like, a very good, um, use case for a token within these social clubs. And I actually think it's, it's probably one of the best kind of token methods, to be honest. Um, and, you know, you mentioned bankless and forensic benefits. I mean, once you have like a club of dedicated people who are aligned around, uh, a kind of token, and, you know, the social club doesn't really have any rules to it. It's basically do whatever kind of like adds value.
00:52:16.680 - 00:53:14.468, Speaker A: And, you know, if you can drive that value back to the dao and the token, that's even better. Well, you get things like with bankless, they're doing a bunch of different initiatives, right? They have a job board, um, they have merch, they have obviously, the, the interviews that they do and they kind of like do ads and stuff like that. They have nfts that they're doing. So it essentially, you know, creates this, this shared, I guess, incentive to make the token go up in value by adding value to the dow, which, you know, adds value to the token at the day and recruiting more members. Because, I mean, as of, as we've been discussing in the Discord Channel recently, really, you look at the, I guess, most valuable kind of tokens in this ecosystem, and especially ones that would be considered overvalued by any measure of the imagination, such as Cardano. Cardano doesn't have smart contracts, but what it has is it has a cult of follow followers, right? It has. And this is why I've actually called Cardano or Ada a social token that's tied to Charles Hodgkinson, because if you go to his YouTube channel, it has, what, over 250,000 subscribers.
00:53:14.468 - 00:53:54.670, Speaker A: He has daily viewers on there. And essentially, I think people are actually just buying Ada because they're buying into Charles's vision. So they're basically buying into Charles's club. And essentially, it's kind of like more like a cult than it is maybe a club because they're very feverish about it and they're very kind of like loyal to Charles from what I've seen. But that's kind of like how I view the whole social token space, is that you, I mean, you don't necessarily have a head. You do definitely have like, maybe a, I guess, I don't know if you'd call them executives, but you have like the upper echelons of like a club that, that kind of like, act as the stewards and everything like that. But by buying into it and by adding value to the club and to the DaO, you can possibly make these tokens go up in value and recruit more members.
00:53:54.670 - 00:54:15.208, Speaker A: And then the more members that you recruit, you know, the higher the token goes. And I know this is sounding like a ponzi, but I mean, you know, you can make anything sound like a ponzi, but that's kind of like how, how I kind of view it. It's just the modern version of, of social clubs with, you know, supercharged with a token. Hopefully that answered the question. Yeah, yeah, it makes sense.
00:54:15.256 - 00:54:15.696, Speaker B: Thanks.
00:54:15.800 - 00:54:19.392, Speaker A: I guess if you don't have a, if you don't have like a actual.
00:54:19.448 - 00:54:22.032, Speaker B: Product, then I guess you need the.
00:54:22.048 - 00:54:37.824, Speaker A: Token to make people actually focus. Yeah, that answers actually. Thank you. Awesome. Cool. All right, onto the next question from the sheet here. So one from unbank yourself question on how private equity type investor investments work in DeFi projects.
00:54:37.824 - 00:55:45.388, Speaker A: I've been interested in expanding my investments beyond buying tokens and instead getting involved at the far earlier stages of the project life cycles. What I wanted to ask is how does this typically work with a lot of these projects? Being international and somewhat anonymous, how does one invest in a project? Anthony, I know you've been doing seed investing in a lot of early stage projects, so curious to hear how exactly this works. From the very start, finding projects to invest in through to assuring your investment is protected to finally exiting the investment via a sale. So the, I guess, angel investing, vc investing kind of early stage investment world works in a few different ways within crypto. So a lot of the time it will be an equity investment, but they'll give you something called a token warrant or a saft. So a token warrant will essentially be this kind of legal document that basically says that you have a right to purchase tokens at a later date because typically the token hasn't been issued yet and you can exchange your equity for tokens. Essentially the second is a saft, which is essentially the same thing or very similar thing to a token warrant, but it stands for simple agreement for future tokens, which it basically means that your equity can be converted into tokens or it will be converted into tokens forcefully at a later date.
00:55:45.388 - 00:56:37.412, Speaker A: Now, pretty much, as I've said before, everything has a token eventually. So most of the projects that I invested in, I wouldn't say all I'd have to check. I've invested in a lot of them recently, but either do the safe or the token warrant thing, that's just the norm from what I've seen. And so from how it kind of typically works for me at least, is that I'll get contacted or I'll get passed along a kind of, I guess like it's called, they call it deal flow in the industry where you get passed along kind of like a sheet, kind of like describing what the project is. Kind of like a pitch deck. And then someone will offer to set you up with a call with the founders or the team or whatever or you know, you can reach out to them yourself if you find an interesting project. You know, it's funny, I was able to invest in Zappa because I reached out to them on basically discord and I was like, hey, you know, you know, I heard you guys were kind of like raising around.
00:56:37.412 - 00:57:40.460, Speaker A: I'd love to invest all this sort of stuff and you know, I kind of like, you know, got a reply and was able to invest in Zappa in their seed round. But you know, not to toot my own horn, but I think the only reason that happened was because of kind of like who I am and my, and my kind of like name within the industry. These opportunities are typically reserved for obviously VC's and funds. But the angel investors, which is kind of like where I am, they are brought on for I guess like their kind of like strategic, I guess alignment with the project and whether that be on kind of like the development side. So say you'll bring on an angel to help you with like kind of like smart contract development, not as part of the team but essentially, you know, that they're kind of like big within the industry and they basically can help you and they have experience and they've been around for a while. Usually, you know, I'm brought on for the marketing community side of things. Obviously I have a large reach and I can, and I have like a lot of context within the community and within the ecosystem and I can help them and guide them through kind of like what to do with marketing, what not to do, uh, kind of like how to uh, I guess like um, uh, I guess do pr and market their projects, all those sorts of kind of things.
00:57:40.460 - 00:58:16.572, Speaker A: Uh, and obviously kind of like put a uh, shine a light on their project as well. So that's kind of like I guess where I come into a lot of these projects from. Um, but generally, I mean also these investments uh, can only be done uh, through uh, the accredited investor kind of like cycle. So uh, unfortunately, I mean it's not just in the US, there's other countries that enforce this. Uh, there are accredited investor laws which are basically wealth test laws which I think are really crappy. I really don't like them at all, but they exist. And essentially what this means is that to invest in the early stages, you have to either have a net worth of at least a million dollars.
00:58:16.572 - 00:58:43.298, Speaker A: This has to be a net worth that is not part of your primary, primary residence. It has to be liquid. It cannot be vesting shares or whatever. It has to actually be something that you could immediately sell, you know, today for a million dollars, or you have to have an individual income, or I think, $250,000 for the last two years, or a joint income of, I think, 300,000 over the last two years with a partner or something like that. So it's basically a wealth test. And all you have to do is say yes. There's no, there's nothing you have to sign.
00:58:43.298 - 00:59:05.938, Speaker A: You just basically have to say yes. Um, you know, I. I mean, sometimes they'll make you fill out a form and basically attest to it and sign to it, but some projects won't. I mean, just depends. It varies. Um, and basically, you know, you saying, but that you don't have to prove it to them, you just basically have to say, yes, okay, I'm an accredited investor based on my net worth or based on kind of like my, my income, all that sort of stuff. And then you get access to the deal, and you do the deal.
00:59:05.938 - 00:59:46.886, Speaker A: You may give, like, you know, with angels, they usually offered kind of like smaller check sizes, you know, as opposed to funds or vc's and stuff like that. And you'll kind of like, send the money across to them. Now, all the investments I've done, I send their money across as USDC normally, and that kind of like, goes in and they issue kind of, like, the legal documents, and I sign them off and everything like that. And then, as I said, I'll get the token warrant or anything like that. And then that'll, that'll happen later when they kind of issue a token, or I'll get, like, a thing saying that I've got equity in the company as well. And then in terms of, I guess, how it works when they tokenize or when they start kind of like paying out the shares or whatever it is, or the equity, essentially, they'll be vesting. And it varies greatly from project to project.
00:59:46.886 - 01:00:20.302, Speaker A: Some projects will unlock a portion when the token generation event happens, right. Some of them will basically have a lock. So, say, you know, from, from when the token was issued, there'll be a lock of one year, and then it'll vest over time from there. Some of them will have really long vesting periods of like four years where it, where it vests basically linearly. So that means, like, just in a continuous manner over time. So, yeah, it definitely varies from project to project quite greatly, actually, from the projects I've kind of been involved with. And sometimes they don't even tell you because they don't even know yet if they're in the really early stages.
01:00:20.302 - 01:00:43.954, Speaker A: They may not even have thought about a token at all yet. So you just, you invest and then they'll kind of like, come up with it later on. They'll come up with like a vesting scheme, and then they'll kind of like pay it out to you. And that's kind of like the, the time. But you would, like, exit your investment if you wanted to, right? You don't have to sell. Like, when you get the tokens, you can just hold them, and if you actually really bullish on the project, you hold them. And essentially, obviously if they go up, you make more money and all that sort of stuff.
01:00:43.954 - 01:01:25.276, Speaker A: And, you know, you vest more out over time and things like that. So, yeah, hopefully that gives you kind of a glimpse into that world. But as I said, it is definitely a very exclusive world. It is not something that most people will ever get access to, unfortunately. I think we tried to open this up to people with the icos in 2017, but I think what, what I think a lot of people that I seek, maybe complaining about this sort of stuff has to understand is that usually teams want to bring on people not for their money, they want to bring them on for their expertise or for the help that they can give or for their connections or whatever. Um, because at the end of the day, these things are startups and startup, most startups fail. So these startups need as much help as they can get from everywhere that they can get it.
01:01:25.276 - 01:02:11.358, Speaker A: And then, you know, obviously having a wide and open public community is also like a big part of this. But at the same time, I guess, like these kind of like VC's and kind of like angels offer specialized experience and kind of like specialized knowledge and specialized help that maybe the public just doesn't, at least at the very early stages. But I've seen a lot of teams actually put a lot of emphasis on the public and basically say, well, you know, we really want the community to have a great share in this. Uh, we really, you know, and we really want to basically airdrop or kind of like pay out community rewards over time and things like that. And some of the projects have done that already, right? Like the ones that are live, uh, uh, from the kind of like early rounds and stuff like that. I mean, uniswap is the prime example here. Uh, there's a bunch of others as well where basically a lot of the tokens go to the community treasuries.
01:02:11.358 - 01:03:03.192, Speaker A: And, you know, there's different opinions on if that's a good or bad as well because obviously, as I've talked about in the refill before, the uniswap treasury definitely feels like a honey pot for looters as well. So yeah, there's, there's it, there's no perfect system when it comes to fundraising. Just distributing tokens, distributing equity. It's just, um. And it's very hard, especially for founders because they just want to build their product, but they have to think about all this stuff. And especially when fundraising, depending on when you're fundraising, it's actually really frustrating because I've, I've been through bear market and bull market fundraising and I've been part of teams that have tried to fundraise and things like that. And I can tell you just like a year and a half ago, the money was like not there for a lot of, a lot of projects and a lot of teams now pretty much every single project that is coming across, like, you know, my desk, as I like to say, in terms of, I guess like their decks, they're getting valued at the seed stage at a really, really high valuation because people are just throwing money at them.
01:03:03.192 - 01:03:23.736, Speaker A: Like, you know, you remember a 16 Z has a $2.2 billion fund, crypto, crypto focused fund that they have to deploy. Like, they don't have a choice here because they have people who have invested in that fund as limited partners or LP's as they're called. And they want their money to be invested. They don't want their money just sitting in a bank account. So they actually have to invest. Um, and you know, it's actually very hard to invest $2.2
01:03:23.736 - 01:03:49.530, Speaker A: billion without offering like a large sums of money to all these different teams. So, you know, as you will have seen recently, a 16 Z has been making some really large investments. I mean, I think they put $100 million into Opensea or at least like a large portion of that. They, they recently funded a bunch of other kind of like teams out there. I think they funded the flow blockchain or like that kind of like ecosystem there and a bunch of other projects. And they're not only one, they're only one fund, right. Then you have all the angels on top of that.
01:03:49.530 - 01:04:33.658, Speaker A: The angels, as I said, don't write huge checks it's usually, I mean, just, I can, I can kind of like speak from personal experience. It's usually from like ten k to lot of the time in us dollars in terms of like check sizes for angels, but some, some of them will go higher than that. It just depends. But usually the funds eat up most of the rounds. Um, but yeah, that's kind of like, uh, I guess how that works as well is that there's just so much money right now for teams to get funding. So a lot of them will kind of like go the VC route or the fun route instead of going like the public token sale route, but then they'll still do that kind of retroactive airdrop, or they may do kind of, I guess, like a community distribution to a treasury or payout to contributors and things like that, like something like the index co op does. So there's various different things you can do.
01:04:33.658 - 01:05:10.346, Speaker A: So, yeah, hopefully that gives you a pretty comprehensive view on kind of like that whole world. And, and just from, I guess from my view, because as you mentioned, I am pretty involved in here and I have been doing a bit of angel investing for at least the last year. So, yeah, hopefully that answers your question. All right, next one comes from Stonep 89, who says, found this very interesting thread with some fair critiques of its monetary policy. And the thread that they're referencing is from Tasha, who did a thread on Ethereum as the new government bond. Now, some of you may have seen this, some of you may have not. It's actually linked in the AMA series channel, so you can go check that out if you want to.
01:05:10.346 - 01:05:30.410, Speaker A: But essentially, Stonep's question here is, I have often thought of ETH staking as a future replacement for us government bonds. I've also been considering the long term implications of ETH's deflationary monetary policy. I'm interested to hear your thoughts. My first thought is that ETH will be an asset, but not a currency. In the future. The currency role will be played by an ETH backed or algo stablecoin. I completely agree with you.
01:05:30.410 - 01:06:06.570, Speaker A: I do not think that ETH is going to be a currency. I don't think it even is a currency today. I think the reason people use ETH as money or ETH as an MOE is just because it's the simplest way to do it. Um, you know, for example, ETH's use as an moe within nfts is, I think, a two pronged thing where an moe stands for medium, medium of exchange, by the way, but it's basically two pronged, where you have a lot of people in the NFT ecosystem that I know of, at least this is maybe anecdotal experience, but uh, they got rich of ETH and are now kind of like flexing that wealth by buying nfts. And they love to price things in ETH because they're ETH maxes, like for lack of a better term. Right. So there's that aspect to it.
01:06:06.570 - 01:06:57.718, Speaker A: But then I also think on the flip side, because you have to pay gas fees in ETH, people just, it's just easier for people to kind of like just denominate an ETH rather than say, okay, well, I have to have ETH for gas fees and then I can just buy these nfTs with USD C or dai or whatever. I think it's just like easier psychologically for people to just price everything in ETH. I don't think that's going to last, though. I think that that's going to get abstracted away over time. Obviously, ETH will still be used to pay gas fees at layer one and even L2, but there's going to be meta transactions where you can pay gas fees in, uh, you know, any coin you want and it'll just get uh, in the back end, it'll just get uh, transformed into ETH and paid to layer one to obviously pay the fee and get burned there and everything like that. So yeah, I don't think ETH is going to be a currency, uh, for the Ethereum network. I, I do think, though, that ETH is the kind of like obviously most trustless, most liquid and best collateral asset we have on Ethereum and will ever have, because it's the only one that is issued directly by the network.
01:06:57.718 - 01:08:01.984, Speaker A: Everything else has various, various trust assumptions built into it, and obviously it's not liquid and not as widely distributed and things like that. So from that perspective, I do believe it can be used as a collateral for an algo stablecoin or something like rye, or any kind of other currency that comes out of it, where you can essentially have some stable unit of account, even if it's stable to itself as an moe within the Ethereum ecosystem. So yeah, I do agree that it's going to be more akin to a bond because of staking and pretty much like, I think a lot of ETH will end up being staked and, you know, it may be staked through, I guess, like through issuing of a derivative, something like Lido staked ETH, or St tokens that you get when you stake through Lido obviously, there's trust assumptions there because it's, it's definitely centralized because your stake is going to staking service providers rather than you running this kind of like software yourself. But that'll actually be possible in the future. I think lido has, like a plan to decentralize over time as well. And, you know, there's rocket pool and all those kind of like, solutions out there, too. So, yeah, that's kind of like how I view ETH as an asset within the ethereum economy.
01:08:01.984 - 01:08:44.724, Speaker A: And, you know, ETH, deflationary properties as well is kind of something I've been thinking about, too, right, where people always ask, like, aren't we going to burn too much ETH? Like, is, doesn't that mean, like, we're not going to be left with much east to use in the ecosystem? Well, I mean, ETH is divisible up to 18 decimals, and we can probably go lower than that if we wanted to. We could just kind of like introduce a, introduce an upgrade in a kind of like a hard fork to basically make it so that we can divide ETH into even smaller units than that. But that would mean that we got to, like, you know, only maybe a few thousand ETH left or something like that. That would be crazy. Like absolutely crazy. But I do think that if you look at ETH as a, both a bond and a slash slaking asset and a collateral asset, then its deflationary properties are extremely desired. Because.
01:08:44.724 - 01:09:22.422, Speaker A: Because at the end of the day, we're not trying to make ETH a. Well, when I say we, I mean, like, the ethereum ecosystem has never been trying to make ETH as like, an actual good money or a good currency, it can be used as that. But because of the fact that it's going to be deflationary, even without 1559, it would still be kind of like, exhibit deflationary properties because of the fact that people hoard ETH as a story value. It's volatile. You know, it would never, I don't think it would ever be stable. I think, you know, even without fee burning, it would have been, uh, volatile forever, basically. So from that perspective, we do need to come up with better ideas of how to create a stable unit of account, and we have the perfect collateral asset to back that up.
01:09:22.422 - 01:10:17.168, Speaker A: And it's, you know, as I said, it's extremely liquid, has a really large market cap or economic bandwidth, as the bankless guys like to call it. It's just, you know, I think it's the best of both worlds. So I'm really excited to see more projects in the same vein as Rye come to life, where essentially you have this stable unit of account MoE that is backed by ETH as a collateral asset. All right, the next one here comes from Yeti, who asks, is Lido's dominance over 80% of liquid e staking problematic for maintaining decentralized control of the network post merge? I would guess it depends on how many individuals stake directly. So the nice thing about Lido is that even though they have like a high dominance in liquid staking, they actually distribute this out. So I don't know how many staking service providers they have signed up to them. But when you kind of put your ETH into Lido, what ends up happening is that ETH goes to one of these staking service providers, and I think there's maybe ten of them or something like that, rather than just going to one.
01:10:17.168 - 01:10:52.266, Speaker A: So it's not like you're giving it to Lido. And then Lido is the sole kind of like staking service provider that is staking on the network. It's being distributed. So you could call Lido like a distributed staking system rather than a decentralized one, which is slightly better than a centralized one. Still not the best, but it's slightly better from that perspective. So that means, I don't think it would be problematic to maintain decentralization here. But at the same time, the people behind Lido, they are very aligned with decentralizing the Lido network itself and making sure that they don't actually become a force within the ethereum network that is too powerful.
01:10:52.266 - 01:11:44.994, Speaker A: And there are different ways they can do this. Essentially, you can have what's called SSV, or secret shared validators, I think it's called, which is a scheme that allows you to essentially make it so that people can essentially stake their ETH while still controlling the keys with these providers. And then essentially they could withdraw their ETH from the beacon chain once withdrawals are enabled without having to rely on the staking service provider. So it's basically a separation of concerns where you control the keys, but the validators are actually part of the maybe the staking service providers kind of infrastructure. And while your ETH is staked on there, it's definitely at risk, and they're, you know, definitely at risk of getting slashed if they do something wrong or whatever. But it means that you still control the keys and you can withdraw your ether anytime as well. So that kind of scheme is coming into play once the merge goes through, because I don't think it's possible pre merge because we don't have the withdrawals enabled.
01:11:44.994 - 01:12:08.862, Speaker A: But that's, that, I think is what Lido is actually working on as well. So it's going to be cool to see how that plays out to. So hopefully that answers your question there. I'm going to take a two second water break. One sec, guys. All right, continuing on, so one here from Patrick, who asks multiple questions. So he's got six questions here.
01:12:08.862 - 01:12:30.880, Speaker A: So I'll go through the first one. He asks, who do you see as the most successful investors in the Ethereum ecosystem? This is a really good question. I would say paradigm is the most successful investor within the Ethereum ecosystem right now. And a lot of you will know who paradigm is. They're a big VC fund. They were the first investors in uniswap. That was, you know, one of their big winners.
01:12:30.880 - 01:13:05.436, Speaker A: But they've also been behind a number of other popular projects. I mean, they're in Lido as we're just talking about Lido in compound in a bunch of other projects. Like they, they just led us around into fractional, which is an NFT fractionalization project. Uh, I mean, they're in so many, like, you can go to their website and go to their portfolio kind of page there and see that. So I would say paradigm, definitely, um, there are a bunch of other investors out there. But the thing is, is that none of them are really like mostly focused on the Ethereum ecosystem. I think framework ventures and powerful capital have been heavy Ethereum, but they're also diversifying their bets these days.
01:13:05.436 - 01:13:55.348, Speaker A: I mean, being a VC and a font or a fund, you don't really focus on just like one ecosystem. And unless it's like your own personal money, because if you're taking money like public money and you've raised rounds where you have these kind of people who are expecting a return, well, then you can't exactly be like 100% ideological about your investments. You have to kind of like hedge your bets, or you have to invest in other things where you actually think there could be the most return, even if you think those projects maybe not be something you may be aligned with and stuff like that. So, yeah, I think in terms of like the most successful, if Ethereum investors, it would definitely be paradigm. Defiance capital is pretty good, but they're also diversifying their bets out as well. 3 hours capital, they're successful investors, but they're multi chain. They're not like Ethereum specific as much as like, Multicore Capital has rubbed me the wrong way.
01:13:55.348 - 01:14:24.586, Speaker A: Over time, with their bets on eos in the past and now Solana, they are one of the best performing, if not the best performing funds in the crypto space. They have been early on so many of the top projects, like, in terms of like, market cap these days. So obviously, I mentioned Solana, they've made a. They made a lot of money on Solana. The graph, another one that they were kind of early to helium, but as their name kind of like, suggests, they're definitely a multi chain focused fund. So they've done really well. So I have to credit them for that.
01:14:24.586 - 01:14:48.128, Speaker A: But there are a bunch of other little, kind of like, funds out there are smaller funds, spartan capital, mechanism capital. I mean, I'm not going to name them all. There's so many of them. One KX, Lemniscap. There's other ones like Alameda, Alameda and CMS holdings. From what I've heard, they're more kind of like short term funds rather than long term, kind of like VC's. There's obviously placeholder capital as well, which is Chris Berniski's fund.
01:14:48.128 - 01:15:18.672, Speaker A: They're, they're very long term, like, they're five to ten year VC. They've done very well in a few of their bets as well. And yeah, I think there's, there's so many out there these days, but I think those are the ones that come to mind when I think about who the most successful investors are within the Ethereum ecosystem and maybe more broader in the multi, kind of like chain ecosystem as well. So. Yeah. Second question. How would you go about researching who the most successful investors in the Ethereum ecosystem are? Um, you can just go and like search on Google crypto funds and it'll come up with an, with a list of them.
01:15:18.672 - 01:15:49.940, Speaker A: There's a website called Crunchbase that tracks them all there. It is a paywall a lot of the time, but you could probably get the names of the funds there. Um, but then you can go on like Twitter and you'll probably come across like people that work for these funds, and then you can kind of jump down that rabbit hole. But generally, you'd just have to Google for it. I don't know if there's like a. I mean, there was a spreadsheet flying around the other day that basically listed a bunch of investors on there, both angels and funds and VC's. Um, but, you know, the list was kind of rating them based on kind of, uh, you know, how good, how good of investors they were.
01:15:49.940 - 01:16:10.160, Speaker A: And I wouldn't trust the list for that, because I don't know who made that list. It's. It's obviously going to be biased, but I don't know. You know, and some of the stuff that I saw in there was definitely not truthful, but it did have a pretty comprehensive list of funds. I don't know where that sheet is right now. I don't know who originally shared it, but it was floating around on Twitter, so maybe you can go kind of, like, find it on there. Third question.
01:16:10.160 - 01:16:28.770, Speaker A: Have you ever thought about launching a crypto fund? I mean. I mean, lying if I. If I hadn't thought about it, as if it crossed my mind, but, like, I never seriously considered it. I. I mean, as I mentioned before, I do a lot of angel investing, and I'm happy doing that. I don't want to be responsible for other people's money. I don't want to be responsible for dealing with all the kind of, like, headaches that come with being a fund.
01:16:28.770 - 01:16:53.634, Speaker A: I don't want to be responsible for all the legal crap that goes into it or any of that kind of stuff. The way I kind of play it is that as an angel investor, I get the best of both worlds. I still get to remain independent. I still get to do everything that I do and that I love doing, like, all the daily gwei stuff and everything else, or, you know, all the ETH hub stuff and helping out various projects, being an advisor. And I don't have to worry about kind of, like, managing all this money and all that sorts of stuff. I just manage my own kind of money. So, yeah.
01:16:53.634 - 01:17:22.944, Speaker A: Thought about it, didn't cons. Didn't really consider it at all. Kind of thought, nah, I don't want to do that. And then your next question, how would you go about launching a crypto fund? I don't really have any experience here. I think, really you just kind of, like, set it up as a company. You raise outside money or use your own money, and then you start approaching projects, or projects come to you and they pitch you, and then you start investing, I think. I mean, I'm kind of, like, making it seem much more straightforward than probably it is, but that's kind of like how I think a lot of these things get started.
01:17:22.944 - 01:18:11.664, Speaker A: What upsides, downsides do you see in launching a crypto fund? So, upsides, obviously, is the money, right? I mean, the money can be quite lucrative, because if it's your own money, then you make everything as profits as yours. If you raise outside capital, you take on much less risk because it's not your own money, but you still get to take like a two on 20. And what that means is you get to take a 2% management fee. So say you've got $100 million that you're managing, you get to take 2% of that as kind of like a yearly management fee, and then 20% is like a performance fee. So whatever profits you make, you take 20% of those profits and give the rest back to your LP's or limited partners, or kind of like investors in general in the fund. So those will be the upsides. But also another upside would be that you get to work with a lot of early stage companies and startups and get to see that kind of, those sims come to life.
01:18:11.664 - 01:18:54.434, Speaker A: Those kind of people are more like the VC. So the difference between a VC and a fund is a fund is usually more short term oriented, and a VC is definitely more long term, like five to ten years, funds, maybe two to three years. And funds definitely have like a quicker turnaround. And they have kind of like different LP base where the funds will basically have an agreement with their LP's that they can pull their money in a much shorter period of time than a VC funds LP's can. And there's definitely like, there's a, there's kind of like legal paperwork and everything that comes along with that, and there's an understanding with those kind of things there. And the downsides would be, I mean, as I mentioned before, you are managing other people's money, right? Like, I don't, I haven't heard anything about this. And there's definitely legal documentation that people sign, and there's like protections in place for this.
01:18:54.434 - 01:19:30.786, Speaker A: But if you screw up majorly, or if you lose people's money or use customer funds for whatever reason, then you could be held liable for that, right? So that's the downside. Other downside is that it's grueling work. There's a lot of regulatory stuff that you have to wade through. Um, you, you definitely have to compete with other investors, uh, to be a lead. Like if you, if you really want to be a lead investor in a project, then there's, there's normally other kind of like, uh, funds or VC's that want to be a lead investor as well. And what a lead investor is, is basically, it's the one that writes the term sheet. And what the term sheet is, is basically saying, well, this is how much, you know, we, we're going to value you at based on how much you're raising.
01:19:30.786 - 01:20:02.514, Speaker A: And this is how much we want to take of this, and they usually take the lion's share of it. Um, and, and kind of like, they, they kind of like, set the terms of the whole race, essentially. So if you see a project that you absolutely love and you want to be the lead, you have to compete on kind of like, on this footing, and it's up to the project who they want to go with. At the end of the day, the project basically says, well, you know, I like you as a lead investor over this guy, and then you could miss out. And that's another downside there. And you could still join the round, but you would get a much smaller check size than you would have wanted, and maybe it's not even worth it for you at that point. So you kind of, like, have to miss out on that or pass on that investment.
01:20:02.514 - 01:20:25.670, Speaker A: So, yeah, those are the kind of like, I guess, high level stuff there. There's probably a lot more stuff that goes into it that I don't, probably aren't privy to because I haven't worked for a fund. But, yeah, hopefully that answers that question. And then the last question, when data pump. I know it's like month three, and I haven't done a daily grade data pump video. I'm going to try and get it done and do the last three months worth of data. So it'll be a nice full episode by the end of this month, hopefully.
01:20:25.670 - 01:20:55.820, Speaker A: Like, I really, really hope so. I mean, now that I'm in lockdown, I don't really have an excuse. I do have the time. It's just, I just had to have to get around to it and it's just, I've been, I've been putting it off, but I'll definitely get it done, hopefully end of this month. All right, next question comes from Brian Peace, who says, seems like most people use chrome or brave browser. Any reason not to use Firefox also, any thoughts on frame? Seems really cool, but I'm waiting for it to come out of beta. So frame is another ethereum wallet that is definitely more for the power user? I would say not.
01:20:55.820 - 01:21:28.910, Speaker A: Probably not for the, like the total n normie new end user sort of thing. So you can go to frame sh and you can see kind of like the wallet there if you're interested in that. But any reason not to use Firefox? Not necessarily. I mean, I personally use Chrome because Chrome just runs better for me and I'm used to it on kind of like my pc. I'm used to kind of all the, I guess the way Chrome does things, so to speak. But I mean, it's funny, I actually use like three different web browsers because I have like all these different Twitter accounts and I have different substack accounts for all the newsletters that I do. And I mean, just easier.
01:21:28.910 - 01:21:57.388, Speaker A: So I use like Firefox to write the Daily Gray newsletter, but I use Chrome for like my normal, every kind of day browsing there. So, yeah, I don't, I don't particularly have any reason not to use Firefox as my daily driver. It's just not what I used in the past. I've used Chrome in the past. And then you're kind of the next question here, Brian, was so EIP 3074 will batch trend will enable batch transactions. Does this mean I'll be able to batch all of my small dust funds and move them to l two? I don't actually know the answer to that. I would have to look into that.
01:21:57.388 - 01:22:29.894, Speaker A: All I know is that 3074 allows for batching of transactions, so you don't have to essentially kind of like when you're on a decentralized exchange, approve a token before swapping it. You can just approve and swap in one transaction. I'd have to look into the kind of technical details and to see if it actually enabled batching all your smaller dust funds and moving them onto l two in one foul suite. Maybe it does, I'm not sure. There. And then your last kind of question, hopefully the data for my nfts is stored on ipfs. The tokens are in my wallet, but I assume the files aren't stored on chained.
01:22:29.894 - 01:23:12.194, Speaker A: Is there a way to see where my JPeg jpegs are being hosted? Usually the site that you buy it from will list it like, I know on mirror, the mirror platform, they actually list the transaction hashes down the bottom. They're usually on our weave, sometimes on ipfs, I believe. And they'll have like ether scan transaction as well. And I think, you know, Opensea might have like a section for it too. So usually it'll be on the site or, you know, the, the kind of like person who created the NFT or team that created them will also kind of, I guess, link you to it and stuff like that. But I, there may be sites out there that I don't know of that act as like a central repository of this information for every NFT out there. But usually it'll be on the kind of like sites like, you know, foundation, super rare, all those sites as well.
01:23:12.194 - 01:23:35.286, Speaker A: All right, so one here from John v. 420, who says I had a few questions about your NFT display, and this is the display that you guys will all see on the refuel videos. That's it's behind me and cycles to three of my nfts that I've got. He asks, do you have a preference on brand or manufacturer? Well, the one I have is from Netgear. It's called the mural two and it's worked really well. I really like it. It does both portrait and landscape.
01:23:35.286 - 01:24:05.044, Speaker A: I don't really have any complaints about it comes with an app, and that's how you load the nfts or the pictures or whatever you want onto them. So, yeah, I don't have any kind of, like, complaints there, but there are other brands and manufacturers out there. If you just search, like, NFT physical displays, there's plenty of them now. I mean, I, you know, the other day I searched them and there was like three or four different ones that came up, so, you know, you can go check them out. But I've only ever had this one. I might buy some others later on, but the Netgear mural two is, it's called, is actually being pretty good for me. So, yeah, I'm happy with that.
01:24:05.044 - 01:24:32.812, Speaker A: And then you ask, are you able to scroll through multiple nfts or have them scroll automatically, or can you just display one at a time? Yes to all of that. You can do whatever you want. As I said, the one that I've got comes with an app. You can set the timer, you can basically have only one display at all times. You can change kind of like the aspect ratio, you can change kind of. You want black bars or not? I mean, there's a bunch of different settings in there, but, yeah, it's very customizable and, yeah, that's it. I think that's it for your question.
01:24:32.812 - 01:25:22.438, Speaker A: So hopefully that answers that one here from Beethoven, who asks. Almost all crypto and ethereum enthusiasts today were early enough to have already enjoyed big financial gains. What advice do you have for the next generation of enthusiasts? The late coming newbies who don't have the financial foundation and therefore freedom to explore all things crypto. So I would say that you're probably wrong in saying that almost all crypto and ethereum enthusiasts today were early enough. Um, the majority of the people who have been coming into this ecosystem over, I guess, like, the last six months probably wouldn't have made, like, you know, enormous financial gains, like some of them will have, of course, but, you know, a lot of them obviously probably haven't at this stage. But I don't think that should. How do I put this? I don't think you should look at this as kind of like a late adopter stage or a late, late coming newbie stage.
01:25:22.438 - 01:26:04.042, Speaker A: If you're in crypto right now, you are still so, so early. Like, seriously. And to contextualize why you're so early here and why you can still enjoy big financial gains if you make the right plays, because investing is not just, not just about being early, it's about making the right plays as well. Because if you had bought coins that back in 2017 or like 2018 or 2019, and, you know, you're considered early right now, but if you had bought coins and dead projects, well, you would have either underperformed ETH or you would have basically not even made much of a return against USD. So you've got that to consider as well. But in terms of, like, timing here, to contest, to put this into context, I was looking at some stats the other day. In terms of people who have bought an NFT.
01:26:04.042 - 01:26:44.724, Speaker A: Pretty sure it's like less than a million people or less than a million addresses. So that's not people. And I know multiple, I mean, I've bought nfts on multiple addresses. So already, you know, that's not individual people. So essentially you have less than a million addresses, which is probably much less people ever having purchased an NFT on Ethereum, where, you know, obviously most of the activity is happening with nfts. So, and, you know, the, I think the kind of like, I guess, Tam or total market for the NFT ecosystem is the whole planet, because NFTs tie into culture, tie into collectibles, art, gaming, all that sort of stuff, which definitely has an addressable market of the whole world. So in terms of that, you're very early.
01:26:44.724 - 01:27:24.270, Speaker A: In terms of defi. I would say there's maybe based on Metamask's monthly active users in terms of, like, defi across all chains, not just Ethereum, at maximum, there would be 5 million monthly active DeFi users during the peak. And, and I think that's actually stretching it as well. I don't even, I don't even think that there's that much monthly active users. So 5 million out of, again, the whole world, because defi kind of, I guess, like now touches the whole world and, and will reach the whole world. And the TVL within Defi on Ethereum is what, 80, 90 billion? That's a rounding error for the traditional financial system. The traditional financial systems, TVL is in the quadrillions of dollars.
01:27:24.270 - 01:27:43.246, Speaker A: Right. Because you have to account for derivatives and things like that. So that's maybe a little bit of context for you to kind of like, say just how incredibly early we are. But on top of that, what's the only really successful blockchain game right now? Axie Infinity. Right. That's one game. I'm guaranteeing you in the next five years, there's going to be thousands of these games that are coming out.
01:27:43.246 - 01:28:13.230, Speaker A: I can guarantee you right now. And because I know this for a fact, every AAA company, gaming company right now is looking into how to either issue their own nfTs, create a crypto game, how to get, you know, crypto kind of things involved in their, in their games, or add kind of like features there. And it's not just them, it's web, two apps as well. Like Discord has been kind of toying with this. You know, you may have seen Shopify as well. I'm just telling you, like the kind of, I guess, adoption rate of crypto. I mean, you are still in the early adopter phase.
01:28:13.230 - 01:29:02.826, Speaker A: We're not even in like the, I mean, I would say we're still like in the pioneer phase where the early adopters are just now coming to fruition. But in terms of, I guess, like, if you, if I want to lose, use an analogy to other technologies like the iPhone or like a smartphone, you're essentially, I mean, I wouldn't even say you're at the iPhone stage yet. You're at like the stage of where you're testing out all the smartphones that came before the iPhone. I would say that that's where we're at in terms of adoption. And when the iPhone first came out, I mean, in 2007 or 2008, it was very clunky, right? It was, it was definitely, it was not something that most people wanted to use. A lot of people stick stuck with their existing phones, but then ten years later, pretty much everyone has a smartphone, even kind of like the people who are considered late adopters to the technology they have kind of like a smartphone or a tablet or something. And this is exactly what's going to happen with crypto in ten years.
01:29:02.826 - 01:29:31.878, Speaker A: You're not going to be early anymore. But right now, you are on the kind of like, I guess, like, you're not the earliest you could have been. You're not, you know, you're not first, but you're not nowhere near last. You're. But you're basically still part of that early adopter kind of phase there. And after early adopter usually comes early majority, which I think we're, we're probably starting to see little early signs of and things like that because of nfts and stuff. But really, I just, I cannot begin to describe how early we all still are, which means that there are still big financial gains to be made for everyone.
01:29:31.878 - 01:29:56.926, Speaker A: As long as you play your cards right. You can't. You can't. I mean, it gets harder over time to, to make returns on things, especially if you're measuring your portfolio in ETH and trying to stack ETH. Um, you know, that's just, I guess, like the price that people pay for coming later into something. Um, you know, I obviously, um, maybe not obviously, maybe some of you don't know this, but I have only been in Ethereum since early 2017. I was able to buy a little bit of ETH at $1010, but not a lot because I didn't have much money back then.
01:29:56.926 - 01:30:37.570, Speaker A: Um, I bought most of my ETH between 50 and $100, which obviously is still a very good price today. Like, I'm not going to say it's not, but the thing is, is that I know people who bought ETH at like, a dollar, and I'm really envious of them because I was like, you know, the only reason I didn't get involved earlier with Ethereum is because I just didn't hear about it, had nothing to do with me hearing about it and scoffing at it. I just had no idea about it until early 2017. And all these people who came before me, they just found it before I did. They put their money into it and they got to buy, you know, at the ICO or at a dollar and things like that. But the thing I've learned over the years is that you can't really look at that and think to yourself, you know, oh, wow, I missed out on, like, super early buying, you know, bitcoin or buying ETH. I'm going to miss out on everything.
01:30:37.570 - 01:31:05.554, Speaker A: There's still plenty of opportunity out there, and right now, there's still things that go, you know, ten x within a couple of weeks. I mean, I know it can be very risky because you have to basically pick these things. You have to spend a lot of time and invest a lot of time to pick them. And it gets harder and harder as time goes on. But generally, there's a lot of kind of, like, projects out there that are still neglected, I believe. I think Defi right now is pretty neglected due to, like, I guess, Nft mania and layer one mania, where people are betting on these other layer ones and stuff. Like that.
01:31:05.554 - 01:31:43.434, Speaker A: And to be a good investor, it takes time. I mean, I haven't been shy about this. In March of last year, during the COVID crash, my portfolio was tiny. I mean, it was like mid five figures like that. After being in the ecosystem since early 2017, I still only had a mid five figure kind of portfolio. Now, that may seem like a lot of money to a lot of people, but the thing is, is that, you know, you look at these people who were early, a lot of us only made most of our money in the last year and a bit because of the fact that we basically held onto those kind of things from, from those early years. And we held through the bear markets, we held through the tough times, and essentially were able to kind of like, give ourselves that, that financial edge there.
01:31:43.434 - 01:32:12.864, Speaker A: But still, there's a lot of people who came in much later than us. Like, I know people who came in in 2020 did way better than I did in Defi summer, made way more money than I did in Defi summer. Like, I'm talking way more like probably a hundred x more money than I did, which is, which is a lot. And they came much later than I did. And they were able to make that more money because they took on more risk than I did. They were more kind of like degenerate than I was. They just bet, like, much more money than I did, and they had more money to start with as well.
01:32:12.864 - 01:32:41.388, Speaker A: So there's different edges people have. And really, at the end of the day, my kind of principle is that I play the long term game. So the time that I'm in the ecosystem, the time that I'm in the market, the more kind of like, I guess, money I'm going to make. And you can see that from airdrops, too. I mean, if you had been in the crypto ecosystem for a while, you have been getting airdrops from pretty much every project that you have kind of, like, interacted with. I mean, uniswap, for example, was amazing. I mean, for me, I had used Uniswap with like 20 different addresses, so I got uni in like, so many different addresses.
01:32:41.388 - 01:33:00.076, Speaker A: But that's because I had been around for a while. And it's the same kind of like, I guess, concept with a lot of these things is that spend time in the ecosystem, research, research, research. You know, put your money where your mouth is, too. Don't just, I guess, like, do the research and then don't pull the trigger. I've done that before. Plenty of times. I've done my research I've said, you know, this is a really cool idea.
01:33:00.076 - 01:33:08.380, Speaker A: I actually think this is going to take off. And I can give you a recent example. I did this for Axie infinity. When Axie, when AXS was $2. I looked at it. I looked at all of it. I'm like, holy crap.
01:33:08.380 - 01:33:24.290, Speaker A: Like, this ecosystem is awesome. The community is awesome. I think this thing's going to be big. I didn't pull the trigger. I didn't put any money into it, and I missed that entire run up. If I had bought it, $2, what? It's like 70, $80 right now. In just a few months, I could have made, like, a lot of money, but I didn't do it and I didn't pull the trigger.
01:33:24.290 - 01:33:58.376, Speaker A: And that, you know, and as I'm saying, like this, this only happened over the last six months. So you didn't even have to be really early to do this. You just had to have the conviction to put the money in to do the research. And I kind of, like, stick to your bet as well, because at the end of the day, investing is not easy and you're in a bull market. It may feel a little bit easy because you can throw money at anything and make money, but over the long term, if you want to make life changing gains or big financial gains, there's a lot more to investing than just being early, because you can be early, but you can also sell early. I know plenty of people who bought ETH at the ICO and sold it at a dollar. They made, like, what, a three x? Because at ICO was $0.30.
01:33:58.376 - 01:34:26.204, Speaker A: So they made a bit over a three x, but then they sold it at a dollar. They sold the ETH at a dollar. Like, you know what I mean? Like, but at the time, that to them was, was awesome because they're like, oh, well, I just made, like a three x on my money in a year or a bit over a three x in a year. Because the ICO was held mid 2014, the main net went live mid 2015. And then immediately, I think it start, it opened at a dollar and then fell back down after that. And it's funny because it actually, I think it opened over a dollar and then fell back down to, I think, $0.40 or something because it was still a bear market in 2015 for crypto.
01:34:26.204 - 01:35:08.608, Speaker A: But then after that, in 2016, it went to $25 during the Dow. Then it went down to, like $6 end of 2016. And then we all know in 2017, it went to, like, well, technically January 2018, it went to $1,400. And now we are where we are today. So just investing in general is not, I mean, I really don't believe investing is, is necessarily about being early. I think it's just about conviction, holding, placing your bets, and just being there at the end of the day, like, not being early, being present, I think, is a better way of putting it. So a little bit of a rant there, but I hope that answers kind of your question Beethoven about, like, just, I guess, how early we are and also how making big financial gains doesn't have to be calm from being early.
01:35:08.608 - 01:35:24.468, Speaker A: It can come from being, quote unquote late. You know, maybe you didn't come as early as someone else, but you can still make a lot of money in this ecosystem. There's so much opportunity. We're so early. There's still so much more to go. The next ten years are going to be the best years that crypto ever sees. Like, the next decade is literally going to be the decade of crypto.
01:35:24.468 - 01:35:45.384, Speaker A: And, I mean, I'm so confident in that. That's why I've dedicated my whole life to it. One of the reasons. But, you know, and obviously, like, as I was mentioning before, I'm still heavily investing in this ecosystem. Yes, I do it more on the angel investment side, but I still buy things on public markets when I can or when I spot an opportunity and stuff like that. But you have to pull the trigger. I've missed plenty of opportunities by not pulling the trigger.
01:35:45.384 - 01:36:24.774, Speaker A: I'm sure a lot of people have, but that's kind of, I guess the, the kind of thing that I look at being present, pulling the trigger, holding through the kind of tough times, having a thesis, having conviction, and then kind of like, you know, hopefully making some financial gains from that. But I guess to preface to kind of like, end all of that, none of that is financial advice. It shouldn't be considered financial advice. I'm not a financial advisor, just to be clear there, but just generally, that's kind of like how I approach things. All right, next question here from Exoldru. Hopefully I said your name, right, Exoldro. What are the privacy solutions you're excited about? Do you foresee easier, more powerful apps than Tornado cash? So there's a few different privacy solutions right now.
01:36:24.774 - 01:36:54.370, Speaker A: The ones that I'm most excited about are the ones that use zero knowledge proofs or zero knowledge technology that is kind of like either a ZK roll up or kind of like in that family of scalability solutions because they can also be used for privacy. One of them is Aztec. There's another one called Umbra. Umbra protocol. Obviously, you mentioned Tornado cash here, which is like a mixing service. There's a few other projects, I think, out there. Can't remember off the top of my head, but, yeah, I'm most excited for something like Aztec.
01:36:54.370 - 01:37:04.814, Speaker A: Definitely. I think that their tech is really, really cool. I'm most excited. I'm also excited for Umbra. Like, I think that's actually really great. It's flying under the radar. They're still in very early stages here, but.
01:37:04.814 - 01:37:21.526, Speaker A: But those two are what I'm most excited about. But there's plenty of other ones out there. And technically, ZK roll ups can actually enable this, too. I know Starquare is working on this. I think Zksync as well. So those should be coming out over time, too. So a question here from Shaw, man, which I'll.
01:37:21.526 - 01:37:55.686, Speaker A: I think I'm going to take. Going to get to this in a sec. I'm just going to take a quick water break. All right. One here from Shawman who says, why is the market pumping other l ones like Solana and Cardano? It doesn't make any sense to me. All right, so maybe I'm going to give, like, a bit of a long answer here, because there's a lot that goes into this. But at the highest level, I think when you look at short term markets, it's narratives, right? So the narrative right now is that ETH gas fees have been high for a while.
01:37:55.686 - 01:38:33.414, Speaker A: They're expensive for end users. Most people don't want to be spending $100 on fees to do anything on the chain, whether that be to swap on a decentralized exchange or to buy an NFT or a mint an NFT or to do whatever else, right? So these other kind of ecosystems have spun up. They've taken trade offs. I don't consider Solana to be decentralized, for example, because it takes a massive trade off where it. It has something called a distributed proof of stake, sorry, delegated proof of stake system or deposit, where essentially they're running on super nodes and only the people with beefy hardware can. Can run validators and validate the chain and stuff like that. And that's the trade off that they've taken to achieve their scale.
01:38:33.414 - 01:39:00.232, Speaker A: Now, I really do think that most users just aren't aware of the intricacies of these sorts of things. So, not that they don't care about decentralization, they just. I mean, there's money to be made, for one. A lot of these chains are spinning up liquidity mining programs. I saw avalanche do a pretty big one recently, and that kind of token price has been pumping. But they're also are kind of like taking these trade offs for security, but a lot of users just simply aren't aware. Or maybe, maybe they don't even care.
01:39:00.232 - 01:39:23.772, Speaker A: Maybe they just want to kind of like, I guess, ape into different Defi Degen farms without having to pay the high fees. And, you know, I totally get that. I sympathize with that for sure. We saw this, you know, with BSc back in the. Earlier in the year, but no, now where's BSC? I don't really see anyone talking about it. And then we're seeing this with these other smart contract chains. I think Cardano is definitely a unique example here because as I mentioned before, they don't have smart contracts.
01:39:23.772 - 01:39:41.412, Speaker A: I think Cardano is more like a cult centered around Charles. And I think that that cult is incredibly strong. I actually don't think that's a negative. I think that's actually a positive for Cardano because you've seen the Ada price and seen how nuts it's gone and it's all narrative there. It really is. It's all narrative of like, okay, you know, Cardano is going to take over the world. It's going to have smart contracts.
01:39:41.412 - 01:40:31.844, Speaker A: It's going to take over ethereum, it's going to do this, it's going to do that. And the longer you can keep, like, a narrative and a good story going, the more buy in you'll get. I mean, this is the very definition of, like, a religion and a cult. I mean, not to get too kind of like. I mean, I don't know if this is considered to be politics, but really, I mean, the better story that you tell, the more kind of like followers that you can recruit, right? The more you make people feel kind of like, safe and kind of like, inspired or you have people live in like, a fantasy land or whatever, the more you can kind of like, recruit to your, I guess, like, community or if you want to call it a cult or whatever, and kind of like they're going to buy into your vision and they're literally going to buy in by buying the token. So I think that's what's happening with Cardano, with Solana. It seems to be, you know, definitely people who are using it for the speed at the end of the day because they either don't understand the trade offs or they don't care about the trade offs.
01:40:31.844 - 01:41:07.538, Speaker A: And, you know, there's a bunch of other projects as well. But if you look at kind of like attraction on most of these chains, it's basically non existent. And the reason why they valued so highly is for two reasons. One is it's currently a kind of narrative going around right now where it's like l one season, let's just pump all the l one s and all the traders are kind of like pumping in and then all the kind of like retail investors plow in. And really like most of these are just going to kind of sell off when, when kind of like the mania ends. They're going to go either sell into cash or maybe they'll go back to other assets they want to hold, like Ethan and bitcoin or whatever, but generally they're there. You know, a lot of these things are just pumping because of that.
01:41:07.538 - 01:41:46.740, Speaker A: But, but I think secondly is kind of like the fact that the l one space, like winning the l one war, like being the most adopted smart contract chain, means you're, you're going to be worth tens if not hundreds of trillions eventually. And like, I truly believe that the, the kind of like addressable market for smart contract chains is much more insane and much bigger than people actually think it is. And I think the people who, who think deeply about this stuff know that. And so there's going to be a lot of speculation around which chain is going to win. A lot of people still think that we're going to, that ethereum is not going to be the center of this ecosystem. I believe it will be, but that's not to say I don't believe in a multi chain ecosystem. I definitely do.
01:41:46.740 - 01:42:22.848, Speaker A: Because at the end of the day, there's never just going to be one size fits all for everyone, right? There's never going to be everyone agreeing on everything, too. Because all these people building these other chains, they may be building them because they just simply have different design philosophies to what Ethereum has. I know with Solana, for example, what the founders say is that they're optimizing for something different to what Ethereum is optimizing for. Essentially what they're optimizing for and what they call it is maximum censorship resistance for their chain. But they're happy to give up kind of like some decentralization to achieve that. Now, I think they've given up more than some decentralization. I think they've given up pretty much all of it.
01:42:22.848 - 01:42:48.880, Speaker A: But that's their kind of like, view on things and that's their philosophy, is that they think that Solana is decentralized enough. We are, whereas in Ethereum we don't think it is. We think that Ethereum is kind of like the measure of decentralization for a smart contract chain. And that's the kind of future we're working towards. And obviously, Ethereum is not going to scale on layer one. And Solana is like, that's the kind of main difference there is, that Solana is pursuing layer one scaling. They don't care that they have to run supernotes to achieve this.
01:42:48.880 - 01:43:22.076, Speaker A: They don't care that they have to keep increasing hardware requirements to chase this because they believe that technology gets better and cheaper over time. So that's going to be fine. It's just a different philosophy altogether. And every chain has their own, like, Cardano has a different philosophy. You know, Charles spout espouses about, you know, peer reviewed research and making sure that we build everything like, you know, completely perfect every time, which I disagree with again, because never has a perfect technology and which is subjective, by the way, but never has a perfect technology one. It's always been the one that kind of like gets the most network effects. And that right now is ethereum.
01:43:22.076 - 01:44:06.480, Speaker A: And I think it's going to be ethereum into the future. Avalanche takes another kind of different approach where they have these things called sea chains, I believe, and they kind of like take a layered approach, like the, like kind of like not, not a layered approach, like a layer one, L2. They kind of like take this different approach with their C chain. I'm not sure exactly how it kind of works, but they have a novel consensus mechanism as well, which definitely kind of works very, very different. It's proof of stake, but it works differently to ethereum, proof of stake and different to like Solana and Cardano as well. And then, yeah, I mean, then you got the long tail that are trying different things too. The way Ethereum is pursuing it is basically through sharding for layer one scaling, which is coming later and is definitely a different layer one scaling mechanism to what Solana is pursuing.
01:44:06.480 - 01:44:38.656, Speaker A: Solana is not doing shards. They're doing it all as one kind of like one kind of thing. One kind of like chain. There's no different kind of like shards connected to it. It's all just one thing running on like a cluster of super nodes, basically like a distributed database. That's why, that's another reason why I don't think it's very decentralized. And then obviously, Ethereum is scaling via L2 as well, where we're going to have the arbitrary optimism, star quest, whatever of the world, polygons, all that sort of stuff, building out these solutions to scale Ethereum via L2 and via side chains.
01:44:38.656 - 01:45:28.970, Speaker A: And I think that's the better approach because we get to keep Ethereum as maximally decentralized and secure as possible at layer one, while also enjoying the benefits of scalability at L2. And the thing is, is that L2, and I mean, sorry, Ethereum's approach to scaling is much harder than, and it's going to take much longer than it is for these other chains to basically spin up, sacrifice, decentralization, kind of take that shortcut and essentially kind of, I guess, like achieve this fit where users come there because of the cheap fees. But I think over the long, longer term, cheap fees is not a draw from, for it's not something, it's not like a winning play. I think, as I said, a theorem is going to scale and a theorem will have cheap fees as well. And at the end of the day, I think these are all just short term money games that people are playing, speculation going on. So that's why you see a lot of these things pumping. I don't think most of these things have a future.
01:45:28.970 - 01:45:58.092, Speaker A: I think that, you know, in terms of, like, price rise, I don't know what they're going to do, but in terms of, like, usage and actual fundamentals, I think that most of them don't have a future. But of course, if, as long as people speculate on these things, they could go up, they could go down. I don't know. You know, um, you know, obviously some of them have outperformed ETH over time. That's just the market for you, and there's no way to know which one was going to do that, by the way. Like, you can look back in hindsight and say, oh, man, I should have bought this instead of ETH because it would have outperformed it and maybe I could have stacked more ETH. Well, I mean, what, you didn't do that at the time because you didn't actually have a thesis on it.
01:45:58.092 - 01:46:21.606, Speaker A: So looking back in hindsight, it's probably not the best kind of, like, approach there. But, yeah, hopefully that answers your question there. Sure, man. Okay, next one from Yawn the fawn. Who asks, can you tell us about the figurines hanging out in the background of your daily Gwei episodes? Are they from anime, and if so, which ones and which are your favorite? So, yeah, most of them are from an anime called one piece. Um, all the ones behind me and all the big ones. You may have seen me post on Twitter as well.
01:46:21.606 - 01:46:41.040, Speaker A: The statues. I have some from another anime called Hunter X Hunter. Um, and then the bookshelf that you see. Uh, it's a collection of one piece manga and other, a bunch of other trinkets as well, sitting there. I'm just kind of looking over at them now, like, different keyboards and kind of other books down there and, like, there's, like, PlayStation controllers. Just, like, everything there. This room is, like, tiny.
01:46:41.040 - 01:46:53.304, Speaker A: It's. It's, it's. It's really, really small. Basically, you can only fit me in this chair in here, and. And there's, like, a walkway to the door, and that's it. Like, other people come in here and it's, like, super crowded, but, yeah, so hopefully kind of like that. That answers your question.
01:46:53.304 - 01:47:05.526, Speaker A: I bought most of them in, in Japan. The smaller ones behind me, I bought. Bought in Tokyo when I was there. Um, and that was fine, getting them back home. And luckily, none of them broke, which was amazing, like, on the plane, so that was. That was quite cool. But, yeah, hopefully that answers your question.
01:47:05.526 - 01:47:24.034, Speaker A: All right, I got Will Coleman from the audience inviting you up. Will, to ask you a question. Just gotta press accept. I've invited you. There we go.
01:47:24.154 - 01:47:25.362, Speaker B: Hey, Anthony, how's it going?
01:47:25.418 - 01:47:27.690, Speaker A: Hey, how you going? Doing well.
01:47:27.722 - 01:47:42.074, Speaker B: Do well. I've heard you mention you don't want exposure to bitcoin. Is that because you think it's going to be unsuccessful or is it more so? It's just kind of not what you're looking to do with your money.
01:47:42.814 - 01:48:29.190, Speaker A: Yeah, so I think it's a funny thing. I did answer a similar question on the last AMA that I did where I basically gave, like, my actual bear case for bitcoin. And it's a long term bear case, but in terms of, like, I guess how I think about it, from where I put my money perspective, I just don't have. I mean, there's no edge to be had in bitcoin, right? Like, within bitcoin, you buy bitcoin or you don't, and you either ride the wave or you don't. Now, realistically, how much of a return are you going to get from bitcoin right now? Like, if you think bitcoin is going to go, you know, up to, like, half a million dollars, for example, that's like, what, a ten x return from here, which is really, really good. Don't, don't mind me, but what do you think the rest of the crypto ecosystem is going to do if bitcoin goes ten x, right. Like, you know, the rest of the ecosystem is going to go probably much harder than that.
01:48:29.190 - 01:49:00.988, Speaker A: Especially I actually think it's going to outperform bitcoin. And I do believe in the flippening, but, so that's kind of like how I view it. But also my personal situation is very different. Most of the investments I do these days are the private deals and angel investments. I just think the risk reward is a bit better there. But just generally, I just, as I said, I don't really focus on the bitcoin ecosystem. And I just don't see, I mean, I don't see a real use for it either, because with ETH I can, with my ETH I can stake it, which I have done for most of it, and do that trustlessly because I'm staking on my own.
01:49:00.988 - 01:49:36.428, Speaker A: And secondly, I can use it as trustless collateral within DeFi to borrow funds against, to do various things, whereas with bitcoin I can do that within deFi, but I'd have to use a custodial service or something with like, trust assumptions on it, too. So, yeah, I mean, hopefully that gives you a bit of like, insight into how I think about it. But at the end of the day, I don't actually put that much thought into it. I really just don't see a reason for me to personally hold bitcoin, you know, even from just like an investment point of view. I know people say ETH is more riskier than bitcoin. There's execution risk, all this sort of stuff. But I mean, I've been hearing people say that since forever, and either has outperformed bitcoin for most of its life.
01:49:36.428 - 01:49:39.384, Speaker A: So, you know, I'm happy taking that risk.
01:49:40.204 - 01:49:51.144, Speaker B: Yeah. And if, if you do kind of have the thought of a long term bear case for bitcoin, what would be kind of the main reasons to it's downfall?
01:49:51.544 - 01:50:18.254, Speaker A: Yeah. Yeah. So, I mean, as I said, I answered this in like a really long form answer on the last AMA, but I'll give you my, like, my TRDI answer here. So there's two major things. One, its security budget is dwindling over time. And I actually think that within ten years, the bitcoin network will be insecure and will be under attack, you know, either from nation states or from just profit motivated actors within the ecosystem. And that's simply because the bitcoin block reward halves every two years.
01:50:18.254 - 01:50:56.128, Speaker A: They were relying on fear revenue to secure the chain. But if you look at bitcoin's fear revenue, it has not matched the kind of, like, where they want it to be to kind of, like, offset the reducing issuance to secure the chain. So I do think that within the next two halvenings, which is, you know, less than ten years from now, but within the next two halvenings, the chain will become insecure. And the second thing is that I believe once ETH flips bitcoin, I actually think that bitcoin would just keep getting flipped. I actually have a long term view that bitcoin will fall out of the top ten. I know that might be, like, pretty, I guess, like, out there view, but I do think that once bitcoin loses its number one spot, it loses most of its narratives. Right.
01:50:56.128 - 01:51:12.336, Speaker A: One of its major narratives. It's the most valuable crypto. Everyone goes to bitcoin. Everyone takes profits in bitcoin. But we've seen that if you're. You know, if you're not a bitcoin maximalist, it's pretty obvious that bitcoin dominance has been falling over time, and it hasn't gone anywhere near what it used to be, and it's still falling these days. I mean, I still think it's.
01:51:12.336 - 01:51:38.586, Speaker A: It's got a long ways to go from here, and I do think that, as I said, once it gets flipped by ETH, it's gonna just, like, keep getting flipped. There's no reason for it to stay at number two. Right. Because if you're number two, I think a lot of the narratives get broken, and there's just a lot less people that will buy it. I think people would just buy ETH because ETH will be number one, although by other things. And, again, I also think that there's a lot more reasons to buy ETH and other assets than there is to buy bitcoin. And bitcoin, you know, kind of like, sticking.
01:51:38.586 - 01:51:56.326, Speaker A: It's. It's, I guess, like a fork in the sand and saying, well, we're digital gold. I mean, you've just limited your addressable market to people who are interested in, you know, digital gold, so to speak. Right. You know, I know gold has a really large market cap, but, you know, a $10 trillion market cap is cool. Like, you know, that. That's.
01:51:56.326 - 01:52:21.634, Speaker A: That's. That's. That's bitcoin at, what, like, 1010 x from here? Probably a bit more than that. Um, but, you know, I think even if you kind of, like, look at that as a comparable. I think that gold being worth that much is just a function of the fact that it's been around for a very long time. Um, you know, I don't know if bitcoin, you know, could get to that. I think that if it does get flipped before it gets to that kind of, like, market cap, it definitely isn't going to have the same allure and it's definitely going to lose more dominance over time.
01:52:21.634 - 01:52:30.774, Speaker A: So, yeah, that's kind of like, I guess like a shortened version of what I mentioned in my other answer. But you can go check it out. It's time stamped on the, on the AMa, on YouTube. And if you want a longer answer there.
01:52:31.674 - 01:52:32.898, Speaker B: Perfect. Thank you.
01:52:33.026 - 01:52:40.880, Speaker A: Awesome. Thanks, mate. All right, I'll invite Air bayer up now. There you go. Invited. You just accept it. Awesome.
01:52:40.880 - 01:52:41.520, Speaker A: Hey, mate.
01:52:41.632 - 01:52:51.764, Speaker B: Hey, Anthony. Hey, Anthony. I just want to say first and foremost, love the show, man. Love the chats that you do. David Hoffman on bankless.
01:52:52.304 - 01:52:57.284, Speaker A: Awesome. Yeah. Thanks for the kind words. I see you're back from the bank list down there. You must do some work with them over there.
01:52:58.344 - 01:53:21.064, Speaker B: Yeah, I do. I'm part of their analytics guild. Actually, I have a couple questions for you. I know that the banquet style has just formed in May. What have you liked about the banquet style so far? What have you admired about their competition? What do you expect, I guess, from the community going forward?
01:53:22.124 - 01:53:51.220, Speaker A: So what I've liked and what I've seen, I guess, coming out of the bank list, dow, mind you, I don't pay super close attention to it. Unfortunately, I don't have the time from what I've seen, like, just on Twitter and talking to David and things like that. I really like how the DAO seems to be pursuing a lot of different avenues. Right. Like I mentioned before, you may have heard me talk about how you guys launched a job board. You're doing like, the merch stuff. You're doing different nfts, you know, you're from the analytics team and stuff like that.
01:53:51.220 - 01:54:35.024, Speaker A: Like, and, you know, the Metaverse newsletter got spun up with bankless and there's a bunch of other things happening there. I really do like how from the outside looking in, it looks like just a community of passionate people who want to produce, like, you know, content or do creative work or kind of like, you know, do merch or whatever, or kind of like, participate in this global, kind of like, social club. Really. As I was saying before, I think social tokens or like these social, just like global social clubs that have, you know, kind of like, membership benefits if you're, if you're part of it, if you hold the token, you may kind of like get benefit from, from appreciating token price and stuff like that. So yeah, that's, that's kind of like how I, how I view it. And I've just been really impressed with all the initiatives that the, the bankless dow has been taking on.
01:54:36.444 - 01:55:05.644, Speaker B: Thank you. And what, I guess, like what are you looking to see from the dow the next coming months? I know that there's been a lot of like, you know, talk like, you know, people talk all about the time, like, oh, like, you know, the price, like, you know, the bank tokens this and third, but I actually think that there's a lot that's very undervalued because all the products that we're launching, can you just talk a little about like also kind of best practices you've seen from other daos. So that way maybe Bancos could get better or just in general.
01:55:06.184 - 01:55:50.636, Speaker A: Yeah. So in terms of like the token price and token value, it's always a touchy subject because I guess like with, when bankless kind of launched this, you know, when David Ryan, whoever else, part of the core team launched this, obviously they didn't want to run afoul with regulators and they still don't. Right. But I think that if you want the bank token to be viewed as something that people want to own, well, then you have to, you know, spell out how value is being driven to it. You know, you have to give people reasons as to why this will appreciate in the future and what you can do with these tokens, whether that be liquidity, provide and earn rewards. Whether that be earn rewards for kind of like contributing to the Dow, stuff like that. So putting out content around that would be, I think, ideal.
01:55:50.636 - 01:56:19.632, Speaker A: And also bolstering the liquidity. Last time I checked, there wasn't much liquidity for it. So it's very hard for people to trade in and out of it. And obviously because of that, the price can be very volatile. And I guess like on that note, who I've seen do it well, I think the index cop does it pretty well. They basically, with their token, I don't think there's ever been like an obvious blog post where they've been like this is all the ways the index kind of token increase value. It's more them kind of like advertising the revenue that the co op is making.
01:56:19.632 - 01:57:02.928, Speaker A: So the cop creates different index products or different products in general, structured products earns a fee on them, whether that be performance fees or management fees or whatever. And that kind of like fear of renew goes into the dow and they've into the treasury and they've been kind of like spying that out over time. They've been putting tweets out about it, blog posts, they do financial reports and all that sort of stuff. And that kind of like shows the ecosystem, hey, you know, this is an asset that you want to own because it gives you exposure to this ecosystem that's actually making revenue, making money. So that's kind of like probably the, I mean, there's other teams that have done, it's like yearn finance does this as well and things like that. But, you know, I, I've just been monitoring index cop closer than the other ones. So that's definitely something that I like seeing.
01:57:02.928 - 01:57:46.776, Speaker A: So, yeah, I guess that's on, I get maybe the token price side of things and the token side of things, but in terms of, like, what else you guys could be doing to maybe, I don't know, grow the bank list down, stuff like that, I mean, I don't know. I think you guys are doing like a really great job already because it seems like you really do want to become this just like massive, not just media, I guess, conglomerate or media, kind of like producer or content producer within the ecosystem, but you also want to be setting the culture as well. You want to be involved in, in ethereum, crypto culture. You want to be at the forefront of what's happening. You know, as I said, like, you guys launched the Metaverse newsletter and stuff like that very, very early on. You have the bed index, you know, which, which I think is really cool. So, yeah, I mean, I would say that I think what you guys are doing is already really great, and I just would love to see more of that.
01:57:46.776 - 01:57:47.364, Speaker A: Continue.
01:57:48.664 - 01:58:21.844, Speaker B: Last question I had for you, what do you think of, you know, with EIP 1559 already being launched and with this NfT craze going on, how do you, what, what do you tell people, like, you know, who are trying to get into the NFT space and trying to spin up profits? I personally believe, like, you know, just holding ethereum as long as possible because that's a better long term outlook. But maybe there's differing viewpoints. But what have you mostly heard about this recent NFT phase and the burning of ease now?
01:58:22.504 - 01:59:37.032, Speaker A: Yeah, so, I mean, it's funny because, like, trying to maybe, I guess, speculate within the Nft kind of like craze is, it's quite difficult because there's so many different projects right now and it's hard to pick the right ones. And, you know, you know, if you do strike it, strike gold essentially, and like buy into the right project and then you hold on to it and for some reason it just goes crazy. Say like the pudgy penguins, for example, or I mean, crypto punks is the obvious example, but that's an older one now. But generally it's just very hard to kind of like pick a winning project unless you kind of like do your, you know, you do a digital instance and your research or you're involved yourself or things like that. So, yeah, I mean in a 1559 world where a lot of this value is being driven back to ETH anyway, not just from nfts, from defi then holding ETH over the long term, especially staking that ETH, you know, whether that be through staking provider Lido, you know, maybe Rocketpool in the future, staking on your own and getting an ETH denominator return or being able to use that ETH within DeFi to do various different things over the long term. I think it's just they're going to be very hard to outperform ETH unless you get like, unless you kind of like buy into things really early on. So obviously if you're, if you're, if you're early on to a Defi project that may have just like begun and they haven't grown yet, but you know, they have lots of potential and you do win.
01:59:37.032 - 02:00:18.024, Speaker A: You do kind of like hit your, you know, hit yourself to that winner and does like 100 x. Well, yeah, you'd be, you'd be making a nice amount of money from that, of course, and you'd be outperforming ETH for sure. But if you're buying into maybe like the blue chips of defi and stuff like that, um, you know, and depends on your timeframe and stuff, I don't know, it just looks very hard to outperform ETH over the longer term because of that kind of like value being driven back to ETH anyway. And because you get to stake your ETH too, right? Like I think a lot of people just like going to buy ETH and just stake it, whether that be on exchanges as well. You know, a lot of people are going to exchange, stake and earn that kind of like ETH nominated return there. So that's kind of like how I'm viewing it, obviously. I mean, I'm not shy about the fact that I stack ETH, you know, as much as I can.
02:00:18.024 - 02:00:30.594, Speaker A: I do still hold some Defi tokens. I still have my bank tokens that were, that was airdropped to me. And stuff like that. Stuff like that as well. But, yeah, generally kind of like, that's how I'm viewing the space and kind of like where I'm parking my money.
02:00:31.894 - 02:00:38.182, Speaker B: Awesome. Thank you, Anthony, for asking, for answering all my questions. I really appreciate it. And keep up the great work, man. Love the show.
02:00:38.318 - 02:00:56.850, Speaker A: Awesome. Thanks, man. Thanks for asking the questions. All right, back to the sheet here. So I have one from. From Brian Peace, who says someone in the general channel mentioned a reluctance to connect their wallet to Zappa because they weren't comfortable with it, with giving it that many permissions. I have infinite allowance turned off.
02:00:56.850 - 02:01:19.402, Speaker A: I use a hardware wallet. What permissions over my wallet am I giving to Zappa? Am I exposing myself to potential exploits? No, I don't believe so. I mean, the. The real concerns will be the. The infinite allowance and stuff like that over contracts or, like, Zappa's contracts as well. If you kind of, I guess, use their bridge contracts, you know, they've got, like, a bridging mechanism for different chains. I think one of them had a bug recently.
02:01:19.402 - 02:01:44.868, Speaker A: So there's obviously, like, a risk of a bug happening there. I don't think any funds were stolen or lost or anything, but, you know, there's always that risk there. But those are kind of, like, the main things. And again, it falls back to this kind of, like, giving the contracts permission to spend your assets or hold your assets or whatever. But other than that, I don't believe there's anything else that kind of like, that comes to. Comes to mind. I think the person in the general channel didn't know that you could just add, like, addresses to your address book and watch them.
02:01:44.868 - 02:02:00.586, Speaker A: You didn't. You don't have to connect your address. You don't have to connect the ones that you actually want to use on Zappa. And that's what I do. I mean, I have all of my addresses in there. I use Zapper as mainly as a portfolio tracker, but I do also use the zaps from time to time, and I'll just connect my wallet when I need to. I'll turn off infinite allowance when I.
02:02:00.586 - 02:02:35.456, Speaker A: When I, you know, when I can and stuff like that. So, yeah, other than that, I don't think there's many other things to worry about there. So one here from Shankansen, who says, great episode of the Deli gwei yesterday. I especially like the part covering grant dows. I was just wondering if you thought. Thought submitting a grant proposal to the Uniswap grants program to build an AMM adapter for the set protocol that worked with Uniswap V three to allow adding and removing liquidity to v three pools within set tokens would have a chance of getting funded or would there be a better place to submit something like that? I think Uniswap grants program is fine. I think it would actually have a chance of getting funded.
02:02:35.456 - 02:03:01.524, Speaker A: I've seen similar products or similar kind of things get funded. I'm not sure exactly the number that you would get that you would get back. But yeah, I mean, just generally I would just submit it anyway. Who cares if you get knocked back? At least you kind of like, are we able to kind of submit that there and get it out there and kind of, if you get something back, then all the better. If you don't, maybe try another grants program or something like that. But yeah, I think that that's definitely something that you sub grants program would probably be interested in funding for. Sure.
02:03:01.524 - 02:03:39.574, Speaker A: All right. One here from Mark underscore o who says, any thoughts on the EGL drama currently happening? Yes, which I gave before and earlier on in the AMA, someone else asked that question. It's in the timestamps. If you're listening back on this, Mark, and you want to go kind of find that there. But yeah, I've already answered that one. So one here from DJ chimp who says how much of market activity is done by trading bots? It seems 90% plus of market trading is identical to BTC. So how can the fundamentals of ETH win out with these automated trading strategies in control over the short term bots, like rule the market? I mean, there's different types of bots, right? There's arbitrage bots.
02:03:39.574 - 02:04:11.632, Speaker A: There's kind of like high frequency trading bots. There's different types of arbitrage bots, ones that will arb the price of ETH between different exchanges and different kind of decentralized exchanges, ones that will arb the price of ETH against bitcoins. Obviously, when bitcoin dumps, you know, ETH dumps, other things dump, whatever. But it's all short term noise. Look at the long term ETH BTC as a perfect kind of like long term, um, uh, kind of like chart here. ETH BTC, since let's go back to like the bottom of March 2020, has outperformed over the long term. You can see it like that's been trending up and all that sort of stuff there.
02:04:11.632 - 02:04:44.780, Speaker A: So, yeah, TLDR short term trading bots definitely have a large impact. They dominate, but different types of bots, of course. Also Mev bots, too, which is a whole nother thing I'm not going to get into, but, and, you know, that's just a short over the long term, the way I like to look at it, short term bots and traders, long term investors like fundamentals based investing. So that's kind of like how I, how I kind of look at things there. So hopefully that answers your question. All right, I think I've got a few more questions in the AMA series channel to go through before we wrap it up for today. I think Ubiquit asks a question here.
02:04:44.780 - 02:04:59.572, Speaker A: Why did you never cover Safoo rug? Safe. Safe rug, the most exciting project on Ethereum. I don't know what safe rug is, guys. Ubiquit. Maybe it's a safe moon you're talking about. I'm not sure. I don't even know if that's on Ethereum or BSC, but, yeah, I'm not sure what that is.
02:04:59.572 - 02:05:33.096, Speaker A: Maybe you can kind of clarify that. But next question from Leo M. Here, who says a long shot question. Have you heard of wire? They built payment API for fintech firms. Are there any resources or metrics on fintech firms and their usage of crypto for payments? I'm trying to wrap my head around the demand for what wire does. Have heard of wire? I don't know of any metrics or kind of like statistics or anything about these firms that are publicly available. If they're publicly traded companies, then there will be, I mean, you may have seen Robinhood's q three, I think, or Q two, sorry, earnings report, where they went over kind of like how much crypto has dominated their trading activity.
02:05:33.096 - 02:06:02.736, Speaker A: But they're not a payments company, obviously. So, yeah, I'm not sure of any publicly available information on the payment side of things. One here from DCOA who says, what do you think about on chain privacy? I want to get your thoughts on Railgun and its creation. Um, I mean, obviously, on chain privacy, I really like, I don't think that we should do privacy at layer one in terms of, like, sorry, at the protocol layer. I don't think that Ethereum should be private by default. It introduces a bunch of different complexities. But I do think that we can build apps on top of it at layer one and L2 that do really well there.
02:06:02.736 - 02:06:28.536, Speaker A: I don't really have many thoughts on Railgun, because I haven't dived deep into railgun yet. It's been on my to do list for a while, so I can't answer that question, unfortunately, but hopefully the next AMA, I'll have like a better, maybe a better opinion on that one. Another one here from crypto prowess who says, I've only been get, I've only been in the game since January. I just made the commitment to put in 80 hours a week to stop doing everything else. Did I get lucky? Yep, a few times. But lucky is when preparation meets opportunity. Lower your time preference.
02:06:28.536 - 02:07:07.710, Speaker A: This industry will give you the opportunity to become well off, but you have to put in the time. I mean, this is basically what I was talking about before, about how it doesn't matter if you're like early or not, like, you know, being like, you make your own luck. I mean, I mean, that's kind of like been a saying that I've been living off like just best part of my personal life for a while now is you make your own luck. You have to be in the position to have that luck. You can't just like essentially hope that you're lucky, you know, without being in the position to be lucky. For example, you can't expect to make money off ETH if you have, if you're not involved in the ethereum ecosystem. Right? Like, you can't expect to make, you know, life changing financial gains within crypto if you're not actually making opportunities for yourself.
02:07:07.710 - 02:07:41.424, Speaker A: And yeah, I think that kind of like, echoes what you were saying, crypto prowess. So good sentiment there. One here from Briz Nook who says a few ways ago you mentioned using a VPN to get the IMX airdrop. If you're in the US, do you know, do we just have to have our most recent interaction through the VPN? Or would we go, or how would we go about coordinating that? Coordinating that. I don't have the nitty gritty details on this. All I know is that from what I've heard is that you can use a VPN to get the airdrop. So I would assume that anytime you interact with the immutable system or the kind of like IMX system, you would just be using a VPN to do that.
02:07:41.424 - 02:08:10.234, Speaker A: So, yeah, that's kind of like, I guess like, all I know about that one. Rex here, what is the status of the merge test program? The merge in terms of like, testnets? There was a couple of just like Dev. I mean, they're technically called devnets because they're just developers that access them. They're not public test nets. There was a project called Rayonism that was headed up by proto land. Proto who's like ethereum core dev that went really smoothly. But these were all like short lived things that were basically proof of concepts in terms of like test nets for the merge.
02:08:10.234 - 02:08:38.244, Speaker A: I would expect to maybe see some test nets, maybe towards the end of the year for public test nets, maybe even sooner than that. But yeah, that's kind of like the last. I've kind of saw on that front one here from Russell, which I think is the last one. I think I'm going to wrap it up after this one, guys. Been going for over 2 hours now. But yeah, this comes from Russell who says, what's the best way to spend your time to drive the most value to the ecosystem long term? Diving deep into social tokens, dows and communities, taking the time to up your dev solidity skills or diving headfirst into the ecosystem. Sorry.
02:08:38.244 - 02:08:58.268, Speaker A: And then you say, Russell, diving headfirst into the ecosystem and everything is so exciting. It's easy to get shiny object syndrome. I mean, yes it is. And I haven't really found a cure for this. I have shiny object syndrome as well. But over time I gravitated towards what most interested me. For me it's ethereum core development and that includes everything happening on the layer one protocol side.
02:08:58.268 - 02:09:28.404, Speaker A: Everything happening on the L2 protocol side. And I really do enjoy defined nfts as well. I don't spend as much time in the DAO and social token space. Just I don't have the time. I do find it exciting, but in terms of like, I guess your first question here, the best way to spend your time to drive the most value to the ETH ecosystem. I mean, I might be biased, but I think education at the end of the day, that's why I do these AMA, that's why I do the refuel, it's why I do the newsletter, that's why I do all of what I do. I think education is the biggest impact that most people can have in this ecosystem.
02:09:28.404 - 02:10:05.140, Speaker A: Especially if, you know, you maybe want to do something on the side or maybe you don't want to kind of like get involved with a team full time because you don't have the time to do so. Maybe you're working outside of crypto. Education is, is kind of like what I'm definitely biased towards. But you got to find your, your, like what, what interests you most. Maybe you're not into defi, maybe you're into NFTs or dows or whatever and just like focus on that, just find what you're interested in. But if you're newer to the ecosystem, definitely you want to dive into as many things as possible and learn about as many things as possible to figure out what you're most interested in. It took me a little while because this is, this ecosystem is definitely the definition of shiny object object syndrome.
02:10:05.140 - 02:10:49.560, Speaker A: But don't let that get you down. Over time, you'll find that as you go through it, you'll learn so much just by being involved in anything within this ecosystem because there's a lot of overlap between these things. It's not like you're in a silo. You know, if you're in the social token community, you're probably going to come across NFT and defi stuff anyway if you're in the kind of like Dow community, same kind of stuff there. So, yeah, I mean, just kind of like diving in, I guess, like, and learning as much as possible and, and maybe even just giving back through education, writing twitter threads, writing blog posts, whatever is a good way to go about it as well. So, yeah, hopefully that answers your question there, Russell. All right, unless there's any last questions from the audience, I think I'm going to wrap this up for today because, yeah, as I said, we've gone over 2 hours here, so just, I'll give another 5 seconds.
02:10:49.560 - 02:11:03.964, Speaker A: If no more questions, I will be wrapping it up. All right. No new requests there. All right, cool. I'm gonna wrap this up for today. So thank you, everyone, for attending. As I said at the start, this will be recorded, put onto YouTube within 24 hours.
02:11:03.964 - 02:11:12.524, Speaker A: So if you came late, it'll be timestamped. You'll be able to see everything on there. So thank you again, everyone, and we'll do this again in two weeks, and I'll see you all in the Discord channel. See you for now.
