00:00:00.160 - 00:00:23.998, Speaker A: Hello everyone and welcome to another episode of the Delhi refuel where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host and it's a signer. And today's the 14 February 2023. Right everyone, let's get into it. So we have a new prism release today. This is the first official release supporting the upcoming Shanghai Capella network upgrade. It's a mandatory upgrade on the so polio testnet and recommended on Mainnet right now.
00:00:23.998 - 00:01:08.902, Speaker A: So if you were running the testnet, definitely go download this as it is mandatory. And obviously once the Mainnet deployment goes ahead, we're obviously hoping end of March here, it will be mandatory then as well to upgrade your nodes. Now this obviously only applies to people running solo validators, whether that be on Testnet, on Mainnet. If you are, I guess when it comes time to Mainnet, if you are delegating your stake to, I guess, another provider or staking with another provider such as Lido or just say you own areth, you don't have to do anything. The people who run the rockable mini pools obviously have to upgrade. People who run the lighter operators have to upgrade, but you don't have to do anything. I had a few questions about this from people who are basically staking their ETH via these services, whether they're holding STE or ReTh or one of these other LSD's or staking with an exchange.
00:01:08.902 - 00:01:59.216, Speaker A: No, anytime there's an upgrade you don't have to do anything because you're not actually running the software, right? But if you are in the software, such as a rocket pool, mini pool or a solar validator or in the future any other kind of type of validator where you are running it on either your own hardware or I guess a card that you've rented from AWS or something like that, then yes, of course you would have to manage that and upgrade it yourself. But for most people they aren't doing that. They're going through these, these other providers, which is, which is totally fine, right? Those providers will take care of that for you there. But anyway, you can go upgrade. I'll link this in the YouTube description below. Now I know I spoke a bit about this yesterday, but the mev boost ecosystem, he's just getting so much better. I mean the thing about this is, I speak about it a lot, but there's a reason I think that this is the greatest demonstration of Ethereum's decentralization in its history.
00:01:59.216 - 00:02:50.784, Speaker A: I know that's a big call to make, but the more I think about it, the more I guess, like, excited about it I get. Now, of course, I'm talking about this OFAC compliance thing that everyone's been talking about since it happened in August of last year, and now we're actually under 50% OFAC compliant blocks, including all blocks. And you can see the ultrasound money website tweeted this out today. That means that more than half the network is basically rejecting the, I guess, OFAC compliance, so to speak, right? Is using non censoring relayers, or is not using any relay at all, as I suggest, that's about eight to 10% of validators that aren't actually using mev boost at all there. And as you can see from this chart, ultrasound money shared, it's just been kind of like, down only on the OFAC compliance since it peaked at about 80%. It hasn't really gone back up since then. It doesn't seem like it's going to go back up, back up then as well.
00:02:50.784 - 00:03:31.856, Speaker A: Now, I wanted to give a huge, huge shout out to the ultrasound money relay here, because they've done a lot of work in a very short period of time. For those of you who don't know, their market share has grown so fast that I believe it is the fastest growing relay in history. Now, I can't count flashbots in this, because flashbots was around, you know, before even the merge happened, but. And it was obviously the first relay, so they had the majority market share. But since then, ultrasound money has grown so incredibly fast, and it actually came much later than most of these other relayers. Right? So it launched the same day as the agnostic boost relay, and the agnostic boost relay is at 4.9% of mev boosted blocks.
00:03:31.856 - 00:04:00.314, Speaker A: And ultrasound money as it is at 16.3% blocks, route max profit is at 24%. So ultrasound money has almost caught up to the biggest non censoring relay are, which is just an incredible amount of growth here. And why I'm obviously really happy about this growth is because the ultrasound money relay is non censoring. Right. It's not a censored relay. And that has contributed a lot to the fact that we are now under 50% OFAC compliant relays, which is just as I said before, guys, it is so bullish.
00:04:00.314 - 00:04:33.974, Speaker A: It really has. Has been the perfect demonstration of Ethereum's decentralization, and maybe I should kind of give my reasoning behind that. This is stuff that I've said in the past, but I think summarizing it here would be probably a good idea. So the reason I say that is because I believe that you can't really know which blockchains are truly decentralized until they're actually faced their kind of endgame boss, so to speak. And to me, the end game boss of a blockchain and something that tests the blockchains. Decentralization is a nation state. And not just any nation state, but like powerful nation states.
00:04:33.974 - 00:05:26.802, Speaker A: Now, obviously the most powerful nation state in the world as it is today is the US, right? There's, there's really no second best at the moment. I mean, there, I know there are other large and powerful nation states like China and India, but the US is still the leader, especially in military budget. I mean, they absolutely smash every other, every other nation state in terms of how much they spend on their military. Now, the US was obviously the one that put these sanctions on Ethereum through OFAC. They put them on tornado cash, as we all know. And that really did test ethereum censorship resistant properties, which obviously comes from Ethereum's decentralization properties now since August, and it hasn't actually been that long, guys like August was, was, and this was August last year, obviously wasn't very, very long ago. You know, seven or eight months since then, the ethereum ecosystem has shown that we can successfully fight back against us government level enforced censorship on Ethereum.
00:05:26.802 - 00:06:18.150, Speaker A: How is that not incredibly bullish, right? How is that not such a validation of Ethereum's decentralization and Ethereum's, I guess, social layers care for decentralization because this didn't just happen on its own. When the OFAC sanctions happened, there were very, very few relays and flashbots had, I believe, 90% of market share of relay is here. Since then, there have been all these other ones that have launched. Flashbots has done their part and obviously open sourcing their software that they developed. Mev Boost, the builders, the relay software, all that good stuff there. They've also done their part in doing research, like the min bid thing as well. So there's been a lot of work in a very short period of time relative to, I guess, Ethereum's lifecycle here to greatly improve Ethereum censorship resistance and decentralization properties, which I think is just incredibly validating for Ethereum as a whole here.
00:06:18.150 - 00:06:52.718, Speaker A: So that's basically the main reason there. And you know, I kind of talk about this sometimes on the refuel where I basically say that my, the only thing that makes a blockchain different to a database is its censorship resistant properties. If a blockchain is not censorship resistance, then it really could just be a database. And there's obviously kind of a bit of a spectrum here as well. Cause when it comes to the OFAC compliance thing, it peaked at about 80%. So 80% of all blocks were censoring tornado cash transactions. Those 20% still weren't, which means that within five minutes, you still had a near 100% chance of getting your tornado cash transaction included.
00:06:52.718 - 00:07:38.544, Speaker A: That's why we say Ethereum and other blockchains are censorship resistant, not censorship proof. But what Ethereum has done is basically, it is obviously still retained its censorship resistant properties, but it's improved those properties over time, because now if another sanction comes along, let's say OFAC decides to sanction another app on Ethereum for similar reasons. As to why they sanctioned tornado cash. Well, the thing is, is that the way it works right now is that obviously the current sensory relay is, would also censor those transactions, but the non censoring ones wouldn't do that. So we're in a much, much better position than what we were when OFAC sanctions on Eta cash. So that there is a massive improvement already, right. Especially because depending on what, what's being censored can lead to degradation on the network.
00:07:38.544 - 00:08:09.770, Speaker A: And I've talked about this a lot on the refill about how, let's just say, for example, the uniswap transactions were being censored. That would have a much bigger impact on the performance of the chain than tornado cash transactions being censored. Because Uniswap is obviously integrated with pretty much everything on chain, right. Especially within DeFi, whereas Tony Nodo cash is more of a siloed thing where it doesn't actually matter that it takes, you know, five minutes or one block to get your transaction included. It doesn't actually impact, impact the user experience that much. Right. I mean, you have to wait a little bit extra, a little bit longer.
00:08:09.770 - 00:08:43.184, Speaker A: You know, who cares, right? But when it comes to Uniswap, obviously waiting five minutes for your Uniswap trade to go through is, it can be catastrophic, especially from an MEV perspective, where you could get a sandwich attacked pretty brutally there, especially if the market's moving quickly, especially if other protocols are relying on these trades to go through, you know, within a block or two, so to speak. So. And obviously kills a lot of composability. It kills a lot of things like flash loans. So that's when it becomes a big issue there. So that's why this stuff is, is really important. The fact of the matter is that no longer will the majority of network be censoring as it exists today.
00:08:43.184 - 00:09:22.002, Speaker A: Maybe, you know, there's another censoring rail that comes online and gets market share. I don't know, but I think there's a low chance of that happening because no more, you know, the only relay is that have come online have been non censoring ones. There hasn't, hasn't actually been one censoring relayer come online since a long time ago. Now, I don't know if, if block native was live at time of the OFAC sanctions. I don't think they were. I think they might have been the last one to go live here, but besides them, there hasn't been another censoring railayer online here. And I think that's because they probably know that, you know, launching a censoring relay right now is not great from multiple different perspectives.
00:09:22.002 - 00:09:46.136, Speaker A: Right. And it's, you're probably not going to be able to gain the market share that you want to gain. And it's definitely a very specialized thing. The people working on the ultrasound money relay are obviously very, very smart. They obviously know what they're doing because they've been able to gain so much market share very quickly. It's not just people saying that and being like, I want to use the ultrasound money relay instead. What happens is that most of the validators are actually subscribed to all the relays, and then the builders choose where they want to send their.
00:09:46.136 - 00:10:11.962, Speaker A: They're kind of like bundles to. And then based on the performance reliability of these relays, they get more and more popular. And then obviously they relay those blocks to validators and all that stuff. Stuff there. So, yeah, just again, a massive kudos to the ultrasound money team for what they've done here, as well as the other, you know, non sensing relay as to, like, blocks about Max profit has been an absolute beast for a long time now. They're still at 24% market share here. The agnostic boost relay is still at almost 5%.
00:10:11.962 - 00:10:41.806, Speaker A: And then the smaller players, they're still there, they're still doing their job. Right. Just because they're not bigger doesn't really matter. I think that the fact that they exist, the fact that they're there as backups to speak, or maybe they improve over time and they are there as non censoring is something to be cheered. So, yeah, I guess that's all I wanted to say on that front. But before I move on from that as well, I did show yesterday a picture that Tony posted on Twitter of the flow between, you know, builders, relayers and validators. Well, here's a gift that shows it as well.
00:10:41.806 - 00:11:19.900, Speaker A: So you can see the kind of bundles that are going from the builders to the relayers and then the relay is sending them out to the validators. So it's just a nice little gift that I figured it was worth highlighting. And you can check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so we have a funny little update that came about all the Paxos Busd drama. So DB on Twitter here said, apparently Circle warned the New York regulator that I spoke about yesterday about binance token issues in 2020. And then they continued by saying that they alerted the watchdog last autumn to issues its time team had surfaced in blockchain data that showed binance.
00:11:19.900 - 00:12:02.420, Speaker A: Binance did not store enough crypto and reserves to support tokens it had issued around the time when Binance stopped support for USDC and started auto converting into BUSD. Now, the reason why this is really funny is because this is basically two major exchange players going to war with each other. Because if you remember, binance a few months ago basically announced that they were doing auto conversions from USDC into BUSD. Now, obviously, Circle and Coinbase didn't like that because it was eating into the USDC market share. So what they did to fight back and, you know, circle, it said here that Circle did this, not coinbase in particular. So I'm just going to say that Circle did this. What's funny about this is that that's what, this is the way that Circle fought back.
00:12:02.420 - 00:12:32.760, Speaker A: They're like, okay, well, if finance wants to do this, we're gonna, we're gonna play dirty as well because that's what Binance was doing. Now, playing dirty, obviously it's a business strategy, but, you know, it's a bit dirty to be doing that. Auto converting users in, trying to siphon market share off, it's a little bit of a dirty move. So that's what circle did is. I was like, okay, well, you know what, binance, and obviously circle is, is annoyed that binance gets to operate outside of the law a lot of the time as well. Obviously they're not based in the US, but still, that would annoy them. The fact that they hamstrung by all these regulations and rules and binance can just do what it wants.
00:12:32.760 - 00:13:05.784, Speaker A: I mean, less so these days. But in the past, they were just cowboys, right? So they went to the regulator and they said, hey, you know, they gave him a nudge like, hey, you should look into this. And they probably gave him some data to look at, blah, blah. Because as I've said before, these regulators, they are very slow to move because they don't actually have the special, the expertise that they need. And a lot of the time they're given data from third parties to look into. And you know, that obviously they're given things from, from exchanges as well because they have a lot of the data and that's what happened here. So I thought that was just a quiet, quite a funny update there.
00:13:05.784 - 00:14:00.080, Speaker A: And I mean, another thought about this as well is that it's actually quite positive because if circle is working directly with these regulators and helping them and basically nudging them in these directions, they may get preferential treatment from these regulators. So USDC is, I mean, I said this yesterday, I think the USDC is likely safe here. I don't think there's going to be any big issue there. I think it's going to be fine or obviously remains to be seen, but definitely think that's going to be okay there. And then there was another update as well that DB posted that Paxos is going to be engaging with SEC staff on, on the issue of their lawsuit and are prepared to vigorously litigate if necessary. So it seems like Paxos is also going to fight what the SEC is bringing to the table here, which is pretty cool. I mean, I want to see more of these us based crypto companies fighting these regulators, taking them to court, making it hard for them, just rolling over and letting the regulator get away with it.
00:14:00.080 - 00:14:37.478, Speaker A: It's not great, right? It means that it empowers the regulator. It makes them more confident in their actions. It gives them things to go to other, I guess, some other companies with and say, hey, you know, you're doing this thing and this company did this thing as well and they paid a fine and basically shut it down. So you need to do this as well. So fighting them in court and take in and basically forcing them to actually provide a proper argument and proper reasoning as to why they're going after you, I think is a better way of doing this. And the other better way of doing things as well with regulators is exactly what Brian Armstrong has been doing. Where he said in a tweet today, I'm in Washington, DC and had a meeting canceled.
00:14:37.478 - 00:15:25.194, Speaker A: We'll be at the Dirksen Senate office building snack bar for the next hour or so if anyone wants to come and chat about crypto and how we get crypto legislation plus regulatory clarity this year. And then he posted a picture with a few people here that he spoke to. So the reason why I think this is really cool and what Brian is doing here is that he's doing what you're supposed to be doing, which is directly engaging with these regulators at their level, basically going and meeting them, explaining things to them, making sure that you have a direct line of communication to them so that they don't just get lost and they don't just do all these arbitrary enforcement actions. That is the proper way to do this sorts of stuff in politics. And that's exactly why lobbying works so well and why these, the companies that you see spend so much money on lobbying. That's why they do it, because they know it works, right? They know that's how they get their way, and that's what crypto needs to be doing. We need to be spending so much more money on lobbying.
00:15:25.194 - 00:15:57.538, Speaker A: Yes, lobbying is basically bribing, and yes, it's a shitty thing, but that's just the way it works. You know, you can, you can think it's shitty, but still have. Still play the game. Like, don't hate to play ahead the game sort of thing, right? So I think that's exactly what Brian is attempting to do here, which I thought was really, really cool. And as I mentioned yesterday, Coinbase is doing a lot of great stuff for this ecosystem. Brian, you know, putting himself out there, going directly to these regulators to make sure that they're educated on this stuff, to make sure that the US remains a leader in crypto and blockchain, it doesn't just push everything overseas is a very noble goal. Who knows if he's going to succeed or not.
00:15:57.538 - 00:16:32.350, Speaker A: But I think if anyone can do it, it's definitely Brian and Coinbase here. All right, last up on the regulatory front, there was a tweet that I saw from Tong Vai here, who said he was, quote, tweeting a tweet from Justin Slaughter, who said, personally, I was pretty sympathetic to the SEC's position five years ago. The questions posed by crypto are hard. Learning about a new space takes time, but have gotten less sympathetic since there's been no progress on regulations over that time. And then Tong Vi said, here, agreed. I was at the SEC and started working in crypto in 2017. Everyone was trying to wrap their heads around it then, including going after outright scams.
00:16:32.350 - 00:17:00.966, Speaker A: It is now 2023. We should have come up with a working regulatory framework by now. I mean, preach it, right? Like, it's not like these regulators have just had this stuff lumped on them in the last year or something like that. Right. This has been a long time coming. I mean, the regulators were looking at crypto as early as, I believe, 2013. So the fact that that even since 2017, since that, that bull market of 2017, they still, you know, five or six years later, they still haven't been able to provide a regulatory framework.
00:17:00.966 - 00:17:20.190, Speaker A: They haven't been able to wrap their heads around this. They haven't been able to provide guidance. Yeah. And clarity and all that stuff. I think it really just shows that either they don't want to do it or they, they've done it, but they're only doing it to suit their own agenda. Right. Or that, you know, they probably haven't even made an attempt or they don't have the right expertise to do it either.
00:17:20.190 - 00:18:00.028, Speaker A: That is also a concern. But I think that when you hear people that have worked there say these things, you should really listen. And the fact that, um, it's 2023 and they've been trying to do this for so long now, and they still haven't come up with a working regulatory framework is a really bad position to be in. And that's what, you know, what I was mentioning before, that if Brian and other people like him can help these regulators, if they actually are open to this help, if they're actually open to providing clarity and a framework, then Brian is one of the best people to do it, along with, you know, others in the industry. But sometimes, maybe even a lot of the time, these regulators, they don't want to be told what to do. Right? They don't want to be. And some of them aren't even open to it.
00:18:00.028 - 00:18:24.990, Speaker A: I mean, I don't believe that Gary Gensler is actually open to listening to the industry. I feel like he definitely doesn't like most of crypto. He seems like a bitcoin maximalist, and he probably will, will go after everything except bitcoin, for whatever reason. Right. And there are other people in the US, other politicians, who definitely don't like crypto, especially on the, the Democrat side. They definitely don't like crypto at all. From what I've seen.
00:18:24.990 - 00:18:49.492, Speaker A: People like, like Elizabeth Warren, for example, has gone on record and blasted crypto for some reason. They just don't like crypto. I mean, there are definitely reasons, and they've stated some of them before. I think they view crypto is just like what the, what Wall street was, especially pre 2008. But that's a, I guess, like a story for another time there. Just wanted to point out here that it's been a long time for these regulators to get their shit together. They still haven't.
00:18:49.492 - 00:19:19.512, Speaker A: Hopefully they will in the future, but I'm not holding my breath, that's for sure. All right, so Kraken has now added support for deposits and withdrawals on arbitrum. So this is really cool because, I mean, obviously supporting these L2 networks with these on and off ramps is a. Is a priority here. There has taken a little while for them to do this, but I'm glad they did do this because obviously arbitrary has been out for quite a while now. Right? I believe Coinbase, maybe Coinbase supports arbitrary. I'm not totally sure.
00:19:19.512 - 00:19:41.224, Speaker A: I think they do. I know binance does. A few other exchanges out there do. And at the end of the day, these networks are exactly like just supporting layer one networks. All you have to do is, you know, follow this similar process. Maybe some of these exchanges aren't actually set up for, for L2 is because there is a slight difference in things like bridging funds and stuff like that. But overall, you know, it's a similar process here.
00:19:41.224 - 00:20:04.800, Speaker A: So I'm glad to see Kraken support arbitram here. So if you are a kraken user, you can now directly deposit and withdraw ETH on arbitrum. I'm actually happy about this because I am a kraken user. It's one of the only exchanges that I use, and I'm glad that I'll be able to in the future either deposit or withdraw ETH from arbitram directly because I am an arbitrary user as well. So you can go check that out for yourself. You'll be. I think you can just log into Kraken and it should.
00:20:04.800 - 00:20:36.740, Speaker A: The option should be there for you. All right, so Polygon ZK Twitter account here put out a tweet thread today saying the Testnet or the polygon ZkVM. Testnet nearly reached 300,000 transactions, a milestone for the future of scaling ethereum and a testament to the maturity of polygons ZkVM. Other big news is coming soon. Until then, a quick rundown of all polygon ZKVM metrics for last week, showing continued momentum. So you can see here the kind of like general metrics around this and a thread with bunch of metrics. I mean, I think I've highlighted one of these threads before.
00:20:36.740 - 00:21:22.434, Speaker A: Just good to keep on top of what's happening in the Polygon ZKVM space. I mean, all these EK EVM teams are making big promises, and it's definitely always a welcome thing to get data and information backing up these promises and backing up what they're actually saying on Twitter. And Polygon has been one of the teams that have been doing that same with scroll as well. Scrolls been pretty open about it too, which has been great to see there. And now the thread about the Polygon ZK stuff is from Bob and Threadbare here, who works on Polygon Maiden, who started off this thread by saying this may be an obvious point, but ZKP or zero knowledge proofs open up a whole new design space in how we can scale blockchains in the context of rollups. This means that ZK rollups can scale way beyond what is possible with the alternatives. A short thread so highly recommend giving this thread a read as to why zero knowledge proofs are so amazing.
00:21:22.434 - 00:22:02.000, Speaker A: I mean, I'm sure a lot of you guys are already well versed in that at this point, since we're, we've been talking about it for quite a while now. But Bobbin is really great. I mean, he's very smart. He's been, as I said, he's working directly on ZK Stuff at Polygon, and I highly recommend giving his three thread a read. If you haven't done so yet, it'll be linked in the YouTube description below. All right, last up here we have a announcement from Caldera, which announced a $9 million funding round, or seed funding round, led by Sequoia and Dragonfly, with a bunch of angels participating as well. Now what is Caldera? Well, they are a platform to deploy an application specific roll up in one click, or at least that's what they're billing themselves as.
00:22:02.000 - 00:22:59.008, Speaker A: And I mentioned yesterday how nor swap had a thread on this. You can go check out that thread from North Swap. It's linked in yesterday's YouTube video description talking about all of these different services. I think there's nine of them now. All these different projects that want to do roll up as a service, basically allowing anyone to quickly spin up their own roll up using whatever architecture they want. Which is obviously a big deal, because as I've said in the past plenty of times, I think that the generalized roll up space is definitely going to be only a handful of very successful winners, but the application specific roll up space is going to be quite large. I do think there's going to be a many number of successful application specific roll ups, especially if we and once we get those bridges that allow arbitrary message passing, which basically means that you'll be able to talk to all of these different l two s no matter what construction they are, no matter them being isolated or whatever, you can share liquidity, you can share messages and all that good stuff there, which is obviously very, very important for scaling out ethereum here.
00:22:59.008 - 00:23:19.608, Speaker A: So cool to see Caldera raised this round. Congrats to them on it, and I'm excited to see them build out what they have. Apparently it's already live. I'm running on Mainnet right now. I believe it might be in like a kind of whitelist kind of mainnet where you have to contact them and work with them to spin something up. I don't know. I haven't checked out, checked it out myself, but definitely still early days, but great to see that it's already live.
00:23:19.608 - 00:23:54.706, Speaker A: It's not just promises, right? It's already live for, for developers to check out. If they would like to do so, you can go check them out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. Now, I left a bit of time here because there's something I wanted to talk about in the context of, I guess, some of the stuff that's happened over the last few days and the market in general. Now, what's funny, whenever we get these like harsh regulatory moves on crypto, the market has a weird reaction depending on what state it's in. If the market is in a state where sellers are really exhausted, right. It doesn't really, the price doesn't really move.
00:23:54.706 - 00:24:24.248, Speaker A: And I think that's the period we're in right now because let's just say it's the bull market. There's tons of leverage in the system. Things are extremely volatile. There's so much attention on the, on the market. Let's say it's, you know, early 2021 and we get some bad regulatory news. Well, of course, people are going to, or not people, I guess the traders are going to speculate on that. They're going to dump the price or they're going to sell and they're going to, you know, short, and they're going to basically play on that fear now because in that point of time, there's a lot of leverage in the system.
00:24:24.248 - 00:24:59.792, Speaker A: What ends up happening is that it compounds the dumping. And you see those very violent candles, right? Those very, extremely violent candles that we've seen in the past. I mean, there were some doozies in 2021, that was for sure, but that's usually what happens now. The way the current market is right now, there's barely any leverage in the system. I mean, we wiped out pretty much all the big levered players last year and in 20, I guess, like late. No, basically most of last year, obviously with 3 hours capital with FTX, with all the leverage that was built up with Terra, you know, a number of other funds and all the other leverage from retail investors that, that just got all blown up. Right.
00:24:59.792 - 00:25:50.492, Speaker A: So, and as it exists today, there's just not that much leverage in the system. So if you actually mapped it out and saw what happened to the price yesterday, when the announcement came out that, that the New York regulator and SEC was going after BUSD, the price went down a bit, right. But it went down from like 1530 to 1460 on ETH, I should say. That is basically a normal daily move, a normal small kind of daily move that we see pretty much like every other day. But if that happened in a bull market, the move would have been much more violent because of that leverage, as I mentioned. So when markets, and this is something I look at on the, on the broad, broad stroke of things, when markets don't react violently to things, whether they're good or bad news, it means, at least in large part, that leverage is quite low in the system. It means that the current plays in the system are in a bear market.
00:25:50.492 - 00:26:33.526, Speaker A: They're very, very exhausted, right. The sellers are exhausted. We're basically in a kind of period where people are accumulating and buying and they're not in any rush to sell because they're, because, as I said, they're exhausted and because there's no leverage. The swings and the volatility is a lot less here. That's not to say that there can't be extreme volatility. There can, especially if we say move up to two k ETH and then there's a lot of leverage that builds up and then we go back down to, you know, 1500 over the course of a couple of days. But definitely in the grand kind of macro scheme of things, of the macro cycle of crypto, these events serve as a really, really good, not reminder, so to speak, but really, really good way of gauging what part of the, what part of the cycle that we're in.
00:26:33.526 - 00:27:11.812, Speaker A: And I have maintained for a little while now that I think that we're in, or at least ethan BTC are in that kind of like that accumulation range, gearing up for the potential next bull market. I've been buying ETH with that in mind, personally. Obviously this is an investment advice, but I always tell you guys what I'm doing. I've been buying ETH. You guys know that I've been buying much more aggressively over the last few months than I had previously and throwing it into staking. But yeah, I think it's always good to keep that stuff in mind. And another big thing is that when there's lots of bad news and then the price just doesn't go down and it either stays flat or goes up, that is also a very clear signal that the market is out of.
00:27:11.812 - 00:27:39.704, Speaker A: Of sellers. Right. The market is. It does not care about it and it's actually quite bullish if the price starts going up in spite of all that news generally. Now, that's not to say there won't be volatility or anything like that. There always is. But if we're talking grand, macro scale, multi year kind of cycle things, which is what I pretty much always talk about, then that's how I view these things now, when, you know, what does that mean? Like, what does that mean over the longer term? When's the next bull market coming? I mean, obviously that's the question in everyone's mind.
00:27:39.704 - 00:28:02.348, Speaker A: I have no idea. I still maintain that most of this year is going to be just range bound. I think. I think that the accumulation range takes quite a while. There are two types of bear markets, or I guess like capitulation events. There is price based capitulation and then there is time based. Price based basically means when it, you know, obviously bottoms out and then we bounce off that bottom and then that we don't revisit that price again.
00:28:02.348 - 00:28:28.414, Speaker A: I think ETH did that. It went to 880, bounced from there, hasn't gone back there yet, but, and that actually did it quite quickly, within seven months. But time based capitulation takes a lot longer because it's basically where the price just stays sideways, just flat, just range bound for quite a long time. It can last. It can last a very long time, actually, for ETH, in the last cycle, it lasted almost two years, I believe, before it broke out of that, that range there. So it can last quite a while. That's not to say it lasts that long again.
00:28:28.414 - 00:28:53.058, Speaker A: It's not to say it can't last, you know, in four years or it can't last just a year. But we've been doing this for quite a while now. I mean, if, if we bottomed in June, it's already been. I mean, it's coming up on a year soon, right? It's like 910 months. So when you look at it like that and look at the grand scale of things, that's a good way to view and analyze things as well. But, yeah, anyway, just wanted to get that off my chest, something I've been thinking about a little bit lately. And on that note, that's going to be it for today.
00:28:53.058 - 00:29:01.434, Speaker A: So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
