00:00:04.570 - 00:00:45.402, Speaker A: Hi everyone, thanks for tuning in to this week's news recap. First headline U. S. Bank regulator grants banks authority to custody crypto the Office of the Controller of the Currency, or OCC, published a letter that effectively allows national banks in the US. To provide cryptocurrency custody services. Acting controller Brian Books, the former chief legal officer of Coinbase who took office less than two months ago, said quote this opinion clarifies that banks can continue satisfying their customers'needs for safeguarding their most valuable assets, which today for tens of millions of Americans includes cryptocurrency. The announcement marks a significant shift in the relationship between the US.
00:00:45.402 - 00:01:16.422, Speaker A: Banking sector and the crypto industry. As Caitlin Long, the founder and CEO of Avanti Bank and Trust, said in a Tweet thread game on. The US. OCC's announcement that it's following Wyoming by allowing national banks to custody digital assets is great news for crypto long overdue, and it will hopefully help the US. Regain ground it lost to other developed world countries by dilly dallying for so long. The winners equal customers and crypto VCs. She says this will spur an M A boom as US.
00:01:16.422 - 00:02:25.340, Speaker A: Banks acquire digital asset custodians because trust company charters and the BitLicense are now obsolete. Also, CoinDesk reports that Avanti Bank, which Long is founding, will be opening its doors in October and will issue a new digital asset called Avit that will likely use the Bitcoin blockchain. Next headline. Will Ethereum 20 be easier to attack than Ethereum 10? As Ethereum moves to the proof of stake incentive model with Ethereum 20, researchers at consensus have published a detailed review of its network economics. In the author's assessment, ethereum two zero's proof of stake is highly complex relative to proof of work. The security of the network in Ethereum 20 is dependent upon three key variables the amount of ETH staked, the price of ETH and volatility. Attacks on Ethereum 20 are easier to scale than on Ethereum 10 and derivative attacks in which attackers can make money by, for instance, shorting using any of the proliferating types of ether derivatives could become more common.
00:02:25.340 - 00:03:15.580, Speaker A: Stefan Cooliken from Ether Capital put out a thesis which says that staked ETH is more like a digital bond with no counterparty risk. He writes, quote Staked ETH gives you yield at the protocol level and not via a counterparty staked. ETH is therefore an intrinsic yield instrument. For the first time ever, you can compound your ETH holdings organically without assuming any counterparty risk. In a separate Tweet, Ethereum creator Vitalik Buterin highlighted that quote Transaction fee mining revenue is now nearing half as high as block reward revenue. This actually risks making Ethereum less secure fee market reform, for example. Ethereum improvement proposal E 1559 fixes this another reason why that EIP is important.
00:03:15.580 - 00:04:33.246, Speaker A: Next headline China's state backed blockchain network integrates with six public chains in a bid to dominate the blockchain infrastructure space globally, China has integrated its state backed blockchain based service network, or BSN, with six public chains that include Ethereum, Tezos, Neo. Also disclosure tezos is a sponsor of my shows neo, Nervos, EOS and IRISnet. The partnership will allow developers on these blockchains to build DApps and run nodes using data storage and bandwidth from BSN's overseas data centers. The networks could benefit from BSN's cost effective services and access to Chinese enterprise blockchain networks and financial data from China's union pay, which is usually difficult to obtain for entities outside the country. Elsewhere in Asia, South Korea has finalized its plan to charge a 20% tax on income generated from cryptocurrency transactions for people with an annual income of more than ₩2.5 million, or $2,000 from crypto trading. Next Headline Visa and Mastercard expand crypto efforts in quite a turnabout from last year, when Visa and Scads of other payment companies left the Libra association.
00:04:33.246 - 00:05:38.546, Speaker A: This week, the credit card giant published a new outlook on digital currency payment flows and stated that the company has been advancing and evolving its digital currency strategy for quite some time. Visa writes, quote we believe that digital currencies have the potential to extend the value of digital payments to a greater number of people and places. As such, we want to help shape and support the role they play in the future of money. Mastercard also announced, quote, the expansion of its cryptocurrency program, making it simpler and faster for partners to bring secure, compliant payment cards to market. Next Headline with bitcoin volatility hitting record lows, traders turn to DeFi Folks from traditional finance usually scoff at bitcoin's volatility. However, over the last few weeks, bitcoin's price has been stuck within a tight range, with its 60 day rolling volatility hitting a 15 month low last week. Traders have now turned to DFI tokens while reducing exposure to large cap cryptos such as Bitcoin and Ethereum.
00:05:38.546 - 00:06:37.770, Speaker A: More than a billion dollars has been locked up in lending protocol compound fueled by yield. Farming traders are also capitalizing on the derivatives market and using options to generate yield in a less volatile market. FTX CEO Sam Bankman Fried put things into perspective in a Tweet thread where he analyzed the volume, noting that a lot of this activity is just traders locking up lending and trading stablecoins with each other. They're being incentivized to do so by governance tokens whose values go up as the total locked value in each protocol goes up. He said that this was similar to what was called trans mining or transaction fee mining, which was a fad two years ago. However, he says that this current version is the decentralized version. He asks whether this is all smoke and mirrors or a brilliant growth strategy, and then tells the story of two exchanges that did engage in transmining FCoin and BitMax.
00:06:37.770 - 00:07:58.580, Speaker A: Both of them started off with high volumes from transmining, but said that after they turned off their transmining, FCoin was left with nothing, whereas BitMax, he says, quote, successfully combined the user base they got with an increasingly great product. He concludes, Just because someone made a great marketing play doesn't mean there isn't substance. If you want to know more about yield farming, be sure to check out my recent Unchained podcast episode with Dan Elitzer, investor at Ido Colab Ventures, and Will Price, data scientist at Flipside Crypto, where we discuss this craze. Next Headline Understanding the rise of automated market makers Dragonfly Capitals Haseeb Qureshi wrote a great analysis of the explosion in automated market makers, or AMMS, driven in part by the rise of Uniswap. He described an automated market maker as, quote, a primitive robotic market maker that is always willing to quote prices between two assets according to a simple pricing algorithm. For Uniswap, it prices the two assets so that the number of units it holds of each asset, when multiplied together, is always equal to a fixed constant. The way this works is that if the pool contains 50 apples and 50 bananas in one pool, then the constant between them will be 2500.
00:07:58.580 - 00:08:50.018, Speaker A: So if someone comes along and wants to buy one apple, the pool will only have 49 apples left. But since the constant has to remain at 2500, this user will need to pay with 51.2 bananas. Uniswap descendants, such as Curve and Balancer are a little bit different. Curve uses a mixture of constant product and constant sum, while Balancer, which has pools of more than just two tokens, is defined by a multidimensional surface. The post goes on to explain why constant function market makers will win the stablecoin trading market, and why Uniswap has been a success, but why its dominance won't last forever. Koreshi's post dissects Uniswap closely, but for those who are interested in learning more about balancer, which is a more complex constant function market maker Placeholder Capital wrote up a blog post on its Balancer investment thesis.
00:08:50.018 - 00:10:18.050, Speaker A: In it, they explain the possibilities with pools of more than two assets, which include things like having community governed pools, surge pricing pools whose fees rise when demand is high, or rollover pools that issue perpetual tokens from assets that typically expire, such as bonds. Next headline mempool manipulation resulted in theft of $8 million in MakerDAO collateral on Black Thursday. A new report by Block Native revealed that manipulation of ethereum's mem pools enabled attackers to steal $8.3 million from MakerDAO users on Black Thursday, March twelveTH, which was the day when the price of ether fell 43% within hours, which triggered a whole bunch of liquidations of the collateral held on the MakerDAO lending platform. Some savvy traders took advantage of the congestion on Ethereum to send in bids of $0 to liquidate some collateralized debt positions on MakerDAO, thus walking away with ETH for free. I covered what happened here with Kyle Simani of Multicoin Capital on an episode of Unchained, and also with Antoine Le Calvet of CoinMetrics on Unconfirmed. However, going back to Block Native's research, the MakerDAO liquidations were an engineered event that took advantage of an issue involving evicted transactions in which nodes, to preserve system resources, evict the transactions with the lowest fees.
00:10:18.050 - 00:11:32.090, Speaker A: Block native writes, quote when a transaction is evicted, the node does not remember any details about the transaction, such as the sending address or the transaction nonce. Therefore, when a new transaction arrives with the next nonce, the node may detect a non SCAP and will be unable to process the new transaction. Impacted transactions are then placed in the unprocessable queued portion of the node's mempool. These transactions become stuck regardless of their associated transaction fees that is, gas prices. Block native discovered the use of so called hammer bots, which waited until their own transactions had been evicted from the mempool and then sent replacement transactions that didn't have higher gas fees but had the same or lower gas fees, thus clogging the network further. The post walks us through an example in which a zero bid bot on MakerDAO submitted a zero bid at 1559 and 50 seconds UTC with a gas price of 200 guay. At this point, there was a ten minute countdown clock that was triggered, and during that time a Keeper bot could counterbid the transaction.
00:11:32.090 - 00:12:38.222, Speaker A: There was a Keeper bot that did counterbid within that window, however, and it did so with a gas price of 450 GWe, which is two and a half times the gas price of the original bid. However, because of a non SCAP created by an earlier evicted bid, the bid by the keeperbot was blocked and someone walked off with some ETH that they got for nothing. Time for fun bits. If you've been on Twitter this week, you might be wondering what is the deal with YFI? A new governance token called YFI is all the rage amongst yield farmers. YFI is the governance token for Urine Finance, which automatically moves traders'assets in and out of different liquidity pools in search of the best yields. Urine's creator Andre Kronye I'm not sure how to pronounce his name writes in a blog post in further efforts to give up this control, mostly because we are lazy and don't want to do it, we have released YFI, a completely valueless zero supply token. We reiterate it has zero financial value.
00:12:38.222 - 00:12:54.174, Speaker A: There is no pre mine. There is no sale. You cannot buy it. No, it won't be on Uniswap. No, there won't be an auction. We don't have any of it. That hasn't stopped it from trading as high as $2,374, Curve founder Michael Agorov told CoinDesk.
00:12:54.174 - 00:13:28.890, Speaker A: Quote Since YFI had no investors and all tokens are going to liquidity providers, everyone became very crazy about it and it all exploded. All right, well, thanks for tuning in. To learn more haseeb and the Twitter hack, be sure to check out the links in the show notes of your episode. Don't forget, you can now watch video recordings of the show on the Unchained YouTube channel. Go to youtube.com slash c slash Unchained podcast and subscribe to today unconfirmed is produced by me, Laura Shin, with help from Anthony Yoon, Daniel Nuts, Josh Durham and the team at CLK Transcription. Thanks for listening.
