00:00:01.560 - 00:00:14.834, Speaker A: It's my great pleasure to introduce our first speaker today is Pascal Laferre. And he's going to talk about absolutely summing composition operators and block spaces. Pascal, please.
00:00:15.454 - 00:00:32.854, Speaker B: Okay, thank you very much. Thank you, Javad, for the opportunity to talk about this work here. Okay, so. So it doesn't work. Yes. Okay. So I just start with some, okay.
00:00:32.854 - 00:01:25.700, Speaker B: Standard notation. So this, obviously the unit disk like Isabella used in her talk, t for the torus, the boundary, I will use the notation a for the normalized array measure on the unit disk. And with no surprise, I'm going to talk about composition operators. And so once you, even if I get that, quite everybody here know the subject very quickly. So the symbol phi from the unidisk to the unidisk is analytic function. And you're given a space of analytic function x and D. And you're interested in this operator.
00:01:25.700 - 00:02:44.812, Speaker B: So to an arbitrary function f in x, you're interested in the composition of f with phi, and then you're in maybe in x. For instance, in the talk of Isabel, x was h two, the hardy space. And this is the result that indeed the composition of f with phi is in h two. But sometimes you're interested in some other space and you're interested in various properties. So what are the, maybe the most natural question around this topic? So first of all, is the operator bonded, actually defined and bounded? And you're interested in some standout properties of operators. And maybe one of the most famous is compact. But more widely, you're interested in the link between the operator c five and the simulation, the property of the function phi.
00:02:44.812 - 00:03:50.684, Speaker B: And according to me, it's what is very interesting. Interesting in this area, it's the bridge, say, to write a kind of dictionary between the properties of the operator. So from operator theory and the properties of the function. So in this talk, I'm going to talk about some results around nuclear and absolutely summing operators. I'm obviously going to explain what our nuclear is quite famous, maybe less absolutely summing operators. And to focus on block type spaces. So block type spaces, given a parameter, the block space with index beta is the space of analytic function on the unit disk.
00:03:50.684 - 00:05:20.446, Speaker B: And you ask for control of the derivative with some radial weight. And here we shall focus on standard radial weights, one minus modulus of z to the square to beta. And since the condition concerns only the derivative, to define the norm, you add a term here, it deals the value at the region and you have the separable counterpart of the block space, the so called the cold, sorry little block space b naught beta, which is a clothes of space, of the block space with index beta. And you ask to have the limit of this quantity vanish at the boundary. And actually that's the closure of the polynomial for the norm. Of course, you keep the same norm, and for beta equal to one, you have the classical block spaces, the block space b, and the classical little block space b, zero. Those are banar spaces.
00:05:20.446 - 00:06:50.454, Speaker B: And actually you have an ordered family of spaces, either considering the blocked species or considering the little blocked spaces. So I'm talking to you sometimes maybe h infinity, which is quite well known. And if you want to make a link between comparison between h infinity and the block space, then you have to differentiate according to the value of beta relatively to one. And the fact that every bounded function on the unit disk belongs to the classical block space, and hence to the block space with index larger than one, is just a consequence of the Schwarz big lemma. Okay, the first inequality here is just obvious because of the value of beta larger than one. The second inequality, this is a Schwartz b clement, and then it's less than one if you took some function bounded uniformly by one. So actually you have a control by two if you want to control the norm in the block space with the norm of f.
00:06:50.454 - 00:08:05.014, Speaker B: Of course, these are not the same spaces. And here you have the standard pointer example of a function belonging to the block space, a classical block space, and not to h infinity. And if you are in, in the little values of the parameter beta, then you have an inclusion, but in the, this time it's b beta, which is included in h infinity and actually included in the, in the disk algebra. Okay, maybe I want to recall some, let's say basic facts. I would say basic just in the use I will give, but maybe some of them are not so, so obvious when you want to prove them. But. Okay, so the jewel of the little block space is actually the classical Berman space, whatever the value of the parameter and the dual of the Bergman space is isomorphic to the block space B beta.
00:08:05.014 - 00:09:13.842, Speaker B: Okay, as stated here, it looks like a theoretic result of isomorphism. Actually, the isomorphism is just a representation of the duality. I don't write explicitly here, but it's just roughly speaking, an integration of a dime against the suitable radial weight with the array measure a less standard may be a result. But we shall use it in the thick world that the fact that the block space is isomorphic to the sequence space l infinity. And of course there is a link too with the duality I just mentioned, because the Bergman space is actually isomorphic to little l one, the second space, little l one. But I really wanted to mention these two facts for the standard block spaces. I guess it's quite old now.
00:09:13.842 - 00:10:10.712, Speaker B: Maybe it comes back to linen, shost, Paucinski, I'm not sure, but for some versions with the weights, with radial weights, it probably goes back to risky, some work of risk. Okay, let's go back to composition operators. Actually, they are bounded. And once again, that's a consequence of on the classical block space. So it's always bonded. And once again, it's a consequence of the Schwarzpeak inequality. So you consider the crucial quantity to test if you're in the block space, and you just write it in another way as a product of these two quantities.
00:10:10.712 - 00:11:20.772, Speaker B: And clearly the first term is bounded just because phi is an analytic function from the unit disk to the unit disk. So it's in h infinity with norm less than one. And so, as we just mentioned, so this first term is less than one by the Schwarzbeak inequality. And the second term is bounded because we took some function, didn't say who is f in this story, but here we took a function f in the classical block space. So this second term, by definition, is bounded. And so, okay, you just proved that composition operator on the classical block space is bounded. But okay, I just mentioned that we are going to not look at the, not only at the classical block space, but the weighted block spaces, standard weighted block spaces.
00:11:20.772 - 00:12:27.844, Speaker B: And then you have some contributions from, okay, several authors, and I just mentioned some of them. Probably there are more than them, with some contribution around the boundedness. So if you are interested in the composition operators, but from one weighted block space to another, with maybe another index, then you have a condition to be bounded. And that's the one just written here, so that according to the values of mu or beta, it can be automatically fulfilled, but not always. And so you have this condition for the boundedness and the block spaces. And if you want to look at the situation for the little block spaces, then you have the same condition. You have to add another one.
00:12:27.844 - 00:13:27.624, Speaker B: Of course, when you look just c, five of the function these, and you get phi, and you must have phi in the space b, not beta, and the condition is not always fulfilled. So you have to add this one. Actually, the, the two conditions together are sufficient. In the work of these authors, you have more and more information. But I just mentioned this to the facts. Okay, we mentioned compactness are the first important property to look at. So actually, on the classical block spaces, the characterization of compactness of c five was settled by Madigan and Mattheson in the nineties.
00:13:27.624 - 00:14:57.636, Speaker B: And once again, I will give the result when you look the composition operators from b mu to b b beta, or the little block spaces. And if you want to recollect the result of Madigan Mattheson, just take mu and beta equal to one, of course, but here is the result. And as you saw in the previous slide, and here I just made some color in blue. Just to insist on something which is a quite common phenomenon around the composition operators, the boundedness was linked to some quantity with a big o condition, bounded condition we had in the previous slide. And here you see that the same quantities with, but written with some little o condition. So the limit on the boundary is, is zero. That's very often the spirit in this kind of rhythm that of course you have to write very delicate situation that's around the boundary.
00:14:57.636 - 00:15:51.692, Speaker B: Okay. And that's what we see here. I would like to focus here on some examples. So I'm not sure, I don't know if it was mentioned before, but actually it's easy to see that if you take a symbol not touching the boundary at all in the meaning that you are, let's say, far from the boundary, the infinite norm of phi is strictly less than one. And okay, as we mentioned, let's say that phi is in b beta. Then the operator is compact on v beta. Actually, it's very, very compact.
00:15:51.692 - 00:16:57.104, Speaker B: It's, I should say extremely compact. It's a nuclear operator. I'm going to focus on nuclear prioritizing very shortly. But then, okay, it's not hard to show that it's compact even, it's obvious with the criterion, but I want to mention, even without knowing the characterization, we can show that. And as I mentioned, the delicate thing is around the boundaries, do we have some examples of compact composition operators touching the boundary? And maybe at first, when you look the operator on the classical block space. So I immediately forget, of course, the identity, which is clearly not compact here. But okay, the first idea is to look at some circle.
00:16:57.104 - 00:17:42.264, Speaker B: I have in mind the phi of D. So that's, for instance here the symbol z plus one over two, and you have here a drawing of the image of phi. But it's quite easy. And once again, of course, the characterization show that. But even without the characterization, you can show very easily that it's not compact. So now let's look at another example, which is quite famous in the theory of composition operators. So that's the length map.
00:17:42.264 - 00:19:05.586, Speaker B: So I gave the formula you're given a parameter between zero and one, not one, you would get the identity, but let's say theta, strictly less than one and kappa. Here is the kellet transform. So, to explain how you get that, you first map the kele transform. So you go from the unit disk to the right half plane, and once you're in the right half plane, you take v to the theta, so you shrink your right half plane into sectorial area domain, okay? And then with the inverse of the kele transform, you come back into the unit disk. And so you get such a map. And if you draw the picture of Phi of D, then you get this picture. So, for instance, for instance, to, to make a link with the previous talk of Isabel on h two, the lands map.
00:19:05.586 - 00:19:55.122, Speaker B: The action of the lands map is very well known. So it's compact and actually it's, I should say once again, very compact, it's nuclear, and so on. We shall see in this talk that in the situation on block spaces is very different. And for instance, we pointed out, yes, I forgot to mention that the results here are some results obtained with my former PhD student Tony fares. So we pointed out that when the parameter is strictly less than one, then actually it's not bounded. Simply the map do not belong to b beta. So bounded nets and end of story.
00:19:55.122 - 00:21:11.144, Speaker B: In that case, it's bounded for the classical block space, we mentioned that it's always bounded. Of course it's bounded, but we can show too, even by hands, I should say that it's not compact. And what is, according to me interesting, that when the parameter is strictly larger than one, then you get a compact composition operators. And we shall see some other phenomenon at the end of the talk around this lens map. But still, if he wanted to produce a particular example in the classical, for the classical block space compact operator, but with sambal touching the boundary, then, okay, here it doesn't work with this kind of map for the classical block space. And so maybe have in mind the first picture with the circle. So we had at .1
00:21:11.144 - 00:22:49.574, Speaker B: tangent area, okay, and with the length map, I should come back. Then you see that around point one, it's in some sectorial domain, so it touches in a more smoothly way the boundary. But here you see the new drawing with the cusp map, it's even slighter way to touch the boundary. So what is a kusp map? You ask for two things. First, you have to be in a sectorial like the lands map, actually. But the second condition is given by the distance of a pole point into the phi of d to the boundary, and it has to be little o of the distance from w to one. So you have this kind of picture, okay? And then it was a result of Madigan and Matheson in the work I already mentioned around compactness, that on the classical block space, then you have a compact operator, and so you produce, you can produce a symbol touching the unit circle at some point.
00:22:49.574 - 00:23:44.484, Speaker B: But inducing a compact composition operator, for instance, when you're in each infinity, it's completely forbidden. Composition operators, compact on h infinity, then you must have the infinite norm of the symbol strictly less than one. So the situation is very different here. But there is, according to me, a very, maybe more striking example, because you see that on the drawing, you touch very smoothly the boundary at. .1 and then you could think that it's forbidden to fulfill the disk, for instance, but actually not. There is an example of Wayne Smith in the nineties, too, that you can have an inner function, actually a Blaschka product.
00:23:44.484 - 00:25:07.006, Speaker B: So maybe not d, but almost d, let's say, such that you get a compact composition operator. And this situation here, it's, for instance, forbidden for hardy spaces. Once again, if we make the link with the composition operators on h two mentioned by Isabel, then you cannot, a Blaschke product cannot induce a compact composition operators on h two. But here it's possible. And, okay, it's a nice example, according to, okay, so I already mentioned several times, the nuclear operators. And maybe I'm going to recall what nuclear, sorry, operators. So when you have some arbitrary banner spaces, how to produce, just, let's say, even a bounded operator in full generality, okay, you have the identity lambda times identity, and then it's not so obvious if you maybe even do not have any basis, or, I don't know.
00:25:07.006 - 00:26:11.544, Speaker B: So you have the functionals, you have, therefore the rank one operators, the sum of, and then you can have the l one sum of rank one operators. And for generality, it's not so obvious to produce some other kind of operators. And so if you do it this way, actually, you have not only a bounded operators, but compact operator at the limit of finite rank operators. And so that the definition for an arbitrary operator between arbitrary space banner spaces x and y, it's said to be nuclear. If you have a sequence of functionals on x, sorry. And sequence in. Why, with such strong condition of summability of the norms and t is given by this absolutely convergent sum of rank one operators.
00:26:11.544 - 00:27:32.424, Speaker B: So as I mentioned, they are compact in a very strong sense. And the other kind of operators I want to today are the p summing operators I just wrote. Well known, but okay, it was for p two to one. I'm going to give the definition and a few properties to well understand how it works for p one. It was introduced by Gurthundix a long time ago. And for arbitrary values of p, it comes back to the late sixties and mainly the seventies, in many work around the geometry of banar spaces. Okay, what is the definition for an arbitrary p larger than one? Then an operator t from x to y is p summing or p absolutely summing if you have this condition, okay, so let's say it means that you have Lp summable sequence of xg in the weak sense.
00:27:32.424 - 00:28:28.690, Speaker B: And then when you look at the images of t of x g, then you have a lp sum in the strong sense. Okay, the second equality, which is very often useful, is just rephrasing, using the collinearization of the lp sum and mainly an banar. Okay, just another way to see it. But okay, the definition is okay. When discovered the first time for arbitrary values of p is not so easy to understand. What does it mean? So maybe I want to start with a generic example. We shall explain why it's a generic example and simple one.
00:28:28.690 - 00:29:44.560, Speaker B: Just take a compact space and the probability measure on k, and you look at the identity, the formal identity from c of k to the lp space associated to k, and this probability measure, and it's a p summing operator. And it's very, very easy to check, just check the definition. So you take the lp sum of the fg in Lp, but then the Lp norm to the p. It's very easy to, to sum because you have the interval. And so you take, obviously introverting the integral and the sum the second term. But then it's quite finished already, because the function inside the sum of the modulus of the ag to the p. Then you can get an upper estimate with a supremum over the point w on k, and you get this estimates with, okay, the mu of k is one.
00:29:44.560 - 00:31:04.814, Speaker B: We took here probability measure. Of course we could use only positive finite measure and get something pissoming, but okay, I took something with probability measure. You see with the definition that if you restrict the operator, then clearly the condition in the definition is still fulfilled. So by restriction you keep the property of being pee summing. And if you compose your operator left or right, then you still have a piss summing operator, you have the, okay, just the ideal property. So from this generic example, by restriction and composition, you can have many, many other examples, and we are going to explain shortly that actually they are all like that, the p summing operators. But first, maybe, sorry, once again, when you see definition for arbitrary p, once again, I think at first sight it's not easy to understand how does it work.
00:31:04.814 - 00:32:08.730, Speaker B: But if you take the particle value of t equal to one, then it says some things. It's actually equivalent to saying that if you have an unconditional conversion series in x, then for the t of xn you have an absolute convergent series. Okay? And okay, let's say that p summing, it's just the LP version of that. And so it's very easy to check one line that nuclear operators are one summing. And you could expect maybe that it's more than compact being one summing, mainly because I just mentioned compactness at the beginning, and very compact, and so on. So in full generality, one summing does not imply compact. Just think to the example I just gave.
00:32:08.730 - 00:33:13.848, Speaker B: If you take the formal identity from c over to the classical l one space with the Lebeg measure, then you have a one summon operators, which is clearly not compact. So it's full generative, it's not compact. But here we are going to focus on block spaces, or little block spaces isomorphic to c naught, ln infinity. And it turns out that when x is c naught, then one summing implies nuclear, and so it implies compact. And when it's l infinity, we have the same result. So in our framework here on block spaces, when you look at p summing now one summing operator, then it's indeed more than compact. Okay, I could mention too that one summing does not imply compact, but it does imply weakly compact.
00:33:13.848 - 00:34:39.003, Speaker B: I'm not going to talk about weak compactness here once again. For instance, if you think to see Cnot, weak compactness implies compactness by the show property of the jewel of CNoT, ok, we compactness and compactness, that's mainly the same thing in this framework too. Ok, with the definition or with the, the very important result I'm going to state just after. It's easy to see that once you're p summing, then you q summing for larger values of when q is larger than p, and to really explain how another point of view on p summing operators, and actually it's a characterization, it's a very, very important result in this topic. That's a pit domination theorem, which state that if you are absolutely summing if and only if, for some probability measure on the unit ball of the jewel equipped with weak star topology, you have such an upper estimate. So, in terms of the integral of this unit ball against this probability mission. But I would like to explain that actually that's a factorization result.
00:34:39.003 - 00:36:00.828, Speaker B: Indeed, if you see your banner space up to an isometric copy, it's a subspace of the space of continuous function over the unit bore of the dwarf space. Okay, so it's subspace of a c of k. And then consider up to now consider any probability measure on this particular compact. So we explained that GP, and here the restriction of the formal identity to this, to the Lp space of mu is p summing. So up to now, considering any probability measure on this unit ball of the joule, you get, you get a p summing operators. But what explains the pitch domination theorem? If you take a good, probably measure, a suitable one, then you can come back with something which is roughly speaking, the action of t to y. So this upper estimate actually translates into a factorization theorem being pissoming.
00:36:00.828 - 00:37:09.182, Speaker B: It's roughly speaking to be able to factorize, maybe not through the formal identity from c of k to some lp of k, but to the restriction of such operators. So that's why the example was so important. Okay, so of course you understood that we were interested in when the composition over block spaces, viewed on block spaces is pesoming. And with Tony, we obtained the full characterization. So, given any p larger than one, any parameters mu and beta, then the composition apparatus is p summing. If and only if the restriction to the little block is pissoming, and if and only if you have such a characterization. I wrote it this way to put in the middle the quantity you saw in the characterization of compactness.
00:37:09.182 - 00:38:20.882, Speaker B: So, there is a power to the piece. You see something kind of weight, but you have a supremum on v over d, and you have the hyperbolic measure on the unit disk for the integration. And if you just add the condition that phi was in the little block, then that's the same that composition between little block spaces are be summing. And actually, we first were interested in the nuclear composition operator on the classical block space. So it was in previous work. So for p and mu and beta, equal to one, once again, one summing, which is turned out to be equivalent to nuclear here, but only for the classical block spaces. We had a characterization here with the generalization with, okay, the fact that you generalize with the indexes is not so hard.
00:38:20.882 - 00:39:10.234, Speaker B: But the very technical part, passing from p cor one to arbitrary peak is ready for to get the p. It's just not formal. And. Okay, maybe I will just give an idea about how we, you have the condition, how you have the idea of the condition. So I'm just going to explain how was the necessary condition from, let's say two. Once you know the composition operator is pissoming from the block space or simply used from the little block, how you, you get the condition. So how you get the condition, you, you use the pitch theorem.
00:39:10.234 - 00:40:07.152, Speaker B: So far, let's say rather theoretic but still existing probability measure on the unit ball of the dual. You have such an upper estimate. Okay, and we shall use description of the duality. So actually to have a functional and block space with parameter mu, it's the same as to be given a function in the Bergmann space, the classical Bergman space. And here the bracket is a duality bracket relatively to the, to the block space with parameter mu. And you apply this to this function. So it means that you fix some w in the unit disk and you consider this function which is in the block space.
00:40:07.152 - 00:41:14.254, Speaker B: And actually once w is fixed, it's a bounded function. And what you get, when you, you want to see the action of the functional c over this function and relate c to the h, the Bergmann function actually, so you have this weight, okay, don't forget that p prime is p over p minus one. So that to the power p. That's why we, we get this p minus one. So the one minus w to the square, we did nothing except considering the power. But then the action of the function one over one minus the conjugate of wz to the power one plus mu against h. And using the duality bracket and the reproducing kernel formula, in a way you, you have the h of w.
00:41:14.254 - 00:42:20.420, Speaker B: And here is a trick. You use the fact that your h in the Bergmann space, so you have H of w and you use that you, you know the, the norm of the point evaluation, but not for all of them, just for the p minus one proportion of this term H of w to the p. And that's why the, you don't see any more the first name, because it was the norm of the point evaluation. It's one over one minus w to the square. So that's why you get that. And then Using that and ITeratiNg what you, you goT, then you, you get this estimate. On the left hand side, you have nothing but the norm in the block space with parameter beta of c phi of f of sub w and then the integration.
00:42:20.420 - 00:42:56.744, Speaker B: So it's just a rewriting. And then on the right hand side, you have an upper estimate, and then you took the integral of Auu. And then what? The l one norm of h over d. So once again, the BergmaNN norm and the norm of h is less than one. So the right hand side is bounded, and so you get the upper estimate and the necessary condition to show that it's sufficient. It's quite technical and. Okay, I don't give the details here.
00:42:56.744 - 00:44:22.626, Speaker B: Have to. Okay, I have a few minutes yet. So we weren't still interested in. Okay, I mentioned some symbol touching the boundary and being compact, can we have a nuclear operator touching the boundary and still being compact, using the characterization and using the idea of Madigan and Matheson. But then you have to impose not on only a condition with little o of the distance to the, .1 but such a condition, which makes that you have to flatten very much your cusp when you are close to one, but yet you get a nuclear operator touching the boundary on the classical block space. And actually, if you want to get an inner symbol, maybe a Blaschke product, then of course, you think to the example of Weinsmiths, it doesn't work, unfortunately.
00:44:22.626 - 00:45:11.154, Speaker B: But still there is a symbol, Phi inert. Actually, it's a Blaschka product inducing a nuclear operator. But on B beta, when beta is larger than one. And you can show that there is no such example for an inner function that an iblaschka product, when the parameter is strictly less than one. And, okay, as I mentioned, the example of wine Smith doesn't work, but there is a result of Alexander Vandersen Nicolau, who constituted some slow, hyperbolic blaschko product. And so you. Okay, you can produce such an example, thanks to their results.
00:45:11.154 - 00:46:26.654, Speaker B: And, okay, once again, using some cusp, we were able to product a compact one which is not p summing for any value of p. So you have to flatten a bit to belittle o to fulfill the Madigan Mattheson condition. But then this integral is nothing, that condition, to be sure that our characterization, the condition in our characterization won't be fulfilled for any p. And so you think for log lock function in your, in the, for the curve in your cusp map, then you can produce such an example. So I just have a very few minutes left, I think. And, okay, I think that according to the title of the conference with the composition, I'm okay, but I didn't mention anything about semi group. So I will do it very quickly now and come back to the landsmap semi group.
00:46:26.654 - 00:47:10.362, Speaker B: So just, I just record the drawing and how it was defined. So since maybe mainly when you were in the right half plane, you took some power, then you have this kind of property on the symbol theta prime, composed with phi theta, you have theta theta prime. So it's not a semi flow like Isabel mentioned. You have a product, not a sum. Sorry. But then once you are given theta, actually you can embed it in the semi group. Just taking theta to the t for some positive t.
00:47:10.362 - 00:47:55.414, Speaker B: Actually I could take t equal to zero. Yeah. Then I have the identity. So you have the semi group property. And to relate it to our results, when you have, we mentioned one slide that for the classical block space, it's bonded but not compact, so it cannot be p summing. But when the parameter beta is strictly larger than one, then the length map is p summing. When p is large enough with this condition on theta related to, to beta two.
00:47:55.414 - 00:48:37.154, Speaker B: So that therefore when theta is small enough relatively to beta, you get a nuclear operator and b beta. Once again, maybe to mention what is the situation with the hard space, the lens map. I mentioned it, but I recall it now, any lens map on h two, it induces a nuclear operator for any theta. Actually. So here we. Actually, I don't know. I mean, it's a sufficient condition, but I don't know if it's necessary.
00:48:37.154 - 00:49:22.486, Speaker B: But it would be a surprise that it's for any theta. You have such properties, just rephrasing in the language of semi groups, you have. So the length map, semi group is eventually p summing. And so with the definition I gave, it's p summing for t large enough, relatively, to p and beta, and it's eventually nuclear. Once again, with this condition, and it would be interesting to know what is the optimal value of the parameter to get a pessimine or a nuclear one. And I think. Okay, it's three minutes too much.
00:49:22.486 - 00:49:25.034, Speaker B: Sorry, but thank you very much.
00:49:26.174 - 00:49:59.938, Speaker A: Thank you indeed. Pascal, let's thank the speaker first. Is there any question or comments for Pascal since I don't see all the participants? If there is any, please go ahead. It seems not. So let's thank him again for his wonderful talk.
00:50:00.106 - 00:50:01.082, Speaker B: Thank you.
00:50:01.258 - 00:50:02.474, Speaker A: Thank you indeed. Pascal.
