00:00:00.250 - 00:01:08.046, Speaker A: You. Reducing payment friction is important because you want more fees and revenue to come into the system. And every unit of friction that you reduce is an additional unit of payment and fees that can come into the system. And what's fundamentally important is that there are more fees coming into the system so that those fees can be used by the system to generate more security. Security to keep the chainlink system as the most secure source of data trust minimized off chain compute and secure crosschain connectivity for both value and messages. So the thing to optimize is the amount of value flowing into the system, the amount of fees that will then be used to bolster the security of the system, further creating a virtuous cycle that allows the system to continue to be the most secure version of offchain data validation, trust minimized off chain compute, and all the various cross chain activities. And so that's really the goal, right? What's the most secure system? How do the fees come in, fit into that security and make chainlink remain the most secure system? And so eliminating friction accelerates that cycle.
00:01:08.046 - 00:02:12.760, Speaker A: And so it's a very smart thing to do in my opinion. Also, because we have oracles, we are able to do a kind of payments layer that doesn't require people to pay in unpredictable things. Then we can have them pay in the things that they have a lot of they can pay in stablecoins, they can pay in their treasury token. So this will also reduce the friction and make them more willing to pay because they have a lot of that asset, which will also increase the fees because it's now easier for them to pay. And then that can be converted into link and sent to nodes and used for appropriate reasons within the link systems to create more security. But the important thing is that the net fees, the net value in the system that's flowing through the system and participating in the conversion mechanism should ideally be larger because you've eliminated both the friction of using any token you want and because you've made it easy for people to use the tokens that they already have and have a out of. And in this way, the system can attain and gain more value, use that value to create more security and remain the most secure system.
00:02:12.760 - 00:02:16.740, Speaker A: Close.
