00:00:04.410 - 00:01:26.482, Speaker A: What's up, coordination? How you doing on the Pod today we got Tim Dobbinschutz, who is a pluralistic freelancer and engineer seeking tough challenges, a blogger that has been writing about things like Soulbound Tokens, quadratic voting, harbinger taxes. Why has he been writing about those mechanisms? Well, Tim shares the goal that we have on the Greenpell podcast of creating a more pluralistic, regenerative ecosystem in Web Three. And so we talk a lot about the mechanisms that he's written about on his blog and also how those could be used in order to create a more regenerative world. So Tim is just kind of one of these deep technical thinkers that sees into the future of the technology, and he's able to transport back some of the ideas about the mechanisms into design criteria that helps the rest of us understand where this more regenerative Web Three movement is going. Or in a lot of the episode, we talk about the privacy implications of doing Soulbound Tokens and of building these things and the ways in which there are trade offs that we really need to carefully navigate here. So I think that Tim's just really thoughtful, really technical and articulate, and that's why I was excited to have him on the Pod, his blog. He's posting like one really thoughtful post per month here, and we're only able to go into three or four of his blog posts, but really, we'd encourage you to check out his blog in addition to this podcast episode.
00:01:26.482 - 00:01:29.750, Speaker A: So, without further ado, I'll give you Tim Dobb. I hope you enjoy.
00:01:29.900 - 00:02:06.414, Speaker B: Working in web three is awesome. It's freeing, powerful, and so much fun. But working outside of the typical W Two employee structure is a deal breaker for so many. Opelis is helping the self sovereign worker focus on what they do best their work, while managing the back end for them. There is a lot of nation state overhead when working in Web Three, and Opolis takes care of all of the back end stuff, freeing you up to do what you do best. Opolis leverages group buying power through a community employment coop, helping you save 20% to 50% on high quality, affordable healthcare options through Cigna. So do what you love and maintain your financial security with Opolis.
00:02:06.414 - 00:02:51.586, Speaker B: You must be authorized to work in the United States to receive Opolis benefits. But Opolis is expanding its services to Canada starting on January 1, 2023. So book a 30 minutes consultation with the Opolis experts and join Opolis by December 31 of 2022 and get 1000 work tokens and 1000 bank tokens when you sign up. So go to Connect Opolis co bankless to get started. Goldfinch is a decentralized credit protocol with a mission to connect the world's capital to the world's growth. Goldfinch focuses on real yields from real companies, so start lending your USDC to real businesses, driving growth worldwide. Goldfinch's borrowers are proven fintechs and credit funds in emerging markets who need access to Goldfinch's Capital to drive economic growth in regions faced with barriers to financial access.
00:02:51.586 - 00:03:25.520, Speaker B: In just under two years, Goldfinch has loaned over 100 million USDC reaching over a million people and businesses across 28 countries. Goldfinch is doing what DFI was always meant to do expanding financial access to those who have historically been shut out of the TradFi system. So become a Goldfinch member to put your USDC to work. Empowering real businesses growth. Join Goldfinch's new member Vault to be an active investor and take part in supporting Goldfinch's security and expansion. Receive yield enhancements generated by protocol revenue plus access, exclusive communication channels and more. So go to Goldfinch Finance to get started.
00:03:26.450 - 00:03:27.054, Speaker C: Hey, Tim.
00:03:27.092 - 00:03:27.920, Speaker A: How's it going?
00:03:28.370 - 00:03:29.630, Speaker C: Good, how are you?
00:03:29.780 - 00:03:46.150, Speaker A: Pretty good. Really glad to have you. I know that we've been planning this episode for a while so I wanted to get into identity and quadratic voting and Soulbound tokens harbinger taxes with you. Where should we start? I see that you wrote this post about the user experience problems of quadratic voting.
00:03:46.490 - 00:04:08.794, Speaker C: Yeah, that might be a good starting point. Yeah, I guess we can start from there. I think I'm working on a bunch of topics that all seem to be related to each other and sometimes even for me it's a bit difficult to find the common denominator or the thread. But that might be a good idea.
00:04:08.912 - 00:04:29.506, Speaker A: Yeah, I work that way also. It's nice to work across a bunch of subject matters and then when you have that breadth first view you can kind of combine things from different domains and being a connector allows you to kind of see the whole playing field and see through the fog of war. But yeah, maybe. Let's start with the threat of quadratic voting and the user experience problems there. You want to tell us about that post?
00:04:29.688 - 00:05:54.154, Speaker C: Yeah, so essentially all of that starts with a client that I've been working with. Basically I'm a freelancer and I was contacted by this quite renowned artist from Germany called Hitosteil and we wanted to do a project together. And then it turned out that we didn't really know in the beginning what we really wanted to do and so we were thinking of kind of like different projects that we wanted to do. I think one was more of a game and it had to do with property titles and so on. But eventually they ended up registering the ENS domain name of the Bundes Kunstale in Germany, which is a German federally funded art exhibition hall. And so through that all of a sudden there was a conversation started around this idea of what minting an ENS name really means and the powers that it gives you. And by collaborating also with the curators of the Bundes Kunstale, then basically they were like, yeah, but that's actually interesting that you are now owning this ENS domain.
00:05:54.154 - 00:07:02.002, Speaker C: And so maybe given that you have that and that you are going on strike kind of, maybe we can have like a governance vote on what should be the future of the German Bundes Kunstalle. I think that's kind of how this entire thing ended, essentially. And what eventually happened is that we had a recording in a TV studio where we had three different governance proposals similar to how you would do it on snapshot.org nowadays with a Dao. We had these three proposals being presented by three different parties. There was the Department of Decentralization that is organizing East Berlin. Then there was someone from other Internet, which is kind of like this arts and technology research group.
00:07:02.002 - 00:07:50.820, Speaker C: And then I think the last party was the institution itself, Bundes Kunstale, and I think it must have been their president or CEO or whatever that was also making a proposal. And after everyone making their proposal on stage and we had this also live streamed on the internet through YouTube, the audience had the choice or had the chance of doing a quadratic vote on the proposals that they liked most. And that's kind of where I was involved in the entire project, where basically I was developing this quadratic voting application.
00:07:52.310 - 00:08:36.882, Speaker A: Can we just back up for a SEC and talk about why quadratic voting? So quadratic voting is known to be a way of doing voting where you can express not only your preferences, but the direction and the intensity of your preferences. And basically the way it works is you get a certain amount of voting credits and then you can spend one voting credit to get one vote. You can spend, I think it's four voting credits to get two votes. You can spend 16 voting credits to get four votes. So the amount of votes you get is the square root of the voting credits that you spend on that particular issue. And so I want to vote four votes for option A, which cost me 16 voting credits, one vote against option B and one vote against option C. And in total I've used 18 voting credits.
00:08:36.882 - 00:08:46.830, Speaker A: So it allows you to look at the intensity and the directionality of your preferences. I hope I got that right. But why did you all choose quadratic voting in this instance?
00:08:46.990 - 00:10:26.694, Speaker C: Yeah. I don't know the entire reasons, but I think it was for that reason to I can't speak for Hittosheil myself, but I think the idea was that we had read about this concept of quadratic voting and she's essentially working also on critiquing a lot of what happens in the world and in the arts, art world and so on. And so I think a theoretical critique on how Glenn Wale outlined this idea of quadratic voting in the book where we would have come together, created this paper that basically goes against whatever is said in the radical markets book, felt like didn't feel right. And so I think it was basically an attempt at critiquing the concept by doing what an entrepreneur would do. And so essentially by building it, testing it, and then coming back to the drawing board and being like, okay, these are the things that we have learned and these are the things that worked and that didn't. I think on that end, I think it was very interesting because it ended up leading to this blog post that you mentioned. Right, got it.
00:10:26.812 - 00:10:54.606, Speaker A: And so I see from the post that there was several conceptual user experience problems that you ran into during the implementation. Would be fun to unfurl those. I'm not sure how many of the audience has done a quadratic vote co or a quadratic vote before, but you could do one at quadraticvote co if you're looking to do a very easy quadratic vote and maybe some of these user experience issues or some things that we can talk through. So you want to take us through those?
00:10:54.788 - 00:12:20.970, Speaker C: Yeah, sure. I think I want to talk about kind of, I guess where I also was challenged as the developer here, mainly to point out in the beginning, I think that this is like, quadratic voting is a thing that we as a community have very little experience with. Also in terms of just how are we building, like, user interfaces, how are we outlaying the interface itself, what is the mental model that we need to teach people on how all of these things work? And I think if I had to summarize the entire blog post, then I think that's the gist of it is that you are basically exposing people to this very new kind of idea of voting, and then it's also mathematical. And that's, I think, one of the biggest challenges now with regards to the individual challenges that we ended up running into, there's a couple of them, and basically in this blog post, I list them all one by one. I can maybe go briefly through each of them and we can maybe dive in deeper on things that you're also interested. Right?
00:12:21.120 - 00:12:51.474, Speaker A: Yeah, and I'll just say why I'm interested in this is that we're trying to create a more regenerative world with higher resolution democracy that leverages collective intelligence. And I think that there's a certain economist eye view that designs these mechanisms and thinks about how they're perfectly rational, sort of on paper, but then you put them in front of actual humans, which are predictably irrational and are really guided by the user interface. And it's really important that we close the gap between these perceptual problems and the mechanistic things that are in the design.
00:12:51.512 - 00:12:52.146, Speaker C: So I just want to say that.
00:12:52.168 - 00:12:53.970, Speaker A: Out loud before we go into these things.
00:12:54.120 - 00:14:39.634, Speaker C: Yeah, totally. I think that's a really important point, and I think it also kind of touches on the first problem that I outlined and that maybe I'm not even 100% capable of reproducing. But I think in the Radical markets book itself, the idea of quadratic voting is basically derived from this idea of the categorical imperative where you say basically that a person's freedom is limited by where they are intersect, where they're basically starting to limit another person's freedom, right? For example, I think during COVID and with mask wearing, I think this started to have a practical relevancy where if you were a fit young person, then for you potentially the virus was less fatal than, let's say, for an older person. But in the categorical imperative, that morally still doesn't give you really the right to not wear masks because mask wearing also means you are protecting the other person. And so basically, let's say as a young, fit person, I stop wearing masks and I end up infecting other people. Then my freedom is suddenly limiting the freedom of other people where, for example, we are like where I'm coming to in close proximity to a more vulnerable person or something like this. And so I think the Radical Markets book understands the categorical imperative.
00:14:39.634 - 00:15:59.440, Speaker C: And it's very interesting, actually, that then what they're basically saying is that we can also codify this moral thing into Marf. And so the idea here is where you have this town and there's an electricity plant and it's producing energy, but it's also polluting the air, where the air is the public good. And then the book walks us through this trade off between people on one side needing cheap energy, but also they cannot really have the entire air being polluted. And additionally, some people might say that air pollution is fine if I get cheap energy and other people might say the inverse. And so the book outlines this example of Niels where Niels essentially, I think, cannot have that much air pollution because Niels is running a laundry. And so guess that's because he needs to hang the clothes up in the end. So if the air is polluted, then I guess the clothes are smelly afterwards or something like this.
00:15:59.440 - 00:17:10.070, Speaker C: And so kind of given this categorical imperative of this symmetry of everyone having kind of the same say in the public good of air quality. I think they basically derived this math of saying that if Niels wants to impose certain qualities on other people that live in the town, then Niels should pay the quadratic cost of that. Because basically Niels is like influencing niels is not causing a cost to himself only by, for example, increasing the electricity price, but is basically increasing a cost to everyone that lives in the town because he might have a very divergent view on how things should work. Basically, they have like a graph. I think you can see it in page 100. I have it here, like 103 of the Princeton Press edition. And so I found that very interesting.
00:17:10.070 - 00:17:58.338, Speaker C: And I mean, it makes to me it also economically makes a lot of sense. Actually. I think at Shelling Point in Bogota, probably you were also there. I think there was someone speaking on the plurality stage. Now, I forgot the name, but basically what they said is something like anyways, it's beautiful that we can express basically this categorical imperative of marf and so on. But I think on the other hand and this is what I was trying to point out with my blog post is that this social cost for voting is really hard to describe. I think I tried it here and I'm not sure how well I'm making myself understood.
00:17:58.338 - 00:18:26.014, Speaker C: But then also, I think it assumes essentially also somewhat of a very high density information environment where everything can be boiled down into costs. So for meals that is, running a laundry, I think makes really a lot of sense to make this trade off between smelly clothes and maybe the laundry electricity costing less and so on. Right?
00:18:26.132 - 00:18:34.130, Speaker A: Yeah. So it sort of presumes education or a very simple problem to solve.
00:18:35.270 - 00:20:11.520, Speaker C: Yeah. But I think it also kind of suffers from looking at the problem very deliberately only in an economic model. Because, for example, in the case of pricing, again, like the production cost of clean clothes in a laundry, I think it's easy to kind of get an overview over that. Right, but you might have also people and this goes back to what you said in the beginning where maybe you cannot put a price on, for example, what is the value of clean air? Like, for example, when somebody is spiritually opposed to that, I think this way of pricing things becomes just much more complicated. Or if someone, for example, has an undiagnosed lung condition so then they never end up paying for this externality that if they knew they had a lung condition that can get worse with air pollution, then they would also pay more. So I think while, I mean, it's not really a strong critique against quadratic voting per se because these things can also happen with regular voting, I think it points kind of to this flaw of thinking everything in the economic terms and in this closed loop system and so on.
00:20:16.130 - 00:20:32.070, Speaker A: I know that we're going deep on the quadratic voting paper right now, but I think in order to respect the breadth first nature of this episode, I'd love to take a little sample of the Harbinger tax stuff and then a sample of the Soulbound token stuff and then we can get into a little bit more of a discussion towards the end of those. How does that sound?
00:20:32.220 - 00:20:34.246, Speaker C: Yeah, sounds good. Cool.
00:20:34.348 - 00:20:37.398, Speaker A: Where should we go next? Harbinger Taxes, solbound tokens or something else?
00:20:37.564 - 00:20:40.678, Speaker C: Yeah, we can go to Harbaugh taxes.
00:20:40.854 - 00:20:50.940, Speaker A: Okay, got it. So how would you explain Harbinger taxes? Just want to respect that not everyone in the audience knows exactly what those are, why they're important and how they work.
00:20:51.310 - 00:22:28.620, Speaker C: Yeah. So Harburger taxes are essentially they're a policy mechanism that allows you to create a type of property that we're not familiar with necessarily we have, I think, private property that is based on private property law. So people cannot take things from you once you acquire them. You don't need to be around them, you don't need to occupy a private property, right? It always belongs to you whether whether you are there or not and these kind of things. And then public goods are kind of on the opposite side of the spectrum where they really don't belong to anyone necessarily, but also basically they then suffer from different kinds of problems as private property and harbor taxes are somewhat in the middle between those two things. So where on one side you have maybe an apartment in an inner city that is the private property and on the other side you have something like city's air quality, then a property that is a haburger property, so to say. Or I think nowadays we also say it's like a partial common ownership that sits right in the middle between those two things.
00:22:28.620 - 00:22:52.660, Speaker C: Where it's interesting is that it has basically different economies compared to private and public goods. And I think for me, as someone that is implementing all sorts of different mechanisms to solve problems in the crypto space, it's very interesting.
00:22:53.110 - 00:23:03.986, Speaker A: The blog post that you have here says harbinger taxes can be crypto's sustainable business model, which I love that you're just taking the shot at something that big and important. Do you mind if I take a swing at explaining harbinger taxes?
00:23:04.178 - 00:23:05.590, Speaker C: Go for it. Cool.
00:23:05.660 - 00:23:57.526, Speaker A: So I think that they're understood as partial common ownership. And the idea here is that if you have private property, then basically there's a tax levied against that private property every year. And this is something that if you own a house, you're familiar with homeowners tax, but with harbinger taxes you're actually able to set the valuation of your private property and then you pay taxes at that rate. But there is a catch and that's that if you set the valuation too low, then anyone can buy your private property at any moment and purchase it from you. So there's a natural equilibrium between the incentive to set the price low and therefore get less taxes and to get less taxes. But you also might get your property sniped from you and set it high, whereas you pay more taxes, but there's less of a chance that someone will take it off the market for you, from you. So that's sort of how I understand mechanistically harbinger taxes to work.
00:23:57.526 - 00:24:11.870, Speaker A: But I'm curious to unfurl with you, how can that become crypto's sustainable business model? Are we going to issue NFTs to each other? And then there'll be harbinger taxes on those? Like how can I fund public goods with harbinger taxes?
00:24:12.210 - 00:25:22.802, Speaker C: Yeah, I think why I wrote this blog post, the story is that I had a project and then I had it funded through grants, funding and so on, and I got kind of like pushed into launching a Token, people were like, now is the time to launch a token, and so on. And for me that always felt a bit like reckless. I think you also had a Tweet where you said, I think cost of deploying an ERC 20 is like $20, but legal costs are like $200,000 or whatever, right? Yeah, that just felt like so reckless to me. Or also it felt like it just didn't feel right somehow. And so basically I said to myself with this project I was like, okay, maybe I don't want to take all of this unknown legal risk and so on and launch a Token. And I also have lots of other posts that talk about how I think tokens are not addressing certain things that I want. I don't know, we can go into that later.
00:25:22.802 - 00:27:16.866, Speaker C: But essentially I limited my solution space and I said, okay, if I cannot do tokens and we're like in crypto and there's like this bull market which is when this post was written. And I was like, what else can I do actually to make money besides raising a Token? And I mean, the problem is also some people in their protocols, they put like fees into the smart contracts, right? And so there's this idea that with a fee, basically then you create revenue for your development company if you put that into the protocol code and it's all good and well, but I think the dynamic of the space is that it's usually a race to the bottom where Uniswap was the first automated market maker. And then there were like these ten different clones where each one of them just was able to basically remove such a thing, like a fee structure where someone can monopolize and extract value from the code itself. So for me that sounded all of a sudden like we will never be able to charge any fees for developing solidity code. And that seemed kind of I was like, this is really difficult to work with, right? And I also don't want to launch a Token. And I think with being exposed to harbor taxes, what's interesting about them and why I say they are a sustainable business model is that for one, and I'm saying this as not being a lawyer, right? But I think they are not securities or like equity in the same way that Tokens are. They are more like a fee mechanism in your solidity contract.
00:27:16.866 - 00:29:12.874, Speaker C: And then secondly, if you are able to create a market, for example, where you're issuing an NFT or whatever, that ends up working with halberger taxes, then a copycat project that wants to fork your code and potentially remove the things where you can fund the protocol development. In the case where you price your property with harbor taxes, they cannot do it because essentially harbor taxes are this new universe of property, of properties where the taxation itself is not only a means to extract value from the operator of the market. The harbor taxes are there to enable a positive externality, right? So exactly how you explained it in the case where people are able to monopolize property in the private property area. So like for example, inner city apartments and stuff like this, right, where you're like the sole owner of that specific apartment and you're not even influencing basically the price of that apartment. Like the people that are opening coffee shops around your neighborhood, they are actually influencing the price and so on. I think in that world, actually, the halburger tax add positive externality because they make it so that you cannot monopolize on this unique position that you're in. And so you always have to basically act in, I think, Matt, private from radical markets like possessional interest kind of way, where you're always trying to utilize the property that you own as much as you can.
00:29:12.874 - 00:29:49.062, Speaker C: And so really, the conclusion I think of that blog post is that if we can find digital properties, that we can create these halburger tax markets, then I also think, given that there is this tax that is going to someone, it's sustainable because it cannot be forked out compared to just a fee that sends money to the protocol developers. Because if you fork it out, then you're also losing the property of harbor taxation and this much better mechanism for pricing. Right?
00:29:49.196 - 00:30:51.280, Speaker A: And I just want to add to this the moral basis for the tax. I know there's a lot of libertarians out there that are anti tax, and I just want to say that from talking to Matthew Pruitt, who's one of the sort of authors and primary thinkers on Harvard's attacks, the main idea between partial common ownership is that when you're utilizing a property, you're utilizing the public goods that are around the property. So in the example of a house, if you're close to a park, then your house appreciates in value because of the proximity to the park. And you're utilizing the public goods that are around the park, the roads to get there, the transportation networks that come to your house, the post office, the park, the downtown, all require upkeep. By having that private property, you're actually participating in the network effects of the public goods around you growing. And the digital equivalent of this is say you have an ERC 721 or an ERC 20 and you're issuing a Harvard tax on those. Then basically the idea.
00:30:53.330 - 00:30:54.106, Speaker C: Is that you're.
00:30:54.138 - 00:31:37.980, Speaker A: Relying on open source software on Geth on Prismatic, on the consensus and execution clients, on the ecosystem of IPFS that surrounds your token. And to the extent that your token is appreciating and really pumping, it's due to the public goods that your token is built upon. So I just want to make sure that we articulate the moral case for why harbinger taxes make sense from the perspective of math pruitt and we can get into the debates about whether taxes are good good or not. But that's basically the basis for why harbinger taxes are supposed to basically create a synthesis between public goods which are hard to fund but really important, and private goods which are easier to fund but also important.
00:31:38.590 - 00:32:16.600, Speaker C: Yeah, I also think that maybe the name harbor tax is not very approachable. I think you could develop something like a harbor tax software by just calling it a fee or whatever and you wouldn't even have I think in general I think the concept is applicable where it could be that maybe one day you are like playing a video game that implements haburger taxing through kind of like fee mechanism. You wouldn't even know. I think you just would like you would try at one point I think you would start to understand the dynamics of how this thing works.
00:32:18.890 - 00:33:00.146, Speaker B: The world has woken up to refi and Celo is here for it. Celo is the layer one for the regenerative finance movement. It's fast, planet positive and built for the real world. Celo has committed to producing a sustainable future from day one and has built its technology around one of the lowest carbon impact consensus mechanisms and is the world's first carbon negative EVM compatible layer one blockchain. Celo is a movement to create the conditions of prosperity for everyone, whether it's tokenizing carbon credits with Toucan, providing capital to underserved communities with unicorn or building for millions of users around the globe. Cello was created to transform crypto enthusiasts into a movement of change makers. Follow along on Twitter@cello.org
00:33:00.146 - 00:33:49.234, Speaker B: to learn more about how Celo is accelerating refi for a positive, lasting impact on people, communities and the planet. And if you're a builder interested in refi, be sure to join the build with Celo. Hackathon live now with a prize pool of over $100,000. Coinshift is a leading treasury management and infrastructure platform for Dows and crypto businesses that need to manage their treasury operations. Every crypto.org needs to manage its treasury, and Coinshift offers a simple, flexible and efficient multi chain treasury management platform built on top of the highly secure nosis safe. With Coinshift, your organization can go from primitive single chain treasury management to expressive, flexible and multi chain treasury features such as global user management, global contacts, proposal management and many other features that can be shared across an entire organization, allowing users to save time and reduce operational burdens and gas costs.
00:33:49.234 - 00:34:08.646, Speaker B: Coinshift even has data tools like account reporting across the seven chains on which it operates. Used by industry powerhouses such as Uniswap Grants, Balancer, Consensus and Masari, coinshift is speeding up the coordination and efficiency of the organizations that use it. You have to keep up with the frontier, and Coinshift makes that easy. So sign up at Coinshift XYZ slash bankless.
00:34:08.758 - 00:34:09.034, Speaker C: Great.
00:34:09.072 - 00:34:23.410, Speaker A: Well, we're about halfway through our time together. Maybe we should move on to soulbound tokens and we can grasp the whole elephant. Before I ask you. How can we use all these mechanisms to fund public goods, to create a regenerative commons, stuff like that. But let's go deep on soulbound tokens.
00:34:24.550 - 00:35:10.878, Speaker C: I think I think that's a perfect segue between Harbor Text and soulbound tokens. Vitalik, I think, posted the blog post called Soulbound around January, and then I got really inspired by that. I was also reading at the same time, like, this book by Glenwale on radical markets and so on, and I ended up going to East Denmark. I also saw you speak on stage and so on. And I think it actually was you that was mentioning this idea of non skeomorphic property. And it really hit me. It was like, yeah, we don't necessarily need to build in the digital realm something that is either a public good or private good.
00:35:10.878 - 00:36:00.990, Speaker C: We can also build something completely wildly non skeomorphic in the sense that it's not imitating anything that already exists. Just to understand skuomorphism is this idea that basically you're building almost like a visual bridge between something that exists and something new. So, for example, I think the iPhone's Notes app was always looking like it had textures as backgrounds that were similar to paper. And then it also looked like you were really scribbling. And so that was like a classical skeomorphic application compared to I think, nowadays. Notes, I think, is more understand, like tries to experiment with what's possible in digital.
00:36:01.330 - 00:36:39.020, Speaker A: Let me just give you my rundown on skimorphism is like, the old resembles the new. So, like, my favorite example of this is Yahoo and Google both had the goal of organizing the world's information, but Yahoo. Took the card catalog system and put it on the Internet. So you had to browse a directory in order to find your information. Whereas with Google, I could just type in a search term and find that information. And so by enabling the primitives of the new to create new things, non schemorphic things, then we're actually able to build more powerful software just while we're getting to schemrphism. I just want to make sure that the audience had two definitions for it, but please continue.
00:36:39.550 - 00:37:24.918, Speaker C: Yeah. Anyway, I think during Shelling Point it must have been or even I think anyways, it hit me was like this is so interesting that we are now talking about soul bound property, essentially, where this is somewhat of as. A World of Warcraft player. Ex World of Warcraft player myself. I was like, so basically, a soul bound icon and soul bound item in World of Warcraft was one that you would obtain from, let's say, slaying a dragon with, like, a 40 person rate. And you had to do all of this preparation and everything. And then in the end, I think there was like a mechanism to allocate the items that the dragon dropped.
00:37:24.918 - 00:39:30.580, Speaker C: And then I think the idea really was that you don't want to enable this pay to win kind of system where someone slays a dragon with 40 people and gets this super cool sword as a loot and then sells it on an auction house for like 1000 gold. And then this person that was never in that rate did all this social and coordinational work to help slate a dragon. Can just buy that salt on the auction house and show it, basically equip it and show like oh look, I slate the dragon or whatever. So basically soul bound tokens, soul bound items was really a way to prevent that where you make items essentially non financial in a way that people cannot put a numerical price on the item itself. And so I found that fascinating because I was like this is genuinely something I've never seen in the real world. And with talking to people at East Denver, but also talking about Halburger taxes and Halburger property, I saw a similar problem where if you have a Haburger property then also you need to build like a differentiation between who is the actual owner of the Haburger property and who is just a possessor, let's say, right? And so I think conceptually you can think of this where ownership is like this set of all the rights that are given to you over an object and then from this bucket of rights you can basically pick more individual items. Like you can say there's a right of me being able to use an object or there's a right of me being able to destroy an object or to lend it out to.
00:39:30.580 - 00:41:08.290, Speaker C: So I think solbound tokens at the time and Halburger property had this sweet spot where fundamentally the Halburger property should not be transferable ever from the owner, but only the usership should be able to change. And so basically, I don't know, I was really diving, I think, very deep into this realm. And I was writing all of these blog posts about it, and I ended up concluding that it must be where when I'm able to specify how a Solbound token looks like, then I'm also able to build a Haburger tax property, which I think today maybe I'm not that much of a believer in that anymore, but it anyways led me to build soulbound tokens. And maybe just to give you a rundown of what solbound tokens are, So I think if you ask ten people you probably get ten answers. But I think the most prominent answer is probably that of whatever is written in the decentralized society paper. So essentially they're almost like a way of encoding claims into a data structure and then signing these claims and publishing them selectively. But I also think you can frame solbon tokens as kind of like a different kind of property class so then they don't necessarily have to be claims.
00:41:08.290 - 00:42:16.886, Speaker C: And then I think maybe the most tangible framing for developers at least is one where you say a sole bound token, the most simple sole bound token is just a non transferable token. So like an NFT for example, where once it's sent to your account, you can essentially never send it back. And I think the name then starts to originate a bit more from this idea of soul binding something to you where similar to how it works in World of Warcraft, you're giving something to a certain account and the intention is that there cannot be a financial price attached to it because it's fundamentally non tradable with at least the usual ways we trade things. In web three, I will link the.
00:42:16.908 - 00:43:28.990, Speaker A: Soulbound paper in the show notes right here so that people can read it. But basically the silbound token paper is called Decentralized Society and it's all about what if there's this deep interconnected web of attestations. Kevin attests that tim is a great podcast guest, and you attest out that other authors in the Ethereum Ecosystem have done important things and so on and so forth, and you create this sort of web of trust of this directional Atastation graph. And I almost think of it as like PageRank where websites that link to each other are kind of voting for each other's legitimacy. When you send soul bound tokens with attached metadata, you're making vouchers about each other. And the sum of this, the gestalt of all these things is we have reputation that we can begin to, I don't know, solve civil resistance or provide under collateralized loan using the densely networked part of the information. And that becomes really exciting to me because once we have the network effects of this spinning where more people are getting soul bound tokens or other identity markers, it could be DIDs, could be things that are off chain, then more people will try to consume those DIDs because they're getting more utility out of them.
00:43:28.990 - 00:43:49.080, Speaker A: So that's what's really exciting to me about Decentralized Society and I feel like soul bound tokens are just a means to that end. And there's maybe some troublesome privacy things with only going all in on soulbound tokens but that's what's exciting to me about soul bound tokens. I'm curious, what about that resonates with you?
00:43:50.090 - 00:46:46.062, Speaker C: Yeah, I think you touched on, I think, one of the most fundamental points of the concept when you mentioned privacy and that this is such a challenge that still needs proper addressing in the entire concept where I think people in general are very overwhelmed with the idea of sending and storing data on blockchains. And I think the norm so far has been that we voluntarily upload data to the internet and so there's like a good chance that somehow you can always delete that data by just following through. Like you look at the domain name and you find out who is responsible for hosting that server and then, I don't know, there's like a legal recourse that you can do and whatever. So you always end up being able to take down stuff right I think in the EU where I live there's even the right to be forgotten, which is essentially like a right you can use as an individual to remove negative claims about you from, for example, like the Google search results and stuff like this. And I think with blockchains, and I think this is not specific to solbound tokens, but it's generally true for a blockchain that keeps all the data available permanently is that people are now kind of finding out by when we're talking about tested claims, they're like, damn, this can have actual really bad implications too. Where, how am I able to remove a piece of information that I might not want to have? I think it's useful in this case to think of privacy as contextual integrity and I'm not really making this up. This is like a research paper from Helen Nissenbaum, which is, I think, quite renowned in the space where basically I'm going to slotle, I think, the concept, but I'm anyways going to say it like here quickly, which is where the contextual integrity in a context in a situation is that where the information disclosure actually has like an interactive component with what you're trying to achieve? So let's say if I go to the doctor and I tell the doctor that my foot is hurting, then I'm sharing this information in the context and with the integrity assumption that the doctor will use this information that my foot is hurting to treat the foot and that I end up not having a hurting foot.
00:46:46.062 - 00:48:12.266, Speaker C: Now, I think there's two things where these things can go wrong. One is when this information then starts leaking outside. So for example, if the doctor then tells their partner that I ended up having a hurting foot, right, then I think the contextual integrity of why I told that doctor that my foot was hurting is broken. And then the other dimension is where the doctor would use that information for a different cause than just treating the illness of my foot that we call so we basically call that the appropriateness. I think viewing privacy as contextual integrity is very useful because at least as an engineer, it allows us to make pretty straightforward judgments on things that we should do and we shouldn't do in terms of implementation. And I think with now the challenging part, I think with soulbound tokens or anyways being exposed to this idea that there might be cases where things are never reversible, where once we publish them, they will permanently be out there because the blockchain keeps them around. This becomes challenging because it's something that we have never had to deal with.
00:48:12.266 - 00:49:31.460, Speaker C: I think like for like I personally being an EIP author, at least for now, I think I would push back for example, on Vitalik's idea of this negative reputation registry. Even if you can make it, I think how Vitalik frames it is almost like in a utopic case where all of this zero knowledge math and so on works out perfectly. And I think in that scenario, I think the suggestion of negative reputation is actually not a bad one. But I think in order to get there, I think it will take much longer than we probably have time to actually figure out the privacy implications. And so being the EIP author of these things, I don't see myself confronted with the technical intricacies of zero knowledge proofs. For me, it's more a challenge of telling people, hey, please be aware of not putting sensitive information on chain and try everything possible to not leak, like metadata and stuff like this. I think.
00:49:33.190 - 00:50:04.320, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, I think that there's definitely some problematic things there and this isn't like a Web Two app where if we make a mistake, we can just roll it back. And so it bears a lot of the need to be judicious as we move forward on these things. And I'm curious, we only have about five minutes left of the things that we've discussed. What are you excited about when it comes to funding the commons or creating non schemorphic applications with blockchains that you think are really compelling? I mean, you've kind of got this breadth of the design space. What are you really excited about?
00:50:04.770 - 00:52:14.918, Speaker C: Yeah, this is not an easy point to make, but I think I'm the most bullish, I think in general on the blockchain space. I am because essentially it's almost like a sandbox environment where we are experimenting with mechanism design and with economics and now we have even almost like these research and development labs like Radical Exchange and what's the other one? Commons stack and so on, that they are producing this new type of mechanism design. So it's not only academic research anymore that publishes books and papers, but we're also implementing these things right in real scenarios with real money and we're basically finding out if these things work. So I think I'm really optimistic in the sense that we can test some of these new mechanisms out and we can innovate and we can find data just in the sandbox environment and then still we can apply them to the real world eventually. And I think one of the examples that I would like to make here is that of the energy grid in Germany right now that is under heavy pressure from the Russian government that stopped the gas exports via the Nordstream pipelines where you need to hold a certain voltage within the grid, right. And therefore the pricing of the utility providers of the electricity actually is by whoever provides the highest price per kilowatt hour. It sounds a bit unintuitive, but given that you always need to hold the voltage of the grid, this is what you have to do.
00:52:14.918 - 00:53:53.938, Speaker C: And so fascinatingly. We have a mayor in the south of Germany that their community has heavily invested in renewable energies. And he goes on television talk shows and he says, making a killing with our wind and solar energy. Because the price of solar and wind I mean, we have invested in these windmills and so on, but we're not paying more like everyone else is paying more by producing electricity with gas. And so I think this points to a problem where this energy mix that we're having in Germany that although it's diversified, we always have to pay the highest production price puts us into this absurd position where the people that produce green energy make basically the most amount of money even though they're not really contributing the most significant amount into the grid. And now how do I get back to this with blockchain? I think the block production mechanism in ethereum is actually very similar to that of the energy grid where similar to how in the energy grid we have to keep the voltage at all costs because otherwise it means we would get a blackout. Also in the ethereum consensus algorithm we also have to continuously come up with new blocks.
00:53:53.938 - 00:55:46.714, Speaker C: So essentially we are also having a similar problem where those that supply the block production have really a lot of power in adjusting like making the prices adjust and making them skyrocket. And so I think with EIP 1559 now, we are, for example, experimenting with a mechanism that I think went from all the way from the engineering to, I think, people in the economic space reviewing this proposal and so on into an implementation. And now suddenly we can see that we went from a pricing mechanism for block storage that had a very variable rate of pricing over time up to an algorithm that ends up being not variable at all. But in terms of spikes is always course correcting to the mean because basically, as soon as we go over the normal demand, instead of encouraging actually more supply through increasing the price, we're actually saying we're burning the ETH that is excess that we get from demand. And so I think while these two things, maybe they are like maybe it's like two different problems I'm talking about, I think in the end the economic primitive. I think I have pointed out that these two things are very similar. And what makes me excited is that essentially we have tested out a thing with EIP 1559, we have tested out a thing in this sandbox environment where everyone that had opted into ethereum was part of it.
00:55:46.714 - 00:56:30.690, Speaker C: But also if it hadn't worked out, then potentially I think the consequences would have been less fatal than, for example, if we had tested this out on the scale of a country where we're testing this on our live energy grid. So I think it makes me incredibly bullish that basically we have this giant sandbox where we can test economic policy and then once we get the clean data and so on, we can also apply this to much more critical infrastructure. And hopefully this ends up creating a better and more regenerative financial system, but also a world. Like Regenerative world.
00:56:30.780 - 00:56:59.300, Speaker A: Yeah. The way I think of is like, first do no harm. So we got to stop the scams and the ponzies and the rugs, create mechanisms where those people can be held accountable or at least not get the attention that they're sucking up all the oxygen in the room, the carbon neutrality. There's been a lot of steps forward with that, with the merge, and now it's about building regenerative systems that are net positive. And so what are the mechanisms for that? We only have a few more minutes. Is there anything I didn't ask you that you want to say?
00:57:01.350 - 00:57:10.486, Speaker C: I'm not sure. We talked about a lot of things. I'm happy to be here and to be talking to you. Yeah.
00:57:10.668 - 00:57:37.230, Speaker A: I think this is honestly the highest use of my talents in network, is to try to figure this stuff out together. So appreciate you coming on to talk about the work that you've been doing. Really encourage listeners to check out your blog, which I've got a link to in the show notes. It's timdob GitHub IO Tim D-A-U-B GitHub IO how can people find you online? What's the best mechanism? Is it Twitter?
00:57:38.050 - 00:57:48.062, Speaker C: Yeah, it's Twitter. Same username or on my blog there is all the contact information, my email and so on. Great.
00:57:48.196 - 00:57:50.270, Speaker A: Well, Tim, thanks so much for coming on the pod.
00:57:51.010 - 00:57:56.280, Speaker C: Thank you for your time and giving me the chance to speak. Yeah, thank you very much.
00:57:56.810 - 00:57:57.700, Speaker A: Peace, Tim. Thanks.
