00:00:00.240 - 00:00:17.894, Speaker A: Hello, everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Delegate refuel, where you cap the latest news, the theorem ecosystem. I'm your host, and it's a signer. It is the 13 February 2024. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So you guys know how I sometimes go on my bullish rants on the refuel, and you guys seem to enjoy that very much. And I enjoy doing them well.
00:00:17.894 - 00:00:50.198, Speaker A: On Saturday, when I published the new daily Drive thru episode that I did with Eric today, it's basically one of those bullish rants for like a whole hour long. And it's not just me, it's me and Eric doing it. Because as I put out on Farcaster today, I said, just recorded the most bullish ETH podcast in history with Eric, and it was really, really bullish. Honestly. We spent the whole episode basically just giving the bull case for ETH. Why we think ETH is going to like fifteen k to twenty k this cycle and everything in between, basically. And we also spoke about ETH BTC.
00:00:50.198 - 00:01:21.378, Speaker A: That was a request from a lot of people about how, you know, what, what's ETH BTC going to look like going forward? So I'm not going to spoil any of that for you guys. As I said, the episode is going to be out on Saturday, and if I do a rug full this week, it probably might be out on, on, on that night instead. But all that day, I should say instead. But I don't think I'm going to be doing a rug fuel this week. Famous last words, right? But yes, plan is to release this on Saturday. And I know the ETH price has been quite bullish lately. It's kind of funny what, what's going to happen is that maybe ETH will be bullish all week and then I'll release this on Saturday and it'll be like the local top and Ethel dump.
00:01:21.378 - 00:01:45.776, Speaker A: It's always seems to happen, right? But regardless of that, yeah, I just wanted to just let you guys know that. Just look forward to Saturday. It's just so bullish. Like, honestly, I can't wait to revisit this episode in like a year's time and, and see how right or wrong. You know, Eric and I were on this because Eric is really my spirit animal in Ethereum. I mean, we've worked together for so long now, you know, through ETH hub and into the ether. And even before that, we became good friends.
00:01:45.776 - 00:02:08.670, Speaker A: And he's been in Ethereum longer than I have since basically day one. But yeah, I've learned a lot from him. Over the years, and he always just brings such a different and unique perspective to what I bring. So, yeah, I'm looking forward to you guys getting to watch and listen to this on Saturday. But anyway, moving on from that onto some news. So James Seifert here. Seifert, someone actually corrected me on pronouncing James's name in the deadly way.
00:02:08.670 - 00:02:23.190, Speaker A: Discord channel. I'm actually going to go back there quickly and see so how you pronounce it is safer. Yeah. Okay. James Safer. So apologies to James for mispronouncing his surname this entire time, but you guys know that I suck at pronouncing anything. But anyway, James Seifert.
00:02:23.190 - 00:02:40.702, Speaker A: Seyffert. Yeah, go again. Wow, I'm really bad. Anyway, he tweeted today saying, franklin Templeton, which is a really large tradfi institution, I think they manage $1.3 trillion in assets. They have joined the spot ETH ETF race. So they have obviously here filed for their spot ETH ETF.
00:02:40.702 - 00:03:18.742, Speaker A: You know, it's kind of funny because at this point, like, this is news, but at the same time, like, for me, I'm pretty much, like, expecting the ETF to be approved by May 23. Like, there's something. There's no doubt in my mind that it'll be approved or not. But, like, that's the expectation that I'm running on, essentially not just because we have a bunch of these issues in the running right now, very similar to what we have with bitcoin. You can actually see the list here on my screen. I'll link it in the YouTube description as well. But just the fact that the fact that the BTc ones were approved and the fact that the ETH one is basically identical to the BTC one and the fact that it's definitely, in my opinion, going to be a non staked ETF to begin with, I just don't see a reason why it would be denied here.
00:03:18.742 - 00:04:06.898, Speaker A: And I've given my, my kind of reasons before, so I'm not going to rehash that here. But, yeah, just another big financial institution getting involved with kind of spot ETH ETF. And if these things do get approved by May 23, guys, like, that's, you know, if we get, like, the all time highs on BTC and ethan, what? Like, I don't know, late q two, sometime in q three or something like that, the ETF's are going to be live for that, and we're going to have them live during the kind of, like, meat of the bull market. So things are going to get pretty crazy. And Eric and I discussed this on our episodes. I'm not going to spell too much of it there, but I just wanted to put it on your radar that another large tradfi institution has filed for a spot ETH ETF. All right, so I was looking at the Doon analytics dashboard here put together by Hill Dobby that tracks basically a bunch of stats around Ethereum staking, and you can go check this dashboard out for yourself.
00:04:06.898 - 00:04:43.610, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But interesting little metric that I saw was that etherfy actually took in more east deposits over the last month than Lido. And that's the first time, I think, that any kind of protocol in a while has overtaken Lido in, you know, raw ETH deposits here. Now, of course, ether fire has been running a pretty massive campaign. They're a liquid restaking protocol and they've been running this campaign for a little while now. But you can see here that they took in 305,000 ETH over the last month, whereas Lido took in 303,008th. Now, the thing is, is that it's not just either fire, it's everyone else to, like, look at Mantle here.
00:04:43.610 - 00:05:14.788, Speaker A: Mantle took in 245,008th, right? Binance took in a bit. But if we're talking about like, non, I guess, like, centralized exchange providers here, you've got swell taking in a hundred thousand. You know, puffer would be here. I don't know how much eats exactly puffer took in, but they took in a lot. I think, honestly, I think puffer took in maybe more than either fire in the last month because they took in like $800 million worth of ETH or something like that. Or something crazy. But what the point of me kind of talking about this is, is that the ETH staking landscape is rapidly changing.
00:05:14.788 - 00:05:51.020, Speaker A: And it's changing in that there's a lot of ETH now not going into Lido and going elsewhere. And as you guys know, a lot of the ETH going elsewhere is, you know, in the form of Steth. Right. But the thing is, is that St is going to be kind of vampired out of Lido. So lighter's market share is not only going down because people are using other staking service providers, it is also going to go down from these vampire attacks that are happening. And I remember I talked about, like, this great reshuffling a while ago now, you know, pre, I guess, like, staking withdrawals going live. It was this idea that we would see a massive shuffling of stake from you know, Lido and other providers into, into newer providers.
00:05:51.020 - 00:06:02.430, Speaker A: Right. And I did say at the time that that would happen over a long period of time. It wasn't going to happen overnight. It's a big ship, you know, to steer this thing. It's like a cruise liner. It takes a while, right. And it's going to happen over years.
00:06:02.430 - 00:06:30.670, Speaker A: And I think we're finally seeing that play out, especially over the last few months with the advent of, like, these liquid restaking tokens and basically all this competition coming online now. Liquid restaking tokens or not, you know, all this competition coming online now that competes directly with Lido's market share. And I think Lido's market share is still at what, like 31. I'm going to. I'm going to look up here 31.7%, right? Still around that 32% mark that it's been stuck out for ages. But at the same time, as I said, there's still those vampire attacks to come.
00:06:30.670 - 00:07:10.562, Speaker A: There's still a lot of ETH that is going to basically reshuffle because of the fact that they want to get access to farming points and farming tokens and restaking and all that sorts of stuff there. So this great reshuffling is actually happening, guys. Like, it really is happening. And at the same time, we've also stopped Lido from growing on a relative basis, too. You know, imagine a world where we didn't have all of these protocols. Lido might be at like 40, 50% stake by now, but I remember arguing on the refuel plenty of times that Lido's market share is everyone else's opportunity. There was just no way that other providers wouldn't come in and say, hey, you know, we can do better than Lido and we can actually grab some of these market share for ourselves, which is exactly what has happened here and has been happening over the last few months in particular.
00:07:10.562 - 00:07:28.846, Speaker A: Now, of course, Lido isn't the only provider that is of concern. I think Coinbase, I mean, Coinbase, isn't that concerning right now. They're like less than 15% of the. Of the, of. Of the market share right now in terms of staking market share. But we don't want them growing much more from that, right? We actually don't want them growing from that at all, really. I mean, I love Coinbase.
00:07:28.846 - 00:08:12.944, Speaker A: They're doing a lot of awesome stuff with base and, and bringing people on chain and all that good stuff. But at the same time, that doesn't mean that we should root for them to be like, an even larger part of the beacon chain because of the fact that they are obviously one single centralized entity. But I don't, I don't think they're going to be. I think that we're going to have such a vibrant and awesome kind of, uh, uh, liquid staking ecosystem or staking ecosystem generally. And then the kind of. I guess, I don't know if I'd call it centralization concerns, but like, those concerns people have with Lido, maybe shift to Eigen layer, right? Because Eigen layer right now is really the only restaking protocol benefiting from all of this. There are other restaking protocols that I know of that may be coming online in the, in the future at some point, but they have basically no market share right now.
00:08:12.944 - 00:08:44.605, Speaker A: The entire liquid restaking kind of ecosystem is, is in eigen layer. So that kind of shifts the conversation to, okay, you know, is Eigen layer now that source of centralization is Eigen layer now that big risk that we have to worry about. And I don't have a good answer to that at this point. I've gone through it before on the refuel. I think we're just going to have to wait and see and wait and see how it all plays out. I think. I mean, I think my good answer and like, my best case scenario is that, as I've said, like, restaking just gets enshrined into the protocol and then Eigen layer just exists as a service on top of that.
00:08:44.605 - 00:09:12.245, Speaker A: That taps into restaked ETH and allows you to spin up things like AVss. Right. That would be cool because it means that it's tightly coupled with the protocol. It means it basically functions like the, like the east taking contract generally, right? Where we basically accept that there's this huge pool of ETH in, you know, estate basically, or that's in the deposit contract, but that's tightly coupled to the protocol. So the same thing would be true for restaking where we're like, okay, well, restaking is now tightly coupled with the protocol. We accept that. That's all well and good.
00:09:12.245 - 00:09:33.834, Speaker A: You know, we've removed a lot of the negative external of it, just existing extra protocol, and then Argon layer still exists. It still provides a lot of value. It just doesn't take on the role of that restaking kind of role. It just allow, you know, we just allow people to do that in protocol there. But anyway, going off a little bit of a tangent there. You can go check out the ETH staking dashboard for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so.
00:09:33.834 - 00:10:20.318, Speaker A: All right, next up here. So I talked about this yesterday at length and this kind of concept of air dropping tokens to solo stakers, to home stakers. Now I did a bit more digging and a bit more research on this because I think that, as I said yesterday, the largest blocker to this is finding a good list of addresses that, you know, you have high confidence in our solo stakers and our home stakers in order to drop your token to, because obviously you don't want to be dropping the token to people that aren't actually solo stakers or home stakers. And there's always going to be people who fall through the cracks. But I did some research and I actually found a really awesome list here on GitHub, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. And this list is actually multiple lists. So it has a list for solo stakers, pre merge, solo stakers, pre Chappella, solo stakers, just generally.
00:10:20.318 - 00:10:51.026, Speaker A: And yeah, I mean, and there's got, it's got, so there's three lists and they split up into, into a and b. So obviously one of them is too long to put in, in a document here. So they split it up here. So those are the three kind of things here, pre merge, pre Chappella and, and solo stakers generally. It's interesting that they have got pre merge and pre Chappella lists. I wonder if projects are going to be using that for an airdrop at some point. Like if they, if that's their criteria saying, okay, well we, we just want to airdrop to pre merge stakers or we just, because those stakers are like the really, I guess like aligned ones.
00:10:51.026 - 00:11:28.536, Speaker A: They're the ones who took all the risk before the merge sort of thing. And I'd wonder if like you go back even further and do like pre a certain date, like imagine just doing the, all the Genesis stakers, essentially the people who spun up a validator at Genesis of the beacon chain. That would be, that would be cool, right? There's no list for that right here, but I think you can kind of extrapolate that list out from the addresses that are here. Now, an interesting thing is I found this list when I was looking at a starknet governance proposal, I think. So if I, I don't know if I have it handy here. I was, I came across it somewhere. I think someone linked it to me in DM's actually, because they were, they were dming me about my, my tweet the other day.
00:11:28.536 - 00:12:03.566, Speaker A: I found that in there, and I don't know who this is. It says GLC and I, which is the. The account that maintains this list, GLC steak tier. I don't know who this is or what project they belong to because they've been active in a bunch of different repos. They're apparently associated with DAP node, nethermind and Celestia here, or at least that's what they've been involved with. So, yeah, I'm not exactly sure who this party is, but these lists are really good. I checked these lists against my own addresses, so against my solo validator addresses and my rocker pool address, which is just sassle ETH because I spun out my mini pools from there.
00:12:03.566 - 00:12:26.642, Speaker A: And all of them are on this list. Now, I checked other lists, I checked rated networks list, and my solo validator wasn't on that list. And rated networks list only goes up to the first 500,000 validators. But one of my solo addresses is from Genesis. Like, I literally staked at Genesis, so. And that wasn't on their lists. So obviously I've fallen through the cracks somehow because that address that I used, I've never used for anything else.
00:12:26.642 - 00:12:54.418, Speaker A: That literally was only used to deposit into staking. That might be why it fell through the cracks, because they might have seen that address and they would have said, okay, well, this just looks like an address that was only used once. It means it doesn't belong to a solo stake up. But I used it once. I don't know why I used it once at the time, but I used it once and maybe that's why I fell through the cracks, whereas this list actually picked up on it. So as far as I'm concerned, this is the golden list right now of solo stakers up to a certain point. I think the last time it was updated was about four or five months ago.
00:12:54.418 - 00:13:15.026, Speaker A: So it's obviously not going to be capturing all the validators that have entered since then, I believe. Uh, yeah, so it's up to date up to September 2023, but I'm sure you could just kind of update it again. I'm not sure on the criteria that they've used here. I don't know if there's actually. That actually exists in this GitHub repository. Like if I actually look in here and see. Yeah, actually, no, there is.
00:13:15.026 - 00:13:40.798, Speaker A: There is a bit of. A bit of criteria here and stuff like that that I haven't looked at yet, but you can go check that out for yourself, of course. But yeah, I just came across this today. I wanted to share it with you guys. I'm very curious if project is going to use this going forward. I think that the pre merge criteria is very, very interesting because as I said, you get the most kind of aligned ETH validators in the, in a pre merge world. Uh, you know, in terms of solo stakers, right? Because they're the ones who took a lot of risk because, you know, the merge was a big risk.
00:13:40.798 - 00:14:16.914, Speaker A: And then obviously, before withdrawals were enabled, your ETH was locked and your solo, sorry, your consensus layer rewards were locked because this only captures solar stakers, doesn't capture liquid stakers that went through Lido, just captures solo stakers. So, yeah, you can go check out these lists for yourself, see if your address is on there. If you are a solo staker, as I said, it does include Rockapool stakers as well from, from my research on this. So if you are a rocket pool node operator, you should go check this out as well. All right. So speaking of rocket pool, actually, perfect segue. So I put out a little far cast or little cast today on Firecaster, where I said Rocketpool's revenge arc is coming soon.
00:14:16.914 - 00:14:39.200, Speaker A: And to study these three posts. The first post is Jasper's post about Eigen Lair and Rockerpool and how they're going to work together. I highlighted this the other day. If you haven't read it yet, go, go. Give that a read. The second post is about Rocketpool's upcoming Houston and Saturn upgrades, which are major upgrades to the protocol. And the third post is all about RPL's tokenomics, really, and how that plays into the wider protocol.
00:14:39.200 - 00:15:11.004, Speaker A: Now, I do want to be clear here. When I say Rocketpool revenge arc, I mean the protocol itself. I'm not talking about the token, like I try to avoid as much as possible talking about tokens except for ethanol, because of the fact that, like you, I mean, I am invested in RPL, right? So that's a conflict of interest there. Obviously, I'm invested in ETH as well, but ETH is a different thing. You guys know that I don't plan to sell my ETH or anything like that. I mean, I don't really plan to sell my RPL either, but I think that for me, I just like to stick to talking about ETH when I'm talking about kind of giving like a bull case for it. So when I talk about projects, I'm not talking about their tokens, I'm talking about the project themselves.
00:15:11.004 - 00:15:32.210, Speaker A: But logically, at least in a smart market, which I don't think crypto is. But you know, you know, in a smart market over the long, long term, if rocket pool succeeds, if rocket pool keeps growing, if it goes drives value to the token, then you would expect the RPL would perform well as well. But I make no comment on what it's going to do. I hold RPL. I mean, it's all public how much I hold. It's on sassle. It's all stakes with my mini pools.
00:15:32.210 - 00:16:06.050, Speaker A: Right? I'm part of the Odao as well, so it's staked there too. But the point of this post was just to show you guys that rocket pool is not kind of dying or anything like that. I don't think anyone said it's dying, but I got a lot of, they've got a lot of stuff planned, a lot of exciting stuff. Should definitely go check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, Josh Rudolph has a fresh update for us today from the latest Verkle implementers, call number twelve here. So this week's agenda covered updates from client teams, testnets, a few aips testing team updates, and deprecating serialized commitments.
00:16:06.050 - 00:17:02.884, Speaker A: So as usual, this update I'll link in the YouTube description for you to give a read to. But this works as a nice little springboard for me because I actually dm'd Josh a few days ago and I, and I said to him like, look, I'm really excited about the verge. I'm really excited about verkle trees and statelessness and state expiry and all that. But I think that generally people don't know much about it from like explain, like I'm five or a plain english kind of a plain english explanation. So I said to him like, I think it'd be a really good idea if you put together a nice blog post explaining what vocal trees are, why they're important for Ethereum, why statelessness is important for Ethereum, and then what the actual flow on effects are off of the verge. What does the Verge enable for the end user? Because I've spoken before in the past about how the Verge lays a lot of groundwork for a lot of really cool upgrades. It potentially allows us to raise the gas limit on l one to, you know, ten to 100 x it depending on kind of when we implement these things, along with a lot of other things that touches this kind of part of the roadmap here.
00:17:02.884 - 00:17:23.966, Speaker A: But you wouldn't know about that because a lot of it is buried in ETH research posts, you know, a lot of it is me just giving you a high level overview of things. Like, I'm not an expert on this stuff. I'm just giving you the view from where I understand. And yes, you could go research it yourself. Obviously, there's that website that I've shouted at before, vocal dot in fo, but most people are not going to do this. So I said to Josh, I'm like, hey, put a blog post together, put a tweet thread together. We'll, you know, we'll push it out.
00:17:23.966 - 00:17:49.574, Speaker A: Like, I'll help push it out, help get eyeballs on it, and we'll educate people about the fact that ethereum l one is still scaling for l one. Ethereum l one is not ossifying anytime soon. And there is a lot of exciting stuff happening. It's just that it happens over longer time periods, and it's just that we're not taking shortcuts to get there. So look forward to that. I'm definitely looking forward to that. I mean, Josh messaged me today and he kind of came out with like a big, big bit of feedback to me, for me, and I was just like, wow, okay, you know, this is awesome.
00:17:49.574 - 00:18:19.202, Speaker A: Like, I was reading through it and I was getting really excited, but I'm not going to, you know, show you his DM or anything like that to me because I don't want to. I don't want to kind of like invade his. Evade his privacy or kind of like show you DM's or anything like that. But that will translate into the blog post that I think he's going to be putting out at some point. I don't know when I just gave it as a suggestion to him, but he agreed with me that it was something that should be out there in order to educate people further on this. But, I mean, you don't have to wait for that. As I said, you can go to VRKL dot in fo if you want to learn more about this.
00:18:19.202 - 00:18:51.574, Speaker A: But yeah, the Verge is definitely a very exciting and under discussed part of the roadmap, which is going to be the main roadmap item next year. As I've said, 2025 belongs to the Verge. 2024 obviously belongs to blobs with ERp, 48, 44, and then Kun and then Petra towards the end of the year with inclusion lists and a few other kind of ERP is going into that. Don't know about Max effective balance yet. Maybe it's in there, maybe it's not. But yeah, 2025 definitely belongs to the Verge. That seems to be the year where things are going to start kicking into high gear for, for the Verge there.
00:18:51.574 - 00:19:27.102, Speaker A: All right, so Terrence has a fresh new ETH research post today all about epbs or minimal epbs and some of the changes that would need to be made to the beacon chain to enable this. Now, you guys know that epbs, or Ethereum proposal builder separation is a large roadmap item. It has been on the roadmap for quite a while now. It's basically putting the mev boost relays into the protocol. So enshrining them in the protocol so that we don't have to deal with these relays and basically taking a lot of power away from, from that kind of extra protocol stuff there. Now, you may think this is simple, but it is anything but. It is a complicated process.
00:19:27.102 - 00:20:03.986, Speaker A: It requires changes to the beacon chain, which are always things that need to be thoroughly researched before we can make changes here. But definitely it has a lot of benefits. You know, the main benefit is the fact that we get rid of these relays who really are altruists. They're kind of like operating out of altruism right now. It gets rid of the censorship concerns with relays and it basically allows us to enshrine another thing in the protocol which makes it easier for core devs to reason about without having to worry about kind of like mev boost relays existing extra protocol and then having to add that extra overhead for them. This kind of allows you to kind of put that, put that to rest there. But yeah, you can go read this eat research post from Terence.
00:20:03.986 - 00:20:54.434, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, speaking of pbs and epbs and builders and relays and proposes and things like that, soy spoke here has a new Reese eight research post today, all about realigning proposal builder incentives with predictive MEV burn. Now this will of course not be a kind of like an EPBs thing, because EPBs really targets the relays. This is outside of that, where essentially you want to make sure that the proposers and builders have the same incentives on the network and that we integrate Mav burn into that in order to kind of align those incentives there. Now, you guys know that MeV Burn has been an active research topic for quite a while now, headed up by Domothy and Justin Drake as the ones that have been most loud about it. And they've been on the bankless podcast talking about this. But there are a lot of other people working on this stuff now, including soy spoke.
00:20:54.434 - 00:21:37.772, Speaker A: So I think they've taken, like a lot of the reins on the research side of things. I'm not sure how involved Dominique and Justin are with it right now, but there is a lot of work going on here into MeV burn in the context of essentially aligning proposal builder incentives, because that is really what we want to do. We want to align incentives in order to get rid of the negative externalities like censorship. Because as I mentioned yesterday, we have basically accepted that builders are always going to be, you know, centralized just by design, and that is the economic incentive. So there's no point fighting that. There's no point trying to work around that, because by doing so, it can end up just being futile. And there's a lot of wasted research and development that goes into that for us just to end up back at square one or basically get, you know, end up back at the start.
00:21:37.772 - 00:22:19.136, Speaker A: So essentially, what can we do to basically realign or align incentives? Because that is really the goal of mechanism design, is aligning incentives with crypto economics, with cryptography, and making sure that all of the parties are doing things that, yes, are in their best interest, but also in the best interest of the network. So that's essentially what this post is speaking to. But you can go give this post a read. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so you guys know that there is currently a 1 minute short animation being developed for EIP 4844. Trent van Epps tweets about this or cast about this a lot, and I've talked about it a lot on the refuel. If you want to know when this is going to go live, you can go to 4844 animation.com
00:22:19.136 - 00:22:54.886, Speaker A: and put in your email address here to get notified when this is live. So I've said to you guys, there's going to be an NFT drop that's part of this as well. So this will notify you of the NFT drop, too, so that you don't miss that NFT. You know, this is another thing that I think that can become part of airdrop criteria. I know I've said before that being part of the KZG ceremony, being, you know, having a 4844 short film, NFT, having an ERP 1559 NFT. These are things that I think should be included in airdrop criteria. If you're going to airdrop to, you know, the most loyal Ethereum community members and things like that, I hope that they are.
00:22:54.886 - 00:23:15.446, Speaker A: But just generally, I think owning a piece of Ethereum history is always a good thing. Like I own the number one EIP 1559 NFt. I'm very proud of that, honestly. Like I love it. I mean, I used to display it behind me in my videos when I had the, when I had the digital display up, but I don't have anywhere to put it behind me so it's not there. But I used to display that. Then I was just, I'm just so proud of that.
00:23:15.446 - 00:23:43.080, Speaker A: Nft. So maybe I can get the number one Nft of EIP 4844 here. But regardless of that, yeah, you can just sign up here. I just wanted to put it on your radar. I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you, for you to put your email in and you'll get updated as soon as the NFT mint and film are live. All right, last up here, just wanted to give a shout out to Justin Drake. He has shared basically a video and notes from the first Ethereum sequencing and pre confirmation call.
00:23:43.080 - 00:24:28.722, Speaker A: Now this is a new call that Justin Drake has put together with everyone working on. Anything got to do with L2s and sequencing and pre conformations and shared sequencing and boosted roll ups and all that stuff there to basically land on a standard way of doing these things over the coming, you know, months and years here. This is very, very important for the future of Ethereum. This is very important for a lot of the stuff that we've talked about recently on the refuel with regards to fragmentation of liquidity and kind of like re, you know, defragging that and kind of realigning the liquidity again. So this is very important. So there are two kind of notes that you can check out, which I'll link in the YouTube description below as well as the call itself. The notes pretty much give you the gist of the call and so you can just read the notes I did and it was, you know, just a really quick read to get through and got get the TL doctor of the call.
00:24:28.722 - 00:25:14.968, Speaker A: But of course, you can listen to the call yourself if you'd like as well there. And also Justin shouted out that flashbots, Tyco and the Ethereum foundation are open to grant applications with most teams hiring as well. So yeah, if you are looking for a job in crypto, guys, if you're looking for a career change, maybe you follow crypto, but you don't work within it. There are so many teams hiring right now and obviously we're going into another bull market. So there's going to be plenty of, of money around, plenty of people raising money in order to kind of like keep their burn, you know, sorry, keep their Runway to a really long length as a project, even if you're a startup and there's just so many exciting opportunities happening right now to work within the Ethereum ecosystem. So if you are interested in doing that, you can go check out a lot of these teams. But at the same time, I wanted to give another quick shout out here to cryptocurrency jobs.
00:25:14.968 - 00:25:44.240, Speaker A: I'm going to bring this website up and I'm going to link it in the YouTube description below. But you can go to cryptocurrency Jobs Co. They have so many jobs listed on here. So if you are looking for a job within crypto, not just within the Ethereum ecosystem, but within crypto generally, you can go check out this website for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. And there's just so many jobs here, but across like everything you can think of, whether that be development, marketing, design, operations, you know, anything you can think of, it's here. So yeah, definitely go check this out.
00:25:44.240 - 00:26:18.622, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below. And I do have a couple of minutes left here and I'm glad that I do because there's something that I wanted to talk about. Uh, maybe it might be a little bit redundant for me to talk about this because you're going to hear a lot about it on the episode I did with Eric on, on Saturday. But I did want to just spend a couple of minutes here talking about the fact that, as I've said before, we have entered the early bull market. I said that like a few weeks ago, we entered the early stage of the bull market and things are going faster than I anticipated. To be honest, I think that the ETF's have really changed the calculus of things. You know, BTC going to didn't expect that to happen as soon as it did.
00:26:18.622 - 00:26:53.530, Speaker A: As bullish as I am, I figured that we'd range for a bit and then, you know, and then go to there. But I think that the ETF's really have changed the calculus here. Now, of course, the ETF doesn't just apply to BTC, it applies to ETH. Because as if you believe, as I believe the ETF is going to get approved in May, then you would, you're going to see similar price action on ETH that we saw to BTC. At least that's my belief. There's no guarantee. It's just my belief here now because of that, it begs the question like, are we going to have like a shorter cycle because if you actually look at the previous cycles, the four year cycles to today, BTC is already way ahead of its previous cycles.
00:26:53.530 - 00:27:30.354, Speaker A: It is like at least three to six months ahead of its previous cycles. So does that mean that we're going to have a shorter cycle, or does that mean we've finally broken out of the four year cycle? Does that mean we can no longer rely on the four year cycle? Four year cycle, at least for BTC and ETH? Maybe the other assets out there just kind of left in the dust sort of thing, and maybe BTC and ETH trade on their own for a while. Assets will still probably go up, but maybe those assets kind of do their own thing and they're just like, I don't know, trade differently to BTC and ETH. So it's just an open question that I have right now. And I don't think we're going to have an answer to this until this entire cycle plays out. But, yeah, it just. It's looking very different right now, guys.
00:27:30.354 - 00:28:12.260, Speaker A: Like, I mean, just the sheer time difference between the last cycle to this cycle is staggering. Like, right now in 2024, this is 2020, if you look at the four year cycle and we're in February of 2020, like, and I'm not talking about the COVID dump that came after. Right? Because I don't expect that to happen again because that was a black swan. But if you just erase the COVID dump and look at the price action back then to today, it's very, very different. Like, BTC is at least three to six months ahead of back then. Even though we're at the, you know, we're at that kind of, like, period, you would have expected BTC to go to 50k based on the four year cycle towards the end of Q three into Q four and then hitting all time highs in maybe, you know, Q 120, 25. But we've vastly accelerated that.
00:28:12.260 - 00:28:46.900, Speaker A: So unless we have another market wide sell off, unless we go into like a long sideways towards maybe Q three, you know, Q four, then it's safe to say that the four year cycle has been broken at this point. I think we have enough evidence of that. I'm not going to say it's for sure been broken yet, but we have enough evidence, I think, at this point to say that it probably is. And that's. That's crazy, guys, like, because that cycle has been going on for a very long time now. But we'll have to see how the rest of this cycle plays out. We'll have to see how the bear market plays out like does BTC not go down, ETH not go down 80% again because of the fact that they now have these ETF's and they have the ETF bid? I don't know.
00:28:46.900 - 00:29:09.964, Speaker A: We'll have to see. I'm not going to tell you things aren't going to go down. Of course they are. But I'm going to be very, very curious to see how BTC and ETH perform from now on from a price perspective and also how the rest of the market performs too because obviously BTC and ETH influences the rest of the market as well. So it's going to be a very interesting thing to see over the next year or so. But anyway, on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching.
00:29:09.964 - 00:29:16.164, Speaker A: Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord channel I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
