00:00:00.360 - 00:00:23.318, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Gwei refuel, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Cisano, and today's the 20 August 2021. Alright, everyone, let's get right into it. So just a reminder here that there is going to be a daily Gwei Ama tomorrow in the Discord channel at the usual times. You can see here on your screen. For those who can't see, it's going to be at 11:00 p.m. Australian eastern time at 03:00 p.m.
00:00:23.318 - 00:01:06.362, Speaker A: Central eastern time at 09:00 a.m. Eastern daylight time and 06:00 a.m. Pacific daylight time, of course. So this will be recorded. You'll be able to kind of watch this on YouTube once the AMA is done. But if you have any questions you want me to answer, please drop them in the AMA series channel on Discord and I hope to see as many of you there tomorrow. All right, so I think the biggest news over the last 24 hours came from Brian Armstrong, the co founder and CEO at Coinbase, where he basically announced that the Coinbase board had approved a purchase of over $500 million of crypto on Coinbase's balance sheet to add to their existing holdings, which is actually comparatively quite small compared to, I guess, like, how involved Coinbase is with crypto.
00:01:06.362 - 00:01:45.864, Speaker A: And on top of this, they'll also be investing 10% of all profit going forward into crypto. And then Brian goes on to say, I expect this percentage to keep growing over time as the crypto economy matures. Now, this was huge news, and this was market moving news. I mean, $500 million is no small sum. They did kind of like, I clarify, as you can see from frank tweets here, that the $500 million includes DeFi tokens, ETH, as well as bitcoin and staking assets in general. So it seems like they're taking a big bet on staking assets, which is really cool to see. And of course, Ethereum and Ethan Defi, they've got a pretty close relationship there, and they've been supporting Ethereum and Defi for quite a while now.
00:01:45.864 - 00:02:29.076, Speaker A: But what I wanted to focus on was not the 500 million number per se, but the 10% of all profits going forward into crypto. And they're going to be doing this, I think, once a quarter. So obviously four quarters in a year. So, you know, each quarter they'll, they'll put toward 10% of all their profits towards buying crypto. Now, there aren't like, too many details about, I guess, you know, we know which crypto they're going to be buying, but we don't know in kind of like, what percentages and what allotments. Like, are they going to buy 80% bitcoin because it's, you know, perceived as a safer asset? Or are they going to do like a 50 50 split between bitcoin and ETH, you know, 25, 25 there, and then 50% on, like, defi tokens, you know, or they're just going to do a straight market cap weighted thing, which would probably be easiest. It depends.
00:02:29.076 - 00:03:00.204, Speaker A: Like, I'm sure they have people managing their treasury and managing their funds. I'm sure they have, like, you know, people on the payroll kind of, like, employed to do this. So it's going to be interesting to see if they ever kind of reveal that. I mean, they are a public company now, so it would make sense to be transparent about what they're buying. And it's going to be interesting to see if they actually say the numbers because, you know, what happens if they buy more ETH than BTC, right? Does that signal to the market? Wow, okay. You know, ETH is a bigger. Is a bet that cos taking over BTC and, I mean, they're already buying Defi tokens as well.
00:03:00.204 - 00:03:31.612, Speaker A: Which Defi tokens are they buying, you know, in what allotments? If it's just market cap weighted, that's probably an easier way to do it and also an easier way to kind of, like, not move the market. Because I think, you know, if they just do market cap weighted and people see that, they'll be like, okay, well, you know, they didn't just pick and choose what they like, they just did it, you know, purely based on market cap. And it's just easier, I guess, from a. Maybe even a regulatory standpoint as well. But, yeah, I guess, like, the 500 million number itself is. Is huge, right? Like that is. I mean, I've put out a tweet, I quoted this and said that thanks for saving the market.
00:03:31.612 - 00:03:54.340, Speaker A: Brian Saylor, in kind of like, connection to Michael Saylor. Right. Like, Michael Saylor bought a lot of bitcoin. I mean, he still continues to buy bitcoin over time in smaller amounts, but he's bought billions of dollars worth. And essentially, you know, $500 million is an absolute huge bet from just one exchange here. And this is like public crypto. This isn't part of their Coinbase ventures arm, which is basically their investment arm in private deals and stuff like that.
00:03:54.340 - 00:04:23.488, Speaker A: So I think this is what reignited, I guess, the markets over the last 24 hours because they were looking a little bit shaky there. People work, you know, ETH went under three k, BTC was looking a bit weak. But generally it seems to have reignited it here. And I do think, I mean, I put it out a tweet today that I do think we have started wave two of the super cycle. Now, I've said before, I don't think the super cycle necessarily has to do with price. It also has to do with adoption. But I think that the markets have been going sideways for quite a while.
00:04:23.488 - 00:04:55.398, Speaker A: There is more and more interest coming into kind of like into the crypto markets from, I guess, traditional world. I've been seeing like tons of news come out of that and obviously be going, going over it on the refuel. But also sentiment is, is quite strong overall. Like, sentiment is really, really bullish. So many people in this ecosystem feel like they really are building the future of kind of like, you know, not only the financial system but also culture, the NFT space. Dows are heating up like social tokens, like all this stuff is heating up. And, you know, it's just, it really is hard to be bearish.
00:04:55.398 - 00:05:48.312, Speaker A: And the market is showing that, like, the market, you know, it's funny, in, in 2018 and 2019, it was, I guess it was hard to be bearish if you were really deep into the ethereum ecosystem, but you were being bullish on things that were yet to be released or things that hadn't kind of like reached anywhere near maturity yet or hadn't kind of like been widely spread out. Whereas these days there's so many use cases, so many things people to do, no matter what the market, the wider markets are doing, it just definitely feels very, very different. I've said this before on the refuel plenty of times, but I do think that we have now kind of like kicked off the next phase of this bull market. And I'm expecting a strong, you know, third and fourth quarter to end out the year very nicely there, especially as summer is coming to an end in, I guess, like the northern hemisphere and usually, like the middle of the year is not a great time for financial markets. And that is something that is attributed to it. The fact that people are outside, you know, they're not trading, they're not paying too much attention to financial markets. It's just like a different time.
00:05:48.312 - 00:06:05.840, Speaker A: It's like the holiday kind of like season, so to speak. Right? Because it's, it's sunny. Everyone wants to be outside and things like that. So, yeah, definitely plays a big part, but I'm going to leave that one at that for now. I think Frank's tweet. Yeah. Was just like a link to the, to kind of like an article on the block here, which you can read as well, which I'll link in the YouTube description.
00:06:05.840 - 00:06:29.100, Speaker A: I think it goes into a little bit more detail. Not much else there, but. And then Frank also put out a tweet here saying, you know, it's been a big week for Defi. Multi billion dollar hedge funds are tapping into Defi yields through Metamask Institutional product. That was a podcast that I spoke about yesterday that you can go listen to on the scoop, which is the Blocks podcast. Coinbase is adding Defi towards balance sheet. As I just discussed, Bloomberg launched a Defi index with Galaxy.
00:06:29.100 - 00:06:56.348, Speaker A: Galaxy has been around for quite a while in the crypto space headed up by Mike Novogratz. And Gary Gensler said that Defi projects aren't immune to regulation. And then he goes on to say, wait, maybe ignore the last one, but I actually think the fourth one is, is, is still bullish here. Like the fact that they're paying attention to us and they're trying to fight us and means that DeFi is a threat. So I actually think that's quite bullish. But anyway, yeah, this could kick off Defi season 2.0, you know, that fabled defi season that everyone wants and everyone's kind of like clamoring for.
00:06:56.348 - 00:07:41.210, Speaker A: This could be the thing that kicks it off. The fact that there's just, I guess, like a lot more attention on DeFi from the institutional and traditional finance side. And, you know, many, many, possibly billions of dollars going into this DeFi ecosystem, especially on Ethereum, because, you know, theorem is obviously the furthest ahead. But it's going to be interesting to see how that of all plays out. But anyway, enough on the market side of things, I wanted to talk about Boba network, which is basically a new, I guess, L2 protocol and a rebranding ofise go OMG. Network. So essentially they've announced their main beta of Bobo network, which is a optimistic roll up, I believe, and you can basically, I guess, go build on it right now and kind of go, go play around with it now.
00:07:41.210 - 00:08:24.110, Speaker A: I remember, OMG, sorry, I should say, teased that they were coming out with something in my, in my mentions the other day on Twitter. And this, this seems to be it here. So this is like a press release they put out. And essentially, you know, from what I can see here, it was a, it's a fork of optimism, I think. So it's a direct fork of optimism. But, you know, some people framing this as kind of like a little bit of a negative, I guess, and saying, you know, I guess like, OMG just copied optimism, blah, blah. But the original kind of like Omise Go and OMG team had actually worked with the original plasma group, which became optimism to kind of fund their work and work with them on plasma back then, and then help them with optimistic roll ups.
00:08:24.110 - 00:09:05.750, Speaker A: And of course, all the code is open source and free to be used. So them forking it really isn't, you know, something that's going against, like, the ideals of kind of like crypto and kind of like what we stand for in crypto. But at the end of the day, I'm going to be curious to see how that this plays out because obviously we already have two leaders in the optimistic roll up space, those being optimism and arbitrum. Arbitrum is going live this month. Optimism just came out with news actually over the last 24 hours, which I'll go over in a sec. So, yeah, it's going to be interesting to see how they can compete here, but I mean, I'm always very happy to see more scaling solutions kind of like coming online. Even if it is a fork, I don't think it really matters because at the end of the day, they will either build something great or they will just like, go to the wayside.
00:09:05.750 - 00:09:30.380, Speaker A: That's going to like, how this ecosystem works. But they do have stiff competition, that's for sure. But still good to see this kind of like launched here. And on the optimism note, they announced today, and this kind of flew under the radar, but they announced today that they have a community launch whitelist criteria up now. So essentially the latest protocol changes are running stably on Mainnet. That's one of the updates here. So now it's time to begin opening up deployment.
00:09:30.380 - 00:10:02.348, Speaker A: Anybody who meets optimism's launch criteria can apply to be whitelisted on Mainnet and will be approved within two weeks. Now, obviously there was lot of drama the other day that I went through on the refuel about the sushi swap and optimism and uniswap drama. I went rehash that you can go watch the refuel for kind of like an up from the other day for a kind of like overview of that. But essentially, um, you know, this is really cool because this is basically optimism's open whitelist feature. Like this is what arbitrum had about a month ago, or maybe I think, I think two, uh, six weeks. Six weeks. I think the end of June was, was when they put it live there.
00:10:02.348 - 00:10:49.312, Speaker A: And uh, you know, this is just great because it means like any project that, that meets the launch criteria, which means, you know, are they actually compatible with optimism's network, which most projects are, but obviously if they aren't, then they're not going to be on boarded because it's just not going to work. Right. You know, but if they are, they can kind of like whitelist here and they'll be on boarded and approved within two weeks, which is, which is, you know, not, not a long time at all. And it's really, really cool to see. Now, obviously this is going to be a first come, first serve thing, I assume. So again, like this is what the drama kind of surrounded around with sushi and uni the other day where I guess like there was an expectation that things would be on boarded, you know, quicker than what they were. But essentially because it's a first come, first serve basis kind of thing, you know, people kind of like felt a little bit hard dub by hard done by, but yeah, I guess like just kind of keeping that in mind.
00:10:49.312 - 00:11:19.864, Speaker A: But I mean, I assume that pretty much like every project that's deploying to arbitrum is also going to deploy to optimism. I don't think there's going to be any kind of like L2 maximalism going on here. It doesn't pay to do that, really. At the end of the day, you need to kind of like deploy where you can, especially if it's easy, and then see where the users are like. And you're going to follow the users too, depending on like what app you're building. And also, I do think there are certain teams that are just going to deploy on one solution rather than another for various reasons. Maybe they're not compatible with optimism.
00:11:19.864 - 00:11:47.042, Speaker A: Maybe they're not compatible with arbitram, you know, for whatever reason. There are some edge cases there, definitely. Or maybe they're just not going to deploy to these networks at all. Maybe they're already working with Starkware or maybe they're working with Zksync or whatever, or Polygon. You know, there's obviously there's plenty of scalability solutions these days, but as I've been saying for a while now, this isn't a zero sum game. I expect all of these solutions to, you know, go on to do really great things and we're going to have bridges between them. So it's all going to be well and good there.
00:11:47.042 - 00:12:44.358, Speaker A: But in addition to them to optimism kind of opening up this whitelist, they're also going to be increasing their TPS limit on their L2, which is currently 50,000 transactions per day, and they're going to double it next week to 100,000. And then they're going to keep increasing it from there. And that makes sense, you know, when optimism actually goes live for end users to kind of like, I guess, use these new apps, obviously they can use it today with uniswap and synthetix, but as these kind of apps get on boarded, more of these kind of like apps will go live for users. And obviously the transactions per second will need to be a lot higher because if it's not, then, you know, the network's just going to get clogged and there's going to be high fees and all that sort of stuff. So yeah, that's going to be really, really cool to see play out there. All right. In other kind of scalability news, Polygon has announced an ecosystem, Dao, which basically is going to be a, I guess like a little bit of a kind of like Dao that works to fund different kind of like projects within the polygon ecosystem.
00:12:44.358 - 00:13:20.660, Speaker A: And the money for that is going to come out of their defi fund that they've set up. So essentially, I guess, like they've got like a bunch of metrics around, kind of like their growth and how, you know, what they've done over the last few months, daily active addresses on polygon. And it's pretty, pretty cool to see polygons rise over, I guess, like the last few months. Even though this is the pos chain and not like a true l two, it's still good to see that we've been able to keep users within the ethereum ecosystem instead of bleeding them over to some of their competitors. But I actually think now is the real battle. There's, the competitors are coming and they're coming in a big way. They're offering massive incentives like avalanche and is offering these massive incentives like Solana, things like that.
00:13:20.660 - 00:14:07.724, Speaker A: So we're definitely going to need to be doing something similar on polygon and on L2s on Ethereum as well. So yeah, essentially what this, this dow will be is basically a coordination mechanism, of course. So there'll be a bunch of people kind of participating in this dao to fund different things and champion proposals and all that sort of stuff. They'll be broken up into committees. So you can see here, um, that, you know, but you know, just because there's committees doesn't mean they don't welcome, like all people, they say here with this Dow, we welcome all active community members and DeFi projects to pitch in ideas to, and to chalk out this idea to bring DeFi to the next million users. Um, so here's kind of like a cursory look. This committee, one Polygon native projects committee of three, of three, five that helps operationalize smaller grants of less than $100,000 with a forum discussion and follow up call if necessary.
00:14:07.724 - 00:14:46.824, Speaker A: There's a second committee here, which is polygon blue chips like Quicksop, sushi, RV, and infrastructure providers like Chainlink and the graphics to help formalize the process via forum discussion and a snapshot signaling vote from the community. And then you have committee three here, which is onboarding web3 developers and building a tooling to support polygon with chain link, the graph Uma covalent in, et cetera. So kind of like a whole process here that's detailed throughout this blog post as well. So you can go check this out. So, fractional, the NFT fractionalization protocol announced today, a massive raise, $7.9 million from paradigm. So led by paradigm, sorry, with participation from a bunch of other investors and of course a bunch of angels.
00:14:46.824 - 00:15:21.934, Speaker A: So robot Ventures, Delphi digital variant, flamingo, Dow, mechanism, cap and divergence ventures also participated, yet with a bunch of angels as well. Now, obviously, this is a really cool kind of like round here. I think this comes shortly after their last round. So it's pretty quick, pretty quick turnaround here on the, on the fundraising. But I think this makes sense because nfts obviously are heating up. Fractionalization of nfts is very new, but a very kind of like bustling ecosystem. Because at the end of the day, there are a lot of nfts that people can't afford to buy, like the whole NFT, right? They can only afford to buy a fraction of it.
00:15:21.934 - 00:15:55.814, Speaker A: And people just want to speculate on the value of these things. Maybe they don't care too much about owning a whole NFT, but they definitely want to speculate on it and kind of like, I guess like kind of participate in the markets without having to buy a whole one, just like you can with crypto, right? You don't have to buy like a whole ETH. You can buy like a fraction of it ETH, and you can buy a fraction of an NFT using fractional. And there's NFTx and a bunch of other protocols and things like that as well. And in this blog post, they kind of like go over their, their first month, the community, what they've done, things like that. And this was actually a seed round that was kind of like led by paradigm here. So $7.9
00:15:55.814 - 00:16:18.762, Speaker A: million seed round is actually quite a lot. That's usually like a series a that you see. So obviously paradigm and the rest of these investors are very bullish on fractional going forward. And I mean, I don't blame them. Like, I was a bit disappointed that I didn't get the opportunity to invest in this because I would have. Like, I really do think that fractionalizing of nfts is a huge use case, but, you know, maybe I'll just have to buy. I'm assuming they're going to have a token eventually.
00:16:18.762 - 00:16:55.114, Speaker A: I'll just have to buy their token on market once it goes live, maybe, but yeah. Cool to see this and congrats to them on the fundraise here. So Aave posted this screenshot that came, that came from a Defi team called 2001 Defi team, and they submitted an application to build a mobile app for Aave to the Aave grants kind of like ecosystem here. You can see the screenshot here of like a little. I mean, it's an early screenshot of like, what an Aave app would look like on mobile. And I guess this, the reason why I want to talk about this is because it flows into what I was talking about yesterday about crypto wallets, right? How I think the competition is going to heat up dramatically. They're going to get a lot better.
00:16:55.114 - 00:17:36.534, Speaker A: They're going to become a lot more, I guess, like Ethereum friendly, where they have like, you know, you can, you can kind of display your nfts in your wallet, you can have like tracking of your defi positions, all that sort of stuff. But it's not just going to be wallets themselves, it's also going to be dashboards. So think about Zappa and Zerion and a bunch of others out there. I mean, there's so many of them there, like D Bank and a bunch of others. These dashboards don't necessarily act as a wallet, right, where you store your funds, but they will track your funds, they'll track your positions, they'll do a bunch of other different things. You know, Zappa, for example, let you zap in and out of different opportunities. But yeah, they don't custody, custody of your funds for you, or they don't, like, store your funds for you, so to speak.
00:17:36.534 - 00:18:10.094, Speaker A: So I expect a lot of those to come online. But also, if we extend even past that and to just general front ends for interacting with, with Ethereum and with crypto generally. There's going to be a lot of these coming and I, I'm even going to say like, banks are going to do this. Like eventually banks are going to have portals on their website for interacting with all of this infrastructure, but they're of course going to brand it with their own branding. They're going to call like JP Morgan, you know, DeFi experience. Or they might even not even use Defi. They might just say like JP Morgan high yield savings account and offer you like 2% on your USD or whatever.
00:18:10.094 - 00:18:41.194, Speaker A: And that's high for traditional finance, but you know, and then kind of like they generate that yield by tapping into defi. So there's going to be a lot of this stuff going on. There's going to be choice for everyone, you know, whatever you want to use to interact with these protocols to track your portfolio, whatever, there's plenty of this stuff coming. So yeah, just really cool to see more and more of this stuff. Kind of like getting funded and going live here. So speaking of grants, the balancer grants Dow is now live and accepting grants applications. So you can basically read these blog posts to learn more about this.
00:18:41.194 - 00:19:24.438, Speaker A: But this is, you can now apply for development support of up to $75,000 in funding. Now, I guess this is just another grantsdale that's been launched. There's plenty of these right now. Pretty much every DeFi app has these because as I've mentioned plenty of times, these Defi apps have massive treasuries and they need to disperse these treasuries in some way. And what better way than having a grants program where people can come and be like, hey, I want to build this, but I need funding. What can you do for me? And you can get these grants, especially if you're building on these projects themselves, there's a high chance you'll get funded here. So that's been really, really cool to see is that like, all this money's available? And I was actually talking to someone today about this, um, and it just about how much money is available for builders these days.
00:19:24.438 - 00:19:41.194, Speaker A: Right. Like I spoke about a few weeks ago, um, a 16 z's, $2.2 billion, um, new fund that they've got. And they just like, they're really putting that to work right now. They have to invest that. So they're basically putting that money into a bunch of different projects. Uh, and they're just one kind of like fund, right? One VC.
00:19:41.194 - 00:20:22.376, Speaker A: There's, if I had to estimate there'd be tens of billions of dollars up for grabs between the VC's, the funds, things like the Ethereum foundation grants programs from, from these defi apps and just like get coin and things like that as well. There's, there's literally tens of billions of dollars available for funding. So if you have an idea and you want to build something, there is a very high chance that one of these grants dows will fund you for that. Like as long as it makes, you know, some sense and as long as it actually looks like it could work, then all you have to do is submit it and try your lucky. I mean, you could do this while, or while working a full time job. Still, you don't have to basically quit your job and then go do this. You can put it together in your spare time and say, hey, like, I'd love to quit my job and work on this.
00:20:22.376 - 00:21:10.984, Speaker A: And then if you get funding, you know, as I said, balance is giving you up to $75,000 here and other grants programs, you know, it give you more or less there and it lets you work on it without having to worry about paying the bills and all that sort of stuff. So I mean, I just expect this to continue. There's going to be so much more money coming into this ecosystem, it's insane. Like it's, it's essentially, I think a lot of the world is waking up to the fact that crypto is as revolutionary as the Internet and you're seeing all the early pioneers come in, especially all the early funds and things like that. And they really, really want to be at the ground floor. They don't want to miss out because if they miss out, it's a potential, you know, multi, you know, tens of billions of dollars of return that they could be missing out on and money that they could be making. But also they want to be the one supporting all of these kind of like teams and being written in the history books at the end of the day, especially different VC's and things like that.
00:21:10.984 - 00:21:46.224, Speaker A: You know, VC's sometimes get a bad rap, but not all of them are the same, obviously, but, you know, there's a lot of them. For example, Paradigm is like the stellar example here that really do act more like, I guess, you know, a kind of group that helps you with your project more than just like a VC that just, you know, gives you money and then kind of doesn't talk to you ever again. All I've heard about Paradigm is really good things with all the project projects that they work with, but you know, they're not the only one. There's plenty of other funds out there that do this, but also there's a lot of funds and VC's that are total crap. They just give you money and they don't talk to you ever again. And they're not really interested in your project. They just interested in generating a return.
00:21:46.224 - 00:22:19.626, Speaker A: And it's kind of like a spray and pray approach where they basically say, okay, well, we can make ten investments, and if nine of them go to shit and we earn a thousand x on one of them, well, it makes up for the nine that we failed on. That's not the kind of fund and VC that you really want to be paying attention to. You want to be paying attention to the ones that actually do help the other portfolio companies and things like that. Of which there are. There are a fair few within crypto, like Delphi Digital, I think, like mechanism capital, a bunch of ones like that, spartan capital and things like that. And defiance as well, of course. And I think 3 hours capital.
00:22:19.626 - 00:22:58.794, Speaker A: I mean, defiance is under 3 hours capital and stuff like that. But you can find plenty of these. And you kind of have to like, judge for yourself as well if you think they're actually good actors or not. But from what I've seen, you know, the ones I just named are. But at the end of the day, you know, it's always funny because, like these, you know, these, these VC's get in really early on these projects, and if they do start selling off tokens or whatever people think they're getting dumped on and stuff, it's kind of a little bit messy. But that's generally how it kind of, like, works. But the feces and funds that give, I guess, like, feedback to teams and help teams with like hiring, marketing, whatever, bd, stuff like that are obviously, you know, taken kind of like, very seriously by the industry and that's who you want on board.
00:22:58.794 - 00:23:31.094, Speaker A: But anyway, I guess, like, back to the topic on hand again, if you want to build something, definitely apply to one of these grants dows. As I said, balance is not the only one doing this, but it's good to see balancer kind of like spinning this up here. All right, onto the last thing here. So there is now 7 million ETH, or $22.5 billion being staked in the beacon chain. So this, I think, is not technically correct. I think the 7 million Ethan deposit contract and by the time that gets into the beacon chain, maybe by the time you watch this, it'll be at 7 million, but maybe it's a little bit lower.
00:23:31.094 - 00:23:48.930, Speaker A: But essentially, this is a huge amount, right? Like, this is around 6% of the total ETH supply right now. And this is locked. This is locked up in staking. Yes, there are some derivatives like Steth and a few others out there, but the actual Ethan, the beacon chain is locked. It cannot be withdrawn until the merge happens. And even then, it's. There's.
00:23:48.930 - 00:24:12.012, Speaker A: There's kind of like a lot of talk about withdrawals not being enabled on the merge, but coming, like, shortly after it. So there's still maybe another. It could be a year before this, before withdrawals are enabled. You know, maybe. Maybe it doesn't take that long, but it still could be a year. So this 7 million ETH is locked there for that period of time. But I also wrote in today's Daily Gwei newsletter about ETH scarcity engines, of which staking is one.
00:24:12.012 - 00:25:02.780, Speaker A: And, you know, you can go read the newsletter for a deeper dive here, but the fact that we have all three of ETH scarcity engines unlocked right now is making me really, really bullish on ETH, more bullish than I kind of like have been in the past. And I know that's, that might be hard to believe, but what these scarcity engines are is one is staking, two is ETH use as trustless collateral within Defi, and then three is obviously IP 1559 burning ETH. Now, these all come together in a very beautiful way, because not only do they increase ETH scarcity, but they also increase the demand for ETH. Because at the end of the day right now, you can get 5.9% ETH denominated yield by staking it. And, you know, if ETH goes up ten x from here, then that's a lot more than 5.9% because that you would get, like, stables, for example, because as I said, it's ETH denominated.
00:25:02.780 - 00:25:44.356, Speaker A: So that's essentially, you know, the ETH that you've got has appreciated in value over time as well, because the ETH price went up, which is just like driving incredible demand for ETH staking. And it just make, basically makes ETH. So ETH Ethereum's native bond, essentially. And then you have ETH use as trust as collateral within defi, right, where you can essentially use ETH as collateral within maker or aave or whatever. You can use it to provide liquidity, and you can either earn a yield or you can use the borrow against to earn a yield or whatever. There's plenty of stuff you can do there that's and that obviously has a lot of demand, too, because of the fact that people want to do this, right. They want to either leverage long ETH, they want to yield farm with stables, but don't want to get up their 8th position, you know, this.
00:25:44.356 - 00:26:30.810, Speaker A: And all they want to liquidity provide, there's, there's tons of demand there for that. And then all of that defi activity, and not just defi like NFT activity, DAO, social tokens, whatever it is, but whatever transaction on the Ethereum network, it doesn't even matter what it is, is burning ETH as part of that third scarcity engine. So that all brings it together where we're actually having a deflationary pressure on ETH from natural demand, from people wanting to use the network. And then we have natural demand leading to natural scarcity, because people want to use ETH as that kind of like collateral or staking asset. And of course they have to use ETH to pay fees of which most of it is burned. And then if we look at it in a, in a proof of stake, proof of work context, we're currently issuing, what, 4.2% right now, I think, of new ETH netted out against the burn is 3.2%.
00:26:30.810 - 00:27:42.432, Speaker A: And under proof of stake, if we were issuing 0.6% right now, because that's based on the current e staked amount, and then we net that out based on the fee burn and kind of like annualized fee burn, we get to a negative 1.1%. So once the, once the merge happens, we drop that issuance by 90%, and then we're kind of like in net negative issuance territory, you know, that is like, by the time that happens, I don't know, ETH could probably be like much higher than where it is now. But like that, just bringing that all together, the fact that we have those scarcity engines live right now, and we're just kind of like waiting on the last piece of the puzzle, which is the merge, to get to proof of stake, to get that kind of like issuance to the net negative is just, I mean, this is the reason why I buy eat every day. Like, I mean, a major reason is because it's just really hard not to see the long term view and not expect ETH to be, you know, much higher than where it is today in the long term view of, and it's not even that long, long term, like one, two, three years or whatever, you know, and it's not hard to see ETH getting to that, you know, $10,000 that I've talked about before and then I, you know, I've mentioned $100,000 before, but I don't think that's gonna happen within three years. But that still, like, it's very hard not to imagine a world like that when these kind of like, supply shocks really do get felt throughout the market. But anyway, I'm going to leave with that.
00:27:42.432 - 00:28:03.080, Speaker A: I don't want to, like, you know, have some dubious speculation there about its future value. Obviously, I believe it is going to go up, but not, nothing that I said is investment advice. So you shouldn't listen to me of whether to buy or not or whatever. But yeah, I'm sure you, all of you are as bullish as I am on ETH. But on that note, I'm going to leave it at that. So thank you, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel.
00:28:03.080 - 00:28:10.464, Speaker A: If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel, and I'll catch you all next week. Thanks, everyone. Bye.
