00:00:00.240 - 00:00:22.054, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the deliberate Refuel, where we cap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Cisano, and today's 20 November 2023. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So some fresh ETF news over the weekend. Nothing too surprising here, just that fidelity, one of the largest asset managers in the world, has now filed for their spot ETH ETF. Now, of course, as I said, I wasn't being sarcastic when I said it was.
00:00:22.054 - 00:01:23.772, Speaker A: It's not too surprising just because of the fact that, like when you look at this and you look at the kind of ETF's that are already out there, already been filed by Blackrock and others for the spot ETF, then for that fidelity, following along is not a surprise there, but just good to see it anyway. You know, I think that, I mean, at this stage, and as I've been saying, I think that the chances of the Eatspot ETF getting approved through the first round of these, these filings is pretty high. And as I've said before, I think it's, it can take until like, I think Q three next year is probably like the latest deadline for, for stuff like this. So yeah, it's still a little while away. But the thing is, you know, if you are of the assumption or of the expectation that the BTC ones are going to be approved before January 10, obviously, obviously that's the first final deadline, which is the Ark ETF, and then the rest of them are in March. But if you're of the assumption that it's going to get approved on January 10, and there's that massive kind of window there, that massive gap between the BTC and the ETH ones. And some of the ETF analysts have basically said that they don't really expect that gap to be, you know, that long.
00:01:23.772 - 00:02:10.314, Speaker A: They say it could happen within three months of the spot ones. Spot ETH ETF ones, sorry, the spot BTC ETF one's being approved there, which means it would put us in what, you know, February, March, April, put us around April, May for an 8th one to be approved, which would just be such perfect timing as well. Like when I look at these things, I just laugh at the timing of how these things work out. And maybe it's me being fooled by randomness here, but the timing is just always pretty funny, though, to see like even the, when Blackrock filed for the ETH spot ETF, if you actually look at when they filed for it, it was basically at the time when the ETH BTC ratio. If this is for your, you technical analysts out there, it was basically at the time where the ETH BTC ratio was at, like, a multi year, like, seven year support level or something like that. And everyone pointed to that. They were just like, oh, my God.
00:02:10.314 - 00:02:40.626, Speaker A: Like, Blackrock looks at these charts and they filed for it at that moment because, you know, that was the bottom there, blah, blah. And I'm like, you know, I mean, as much as I want to believe that, I feel like it's just being fooled by randomness. And this happens a lot in markets where people will see something and they'll just, like, try to reason about it, and it may just end up being a coincidence. Right. And I think that a lot of the things are coincidences, but some of them aren't. But it's hard to pinpoint which ones are and which ones aren't because it depends on your bias and it depends on, like, I guess, your bags as well, and, like, what you want to actually be a coincidence and what you want to be planned and things like that. I don't know.
00:02:40.626 - 00:03:18.620, Speaker A: I'm not in the business of really kind of thinking about that too, too deeply there. But what I am in the business of is being excited about things like a spot ETH ETF, because obviously, you know, I always go on about need we, you know, we need new money to come into crypto, and I can't think of a better vehicle for new money to come into crypto than through these ETF's. Honestly, like, I don't think there's any other better vehicle out there, at least in the, in the US kind of market, there's definitely no better vehicle than a spot, a spot ETF for both BTC and Ethan, potentially other assets years down the line. Right. Like, obviously BTC and it aren't going to be the only ones, but they will. They will be the only ones for some time. But eventually, like, maybe three, four years from now, we might get some other ones.
00:03:18.620 - 00:04:00.660, Speaker A: I'm not sure which those ones are going to be, but we might, may get those. But, yeah, in terms of, like, getting actual fresh new money that potentially has never touched crypto before, and most of it probably hasn't touched crypto before. The ETF's are the perfect vehicle for that. So that's what gets me the most excited about it there, because it brings just that fresh capital, uh, in there. But that's the fidelity announcement. And there's one other piece of, uh, ETF news here, uh, from Eric Balkanis, who's one of those ETF analysts that I always talk about, he says, hearing chatter that the SEC is trading in markets engaged with exchanges this week on spot bitcoin, ETF 19 b force is advising them they'd like the ETF's to do cash creates versus in kind, and has asked them to get, uh, in amendments in the next couple of weeks. This isn't unexpected, but a good sign nonetheless.
00:04:00.660 - 00:04:54.796, Speaker A: And Eric continues in this thread, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. But essentially, I mean, the reason why Eric tweets these things out, even though they're kind of standard procedure, is because that's what you want to be seeing if you believe that these ETF's are going to be approved by that gen ten deadline, right? You want to see the standard procedures being followed. You want to see, you know, every the same procedure that's followed for other ETF's being followed for bitcoin, because just increases those chances of it being approved because they wouldn't be doing all of this if it was just going to get denied, right? They wouldn't be doing, you know, extended process to the extent that they are if the SEC was just going to turn around on January 10 and deny them all. So, yeah, I mean, I'm of the camp that, like, it's not 100% chance, but it's pretty high up there that these things are all getting approved by Gen 10th. I just don't see any reason why they would be denied here. I know there are some people who believe that they're probably going to get denied because we always need Max Payne in crypto, blah, blah, blah, whatever. Like, I get that.
00:04:54.796 - 00:05:15.852, Speaker A: But at the same time, you have to kind of read the facts, right. You have to read between the lines, so to speak, and you have to actually see the signals being put out there. And for me, the signal is that the, they're all going to get approved before January 10. And you know what? If I'm wrong, I'll freely admit it. Like, I'm not going to try and hide the fact that I'm wrong. I'm going to bury my head in the sand if it turns out that I'm wrong. But I have pretty high confidence that I'm not going to be.
00:05:15.852 - 00:05:53.976, Speaker A: And I think the market also signals that, right, like, the market is a forward looking weighting machine where essentially it will price in certain things. And, you know, the market's not going to be 100% right all the time. But if you follow what the market thinks is going to happen, you follow you follow all the stuff that the ETF analysts are saying. You follow the fact that the behavior this time around for these ETF's is very different historically. You follow the fact that the ACC has softened its approach to crypto actually generally, and it has lost those court cases as well. Like you add all that up together and it becomes very, very hard to construct an actual reasonable argument as to why these would be, you know, denied. And I guess like some of the arguments are, Gary Gensler hates crypto so he's just going to deny these ETF's.
00:05:53.976 - 00:06:32.104, Speaker A: I'm like, I think it's out of his hands at this point given those court case losses, given the fact that it's a really bad look politically for his, his bosses essentially for that to happen. And given the fact that just generally over the last couple of months the SEC's approach to crypto has softened completely. I mean, they approved the futures ETH ETF's right when they were calling ETH a security only, you know, a short time ago. So when you think about it like that and when you look at and run through everything from that lens, yeah, to me it doesn't seem like they're going to be denied, but we will see. I'll keep you guys updated on that. But moving on from that to some ETH core related news. So Christine Kim put out another summary of the latest all core devs call here.
00:06:32.104 - 00:07:17.336, Speaker A: So there was apparently a wholesome ETH dev call with a bunch of devs zooming in from Devconnect. They shared progress updates on the implementation of the revamped blob gossip conditions for Deneb, which is the consensus layer side of the Denkun upgrade. I remember I mentioned this a couple of weeks ago and said that this upgrade or this kind of change would probably delay things by a couple of weeks in terms of timelines for getting Den Koon to Mainnet, but it's making very good progress. Most of the client teams are the consensus layer. Client teams are on track to finish in the next one to two weeks and that means finish this implementation, which means that they can start doing the nets around it and then obviously start doing the test nets. So I think that if I'm kind of like being realistic here, I don't know, we, we could still have like the girly test net fork in December, but I don't think so. I think it's going to happen in January.
00:07:17.336 - 00:07:52.188, Speaker A: And I mentioned this like a few weeks ago that I think that the, the first test net fork will be in January. Then if all goes well, we'll do the other test nets. We may do one or both of them. I think we'll end up doing both of them. Holski and so polio there, whose girl is actually being decommissioned, basically, I think they'll do this fork on girly and then decommission it after it, because I think girly was scheduled to be decommissioned by the end of the year. But if they're not, if they want to keep it alive just to do this fork and then decommission it, it would happen, you know, shortly after the fork goes live. That brings us up into what, like February or something like that, and then a month for everyone to get ready for Mainnet.
00:07:52.188 - 00:08:15.062, Speaker A: Yeah, it brings us into March. Like, as I've been saying, I feel like March is a good kind of target here for it to be going for dancun to be live on Mainnet. Um, if it happens in February, I'd be surprised, to be honest, just given the fact that, like, the timelines just aren't there, especially with the holiday period, as I've mentioned before. So, yeah, March is kind of what I'm, what I'm targeting right now. But, yeah, I mean, that's just my own estimation. Please do not quote me on that. That's just my own kind of thing.
00:08:15.062 - 00:08:49.996, Speaker A: And maybe I should stop giving my own estimations. But you guys know, I like to be as transparent as possible about these things and like to give my thoughts on these things, even if they end up being wrong. Like, I remember I originally said that it would happen in November, but I did caveat that by saying, you know, if they run into issues with testing, which they did, and if they want to make changes, which they did, it would delay things out. And because it's the holiday period, we probably lose a whole month anyway, so it would delay things out even further. Right. But the core devs themselves, they kind of like, have these windows that they want to get things out by, but it's not like they have like, these hard deadlines that they have to meet. You know, it's not like they have, like, shareholders to be beholden to and stuff like that.
00:08:49.996 - 00:09:49.114, Speaker A: Like, yeah, okay, ETH trades, you could argue that ETH trades based on the success of the Ethereum network, but it's not like a traditional kind of company structure or corporate structure where these things are, you know, are expected to be delivered by this date. It's more of a open source kind of distributed development process where things are delivered when they're ready to go live, especially for something like Ethereum, which is obviously a huge network, home to trillions of dollars of value being settled every year. You can't rush these things. So yeah, we'll keep you, I'll keep you guys updated on that. But as I said, like, I feel like March is probably the, the best bet at this point in time for Denkun on Mainnet. There I just a shout out to the Ethereum on arm account which shared that they now have a Lodestar Ethereum beacon chain running on a rock five b board working on including this client in their images so users can choose from all clients available. So yeah, this is the last client I believe that they needed to support as part of their images here to run this, these things on a rock five b board, which is great to see.
00:09:49.114 - 00:10:28.176, Speaker A: Obviously Lodestar I think is still like the least used client because it was the one to come out last. I mean, if I go to client diversity.org here on my other screen, yeah, Lodestar is the least used then it's nimbus, tecu, Lighthouse and Prism. But load stars market share has actually been growing. They did run that incentive program a little while ago, which, which helped them, but it's a great client. So yeah, if you have a rock five b board somewhere, maybe you don't even want to run it as a validator, you just want to run it as a full node, right? You can now do so using the Ethereum on image, which I'll link in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, you guys know that I've been part of the Oval DVT Alpha testing for quite a while now.
00:10:28.176 - 00:11:16.950, Speaker A: I've been part of one of the first mainnet DVT clusters. Been running that on my solo staker box with a bunch of people around the world. And there was another milestone achieved here over the weekend, which is the oval splits, kind of a feature here which has been used by the cluster that I'm in here and I've covered oval splits before. It's basically a way to kind of like split up the, the rewards. You can see here the use of Opal splits by an Ethereum mainnet DB cluster is an important milestone for the decentralized decentralization of stake because it moves us one step closer to the new standard of staking, that is, decentralized, secure and communal communities will run dvs seamlessly. So yeah, basically you can automate them and manage your validator rewards, principal and fees without the use of Oracle. So essentially making sure that everyone gets rewarded in a fair way without having to rely on external parties here, which is very, very cool.
00:11:16.950 - 00:12:08.700, Speaker A: But yeah, we did this upgrade the operators here and we kind of like all upgraded and then there was some bugs that we ran into, but we ironed them out, obviously, as I said, like this is part of the testing that they're still doing, even though it's on Mainnet, it is part of the testing that they're doing. And in the end state, you shouldn't need to, there obviously shouldn't be any bugs and you shouldn't need to coordinate with the team in order to get this up and running. It should just be very seamless. It should just be a piece of software that you can install alongside your existing kind of operation or node operation that you have going on. And it should all work out of the box there. And you know, it's funny when it comes to DVT, I've seen like various comments around DVT generally, like just the concept of distributed validated technology generally, and some people saying that, oh, it's useless or it adds more risk, or people saying, you know, this is really awesome because it allows us to do redundancy in a safe and secure way. I actually like, I mean, you guys know I'm an investor in Oval here, so I just want to disclose that.
00:12:08.700 - 00:12:56.348, Speaker A: But I'm not just saying this because I'm an investor. I actually think that any technology that is opt in, right? And I'm not talking about like opt in, like, okay, so, so there's two types of opt in here. There's the opt in with, with the Oval tech or DVT tech generally, where you don't have to run it if you don't want to. And honestly, like, if you're running a setup and you're confident that you can keep that set up up 100% of the time, and you're not gonna, you're not gonna suffer from any kind of like double signing by running your own redundant setup and things like that, then by all means, go for it. But generally, you know, the DVT stuff is completely opt in. Like, it's not a requirement of the Ethereum protocol for you to run DVT, right? But then there are other things that are opt in, like mev boost, for example. But it's a different type because with mev boost, if you don't opt in, your rewards are actually significantly less.
00:12:56.348 - 00:14:10.160, Speaker A: So it's kind of a funny thing when you think about what's opt in versus what's not. I would say that DVT is purely opt in. You're not forced into doing it at all. Right? Like for, for a lot of people, especially solo stakers, your rewards are definitely not going to be, you know, too much improved by using DVT, but versus not using it. But in saying that what DVT enables as well is basically squad staking, which I've discussed before, which is basically this concept of being able to do trustless pooled staking and be able to get these people to actually run the validators and full nodes themselves, to materially increase the number of full nodes on the network and materially increase the number of node operators on the network, which is what we should be targeting. I think that when it comes to everything ethereum staking and everything ethereum, kind of like, you know, node operating, we should be our north star, I guess I could say, of the entire staking ecosystem or entire kind of like node operator ecosystem should be to increase the number of node operators, increase the number of individuals, entities, you know, corporations, governments, you know, for profit, not for profit entities that are validating on the network. And ideally they are going to all be kind of like separate entities, right? Ideally they're not going to have anything to do with other entities on the network.
00:14:10.160 - 00:14:45.252, Speaker A: They're going to be separate and they're going to be doing their own thing. That should be the north star of the entire ecosystem, because the more node operators there are, the more decentralized the ecosystem is. And the funny thing is, is that I say node operators are not validators, because you could have one node operator that controls a huge amount of validators. Like for example, Coinbase is one node operator, right? Like they're one entity that controls 15% of all validators. And then obviously you have Lido, which controls 32.5%, last time I checked, of all validators. But they, within that they have like 36 node operators, right? But you could argue that Lido itself is one entity as well.
00:14:45.252 - 00:15:28.558, Speaker A: So when thinking about these things, as I said, the North Star should be that we need to increase the number of node operators on the network generally. And I feel like DVT, that's DVT's kind of like main thing for me is being able to increase the number of node operators on the network. And as I said, it's still opt in. It's not, you're not forced to use this, whereas there's other things like MeV Boost, which are pretty much like not opt. I mean, it technically is opt in, but you're kind of forced into it if you want to stay competitive reward wise, you know, if you're a staking service provider, you can't not run mev boost because you're missing out on like, if you're not running mev boost, you're potentially missing out on like half of the rewards that you otherwise would have been getting. Which means that people aren't going to stake with you, right? They're going to stake with someone else. And that, that forced opt in is what we should be focused on.
00:15:28.558 - 00:16:08.406, Speaker A: We shouldn't be focused on things that like a soft opt in where it's just like, yeah, if you want to run DVT, you can. So. Yeah, but I've seen arguments on either side of things really. It's just going to have to play out and see what it looks like on Mainnet, see how many different operators decide to use DVT and see if it actually materially increases the amount of full nodes on the network and the amount of node operators on the network because that's what I'll be looking out for there. Speaking of staking, Superfizz has a great little collection here on Gitcoin for Gitcoin grants round 19 that you can donate to something's 100 projects here, um, that you can basically donate to. For that, I've got to do with staking from, from home. So this, as I said, is super Fizz's collection.
00:16:08.406 - 00:16:17.406, Speaker A: You can check this out for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. Yeah, no, it's not 100 projects. It's. Yeah, I didn't think it was 100 projects. I think I read that wrong. It's about 14 projects.
00:16:17.406 - 00:16:34.890, Speaker A: Unless this isn't loading correctly. No, I think it's loading just fine. It's about 14 projects here that have all got to do with Ethereum staking from home. So yeah, if you want to donate to them, you can. But as I said, geek on grants round 19 is now live. I think, I don't think I've mentioned that on the refill before. So there are plenty of projects to donate to.
00:16:34.890 - 00:17:16.504, Speaker A: You definitely go check out the the round generally. But if you're looking for some to donate to in the Ethereum solo staking or home staking space, this collection from super fears is, is great. And you can definitely trust that super fierce has chosen all of the projects that are deserving because he is one of the best stewards of Ethereum staking in the ecosystem. So yeah, you can go check this out for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so the ZK p two p project that I highlighted I think a few weeks ago where essentially it allows you to trustlessly onboard from fiat to crypto. So basically it's a trustless fiat to crypto on ramp powered by ZK proofs has gone live on in alpha launch here.
00:17:16.504 - 00:17:52.972, Speaker A: So they're the alpha launch is now live at ZK P two P XYZ. It's on base, so it's not on mainnet or any other Altus right now, but it's on base. And users have the ability to on ramp up to $250 every 6 hours as part of the alpha. So I remember I showed this to you guys already. So I'm not going to rehash basically the demo for you, but essentially how it works and how you can on ramp in 60 seconds, they kind of break it down here and there's no Kyc or anything. No waiting for KYC. It's basically you claim an off chat off ramp order, send a transaction to your favorite p two p payment service, use the proof of payment email to unlock the funds on chain.
00:17:52.972 - 00:18:48.720, Speaker A: So essentially it's using ZK proofs, as I showed in the demo that they did a couple of weeks ago in order to verify those, those orders from Venmo, I believe it was, or one of those kind of payments apps there in order to trustlessly give you USDC on chain. So go from USD to USDC in 60 seconds, trustlessly, no KYC, any of that. This is the future of on ramping, to be honest guys, because we're using the technology that has been developed for not just scaling, obviously zero knowledge proves play a huge part in scaling. But as I've said before, like the magic of ZKP's is that they do both scaling and privacy. And in this instance they're doing privacy where essentially you can trustlessly and privately confirm that everything is running as it should and then be able to onboard from fiat. Right, fiat, like not, not trade like some other crypto for some other crypto. You're onboarding from fiat through the traditional finance system using email rails as well.
00:18:48.720 - 00:19:15.144, Speaker A: To go to crypto on base. Like that's just so cool. Like this. This is really the UX upgrades that I've been talking about for so long. Like where we get to the point where it's a couple of clicks, doesn't take very long to get in. And I think the no KYC part is the biggest thing I do think that these apps, like, the thing is that they have limits on them. So as you like with these payment apps like Venmo and stuff like that, they're supposed to be used for small payments, right, between friends and things like that.
00:19:15.144 - 00:20:01.220, Speaker A: So I think, I don't, I haven't used them before, but I think a lot of them, they actually do require KYC above a certain limit. But the cool thing is, is that you could do KYC for these, these apps and you could increase your limit and then you can just still use this to trustlessly onboard onto base with, you know, with USDC going from USD to USDC. So yes, you probably have to KYC for bigger amounts. But the point is being able to go straight from fiat to crypto. No need to kind of like, go from fiat deposited into a centralized exchange, then buy the crypto there, then withdraw it to your wallet, which obviously takes longer than 60 seconds to do. It can take ages. I mean, unfortunately, I remember I highlighted for you guys a while ago that the, in Australia, the banks were actually screening pretty much like every crypto deposit to exchanges.
00:20:01.220 - 00:20:34.280, Speaker A: I went from being able to deposit fiat instantly into the crypto exchange that I've used since 2013 with the same bank account. So I was able to do it instantly. Not instantly since then, but over the last couple of years, I've been able to do it instantly, and I was able to do large amounts instantly. Now, doesn't matter what the amount is, if it's small or large, it takes 24 hours every single time. So they put a hold on that payment for 24 hours, then they'll process it. I haven't been denied a payment yet, and I've done this with, for my Aussie friends, I've done this with Commonwealth bank, but I think the other banks are very similar to this. There are some other.
00:20:34.280 - 00:21:02.544, Speaker A: I think there are other banks that are better at this than others. But. But the point I'm trying to make is that, like, you know, you're not going to go from, from fiat to crypto in 60 seconds through the traditional kind of means. So doing it through this, doing it with zero knowledge proofs and doing it trustlessly like this, I think, is the future of on ramping here. And there's always going to be limits put in place. I think that people like to point to these limits as something of nefarious. But really, if you actually look at why a lot of these limits get put in place, it's because people get scammed a lot.
00:21:02.544 - 00:21:25.570, Speaker A: Like, okay, let me give you an example here. Like how many? Like, we all know someone who's been scammed in crypto, right? Someone who's been fished in crypto. We see it all the time, every single day. All you need to do is go to zack XBT's profile on, on Twitter, and he'll just tweet out, like, the amount of scams that are happening. And that's only a small part of the amount of scams that are happening. There are so many more than that, right? So now extrapolate that and take that and put that into the tradfi system. Put that into the banking system.
00:21:25.570 - 00:22:10.152, Speaker A: There are so many people getting scammed all the time, guys. So the number one reason why they put limits on accounts is because of that. And yes, I wish there was a way for people like myself and others to opt out of that, to opt out of that protection, so to speak. But it's very hard to do that because you are the minority. So for you who wants to opt out of it, wants to opt out of that protection as the minority, the bank's not going to prioritize building a way for you to do that, because what they have to do is not only that, they have to build the technical ability for that into their entire stack, whatever their kind of stack is, the tech stack that they're running, they also have to build the process into it as well. They have to do it. They have to run it through legal, have to change their company kind of processes around it, and then they have to get you to sign something that basically waives all of the rights that you have to go after the bank if you get scammed.
00:22:10.152 - 00:22:43.786, Speaker A: So for them, it's just not worth it. They're like, oh, well, we piss off a small amount, a small number of our customers, but it doesn't really matter. So it really becomes a thing of, when it gets to a point where enough customers are complaining about it, that's when they'll change it. So I know people like to attribute kind of malice to what is really just the fact that people get scammed all the time. This is why banks have to do this, because the banks don't want to have to deal with it. Don't get me wrong, there is malice in certain instances here. But a lot of the time, from everyone that I've spoken to, I've spoken to a lot of people in the banking sector, a lot of lawyers, a lot of people who work in regulation, is particularly in Australia, and they all say the same thing to me.
00:22:43.786 - 00:23:10.314, Speaker A: They just say the banks do not care enough about crypto in order to tailor things for people who want to opt out of stuff. They just put a blanket thing on every everyone, and then they don't have to deal with it anymore. So, yeah, that's just the reality of things. But, yeah, we'll see how that goes. We'll see what happens with these trustless onramps because I'm sure ZK p two p won't be the only one. But you can go check this out. As I said, it is now live in Alpha on the base network there.
00:23:10.314 - 00:23:43.816, Speaker A: All right, so the ETH Global 2024 schedule has dropped, and I am very, very excited, and I'm sure you guys can understand why if you're looking at my screen right now. I'm excited because ETH Global Sydney is happening. So there has never been an ETH global event in Australia, as far as I know. And ETH Global Sydney is happening from May 3 to May 5, which I'm 100% going to be attending, of course. And I'm. And I'm also going to be doing a daily gwei meetup at ETH Global Sydney as well. The last meetup was, obviously ETH Denver, but I'm going to be doing another one in Sydney.
00:23:43.816 - 00:24:13.816, Speaker A: So I am just super excited, guys. Like, I'm super excited because, like, I only have to travel, like, an hour. Like, Sydney's, like, an hour flight from Melbourne, and I will have zero jet lag. And I can just feel, like, good being, you know, at home, so to speak. And, yeah, it's just so much easier. Right? So I'm very, very excited for that, and I hope to see a lot of you there. But the other locations were announced as well, so there's going to be one in London in March, there's going to be one in Brussels in July, Singapore in September, San Francisco in October, and then DEfcon apparently is happening in November.
00:24:13.816 - 00:24:36.080, Speaker A: So, yeah, I mean, I thought. I thought DeF Con was happening earlier, but, yeah, according to this schedule here, DefCON is happening in November. No location announced for it yet, but as you guys know, Southeast Asia is where they were targeting here. But, yeah, still no location announced there. But anyway, hope to see a lot of you at East Global. I don't know if I'm going to be attending any of these other ones, to be honest. Maybe it just depends if I'm traveling at the time.
00:24:36.080 - 00:25:05.582, Speaker A: I do want to travel to Europe at some point in the next couple of years and do a trip with my. With my fiance, but, yeah, we'll have to see how that kind of shakes out there, but I will definitely be at ETH global Sydney. Like, I wouldn't miss that for the world. Um, yeah, you can hear the excitement in my voice just to have a conference there. But I mean, funny enough, I'm going to Sydney this week, as you guys know, to the crypto assembly conference that's happening later this week, which is exciting, too. But I think with ETH global Sydney, it's just going to bring a lot of, like, the more ETH native people to. To Sydney than otherwise would have been there.
00:25:05.582 - 00:25:25.416, Speaker A: Whereas these other events that I go to are definitely more like, just trying to bring the australian community together. And, yeah, it's just a different crowd. Still an amazing, awesome crowd, but. But a different crowd are nonetheless there. All right. To finish off today's episode is a bit of, I guess, price talk now. I mean, it's not really price talk in, like, in the.
00:25:25.416 - 00:26:19.528, Speaker A: In the traditional sense where I'm going to tell you guys, like, oh, my God, you know, price is going to go down, or price is going to go up, or we're in a bear market, we're in a bull market. It's just a pretty long tweet that I put out explaining or kind of giving my view on why ETH has, quote unquote, underperformed in the last six months. Now, of course, for anyone who's been paying attention to the markets, anyone who's been paying attention to crypto, Twitter, you know that for the last six months or so, ETH has underperformed the general market, right. It underperformed bitcoin because of the BTC ETF stuff. It underperformed all these smaller assets because, I mean, one, they're much smaller than ETH, but two, um, I think a lot of people, uh, were kind of crypto natives still in crypto and, uh, chasing these smaller assets because it just became like a narrative trade, stuff like that. And ETH has kind of lagged that whole move. But my own, my argument that I made in this tweet basically rested on the fact that I actually don't think ETH has lagged.
00:26:19.528 - 00:26:57.988, Speaker A: I think ETH actually led. And my reasoning behind this is because ETH performed quite well in the second half of last year, and the first half of this year, it performed quite well in the second half of last year because of the merge. Obviously, the merge happened in September. You can actually see even up to, like, two k, you know, at the time of the merge there, while everything else was either not either bleeding out completely or there were. BTC went up a little bit, but not as much. Right. The e BTC ratio was gaining and all of the other things got slaughtered, actually, during, from June 2022 to November 2022, which was the FTS collapse and the general market kind of bottom there.
00:26:57.988 - 00:27:24.456, Speaker A: There were some other really popular coins that are popular today that went down 80% against ETH. Right. In that small amount of time period. So ETH actually outperformed during the bear market. I remember talking about that at the time, saying that it was historically, you know, not the, not the case that ETH would outperform in a bear market, but it has, it outperformed in the second half of last year and the first half of this year. And it also did not set a new bottom when FTX collapsed. So it performed very, very strongly.
00:27:24.456 - 00:27:56.458, Speaker A: But, of course, all of that changed this year. After, after June, really, when Blackrock filed for the spot, BTC, ETF, ETH became the, you know, not, it's not the loved asset anymore because we had the catalyst feed, we had the merge, we had the withdrawals thing go live in April and then May. There was nothing in May. And then June came along and suddenly BTC there has a spotlight. And of course, BTC, BTC started outperforming from there. A few months later, all these other things start outperforming again. But, but the thing is, is that I wouldn't say ETH lagged that at all.
00:27:56.458 - 00:28:17.804, Speaker A: ETH actually front ran all of that. It actually led that, and ETH actually performed very, very well during the bear market. And I think that heading into next year, ETH is going to start outperforming again. I do. I do think that we're at the kind of tail end of ETH underperformance. It's underperformed for quite a while now. What's funny is that, like, both traders and investors alike are both very confused by eats underperformance.
00:28:17.804 - 00:28:44.084, Speaker A: Like, you know, ETH has so much going for it. Why is it underperforming? It just, it's crazy, blah, blah. But as I said, like, I don't think it underperformed. I think it outperformed. It just outperformed earlier than other things, which means that ETH is about six months ahead of the general market, which means that everything else is just catching up to where ETH, where ETH was basically six months ago. So if we take that as a fact and we think that that's true, which I do think it's true, that means that ETH should out start outperforming from here, basically. Right.
00:28:44.084 - 00:28:51.620, Speaker A: And maybe I'm completely wrong on this. I don't know. This is a belief that I have. It's. It's. I mean, I shouldn't say it's a fact because it's not a fact yet. It becomes a fact once it happens.
00:28:51.620 - 00:29:13.790, Speaker A: But it's a belief that I have right now that this has been the case. And I think that it was the case a lot, in large part due to the merge, which is a huge narrative at the time. Right. And made ETH just outperform. But also ETH as an asset just got a lot better. And I think people will point to AIP 1559 and the ETH burn, and they'll say, oh, it's done nothing for the ETH price. And they'll say all the merge issue introduction did nothing for the ETH price.
00:29:13.790 - 00:29:32.454, Speaker A: Like, of course it did heaps for the ETH price. It's kept ETH very, very strong during the entire bear market. ETH is at $2,000. Right. ETH is only down. What is that? Like, not even 60% from all time high compared to bitcoin? I think bitcoin from all time high. Like, I'm actually going to look these numbers up because I looked them up the other day.
00:29:32.454 - 00:29:53.654, Speaker A: So ETH is down 58% from all time high. Bitcoin is down 46% from all time high. Not that far away. And bitcoin has been trading stronger than ETH just over the last few months due to that ETF narrative. So really, ETH has kept up with bitcoin historically, like, much, much better than it has in history, right? Much better. Especially the last bear market before this one. Much, much better there.
00:29:53.654 - 00:30:21.832, Speaker A: And then you look at these other things that have pumped a little bit recently. They're still down, like, massively from their all time highs, right? Like, hugely, like 80 plus percent, 90 plus percent. Still. They've just pumped recently because they're much smaller assets. People are chasing these things, being like, oh, you know, east doing nothing right now and BTC already pumped, so I'm going to go chase this thing. But then as soon as ETH starts doing things and starts breaking out, Ethan is going to outperform again and we just go back to the cycles, right? It's all it is. It's cycles and rotations, cycles and rotations.
00:30:21.832 - 00:31:01.356, Speaker A: But as I said, I think that the burn and the issuance reduction with the merge played a huge part in helping ETH to basically become a much more resilient asset. And because of that, it means that it has times where it outperforms and maybe outperforms the market, you know, much earlier than otherwise would have been anticipated, which it did from second half 2022 to second half. Sorry, first half 2023, and now heading into 2024 with a fresh narrative under tow. Like the spot ETH ETF narrative heading into the Denkun upgrade next year. I don't know. I feel like it's just the stars aligning for ETH to outperform from here on out. And I feel like that there's that crab range that ETH has to break at 2100 ish or something like that.
00:31:01.356 - 00:31:15.540, Speaker A: Give or take, like tens of dollars upwards there. I feel like once it breaks that, like we're just going to go to three k. Like it's not investment advice or anything like that. But I feel like it's just been held underwater. Like, I've used this analogy plenty of times before. It's like a balloon being held underwater, right. For so long.
00:31:15.540 - 00:31:31.420, Speaker A: A ball being held underwater, I should say, for so long. And then it just pops eventually and it catches everyone off guard. Never. It's like, oh my God, I need to buy ETH now. Right? I feel like that's gonna happen, and I think it's gonna happen relatively soon. But you can read my full tweet here for just a bit more detail on this. I'll link it in the YouTube description below.
00:31:31.420 - 00:31:56.906, Speaker A: But that's my general view on, on things there. I don't think ETH has underperformed at all. I think ETH has actually outperformed for a while now, and it's just been over the last few months where it has underperformed, but that's because it outperformed prior. So it's like the cycle playing through. And I believe it will have its day again where it outperforms and everyone firm rose in. Everyone loves ETH again, and then it'll probably have its under performance again. It's just a cycle, rotation cycle.
00:31:56.906 - 00:32:22.634, Speaker A: And if you're looking at at, from a long term perspective, from a multi four year cycle perspective, none of this stuff should really matter to you. Yeah, you can go speculate on other assets and potentially, you know, trade those things for more ETH, go do that. Like, there's nothing wrong with that. But the problem is, is that like, most people who do that end up with less than what they started with. Like, that's just the nature of markets, it's just the nature of trading thing. But yeah. Anyway, on that note, I think that's going to be it for today, so thank everyone for listening and watching.
00:32:22.634 - 00:32:29.834, Speaker A: Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone. Bye.
