00:00:00.280 - 00:00:11.605, Speaker A: Final question. What would you say to all the Ethereum haters on the timeline saying Ethereum's going down or has lost its sauce? What would your message be to them?
00:00:12.785 - 00:00:37.055, Speaker B: Look, Ethereum has been consistent with its failures. It embraced the rollup centric roadmap and it just keep building and you can stop Ethereum. You will see markets are not very efficient in the short term. In the long term, you will just see the power of all this creativity and all this building momentum that's happening in Ethereum.
00:00:39.755 - 00:01:01.631, Speaker A: Alex, thank you so much. I really appreciate you putting on an amazing event here in Utah. Really appreciate all the awesome things that happened here. But looking forward to diving into what you guys are doing at ZKsync and all the interesting things that ZK I would say will eventually provide. So thank you.
00:01:01.823 - 00:01:05.543, Speaker B: Thank you for coming and really looking forward to this conversation.
00:01:05.639 - 00:01:27.925, Speaker A: Amazing. So perhaps to start, I would love to paint a broad picture of ZK in the future. The end state. Where do you see ZK ultimately ending up in terms of blockchain technology? I would love for you to just walk the reader through what's the perfect case scenario in your mind.
00:01:28.745 - 00:02:47.925, Speaker B: This is actually how we design systems, how we think about zk, sync evolution and technical architecture. Trying to imagine the perfect end state of the world and then reverse engineering from there. What brought me into this space was this idea of the sovereign Internet of value, that blockchains are the next step of the evolution of the Internet that democratize the access to information. And our blockchains are democratizes access, democratizing access to value, which means everything that touches value will have to be on chain, as open and as seamlessly connected as the Internet is for all media of information. So like imagine all payments, all tokenized assets, all types of transactions involving invoices, tickets, everything is on chain in this global state. How can such a system work from a technological point of view? Well, it's quite obvious that it has to be a distributed system, not just decentralized from a political point of view, but there will be many systems. The Internet cannot run on a single server or even on a single data center.
00:02:47.925 - 00:03:41.961, Speaker B: Like similarly, blockchains cannot, like, you know, this Internet of value cannot run on a single monolithic blockchain. It will be many chains. But if there are many chains, then the key problem that we have solved in order to get to this ideal state is connectivity of these blockchains. So in the end state you imagine like your perspective as an individual, you have an app that is your portal to this world of Blockchains that holds your account or like multiple accounts, you have some state there. You can go and interact with any blockchain application, no matter where it is in the global world. And so can your other 10 billion fellow citizens of Earth, right? You can send assets to any one of them. You can go to any smart contract and just interact with it and and perform any logic.
00:03:41.961 - 00:04:46.055, Speaker B: And all of that is verifiable, trustless, open and permissionless and censorship resistant. So you don't have to ask anyone for permission, you just connect, you do whatever you want. Anyone with a piece of hardware can join this network. So this is the perfect end state. And in addition to that it's privacy preserving, meaning you have full control over the flow of data that touches your accounts, your data, anything that requires your interactions. So how can we reflect that? And what's the place of ZK in this perfect world? I think we're coming very close to the end game design that can make this possible, which was not possible before zk. And that is just a world of many chains with their own specific properties, with their own control of the data flow, their own users, but they are all interconnected, just like the.
00:04:46.055 - 00:05:53.115, Speaker B: You know what makes Internet seamlessly connected is the SSL TLS encryption protocols that encode provide like encryption and authenticity of any point to point interaction. You have your mobile app, you connect to your bank, you don't care who is in between what routers, gateways, servers, Internet providers. You don't have to trust them, you only delegate them connectivity to the ultimate destination. But you trust your ultimate destination because you have the certificates. ZK is playing this role of this connecting protocol in this global scheme. So like if you imagine these many chains that are all synchronized by some global settlement layer that plays the role of synchronization and global consensus, global ordering, then ZK is this SSL protocol that connects all of them together. What I just described is in effect the vision for the elastic chain, this third generation of the ZK sync protocol.
00:05:53.115 - 00:07:18.679, Speaker B: We went through the first generation which was the application specific protocol, which was the only thing that we could have built five years ago with the maturity of cryptography behind ZK that was available back then. Then we built the very first ZK vm, the very first ZK rollup where you could just take solidity smart contracts and deploy. And we worked hard for a while to make the ZK stack which powered this first ZK rollup called ZKsyncara. Mature, reliable, resilient, very high uptime, very high performance, like north of 200 TPS through both in production environment and now. We took that this summer and expanded into a framework which allows you to deploy your own roll up and put it on the in like make it a part of this network that we call the elastic chain, which makes it possible for your roll up to have seamless access to users and liquidity of the entire elastic chain. Which means you can move funds, you can move assets that are native crypto assets, non native crypto assets, something minted on layer one, something minted on one of the L2s, and you can freely move them around the elastic chain. So in fact you can like as a user, you have your account on one of the chains.
00:07:18.679 - 00:08:12.991, Speaker B: And we have now close to a dozen chains launching this year, starting with the Key Sync era now followed on Mainnet by Kronos, the chain by crypto.com, you know the. They just became the second largest exchange in the world by volume with over 100 million users. They're going to push all of these 100 million users on chain which is going to be part of the elastic chain. And then these users will be able to just go to any other application which is deployed on on Kronos Zksync Era or on any of other chains and interact with it directly. ZK enables this because it gives you the verifiability of everything that happens on any of these chains. So you can imagine it as a recursive tree where each chain produces the proofs of validity of their own state transition.
00:08:12.991 - 00:09:17.665, Speaker B: Like basically everything that happens on the chain is secured by zk. We provide the proof that mathematically guarantees that all the code of the system contracts of the chain of the user deployed, like our applications, smart contracts that are deployed there have been correctly executed. Then you take this proof and you recursively combine. You keep recursively compressing them together until you get one single proof which you then put on Ethereum, which will serve as the global consensus layer. And then eventually we will be able to generate the proof of Ethereum itself and you will have a mobile app. Basically every client of Ethereum will be the full verifying node of the entire state of Ethereum from Genesis and the entire state of all chains on the on the ZK Sync Elastic chip, which is really, really powerful. So you basically you will be able to verify the state of all world transactions in just under one second.
00:09:19.205 - 00:10:17.961, Speaker A: Yeah, it's a very cool future. I think since the, I would say early days of Ethereum or I would say more broadly like the history of kind of blockchain. We've experimented with different scaling solutions and I would say today there's in my mind kind of like two main scaling potential roadmaps that people are experimenting and I'd love to get your thoughts around it. One is the vision that you articulated. Also I think Vitalik shares this vision of the recursive proofs. You do a proof and then you combine other proofs, create another proof and then you post that on Ethereum. I think the other kind of challenging point of view that is starting to emerge in the market is more around the high throughput blockchains, the Solana Sui Aptos, say Monad of the worlds.
00:10:17.961 - 00:11:02.321, Speaker A: Do you feel like and perhaps less focus on zk, more focus on just increasing hardware requirements and bandwidth? Do you feel like though correct me if you would disagree with that characterization, but do you feel like that school of thought kind of more higher hardware requirements is just going to be incorrect long term and that we have to move to ZK and this is going to be 100% the future? Or how in your worldview have you. Have you kind of altered your point of view at all within the last 24 months? Or has it kind of been steadfast and continuously obvious to you that ZK is the end game?
00:11:02.513 - 00:11:49.605, Speaker B: It's continuously obvious to me that ZK is the end game. Let me explain why. There is no contradiction between the ZK thesis and the high throughput blockchain thesis. You can build a very highly performant L2 as a part of Ethereum ecosystem, as a part of the elastic chain that will match the L2 capabilities that you see on this new ones that are popping up. There is no reason why you should not be able to do this. It's difficult to do the other way around. Like if you start with a high performance blockchain that is not optimized for verifiability, it will be a lot more difficult to add the verifiability in the ad.
00:11:49.605 - 00:13:20.285, Speaker B: Rather than take the Ethereum approach of building something that can eventually be verified by every single smartphone with easy proofs and gradually expanding the space of L2s with like giving some trade off on centralized is basically you can have an L2 with a single centralized sequencer, which nothing can beat the latency and performance of a single server. Like if you are building a consensus, you necessarily will have to make some trade offs in this consensus on a single server. You're going to be operating at the speed of this hardware and then in parallel you will be able to generate the Proofs of the blocks of this little tool in kind of like in a pipeline manner. So you're not going to be like you're zk Proving is not going to be a bottleneck for the throughput of this one L2. But because you're generating the proofs for every block, and because you need to provide eventually the proof of the block to settle to finalize your new state of this highly performant L2 on Ethereum, you will never be able to finalize anything invalid. You get the best of both worlds. You have the high performance of a single sequencer where you're giving up decentralization to the maximum extent because that's your specific use case that does not require a high degree of decentralization.
00:13:20.285 - 00:13:56.411, Speaker B: But you still rely on only math and open source code and Ethereum consensus, which is you don't even depend on validators. In this consensus, every single user will verify the state for themselves, for the validity, for the correctness of execution. This is very powerful. In order to verify execution of a high performance L1, you would have to run a high performance node yourself. And very few people can afford it. It's expensive. You were talking about some very big state and very high throughput.
00:13:56.411 - 00:15:01.917, Speaker B: We're in the range of millions of dollars of running the full node. Very few people will be able to afford to do this or few organizations like only the most, you know, most high budget organizations will be able to do it. Like it's not what you do. And this will lead to a situation where you have to trust other people for, you know, delivering to you the message like what's the latest consensus? And we know that it's hard. You know, even if you look at, you know, today's political landscape, you look at elections that are being disputed, you see that it's hard for people to trust other people. Even at the scale of nations you really want to, especially in the world which is going towards the very, very powerful AIs. You want mathematical guarantee that every person, every organization, every user of the blockchain can tap into to check that everything that has been executed has been executed in exactly the way in which it was promised.
00:15:01.917 - 00:15:15.025, Speaker B: There was no manipulation, no conspiracy of the, of the validators who silently change something slightly and then the blockchain is operating in a slightly different way than, than what, how it was supposed to.
00:15:15.805 - 00:15:48.885, Speaker A: So the, I would say opinionated point of view is the L1 should have relatively limited hardware requirements such that kind of like the Ethereum point of view, since day one is prioritized solo staker, low bandwidth requirements, low hardware requirements. Do the higher compute on the L2 and then settle that to Ethereum. But instead of actually doing all the calculations, you're just proving that the proof is correct.
00:15:49.505 - 00:16:16.611, Speaker B: Correct. And I would differentiate between home stakers and the low hardware requirements for verifying the blockchain. Those are two very different things. I think that verifiability is way more important and I am a ZK maxi. I believe that we will not content ourselves with anything but like mobile phone as an ultimate verifier. This is possible and we'll get there. And this is possible for Ethereum.
00:16:16.611 - 00:17:24.661, Speaker B: And Ethereum will be turning every single smartphone in the world potentially in a light node that verifies the full execution, not just consensus, not just the headers. It's not a light client that trusts the validators, home stakers, whoever. You literally verify every single transaction from Genesis or from some checkpoint, but you know that this checkpoint is valid because you pre checked it and you do it every second or like every block in under one second, like for the very lightweight hardware requirements. Now the home staking debate is somewhat on the side and I think it's still important. Guarantees that, I mean being able to run a home state eth node guarantees that Ethereum will remain resilient and independent from the big cloud providers and big providers of hardware, which I believe is very important. We want Ethereum to be, you know, to inherit the cypherpunk values of Bitcoin. And it's not just for the ideological sake.
00:17:24.661 - 00:18:05.655, Speaker B: It's like really to make Ethereum a stronghold which is unattackable, which is like no one can even think about any way to stop. It must be a humanity wide unstoppable world computer that everyone can count on. For that sake you don't really want to rely on big centralized organizations that can be easily manipulated by a few centers of power who can issue legislation or whatnot. You want this to be a human worldwide public good that is absolutely safe and resilient. That's why I believe the home staking is still important.
00:18:06.835 - 00:18:30.745, Speaker A: Is there a potential world where Zksync is also applied to other blockchains outside of Ethereum? Or is it specifically we align with the values of Ethereum because of, to your point, trying to be almost indestructible. The global world computer, that is the only place that you guys will play long term.
00:18:31.165 - 00:19:19.887, Speaker B: Look, Zksync has always been open source. Like embrace the spirit and the values of the open source movement, everything Matterlabs has ever created is published under MIT Free license. So anyone can take the code and use it for whatever they want. Our effort is on Ethereum. At some point if Bitcoin can support ZK verifiability, we can imagine expanding to Bitcoin as well. But I don't see any other network except for Ethereum and Bitcoin that really embraces these values and makes the verifiability of the blockchain state blockchain execution a priority. And so I just don't see value in focusing on our efforts on there.
00:19:19.887 - 00:19:23.087, Speaker B: But anyone of course can take code and do things.
00:19:23.191 - 00:20:03.675, Speaker A: I appreciate the opinionated focus. Maybe shifting now kind of setting the high vision and going into some of more the nitty gritty of what Zksync is ultimately doing. I would love to talk about you painted that broad vision of the world is you're doing recursive proofs. You just verify that that proof is cracked. You can continue to kind of do a proof. What do we need or what does Zksync need to build or has built to ultimately enable that future?
00:20:05.505 - 00:20:55.405, Speaker B: We have a recursive proof composition already. We have the ZK stack. The next things on the roadmap are interoperability and Support of the type 1 full EVM equivalence so that developers can deploy any code. So basically I think the general trend is going into multivm environments. So you should be able to deploy EVM byte code without modifications. Just as it is using full availability of all the developer tooling, you should be able to compile your code down to something much more efficient like RISC V architecture from Solidity directly. And we have a very strong compiler team working on this.
00:20:55.405 - 00:21:46.385, Speaker B: Or just take libraries that are written in Rust and plug them into your smart contract application and expand these capabilities. So that's one direction. The other direction is interoperability and we have put a huge emphasis on this. And I believe that by the end of this year the interoperable like this seamless native bridging between the chains of the elastic chain will be available. And that is going to be massive because no one wants to build an isolation. Everyone want to be part of this global Internet of value. And you can do it with existing bridging frameworks, but they have a very high cost.
00:21:46.385 - 00:22:45.819, Speaker B: Every time you bridge there is this trend of chain abstraction like trying to build applications that abstract the UX from the end users. You don't care what chains you're interacting with. You can think of like intent based architecture where in your wallet you just you Say like I want to swap this amount of eth against this amount of usdc, usdt, whatever. I don't care where the liquidity is coming from. It can be on the chain where your account is, it could be any other chain. And some other people can facilitate this transaction for you, but they have the cost. Like if they want to grab liquidity from some other place, if this place is not natively connected with a native bridge to your home chain, then they will have to pay the bridging costs which is going in the like in the range of 1, 6, 10 basis points on every single transaction.
00:22:45.819 - 00:23:33.945, Speaker B: And if you have to do it like multiple times back and forth, you quickly run into some like higher percentages. Like it's very capital inefficient compared to native bridging. Ethereum roll ups have native bridging through layer one, but the key have a different problem. The layer one transactions are expensive. Like if you have to bridge from one ZK roll up to layer one and then from layer one to another ZK roll up you have to go like you have to make like a couple of very very expensive transactions. And that will work for the capital providers that move high amounts of capital, although with a significant latency because for optimistic rollups it's seven days. For ZK rollups it's dozens of minutes today.
00:23:33.945 - 00:24:24.705, Speaker B: But you cannot expect the same for the end users. So the end users will still rely on these inefficient bridges. It's going to be a game changer once we have roll up clusters such as elastic chain that have completely seamless interop without capital costs and without additional trust assumptions which are also non negligible, they bring tail risks that translate into billions of dollars of worth of hacks on those bridges because it's notoriously difficult to protect sending keys that are living on hot wallets on the machines that are connected to the Internet as opposed to native protocol that is governed only by math and open source code.
00:24:27.725 - 00:24:43.815, Speaker A: I guess like diving deeper into the elastic chains. What was the vision by having instead of one chain, many chains? Is it customization? Is it for more scaling solutions? What was the vision behind the many chains?
00:24:44.395 - 00:26:00.935, Speaker B: Well as I said, technologically that's the only way you can actually get to the scale of the global scale to build the Internet of value. But what this gives individual operators or deployers of these chains, the projects who are launching their own chain, are a couple of things and they are very interesting. So one is you get a lot more control and sovereignty as opposed to just Deploying smart contracts on the single chain, you can control the privacy of the chain. You can have a private validium which is very interesting for banks and financial institutions. And we are in a lot of conversations with them for this, while still being interoperable and connectable to both the public blockchains, to Ethereum itself and also to other private validiums. You get of course your own block space and your own sequencer, so you don't depend on the block space of a single blockchain which can be congested because of a lot of defi bots doing their boti transactions. And you of course can customize things and you can build applications in an application specific way and make them a lot more performant than the general purpose virtual machines.
00:26:00.935 - 00:26:38.545, Speaker B: And as we get more and more mature, I believe that it will be as easy as basically one click promotion for an app. Like you will be able to deploy your app on a general purpose chain such as ikisync Era to just experiment, start getting traction, getting users, finding product market fit. But the moment you feel that you're mature and successful enough, you can just spin off in your own chain without losing all of this connectivity and network effects. In fact, increasing network effects and getting the benefits of the sovereignty, control, privacy and customizability.
00:26:40.165 - 00:26:54.065, Speaker A: And is the kind of core assumption there that the reason why some of perhaps the high throughput chains aren't ultimately going to be able to do this is because they're limited by bandwidth or limited by computer.
00:26:54.915 - 00:27:35.483, Speaker B: Every single chain that is monolithic is going to be limited. Ultimately you cannot run all of the world's value transactions on a single chain. But I think the bigger bottleneck for them in the short term is going to be the bridging, because in the short term they will not have enough demand to saturate the block space. So the transactions will be relatively low, transaction cost will be relatively low. They also won't have access to users and liquidity that are living on the other chains. And the cost of bridging is going to be a very significant friction. I'm not saying it won't work.
00:27:35.483 - 00:28:02.433, Speaker B: There are some bridging, some tokens can be bridged without any friction, such as usdc, because it's a centralized token which can be minted and burned on any chain through the centralized authority. So that will work, but you won't be able to bridge all of the native assets, all of the interesting things that have been minted on other chains, and that's going to be a significant headwind for adoption. Of those chains, I believe so in.
00:28:02.449 - 00:28:37.259, Speaker A: Your mind it's specifically addressing the bridging constraints because you are taxed generally if you use a kind of more generic, non centralized bridging solution. And over time that will kind of eat at the way it's capital inefficient. And by building these elastic chains, actually doing a ZK proof saying hey, this is valid, showcasing that to another elastic chain, you can automatically bridge. And that's the unique insight that you think correct.
00:28:37.427 - 00:29:15.963, Speaker B: You can burn assets on one chain, mint them on the other, and you pass a message from one chain to the other. Technically how it works. You make a commitment in the Merkle tree. The Merkle tree gets propagated to shared state, sells on Ethereum. The other chain can read, can provide Merkle proof of that thing. But like on a higher level of abstraction, it feels like you're passing a message, but you know that the message is coming from a specific smart contract on the other side. For example, in a system smart contract that is governing the token that you're bridging.
00:29:15.963 - 00:29:35.443, Speaker B: So your system smart contract can say like, oh, I know that this is coming from my sibling from the other chain, I can trust it because they run the exact same circuits, exact same zero knowledge proofs as my own chain. So I can just burn, it's been burned for me. I can mint this amount of assets.
00:29:35.499 - 00:29:49.635, Speaker A: Here to maybe go a little bit nerdier on when you do this message passing or proof passing, is that communicated from one elastic chain to all elastic chains or is it the elastic chain to your destination chain?
00:29:51.335 - 00:30:01.551, Speaker B: Every time you update the state of a single ZK chain in the elastic chain network, this new state becomes available to all the other chains.
00:30:01.663 - 00:30:02.759, Speaker A: It's propagated to everybody.
00:30:02.807 - 00:30:37.505, Speaker B: It's propagated to everyone. It does not mean that they will know what's in this state. You propagate the commitment to the state only the Merkle root. So if it's a public chain, they can read it from the public sources of data availability and they will know. If it's a private chain, then you will need the owner of the data on the chain to pass details of this account and the miracle path leading to this account from that particular point of time of the commitment of the state. But yes, you have access. Like you can verify it.
00:30:38.245 - 00:30:59.933, Speaker A: Do you think as the elastic chains become more and more popular and more messaging passaging happens, do you feel like there will be any bottlenecks just with message passing? Or do you feel like just in terms of bandwidth going from chain to chain or will that largely be mitigated just because proofs are generally pretty tiny?
00:30:59.989 - 00:31:53.751, Speaker B: The beauty here is you don't have a footprint on the shared layer like you don't like. Whenever you update something on, you know, you update, let's say like thousand accounts on one single chain, you get the root, like you only update the root hash of this chain on whatever settlement layer you're putting this root hash. So in effect like you can do like 1 million transactions, but the footprint on Ethereum is going to be yeah, just like two root hashes of first chain and the second chain. All of these transactions happen directly between the chains and the message passing happens like externally, sort of by like relayers or by validators of both chains that talk directly to each other. They don't have to talk through Ethereum and pass every single message through Ethereum, they only pass a single commitment.
00:31:53.863 - 00:32:08.055, Speaker A: Correct. And I guess that was my question. With like the relayers in between the chains, how do you see like the message passing happen over time? Do you think bandwidth will generally increase as you do more and more message passing from chain to chain?
00:32:08.135 - 00:32:26.359, Speaker B: It will work just like the Internet. On the Internet you can add many more networks and they talk to each other and it only affects the global bandwidth of the fiber cable through oceans. But you are not affecting any other networks that are not involved in this direct exchange between the two points.
00:32:26.487 - 00:32:48.719, Speaker A: Gotcha. Interesting. Very cool. So I guess today you've been building out these elastic chains, people are now starting to experiment them, maybe wrapping it back to the product point of view. What have you seen people start to use this? You mentioned that you've been talking with different banks and other entities who are the users today of elastic chains?
00:32:48.767 - 00:34:10.657, Speaker B: Yeah, we see three big trends here. One is the consumer, the rise of the consumer chains such as Abstract, Sophon, Lens, Xerion, Treasure Dial, consumer and gaming chains. I would say like we have a couple of really interesting gaming chains launching on the elastic chain. They all take benefit of the user centric or UX centric architecture of the ZK stack in general. So not only of the network effects of the elastic chain, but just the way how ZKStack was built around. Also thinking about the end game of user experience which should be very low barrier for mainstream audience. The thesis of these chains is the next generation and the next wave of the crypto adoption will come from non crypto native users, from people who are not going to deal with seed phrases and gas and all these complexities of how you deal, install Your wallets, you will have a simple wallet that feels like a Neo bank where you just get maybe stablecoins from your friends or from someone and you don't even have to pay fees at all.
00:34:10.657 - 00:34:50.765, Speaker B: You just interact with protocols and you do whatever you want. It's zero fees. Fees are either subsidized by the chain or by the applications or kind of embedded into the cost of what you're doing. Like if you're doing the swap, maybe some percentage on the fees of the swap and which will then cover the gas costs. Right. And you have social recovery, you have biometric authentication like face id, touch ID keys stored directly in the secure enclave on your phone, which never leave the phone. You don't ever have to export the seed phrase and make it subject to hacks.
00:34:50.765 - 00:35:59.861, Speaker B: Like if you add a new device, you just add a new key to your smart wallet which is living like you know is being taken from the public key of that new device. This is what we see there. So this is one trend with consumer chains. The other clear trend is financial institutions, banks, real world assets, those use cases are heavily focused on this self sovereignty, like the full control that the chains can have. Because you can imagine the financial institutions don't want to give up control, they want to preserve their systems, but they want to make them a lot more efficient for managing liquidity between the subsidiaries of a single bank, for settling transactions between different banks. They also use these UX properties like they're going to be building applications for their managers that are a lot easier to use than the crypto native, the classical crypto wallets. But they also are very interested in the privacy aspect and we see a lot of interest for private validiums from.
00:35:59.893 - 00:36:09.747, Speaker A: This kind of customers and for maybe the laymen people that are coming up with all the terminology. Could you explain what validiums are?
00:36:09.931 - 00:37:24.445, Speaker B: Valenium is a chain, a ZK chain that is basically behaving in every aspect like Ezekiel Rollup. So every block you produce a zero knowledge proof of validity of that block. You can only finalize this block on the settling layer if the proof is validated. The only difference to Ezekiel Rollup is that you don't publish the data necessary to reconstruct the state of the new block to Ethereum, to whatever layer one you're building on, but instead you publish it to some private data availability layer. So it could be private or public. You could use something like Eigenda or Celestia or avail this data availability networks, but you could also just publish it to your own databases to get to a consortium of multiple organizations like Data Availability Committee, whatever you prefer. And that gives you the ability to not disclose the state of the chain to everyone while fully relying on Ethereum and Ethereum, all Ethereum nodes to verify the state and kind of enforce security of every single transaction, every single smart contract interaction, every single signature on your chain.
00:37:24.445 - 00:37:55.805, Speaker B: So the only difference is like where you publish data availability. Data availability on Ethereum is somewhat expensive. It got a lot cheaper with EAP 4844 with blobs, but it's still it cannot. You know, if everyone was to build a ZK roll up and publish all of data on Ethereum, the price will go up again because the cumulative bandwidth of all of Ethereum blobs is too limited. I don't remember what exactly is like several dozens megabytes per second or something like this.
00:37:56.465 - 00:38:14.249, Speaker A: How do you view, I guess people experimenting with the Lydiums versus kind of generally posting data to Ethereum over the long term, do you see one kind of. Do you think they're complementary? Do you feel like they're competitive? How do you view that?
00:38:14.417 - 00:39:32.803, Speaker B: I think they're complementary. I personally believe that we need to see more ZK rollups because ZK rollup is the only scaling architecture that gives you the full 100% security guarantees from it. Like you inherit all security properties of Ethereum, there is no way to destroy the roll up. Like not only manipulate the state transition like execute invalid transaction, but if built properly, there is no way for the validator of this chain to censor users and stop them from exiting to layer one. Even if the validators disappear or become malicious, the users like in a properly architected system will be able to reconstruct the state the latest state of this ZK rollup and then produce proofs of create blocks to mass exit to another L2 or to Ethereum layer one itself and do it in a permissionless way. With validiums they guarantee the execution correctness of all transactions in the chain. But whoever controls the data availability could theoretically just freeze all of this state.
00:39:32.803 - 00:40:34.257, Speaker B: So while they can never execute anything invalid, do anything on user's behalf or violate the logical smart contracts, they could just stop the chain for everyone. And in building a global financial application layer, ideally we utilize ZK rollups for that. ZK rollups are more secure. Your liquidity should ideally be living on the ZK rollup or most of it should be on the ZK rollup with smaller piece on the validium. Or maybe you're using Validiums for something that is not financial in nature. Like if you think of Lens, which is building a decentralized social network, the data that is being published to Lens is going to be available to all users. They hold a copy of the data, they can always show it and they use the Lens network to guarantee correctness, guarantee ordering, guarantee that no one can stealth edit posts and articles.
00:40:34.257 - 00:40:54.995, Speaker B: In retrospect, if this state gets frozen, users will be able to just come together and rebuild it from scratch. And yes, part of the data will be lost, but it's probably not going to be as catastrophic loss and therefore it's justified to have the lower security guarantees for for its data.
00:40:55.935 - 00:41:41.301, Speaker A: As you have probably been working on Zksync for many years now, I think a lot of dollars have obviously gone into the L2 landscape. There's been optimism, arbitrarism. Now base, I kind of, I mean all the new high throughput L1s, there's many, I would say choices for engineers to potentially build. What would be the pitch in kind of all these developer platforms to get people to come and say hey Zksync is where you can actually build the applications you want. We'll over time build the liquidity. What's the developer pitch?
00:41:41.493 - 00:42:48.729, Speaker B: Look, ZK is the end game. Everyone knows that every optimistic rollup will eventually have to upgrade to zk. It will take them a long time because we've seen how long it took them to implement simple as permissionless fraud proofs. So we will be there faster with the elastic chain with this vision of the roll up cluster than anyone else. So if you are building an application and you are potentially thinking of spinning off your own chain at some point, either you need your own chain now or you just want to launch something and then you have this idea that you want to spin off the chain, then the elastic chain is the best place for you to build now. And then the other optimistic roll up ecosystems obviously have some strong network effects with a lot of liquidity and a lot of users. But the elastic chain is now getting a very, very interesting traction with as I mentioned, a couple of chains that bring a lot of users and bring a lot of liquidity.
00:42:48.729 - 00:43:35.145, Speaker B: Like crypto.com with their million users and Lance with their rapidly growing user base and abstract with really interesting novel approaches to consumer applications. So it's going to be a very interesting niche space like an optimistic roll up. Ecosystems are already pretty crowded. There are a lot of established players that is hard to compete with. You have to build, you go against the incumbents There the elastic chain is still relatively new because we launched much later than the optimistic roll ups and all of these chains are coming by the end of this year. We're just getting started.
00:43:35.145 - 00:44:06.495, Speaker B: There is an opportunity to build something that will tap into this network effects that is still a blue ocean. Now is the right time to actually come to the elastic chain ecosystem and start building on Ziki synchro today or on one of the elastic ch other chains that have slightly specific specialization there specific aspect of angle of what they are targeting because eventually all of that will be interoperable and you will have access to all the users and liquidity on the entire network.
00:44:07.875 - 00:44:30.375, Speaker A: I'm curious, one of the questions I've been asking more recently is just around what are the things that you don't get asked? What are some of the things that you feel like are Underappreciated about either ZK Sync or 0 knowledge technology that just like either people don't ask you or just generally underappreciated.
00:44:33.435 - 00:45:33.791, Speaker B: I think that there are less hypey aspects of the technology that are very very important but you kind of take them for granted but you should not. Such as reliability of software. Just like you know, Zksync has been bottle tested. ZKStack has been around for now one and a half years with in the ZK AVM variation with like on Zksync era and it has handled high impact events such as airdrops or surge in transactions due to inscriptions last year and various types of things like this very very well. The robustness. We never had a reorg. There are ecosystems where 50 block reorgs or 100 block reorgs.
00:45:33.903 - 00:45:34.875, Speaker A: That was crazy.
00:45:35.575 - 00:45:56.165, Speaker B: We never had a reorg, never had a significant downtime. You know, like it's just very well engineered technological piece. I think this is one aspect which you should look more into when you're evaluating different blockchain technologies.
00:46:00.665 - 00:46:52.835, Speaker A: I'm curious, over the next 3, 612 months, what are the things that you're explicitly looking for now that the elastic chains have come online? Is there any specific ideas? To me one thing that I kind of get excited about with Zero Knowledge technology is just taking these arbitrarily large amounts of compute, potentially running a neural network or running a GPU cluster of 100,000 GPUs and then coming out with some crazy calculation or whatever and then creating some proof that that thing has occurred. Are there any more I would say unique unlocks that Zero Knowledge technology allows that you're uniquely looking for.
00:46:55.455 - 00:47:20.845, Speaker B: Probably less on the large compute side of things, more on things like privacy that are uniquely possible with zero knowledge proofs. You know, doing payments with privacy, doing the private state of applications that are still interoperable is what I'm really looking forward to because it's going to unlock massive consumer and real world use cases.
00:47:22.745 - 00:48:10.995, Speaker A: Maybe diving into the privacy piece, we've seen different like privacy specific coins, Monero, others and generally they've been frowned upon. It's but, but for some reason in some regards I understand, I mean tornado cache, et cetera. I feel like I wasn't alive during some of the early networking stacks in their Internet days and debating HTTP versus HTTPs being encrypted. How do you kind of view the privacy lens and do you feel like that I'd say more welcoming nature starting to emerge or do you feel like when you talk with the regulators or banks they're still a little bit more allergic to that?
00:48:11.455 - 00:48:41.577, Speaker B: Well, banks, there are two different questions. One is privacy and the other one is like compliant privacy versus self sovereign privacy. Everyone understands the value of privacy. Banks want privacy. They don't want to show everything that's happening inside the bank to the outside world. They just want to preserve the ability to share this data with regulators, with law enforcement. And some of the more cybersecurity cypherpunk proponents would argue that this is not something you should do.
00:48:41.577 - 00:49:17.285, Speaker B: You should build applications that give users full control. And it's hard as we see with tornado cash and we see with the. I think the fact that tornado cash was taken down while the other privacy coins were not taken down demonstrates the importance of connectivity. I think the main reason why they were not taken down, other than maybe delisting from some exchanges is that they don't matter. Tornado cash mattered. It could enable privacy for all of Ethereum. And yes, it was misused by criminals.
00:49:17.285 - 00:50:05.769, Speaker B: Cars get misused by criminals because they drive cars. Like that's not a justification right. I think there is more work needs to be done with regulators and educating them and like finding some common grounds and like figuring out how to do it in a more compliant way that will make them comfortable that the applications will not be used predominantly for criminal purposes. And they're not created specifically for criminal purposes. They're created for because privacy is a human right and they created just to. To justify the make things usable like no one will use payments. If you can go to a merchant and you do a payment and the merchant immediately sees what's your net worth all the transactions you've done all the other Purchases you've done, that's just not thinkable.
00:50:05.769 - 00:50:49.939, Speaker B: Most people will freak out if they were, if all the details of their bank account all of a sudden were made completely public. Right. So there will be some middle ground. There are efforts like the privacy pools. The article like this paper co authored by Vitalik, I mean the elliptic chain analysis people, I don't know. We'll see how it works. Like for now, ZK Sync, we are not focused on privacy other than validiums, which is like low hanging fruit that you can deliver immediately and is not conflicting with, with being compliant because it places the burden of compliance on whoever operates that chain.
00:50:49.939 - 00:51:05.575, Speaker B: And as a technology provider, we're agnostic, we don't care. But I really hope to see more cypherpunk solutions and figure out how to do it in a way that does not create this massive conflict with law enforcement.
00:51:05.875 - 00:51:53.255, Speaker A: Yeah, it is, it is interesting. I think you kind of had this early cypherpunk era, especially with bitcoin, to kind of get it out into the wild and to have people experiment with it. And Satoshi I think planted that seed very well. I think Ethereum obviously expanded upon that with being turing complete and allowing more expressiveness. Do you feel like as we continue to onboard a million users, 5 million users, do you feel like some of that cypherpunkness will ultimately go away? Or do you feel like that core essence is something that should really be preserved and fought for?
00:51:54.195 - 00:52:58.033, Speaker B: I think that if you don't preserve it, you're going to destroy all the value that blockchains have created. You're going to devolve the blockchain world into like Finance 2.5. You know, the, like the, the huge value that we have is in permissionlessness and trustlessness. It creates tangible value because trust has a cost. And as you scale the, this cost compounds. If you like, imagine, like just imagine the world where you don't have HTTPs and instead of going to, you know, connecting point to point from your mobile app to your bank, you have to trust all of the servers that are on the path to your bank, the ISP provider of this place where we are now today. Or like the next tower, like mobile cell tower, then the next gateway, then the router, then the operators of the, of the link that takes you to the place where the bank data center is connected.
00:52:58.033 - 00:53:54.133, Speaker B: And you have to trust the data center operators and so on. You might trust one, you might say like, okay, I trust my Internet provider, which is already not a great thing, but like, okay, but can you trust Everyone in between, you don't even know who is in between. So this cost is becoming very, very high. The way people historically have solved this as civilization is by converging on a small number of trusted authorities and institutions that would extract a very high cost for this trustworthiness. Like they would charge very, very high fees for being these trusted intermediaries. And a huge boost of blockchains and boost of efficiency that is coming from blockchains that you can remove them, it does not mean that you can remove everyone. You always will have some trust elements, some interfaces.
00:53:54.133 - 00:54:29.471, Speaker B: I mean you run your mobile wallet which can verify everything that's happening on blockchain, but you still have to trust the issuers of this wallet, right? Or it could be an open source wallet, but you still have to trust that someone has reviewed the open source code and doesn't contain a backdoor and the code was implemented correctly, cryptography was implemented correctly, and so on. And you still have to trust the issuers of centralized stablecoins and securities and whatnot. But blockchains enable us to reduce the trust assumptions and that's a huge value.
00:54:29.623 - 00:54:39.715, Speaker A: Do you feel like you can still have the reduce trust assumptions but not have the cypher punkness or do you feel like those are intertwined?
00:54:40.245 - 00:55:44.125, Speaker B: Those are intertwined. It's like a good example is it was recently in the news that the, you know, there were back doors that were mandated to be put in the consumer software so that like secret services can survey the citizens and then like China took advantage of this and like infiltrated them and they were spying on Americans, you know, which will be hopefully a big awakening. Like you really need like cypherpunk values because if you don't have them, they're going to benefit your enemies much more than like some benevolent local law enforcement. So like it's a spectrum, but you want to be further on this spectrum rather than shorter. You want to have less trust assumptions, more efficiency, more directness and more control. More power to the citizens, to the individuals who are participating in these networks rather than some organizations, authorities and so on.
00:55:44.945 - 00:56:09.685, Speaker A: As we're perhaps wrapping up, is there anything that we haven't touched upon that you want to explicitly call out either with Zksync or call to action with the community, Ethereum or otherwise? On why elastic chains, why Zksync or any topics around zk?
00:56:10.065 - 00:57:16.885, Speaker B: I think we covered most of it. I think the momentum is really going very strong right now with elastic chains. People are going to be surprised how fast the snowball compounds there with These general purpose chains bringing users and liquidity and application specific chains bringing really interesting novel applications that are going to create massive network effects. One interesting aspect is I recently was in Argentina and saw a huge movement of people building on blockchain with the new government, with Milei pushing for classically liberal economic reforms. And the population who has suffered from hyperinflation for many years and has like a 60% crypto penetration is embracing that. And the regulators are now friendly and supportive and asking what they can do for the startups. And I've seen hundreds of builders creating huge momentum there.
00:57:16.885 - 00:58:09.335, Speaker B: I think we'll see more and more of techno optimistic countries creating this splash with this network effect. And the more use cases, the more users come on chain, the more important will be to have this elastic scalability, not scalability limited by a certain throughput of a single chain. But really you can add as many chains, as many users, as many applications as you want and it can continue growing because ZK doesn't care. ZK can verify 1,000 transactions, 1 million transactions, 1 billion transactions per second, recursively in parallel, compressing the proofs down into a single proof, getting to the ZK singularity. This is what we will see growing exponentially over the next couple of years.
00:58:09.675 - 00:58:21.895, Speaker A: And maybe final question, what would you say to all the Ethereum haters on the timeline saying Ethereum's going down or has lost its sauce? What would your message be to them?
00:58:23.185 - 00:58:47.271, Speaker B: Look, Ethereum has been consistent with its failures. It embraced the roll up centric roadmap and it just keep building and you can stop Ethereum. You will see markets are not very efficient in the short term. In the long term you will just see the power of all this creativity and all this building momentum that's happening in Ethereum.
00:58:47.393 - 00:59:04.259, Speaker A: Perfect. Well we can end it there. Alex, thank you so much, really appreciate the time. I hope everybody watching and listening this podcast, learned a lot about zksync, the elastic future that you guys are proposing and really wish you and the team the most success.
00:59:04.387 - 00:59:05.595, Speaker B: Thank you, really enjoyed the conversation.
