00:00:03.290 - 00:00:34.434, Speaker A: Hello and thanks for tuning in to this week's News recap. I'm Michael Ducastillo, a Knight Badget fellow at Columbia University. Yesterday. The US. District Court ruled in favor of the US. Treasury Department upholding sanctions against tornado cash, the decentralized privacy tool also used by money launderers that was sanctioned by the Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Asset Control last year. The lawsuit, backed by Coinbase and others, argued that the sanctions overstepped the Treasury's authority.
00:00:34.434 - 00:01:48.554, Speaker A: The court, however, argued that in spite of tornado cash being widely described as decentralized, it was still in fact an entity, quote, that could be designated under sanctions regulations. The court also determined that smart contracts constitute property under applicable regulations. Bill Hughes, a lawyer at Ethereum development firm Consensus, noted in a tweet that the plaintiffs are likely to appeal to the Fifth Circuit. The decision, regardless, makes a significant legal precedent in the ongoing debate over the regulation of decentralized technologies. On Monday, Coinbase launched the Stand with Crypto Alliance, aiming to mobilize crypto supporters ahead of key votes in the US. Congress, the latest in a multifaceted defense against a securities and Exchange Commission lawsuit alleging it operated as an unregistered security seeks to protect what the exchange's executives believe are consumer rights to crypto and to advocate for clear regulation. In spite of being spearheaded by the largest cryptocurrency exchange in America, Coinbase's chief policy officer, Fariar Jihad sought to frame the effort as a, quote, grassroots effort.
00:01:48.554 - 00:02:50.526, Speaker A: In a statement in an earnings call initially reported by the bloc earlier this month, Coinbase's chief legal officer, Paul Griwal said that while the exchange wanted to work with regulators, it also expected to defeat them. Quote we do think we can win, we expect to win, end quote, he said. On Wednesday, Coinbase secured approval to list crypto futures in the US. From the National Futures Association, or NFA, becoming the first crypto focused platform to offer Americans regulated and leveraged crypto futures alongside traditional spot trading. In related news, late last week, venture capital firms Andreessen Horowitz and Paradigm filed a joint amicus brief supporting Coinbase expressing concern over what they described as the SEC's, quote, regulatory overreach. End quote. A consortium of blockchain advocacy groups also argued that the SEC's lawsuit is an attempt to quote Usurp.
00:02:50.526 - 00:04:01.206, Speaker A: Congress's authority, end quote urging the judge to dismiss the case. As reported by Decrypt G. Kim, general counsel for the Crypto Council for Innovation advocacy group, criticized the SEC's attempt to, quote, short circuit the legislative process end quote highlighting ongoing congressional efforts to establish clear crypto regulations. On Wednesday, two bankrupt crypto giants, FTX and Genesis, reached a $175,000,000 settlement resolving a complex legal dispute involving intertwined loans and customer claims. Crypto lending firm Genesis, a subsidiary of Digital Currency Group, will pay the amount to FTX subsidiary Alameda Research, aiming to smooth FTX's bankruptcy confirmation process. The agreement eliminates the need for protracted litigation and provides near term benefits to Genesis and its creditors. However, a coalition of FTX creditors, calling themselves FTX 20 expressed discontent with the arrangement in a post Thursday, as Unchained previously reported.
00:04:01.206 - 00:05:20.798, Speaker A: Nevertheless, the settlement marks a significant step in the crypto industry, reflecting the broader complexities and the need for clear legal frameworks. The ongoing legal dispute between the SEC and Ripple Labs has taken a new, though expected, turn, as Judge Annalise Torres of the Southern District of New York allowed the SEC to file an appeal while the broader case proceeds. The decision follows a ruling that some of Ripple's XRP transactions did not breach securities laws. The SEC now has until August 18 to present its motion, with Ripple's response due by September 1. The appeal specifically targets the decision regarding programmatic sales of XRP, or sales that happen automatically, usually with retail investors. Ripple's legal fight began on December 20, and this latest development could have broad implications for the way regulators treat assets similar to XRP. On Wednesday, Digital Asset Exchange Valkyrie funds filed with the SEC for a new Ethereum Strategy ETF, aiming to provide investors with capital appreciation by investing in ether futures and collateral investments, but not directly in Ether.
00:05:20.798 - 00:06:40.762, Speaker A: This is crucial. This comes as the SEC continues to delay decisions on spot Bitcoin ETFs, including Arc investments. Management proposal the regulator opened a 21 day comment period for ARC's 21 shares Bitcoin ETF, extending the wait for a decision on spot crypto ETFs in the US. While the SEC has approved funds linked to Bitcoin futures, it has not allowed any spot crypto ETFs, a move that, if approved, would let institutions otherwise prevented from investing in digital assets invest in securities that directly reflect the price of the assets. In the United States. Republican lawmakers led by the chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, Patrick McHenry, are demanding transparency from the SEC and the self regulatory body the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, known as FINRA over the approval process for crypto broker prometheum. In a statement Wednesday, the lawmakers raised concerns over what they called the, quote, timing and circumstances of the approval, questioning why the little known Prometheum was the sole entity granted a license under the SEC's special purpose broker dealers framework.
00:06:40.762 - 00:08:05.778, Speaker A: The lawmakers also expressed concerns over national security risks due to Prometheum's reported ties to the Chinese Communist Party. Prometheum's co CEO Aaron Kaplan has insisted that the firm followed the registration process like any other firm and says it will demonstrate compliance with current rules. The committee has requested all documents related to Prometheum's approval by August 22. Also on Monday, Finance, the world's largest crypto exchange, filed a motion for a protective order against the US SEC claiming the regulator is conducting what it described as a, quote, phishing expedition in its discovery requests. The motion, filed by Bam Trading, the holding company of Binance US, seeks to limit the SEC to four depositions of Bam employees and prevent questioning on matters outside the scope of the consent order. Quote at bottom the SEC is conducting a phishing expedition instead of seeking to narrow the limited discovery authorized by the Consent order to ensure customer assets are presently secure and available, Bam wrote in the filing. In a separate but related development, Binance announced the shutdown of its buy and sell service Binance Connect, formerly known as Bifinity, starting Wednesday, August 16.
00:08:05.778 - 00:09:19.280, Speaker A: The decision to shutter the service comes as the exchange plans to refocus on its main products and long term goals. A spokesperson for Finance told CoinDesk, quote we consistently adapt and modify our business approach in response to changing market and user needs. Launched in March 2022, Finance Connect let merchants accept 50 different cryptocurrencies and included support for payment methods, including Mastercard and Visa. Crypto media company CoinDesk is cutting its workforce by 16%, including 45% of its editorial staff, as it prepares for a potential sale of a stake in the publication, according to an internal memo reviewed by the Block. In the message, CoinDesk CEO Kevin Worth said that the abduction was a, quote, required step to ensure a financially sound business moving forward, end quote. The layoffs are said to impact 20 people, predominantly in the media team. The move comes as CoinDesk, owned by Digital Currency Group, is reportedly close to a deal to sell a $125,000,000 stake to a group of investors and is expected to be finalized in the coming weeks.
00:09:19.280 - 00:10:27.458, Speaker A: Soon to be shuttered. Silvergate bank, previously known for its crypto friendly services before it imploded earlier this year, announced in a regulatory filing the departure of three key executives amid ongoing liquidation proceedings. CEO Alan Lane, chief Legal Officer John Bonino and Chief Financial Officer Antonio Martino will leave their roles, with Lane and Benino departing on August 15 and Martino stepping down by September 30. Kathleen Freyer, Silvergate's chief risk officer, will take over as the chief transition officer. The bank stated that departures were not due to any disputes or disagreements. The San Diego based bank is in the process of winding down operations after reporting $1 billion in losses related to the collapse of FTX and facing several lawsuits. The bank's stock price plummeted by 44% following the announcement of voluntary liquidation in March and has fallen 99% from its all time high in November $2021 to time of recording.
00:10:27.458 - 00:11:32.202, Speaker A: Meanwhile, back in New York, bankrupt crypto lender Celsius received permission from US. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn to ask its account holders if they wanted the company to restart as a user owned entity. According to a Bloomberg report, the plan, managed by TechCrunch founder Michael Arrington's Arrington Capital, would see around $2 billion worth of bitcoin and ethereum distributed to creditors and customers repaid partly through equity in the new company. Some creditors, however, reportedly objected to the repayment plan throughout the course of the hearing, arguing they would be forced to take stock in a risky new venture. Judge Glenn's approval is contingent on Celsius advisors sharing information about the crypto industry's volatility and potential challenges to the firm's mining operation. On Tuesday, crypto custodian Prime Trust filed for Chapter Eleven bankruptcy protection, marking a significant downfall for the Las Vegas based company. The collapse of the firm that once transacted $3.5
00:11:32.202 - 00:12:27.050, Speaker A: billion a month was accelerated by regulatory intervention from the Navayada Financial Institutions division, which placed Prime Trust under receivership in June due to insolvency and breaches of fiduciary duties. A failed acquisition attempt by rival BitGo further destabilized the firm. Quote prime failed to safeguard assets under its custody and cannot meet all client withdrawals, stated the NFID. Quote as such, prime has breached its fiduciary duties to its clients in violation of Nevada laws. End quote. The bankruptcy filing reveals liabilities between $100 million and $500 million, with the largest Unsecured creditor claiming $55 million. John Guidry, former president of the bank of Nevada, will lead the restructuring efforts.
00:12:27.050 - 00:14:12.854, Speaker A: A $140,000,000 legal dispute between bankrupt crypto hedge fund Three Arrows Capital Liquidators and investment firm Defiance Capital will be heard in Singapore, much against the liquidators wishes. The disagreement centers around assets managed by Defiance Capital, with Three AC's liquidators arguing they should be included in the bankruptcy estate, while Defiance insists they should be treated separately. Singapore Judge Chuan Li Ming ruled in favor of hearing the case in Singapore, citing the location of Crypto assets and the substantial creation of the trust in Singapore, defiance Capital founder Arthur Chiang expressed optimism, saying, quote, we are delighted the High Court of Singapore agreed with our position, end quote. Meanwhile, Three AC founders Kyle Davies and Su Zu, face fines issued by Dubai's Virtual Asset Regulatory Authority over the Opnx exchange, which launched after the collapse of Three AC, amounting to around $2.8 million for violations of market regulations, with additional fines for executives. The Dubai regulator has emphasized potential further or additional actions to recover the payment. In the Big Apple, Uniswap Labs fired developer Alan Lee, known as Asflin, following allegations he orchestrated a rug pull on the Friends Tech meme coin on Coinbase's L2 network base Lynn was accused of removing liquidity and moving 14 ETH worth about $25,000 off the base chain through the Hop Crosschain protocol.
00:14:12.854 - 00:14:45.382, Speaker A: Uniswap's founder and CEO Hayden Adams confirmed Lynn's termination, stating it was, quote, not behavior we support or condone. Lyn defended his actions on social media, claiming he used his own money and was entitled to do as he pleased, though admitting that dumping the token was a mistake. If you're looking for something a little more lighthearted to wrap your week up, we've heard pretty much every possible take we could on the SBF going to jail story, but don't miss standup comedian Jenny Hogan's take on Unchained's Twitter account.
00:14:45.516 - 00:15:16.090, Speaker B: Ahead of his October trial. Sam Bankman Fried is being sent to jail. He had his bail revoked because he was accused of trying to tamper with the witnesses, which is, incidentally, what his college girlfriend called it when he tried to get to second base. The first instance of witness tampering was using a VPN to watch the Super Bowl. Can't a guy just watch football? Second instance of witness tampering was sharing his ex girlfriend's diary with The New York Times. Can't a guy just share his ex girlfriend's diary with The New York Times? This was allegedly an attempt to discredit her since she's testifying against him in October. Totally unnecessary.
00:15:16.090 - 00:15:45.750, Speaker B: Like if he wants to discredit her and to prove that she's not of sound judgment or mind, he should just tell people that she dated him. SBF's father put his hand over his heart as his son was led away in handcuffs. I would have felt compelled to do the same, overwhelmed by the rare sense of patriotism that just once in America, justice was served. His parents were both crying, which seems weird. Aren't they proud of him for finally moving out of their house? His team specifically requested a jail with good Wi Fi so that he can prepare for the trial. That also means he's gonna be able to read all the tweets about him. Talk about cruel and unusual punishment.
00:15:46.410 - 00:16:00.410, Speaker C: Thanks so much for joining us today. Unchained is produced by me, laura Roshin wolfup from Kevin Fuchs, matt Pilchard, zach Stewart, juan Arnovich, sam Sriram, jenny Hogan, leandra Camino, Pama Jimdar Shashank and Margaret Korea. Thanks for listening.
