00:00:00.160 - 00:00:12.718, Speaker A: There are a lot of people around the world that want better money. Billions of people want better money. And that that's not a small market. Even if it's just gold. If it's. If it's gold that's available to everybody on a smartphone, that can be twice gold, ten times gold.
00:00:12.886 - 00:00:32.856, Speaker B: This episode of Empire is brought to you by quick node. Quick Node is an end to end blockchain development platform that makes building web3 apps super easy. No matter what you want to build, you can effortlessly develop any application by leveraging their elastic APIs. Go to quicknode.com comma, use code Empire. You'll get a free month on their feature backed build plan. That's right.
00:00:32.856 - 00:00:56.260, Speaker B: Go to quicknode.com comma. You'll get a free month to start playing around. You'll hear more about Quicknode later in the show. This episode is brought to you by Quinta, the premier derivatives platform on optimism that offers deep liquidity, low fees, and up to 50 x leverage across 24 different assets. You'll hear more about Quentynta later in the show. All right, everyone, welcome back to Empire.
00:00:56.260 - 00:01:03.104, Speaker B: We have two guests who need no introduction today. Lynn Alden and Jordy Alexander. Lynn Jordy, welcome to Empire.
00:01:03.604 - 00:01:04.644, Speaker A: Thanks for having me.
00:01:04.764 - 00:01:05.892, Speaker C: Good to be here.
00:01:06.068 - 00:01:37.514, Speaker B: Yeah, yeah. Excited you guys are here. Basically, we wanted to do this episode because things on bitcoin and, like, bitcoin world seems crazier than it's been in many, many years. I think the. There are a lot of folks out there looking for kind of what I'd call credible opinions and credible information on the future of bitcoin in general to frame this conversation. There's this debate on bitcoin's block space that is kind of what I'd call divided the bitcoin community, and it first sparked in February with the rise of ordinals. It's now been revived with the emergence of the BRC 20 asset class.
00:01:37.514 - 00:02:14.464, Speaker B: Both creations were made possible by this thing called the Taproot upgrade back in November 2021. And because of ordinals, and now BRC 20 tokens, bitcoin transaction fees have spiked. They're up 35 x in the last 30 days. BTC Block 788695 marked this historic moment in which transaction fees exceeded the mining subsidy. And so Lyn and Jordi and maybe Lynn, I could just pick on you to go first here. Would love to get your just, like, very high level framework for how you're viewing bitcoin today and, like, viewing what has happened the last several months in bitcoin land.
00:02:15.084 - 00:02:54.164, Speaker A: Sure. So when I analyze bitcoin over the course of years and with determining whether or not it's investable asset, one of the things I covered was the long term fee model, the incentive structure, the security of the network. I actually wrote an article about it over two years ago. And one of the things I mentioned was that there could be use cases we don't see right now that might emerge in the future for demanding block space other than just transactions. Theres already been, I covered the ones that theres been ones in the past, and they come in waves. And this is the latest wave. And so we never really know exactly what the market is going to determine the best use of block space for.
00:02:54.164 - 00:03:41.438, Speaker A: When we scheduled this discussion, it was about bitcoin security, and that was in a pretty low fee environment. And during that time, there are a lot of critics of bitcoin saying, you know, the fees are too low, it's going to be insecure in the long term as the block subsidy goes down. And now you see a lot of critics kind of coming out of the woodwork because you have a fee spike. And they're saying, look, bitcoin's unusable, the fees are too high. And it's like, well, you know, it's like, it's funny how quickly narratives can change, sometimes from the same people, sometimes from different people. And so the way I view it is that this is the market at work, right? So right now, there's a big new speculative use case as of this talk. And this could change in minutes, hours or days.
00:03:41.438 - 00:04:08.844, Speaker A: But right now, the fee spikes already subsided for the most part. I mean, it spiked up like $30 a transaction is down to like $3 a transaction. Maybe they'll get a second or third win. We'll see how this goes. I mean, this is something that has to be evaluated over time, but these are not, at the moment, at least, not very useful assets. They're really speculation oriented, meme oriented. Bitcoin purposely doesn't really have the type of base layer programmability that say, something like Ethereum does.
00:04:08.844 - 00:04:53.000, Speaker A: And so there's not a ton of kind of long term sustainability with what we're seeing right now. And that kind of inherently speculative action kind of exhausts itself because there's only so much capital they have to pay for fees to kind of play these games, and they only have so many followers that they can kind of uses exit liquidity in this kind of big speculation pump and dump. And so I think some of the critics of the network are overreacting. And I also think that some of the proponents of bitcoin, some of the so called bitcoin maxis that are kind of knee jerk reaction to want to censor this or change this and kind of censor it right away. I think that's also a problem. I think these things have to play out. I think the fee market is going to sort it out over time.
00:04:53.000 - 00:05:12.464, Speaker A: Then, of course, users and devs can always assess the network over the very long term and see what kind of minor consensus changes might be useful for the network over time, like Segwit and Taproot. I'm sure there will probably be a couple more in the future to optimize the network as best as possible. But I think it's in a healthy state. I think it's doing what it's supposed to do.
00:05:14.004 - 00:05:46.760, Speaker B: Jordy, there's two camps here. There's camp one, which might be described as like, bitcoin's block space and security is purpose built for BTC, the asset and nothing else. And that bitcoin's elegance is its simplicity and that it's just like it's app specificness of digital gold. And then there's camp two, which is like bitcoin is this permissionless platform where it's use case and will and should be driven by free market forces. And it's cool that we have innovation happening on it. And like, you know, maybe bitcoin, like DeFi on bitcoin comes. Comes to bitcoin.
00:05:46.760 - 00:05:51.404, Speaker B: And that's a cool and exciting thing. Where do you fall out? Which one of these camps do you fall into?
00:05:53.424 - 00:06:28.262, Speaker C: I see both sides. I'm kind of in the middle. I think that it's all about social consensus. Everything about bitcoin looked at from just a pure technology lens or a pure monetary lens is incorrect, in my opinion. Like, the social lens is the most important thing. And the value of bitcoin is just kind of the coordination value and the social construct of it. So when it comes to things like this and other things that bitcoin maxis get irritated about, it's because they've attached certain social constructs that are not necessarily, like, in the code or need to be in the code, or it's kind of the story that they tell themselves.
00:06:28.262 - 00:07:07.774, Speaker C: And when you see them going against ethereum, for example, they want to say how ethereum has all these shit coins, and it's a lot of speculation. And then when it happens on bitcoin, then it looks very negative for what they used to say. So they have to kind of go against it just by default. Right. I'm very neutral on whether this is good or bad in terms of whether it solves a long term security. I think we're very far from that. And in a way it shows some possibilities and kind of what Lyn said, we don't know in the future use cases and things can come up.
00:07:09.994 - 00:07:10.498, Speaker A: But.
00:07:10.586 - 00:07:51.256, Speaker C: We can go too far on this thesis. We can say that right now we're not helping long term security by having a temporary speculative bubble on some coins that are built or some nfts. It's not actually going to solve the problem in 20 years. The problem is not even now. No one's complaining about the blocks now. We're not even into the next halving. The problem still remains because we don't know if in 2030 years people will still be minting new coins on the bitcoin chain, or whether they'll keep wanting to use block space for digital art or even if the community will allow that, because like you said, there's a lot of people who want to censor it.
00:07:51.256 - 00:07:55.804, Speaker C: So, yeah, I'm kind of in the middle on all of this.
00:07:56.464 - 00:07:57.032, Speaker A: Yeah.
00:07:57.128 - 00:08:03.450, Speaker B: Lynn, do you fall into one or the other of these camps? Or would you be. Are you similar to Jordy? Kind of falling in the middle here?
00:08:03.642 - 00:08:40.180, Speaker A: Kind of in the middle. I think the current design is elegant. I think it hits the sweet spot where it's mostly for transactions as the original intent of the network, but supposed to also put arbitrary text into the Genesis block. It's been a feature from early on that it can be used for other things as well. Small bits of information that have various use cases, either aesthetic or functional. And I think it's good that bitcoin does not have more sophisticated programming on the base layer. That opens up all sorts of complexity, extra attack vectors, higher requirements for running a node generally.
00:08:40.180 - 00:09:20.264, Speaker A: So I think it's good that it's not further in that direction, but I also think it's good that there's a foot in the door to use the base layer for other things as well. The way I would phrase is that bitcoin so far is the most decentralized, immutable database that people have built. I think the killer app for that is money. That doesn't mean it's the only app for that. I think that's the one that can price other things out over the long term, or at least be a dominant use case. But there could be other high value use cases for that. Securing other things with a lot of economic density, putting in key pieces of useful information that you really want to pay for the immutability for.
00:09:20.264 - 00:10:16.630, Speaker A: When it comes to the long term fee expectation. I think the long term thing that most of these have in common is that its about adoption. Basically, bitcoin can do roughly the number of transactions that Fedwire can, which is basically the base layer for the US financial system. That network settles literally $1 quadrillion in gross value per year, which sounds like a typo, but its not. Obviously the average transaction size when you have that few transactions and that much settlement volume is in seven figures for Fedwire. Bitcoins obviously still much smaller, even though it's roughly the same size in terms of parameters as basically an open source, decentralized fedwire with gold combined into it its own bearer asset. I think it's serving its purpose.
00:10:16.630 - 00:10:59.284, Speaker A: I think the combination of primarily being used for settlements, transactions, long term storage of global portable value is serving that use case. And I think it's exciting that there are other things that people can use it for. I think that the current iteration of speculative meme coins that people dump on their followers is not attractive. But there's long been a desire to either connect other blockchains to it, or put in valuable information that people want to exist into the future. I think those are valid use cases. You know, whatever people are willing to pay for over the long term determines what is attractive use of block space.
00:10:59.944 - 00:11:35.424, Speaker B: I think underpinning a lot of this is this thing that you two have both mentioned a couple of times here is the long term, not one to two years, but many, many, many decades, like the potential security issue of bitcoin. And I think there might be some folks who are not familiar with that. So, Lynn, can you maybe set up this conversation and maybe frame this by talking about potentially the bear case actually for bitcoin? And like the argument that bitcoin security will eventually fail, can you maybe set us up by talking about what that is and then we can walk back from there?
00:11:35.804 - 00:11:58.098, Speaker A: Sure. So, as most people know, bitcoin has a capped supply of 21 million coins. Every four years, the number of new coins generated per block gets cut in half. And so that asymptotically approaches zero. Within a decade or two, that becomes very, very minuscule. More than 90% of bitcoin have already been mined. So the last 10% long tail is still being mined.
00:11:58.098 - 00:13:14.116, Speaker A: And so the long term expectation from the beginning, even in Satoshi's own words, was that fees would eventually be the primary, and eventually only source of revenue for bitcoin miners, which is important for the long term immutability and censorship resistance of the network. The bear case is basically to say that bitcoin block space is not going to be attractive in the long term. That even though its a pretty small and tight block space, that even that 10, 20, 30 years from now will be unattractive enough that people want to substantially pay a significant amount on a per transaction basis in order to settle value there or to do other things, documents, securing other chains, whatever they might be, using that block space for that that'll be unattractive either in general or compared to other chains. And that therefore bitcoin will be open to lower cost censorship attacks that would impede it. Now, personally, I don't agree with that view, but I think it's a question worth exploring. And it's something that I explored when determining whether or not bitcoin is an investable asset over the long term might, you know, long term analysis of the network. It is.
00:13:14.116 - 00:13:56.094, Speaker A: It is a question that has to be explored. And the way I would phrase it, I think, I think there are some honest actors that raise the question and that they've saved, reached a conclusion that they're skeptical of the long term security. But I also think there are a lot of other people that kind of, for lack of a better word, fud the network to kind of promote another coin that they might have more affiliation or stake in, and that not all the arguments are genuine around that topic. And I would also point out that I want to bring it up later, at least that other blockchains that claim to fix their own security model have their own security flaws in terms of the long term sustainability that it's worth comparing to when we're determining what is actually a viable security model.
00:13:56.954 - 00:14:20.658, Speaker B: Jordy, you tweeted at us. I think actually that might be how this episode came to be many months ago when it kept getting pushed on the calendar. You said, I agree with Jason and Santi that the time to discuss solutions to bitcoin security model is now. Not in ten years, though. Nick Carter's right. We may need to see the whites of the enemy's eyes before a fix. Why is it so important to discuss this right now?
00:14:20.826 - 00:15:04.526, Speaker C: So, two reasons. One, you know, both Lynn and I are from the macro world. I guess she's a kind of deep researcher and very active trader in that world. And we're in a very unique time right now where potentially the dollar starts being looked at and re examined in many ways. And bitcoin is one of those things like gold that is potentially going to be able to ride that into a new social consensus internationally. So there's this huge opportunity for bitcoin right now, and one of the lingering concerns and that I think need to be examined. Just like Lynn said that for herself, she examined it and she went into that rabbit hole.
00:15:04.526 - 00:15:56.150, Speaker C: But it's a lot of work to do that. And people can also come up with different beliefs once they do that. And I think if we really want there to be a huge adoption to an alternative to the fiat system, that could potentially be bitcoin, which I think is probably the best suited out of digital currencies for that role, if we're going to have that role. But there is a huge concern of what happens in 20 years apart from this blip that we've had now with the huge fees. It's just been trending down very aggressively in terms of the fee income. And the way to think about it is just, you have to pay security guards to protect you when you have something valuable. If you start paying them less and less, a lot of them don't show up for work.
00:15:56.150 - 00:16:48.972, Speaker C: And then if like in 20 years, you keep paying them half their wages every four years. Now, obviously, like, you know, the price of bitcoin can go up and make up for some of that, but it can't go up two x every four years in real terms, you know, just mathematically. So at some point, like, there has to be some kind of income. Otherwise people don't show up to protect the network. And if they don't show up to protect the network, then for different reasons, especially if this is an asset that grows to be like many trillions of dollars, you can have state actors or other actors coordinate, buy a bunch of asics or whatever is going to be the technology at the time to start spamming the network or blocking or censoring the network. Let's not even go down the double spend route. Let's just look at it as just purely making it unworkable.
00:16:48.972 - 00:17:37.744, Speaker C: Like, you know, they just can't, you can't really kind of get blocks in, get proper transactions through making it unusable. There's different things that an actor could try to do. So I think it's really important that in advance of all that happening, we have some, at least some backup plans in place. And the problem with humans is like, we only want to react in like, what's immediately in front of us. Like with global warming, you know, it's like this like huge time lag of decades, and people don't take it seriously until crazy events start happening with the weather. And that's kind of like, the part of the comment about, like, sometimes you have to see it as humans, we need to, like, see it, like, imminently coming. And so, yeah, I'm not sure if there's going to be enough consensus until we see it.
00:17:38.164 - 00:18:08.088, Speaker B: Yeah. When you look at what's happening right now, actually, both of you, I'd be really curious about this. So, like, I think you both are saying that we have to move to a model where, um, uh, bitcoin gradually shifts from paying miners primarily through bitcoin block rewards. Today we're going to move to a model where we have to pay the miners primarily through bitcoin transaction fees. When you look at what's happening today with, like, let me, let me pull up this number. What's the. The number of BRC 20 tokens on the network is now 14,000.
00:18:08.088 - 00:18:24.044, Speaker B: If this number is even. I think this number is correct. Um, you've got, like, ordinals. Um, and, like, I mean, the influx of these projects has. Has pushed the transaction fees to a multi year peak. If I. If wide, I think wide charts is showing it around.
00:18:24.044 - 00:18:45.014, Speaker B: Like, uh, let's see. Transaction fees have skyrocketed to, like, $19, um, which is about an 800% jump compared to the same time last year. When you look at all of this that's happening, maybe, Lynn, I'll throw it to you first. Like, does this seem like this, is this like, the early inklings of the solution here, or are you, like, we're not going in the right direction here?
00:18:46.554 - 00:19:21.458, Speaker A: Sure. I think this is a speculative exploration of it. I think the combination of Segwit and Taproot opened up some different use cases that were not present before, although there's long been the ability to put arbitrary information at the blockchain, so that's being used or exploited in meaningful size for the first time. So that's kind of new information that the market can sort out. The one thing I would say is that we don't have to move to a fee model. The model's already in place, and so there's no, like, action to be done. It's whether or not the block space will be valuable in the future.
00:19:21.458 - 00:20:34.518, Speaker A: And the way I would phrase it, I think, is that, you know, so far, you know, bitcoin's been around for 14 years. It's got generally higher adoption over time, obviously comes in cycles, and not the longer that bitcoin keeps working and keeps doing what it does, and it keeps being functional and keeps being understood by more and more people. I expect that adoption to increase. If bitcoin adoption, or really the adoption of any blockchain were to stagnate at current levels, it would become long term, probably insecure. The premise of most of these models relies on more adoption than the current number, which is still a very small percentage of the world population, especially when you actually look at meaningful adoption. So not just buying a token on Coinbase and just having it there in $500 or something like actually interacting with the blockchain in more involved ways, either directly or just more interesting ways, is a very, very, very low number. I'd also point out that most of these minor updates to bitcoin over time, specifically were to try to make block space more efficient to use.
00:20:34.518 - 00:21:05.346, Speaker A: So segwit was a shadow block size increase. That was the main function. It also enabled lightning. And then taproot was also. It has some various privacy and efficiency gains to add onto that. Partly why we've not seen a meaningful flea market develop is because we've had the expansion onto partially other layers, but also just more efficient usage of the block space we already have. We see exchanges using batching more than they used to.
00:21:05.346 - 00:21:57.704, Speaker A: Whenever there's this fee pressure, eventually there's a response. Now, I think that a lot of the low hanging fruit has already been addressed. And so to the extent that adoption goes up another twofold, five fold, ten fold over the next 1020 years, I think that will result in more sustained fee pressure over time. Then we also have to take into account that this is a dynamic system. So, for example, if the network is not under attack, then fees are mainly determined just by how many fees want to be in the block space compared to how much block space there is. Whereas if the network actually is under attack, then fees take out another meaning, which is that the chance that your transaction is going to be reorged, or to try to incentivize other miners to join the network that are outside of. Of kind of a attack group.
00:21:57.704 - 00:22:35.124, Speaker A: And so it's not just a static system over time, it's actually the way the model set up. It's inherently a dynamic system with push and pull. And so that's kind of how I look at it. I don't think that this current thing is a solution, but I think it's another data point to see what things blockchains might be used for. And I don't think that meme coins are a long term solution. But I do think that transactions are going to be enough in the long term to fill up the block space. And then to the extent that they're not, I think there are high value uses of arbitrary data that are also going to compete for block space.
00:22:36.024 - 00:22:37.284, Speaker B: Jordy, what do you think?
00:22:37.824 - 00:23:33.000, Speaker C: Yeah, so I have a different opinion, and I guess, which is why we have this debate on many things. So, starting with, I mean, the one thing we actually agree is that this is probably not the long term solution. No matter how many fees get accrued in the next six months, this is not going to do anything for in 20 years. First of all, this is not like Ethereum, where the fees get burned and somehow this reduces supply. Any extra fees that just get created right now are just an extra tip to miners, and they're going to be happy for a few months, but this is not going to make them do extra work in 10, 20, 30 years. Um, I think bitcoin does a hell of a problem, and the problem is in the design. Um, I remember when, uh, when this first came up, I asked Lynn and I said, what if Satoshi had said, you know, it's not 21 million? We're going to end up with, you know, 0.5
00:23:33.000 - 00:24:08.964, Speaker C: or 0.25 or some kind of tail emission. Uh, and that was like, in the initial design. Wouldn't that actually be better? Because it sort of doesn't allow this thing to go to chance where, like, oh, maybe there's going to be use cases, maybe there's going to be sort of speculative reasons or productive reasons. Right? And I think Lyn agreed, like, okay, if it was actually set that way, maybe that would be better. And I understand, like, a lot of bitcoiners concern is it's extremely hard to get social consensus on changing something that is like, you know, hard fork, basically, like something fundamentally different. And a lot of people have used this, like, 21 million meme.
00:24:08.964 - 00:24:41.950, Speaker C: To me, it's like a misunderstanding of what scarcity is. Because gold is scarce, we find new gold every year. There's a little bit of 0.5% inflation of gold just from gold mines every year. That doesn't make it not scarce. It's not like you can just print it infinitely. And having a small inflation rate has a huge advantage in many other ways that people forget, including the fact that when you have a cat supply, it's really hard to get new coins.
00:24:41.950 - 00:25:00.514, Speaker C: Right now, miners, they have to mine them, and then they'll have to sell them to somebody in the free market and somebody buys them and new people have them. They're new coins. And it kind of dilutes people who are just free riding. So there's a bit of a free rider problem in bitcoin, which is a huge game theoretic concern. Somebody just buys a lot and then they just sit on it. They don't do anything. They don't even create fees.
00:25:00.514 - 00:25:29.004, Speaker C: They literally add no value to the network or in any way. And they just benefit from kind of like the squeeze, the supply squeeze. Right. I think Satoshi's paper, and if you read it, it's just very clear. He's talking about e cash. He thinks that this thing is going to be cash. And because of maybe he didn't calculate the number of transactions that would actually be needed to be done to make it worldwide cash.
00:25:29.004 - 00:26:06.944, Speaker C: The scale of billions of people using something is different than what bitcoin was built for. If it's not going to be cash, which is, I think people have generally settled on it being more like gold, which is something that you store, you don't go and buy stuff with it, then the number of transactions doesn't really go up. We've seen a lot more people this cycle than last cycle using bitcoin or holding bitcoin, let's say, but it hasn't increased the actual transactions. So if we're going down the gold route, I think either tailormation or some other thing might need to happen.
00:26:08.164 - 00:27:23.914, Speaker A: So I actually disagree, because, for example, even if you just calculate the number of people, if they want to do one monthly transaction on the base chain, let's say, to pull coins off in exchange into their own custody, there's not enough block space for even a significant minority of the world to do that. Basically, adoption, it doesn't take super aggressive adoption assumptions to fill up the block space, even if it's not used as a medium exchange, even if it's still just a storage mechanism that people occasionally want to pull into savings or pull out of savings, or make very selective, censorship resistant global payments with. So I think it's primarily attractive as a settlement network. There's all sorts of things that are built on top of it currently that can be built on top of it in the future, especially as there's demand or fee pressure sustained to do so. And so I think that basically the current design is already attractive. And I think, again, a lot of people, one of the things that the fiat currency system has is that whenever there's responses to it, that the people running it always want to do changes right away. That's kind of what fiat currency is, that's both the strength of fiat currency and the weakness of fiat currency.
00:27:23.914 - 00:28:35.050, Speaker A: And I think it's also what we see in most other cryptocurrencies that basically they're still fairly centralized and they can make hard forks and they can rather small groups of people can kind of make changes, and you don't really know what the network's going to look like ten years from now. And I think what makes bitcoin attractive is that by design, it's very hard to change. And the long term scaling is, you know, you can make one argument that you need tail missions, because not enough people are going to want to use block space in the future as just a savings asset. But as I just pointed out, you can make another argument that even the existing block space is going to be super tight, even if just a significant percentage of the world wants to use it as occasional interaction for savings. I think we don't know what the usage of it is going to look like 10, 20, 30 years from now. And that has already got plenty of flexibility built into it. And when it comes to adoption assumptions like if you look at Ethereum, for example, or similar kind of proof of stake type concepts, if there's not enough demand for Ethereum block space in the future, let's say that the market goes to multiple other chains, it gets diffused across multiple different ecosystems, the speculation dies out that it goes somewhere else.
00:28:35.050 - 00:29:22.164, Speaker A: Whatever the case may be, then the emission schedule increases. Theres no cap supply. If you actually were to have very, very little use to the chain, youd have a higher inflation rate and that would have a feedback loop of making it less attractive to hold. So youd have less validators and youd have a higher inflation rate that basically tailors things around the inflation schedule. Whereas bitcoin uses primarily the cap supply but the reliance on fees. There are different security models out there, but they all actually rely on sustained adoption to kind of a higher degree than exists now, or at least basically the idea that the current level of adoption can be sustained indefinitely.
00:29:25.664 - 00:29:27.604, Speaker B: Jordan, I don't know if you have any thoughts on that.
00:29:27.944 - 00:30:32.038, Speaker C: Yeah, I mean, we've seen a huge increase in adoption of bitcoin in the last ten years, right. And hasn't shown that people want to do transactions on chain like we're already, I don't know how many people own a physical bitcoin, but a lot of people have financial interest in bitcoin, whether it's through an ETF, whether it's through, you know, some financial instrument if you go by some estimates, it could be, you know, tens of millions. I don't know, it could even be like 100 million people. And we've seen this go from, you know, thousands to millions of people. But that's undisputed, right? So this thousand x in adoption hasn't really increased the demand for fees. And I think it's because of what I said, the use case becomes more like gold. And the concern is that once miners stop getting block rewards and they need to do activity on chain in order to hedge them and do all this kind of transfer them and sell them and all this stuff, people use the money in their checking account, but they don't do a lot of transactions with your savings account.
00:30:32.038 - 00:31:11.874, Speaker C: I don't know about you, you, but if it's in my savings account, it probably is just sitting there. And I don't think about it much unless I have an immediate need. So I'm optimistic that maybe it's enough. Let's just put some numbers on it. How much do we actually need in us dollars right now? Current market value of dollars? How many would we need to feel safe? An actor can't just spin up a bunch of factories and make enough hardware to attack. So I don't know, let's say. It's hard to say, like $20 billion.
00:31:11.874 - 00:31:49.894, Speaker C: Maybe this is an actual kind of global competing currency. Maybe you need hundreds of billions of dollars to secure it, to really kind of feel safe. So that would mean that each person has to spend that much in fees or whatever. Each active user needs to spend a couple thousand in fees every year to kind of provide that value. It has come from somewhere. Right? So I think it would be more elegant if this was just kind of given out to miners. It's a more fair system as well, I think.
00:31:49.894 - 00:32:23.134, Speaker C: And to the point about Ethereum, I agree that, yeah, like if no one uses it, then it's not going to be attractive anyway. So it'll inflate. And I think the inflation maximum it can go is like 2% or like 2.1 or something like that. Obviously, right now it's deflationary because there's activity. Theoretically, if there was no activity, it would start inflating. But I don't think that the one or 2% inflation is ever going to be the reason why something gets adopted or doesn't get adopted or is kind of appealing as an asset.
00:32:23.134 - 00:32:36.214, Speaker C: I think gold has proven that over thousands of years. That's not the reason why it goes up or down. It's just because one year there's a slightly higher goldmine output than the previous year.
00:32:38.754 - 00:32:39.546, Speaker B: Go ahead.
00:32:39.690 - 00:33:09.442, Speaker A: Yeah. One thing I want to quantify, with 8 billion people in the world, bitcoin can handle depending on how efficiently base layer transactions are used in terms of batching and things like that. It's limited to tens of millions of transactions per month. And so basically, less than one percentage of the world can use bitcoin once a month. A couple percentage. A few percentage of the world can use it once a year if they're only using it as gold. If they're only using it as digital gold, they're not transacting with it.
00:33:09.442 - 00:34:05.300, Speaker A: If they're just occasionally pulling it in or out of savings, either on a monthly or yearly basis. A very small percentage of the world can use the bitcoin as we know it, basically to have a view that the past 14 years, again, there's been still very low adoption for cryptocurrencies in general. And bitcoin specifically has made a number of these soft forks that basically increased the effective block space and made more efficient use of block space combined with exchanges using batching. So you've had increased adoption, but increased efficiency. And that efficiency has limits, which we're kind of roughly at more or less most likely. And so really you don't need very aggressive assumptions. If you just assume that 5% of the world in 20 years is going to want to occasionally directly interact with the bitcoin base layer, then there's going to be at least some degree of sustained fee market.
00:34:05.300 - 00:35:11.790, Speaker A: And then bitcoin can do over 100 million transactions a year, even more than that in terms of actual payments. So a transaction on average has a couple or few payments associated with it, multiple outputs. And so for every $10 average fee, you're talking a billion or two in transaction fees. And so if a base layer bitcoin transaction costs $30 in the future, the equivalent of $30, the purchasing power that we roughly think of now as $30, you're talking billions and billions of dollars of annual fees for miners, which then the actual ASIC value that you need to buy to even attempt an attack is in the billions or tens of billions at that point. And maybe fees are $100 per base layer transaction. We don't know right now. For example, if you want to ship gold around the world in meaningful size, actually as a settlement, as a corporate settlement, as a sovereign settlement, things like that, that's going to cost you probably millions of dollars.
00:35:11.790 - 00:35:40.522, Speaker A: It took Germany years when they wanted to repatriate their gold from the United States back to Germany. And you literally have to, if you're doing it in bars, if you want to both transport safely and then validate that the gold is real, you then have to, like, you transport it, and then you actually have to melt the bars down pretty much, and then reform them. There's really. It's really hard to tell that a gold bar is gold to the core without actually melting it. There's a couple other ways that you can kind of know. And so that's the system that's been used for a while. It's wildly inefficient.
00:35:40.522 - 00:36:02.814, Speaker A: And so the assumptions that bitcoin has to meet in order to be radically better than that are quite low, is how I essentially phrase that. I think that when you actually quantify it, I don't view that as a significant hurdle, uh, that bitcoin has to step over in terms of adoption in order to be sustained and secure 20 years from now.
00:36:04.914 - 00:36:36.306, Speaker B: All right, quick break from the show. There is this kind of overused cliche saying in crypto, but it's true. Bear markets are building and everyone tells you that and everyone knows it. What people don't know is that if you're building apps in crypto and building apps in web3 without using quick node, you are building on hard mode. So quicknode is this amazing blockchain development platform. It reduces costs, streamlines, the time to market for your app, and it offers consistent performance at scale. For folks that have built apps, you will know that there are a couple key points here.
00:36:36.306 - 00:37:22.198, Speaker B: One, Quicknode offers unlimited endpoints across 18 different chains and 35 different networks. They have response times that are two and a half times faster than any of their competitors. 99.99% uptime and a dedicated 24/7 customer support team. If you've been listening to Empire for a while, you might know that I am no gigabrain developer, but I do know a lot of devs and a lot of great product teams at other places. So when I see Coinbase and Twitter and Adobe and Opensea and doing analytics, all leveraging and trusting quick node to power their business, that's when we get excited and that's when we want to partner with them. They're the best solution for any leading crypto and web3 company that is seeking an end to end blockchain development platform right out of the box.
00:37:22.198 - 00:37:38.238, Speaker B: So my message to you, get off hard mode. Let Quicknode handle the blockchain infrastructure. Let quicknode handle the security, let Quicknode handle the performance while you focus on building beautiful products for your users. Visit quicknode.com comma. Super easy. You can use code Empire.
00:37:38.238 - 00:38:16.038, Speaker B: You'll get a free month on their build plan, so don't forget to use code Empire. Santi and I gotta get credit for this one so they know that we sent you, and you will get a first month free. Hope you guys enjoy it. This episode is brought to you by Quinta trade smarter with Quenty. Quentynta is the premier derivatives trading platform on optimism that features deep liquidity, low fees, and up to 50 x leverage across 24 different assets, all powered by synthetix. If you want to trade crypto, forex, or commodities on chain, Quentynta is the platform for you. It's built for both the casual degen and advanced traders.
00:38:16.038 - 00:38:39.706, Speaker B: It offers stop losses, limit orders, cross margining, and a whole bunch of other advanced order types. And unlike most of today's web3 products, Quinta has a super easy to use interface, including a position dashboard, charts, and a leaderboard. For a seamless experience, go to Quenta IO. That's quenta IO right now. Tell them we sent you. Tell them Santi sent you. Tell me sent you.
00:38:39.706 - 00:39:30.898, Speaker B: Tell them empire sent you. Quenta IO. Hope you guys enjoy. I think at the heart of the heart of this entire conversation, it's really money crypto versus tech crypto, which is really the bitcoin versus the ETH argument, I think you could say. And like, there's this guy, Eric Thornberg, who has a pretty good article on this, and we can link it in the show notes. But basically, if you look at money crypto money crypto maintains the point that crypto cryptocurrencies, the goal of crypto is to redefine how money works by reintroducing sound money. And specifically, if you get into that, it's like, with sound money, governments will now be forced to behave responsibly because they are no longer able to borrow from tomorrow to finance wars or fund short term political objectives at the expense of long term wealth or whatever it may be.
00:39:30.898 - 00:40:16.074, Speaker B: And right now, we have unsound money, which becomes this compounding problem. And bitcoin introduces sound money. And then you have. So that's like money crypto. Then you have tech crypto, which believes that instead of studying austrian economics, you should study the development of web two and web one to understand where this is going. And that I think tech crypto subscribes to the narrative that the Internet started as this decentralized and open system and then quickly became concentrated among five players, Google, Amazon, Apple, Facebook, and Microsoft. And because of that concentration, they were able to get really addicted users, able to control the attention of their users, monetize their advertising, shamelessly copy people.
00:40:16.074 - 00:40:45.174, Speaker B: And that web3 and crypto has this. Has this. The vision here is, like, decentralizing that world. And at the heart of, like, listening to both of you, too, and then listening to just, like, reading a lot of crypto Twitter recently, the. There's, like, money crypto. You have, like, money crypto people and tech crypto people talking. Not necessarily YouTube, but, like, I think the main thing is on Twitter right now, you have two different groups talking right past each other.
00:40:45.174 - 00:41:18.736, Speaker B: And it's just interesting. It's interesting to hear YouTube debate. It's interesting to hear Twitter debate. And even, like, see, I don't know if you guys have been following, like, what munib is working on with stacks and, like, l two s on bitcoin. And then there's also, like, roll up projects, like roll kit are experimenting using bitcoin as, like, this data availability layer, and, like, or Babylon using Bitcoin's additional security via time stamping to prevent reorgs. It's all this money crypto people talking with tech. Like, tech crypto people.
00:41:18.736 - 00:41:23.696, Speaker B: And they are. I don't think they will be able to see eye to eye. I don't know if you guys have thoughts on that. There wasn't even a question there.
00:41:23.720 - 00:42:07.574, Speaker A: But I think the money versus tech angle, I think that does a lot of work at explaining why these different groups kind of approach this differently. You kind of have the Silicon Valley crowd versus the austrian crowd, for lack of a better way to describe it. I think one is that the market's big enough for both to some degree, which is that I view one of the biggest addressable problems out there is lack of good money. There's 180 different fiat currencies. They're all basically these local monopolies that have frictions between them. When you look at a global level, the dollar serves as the glue between them. But that, obviously is this kind of, you know, closed source, permissioned inflationary base that they all connect with.
00:42:07.574 - 00:42:55.074, Speaker A: And so I think that the money argument is that basically that one of the, kind of the $100 trillion problem out there is that there's just not good money and that there could be better money. And one of the arguments is that bitcoin can service that money. The tech view says, okay, there's other things we can do with this technology as well, or adjacent technologies. An example, a company I work with was trying to receive an international wire, got held up for a week. It's an opaque, old antiquated system. They canceled the wire and resent it, and it's stuck for more days. And then it's like, could we just use stablecoins for this? And so there obviously are tech rail layers that can be improved by adjacent types of technology as this.
00:42:55.074 - 00:43:22.654, Speaker A: And I think that's a valid argument, whether or not they should be actual free floating blockchains or layers or similar types of distributed ledgers. I think that'll be sorted out by the market over time. I think a lot of them are equity, like at the moment, that, for lack of a better word, securities or adjacent to securities, that kind of thing. And there's a room for that. But I do think, yeah, a lot of this happens when tech people and money people kind of talk past each other.
00:43:23.844 - 00:43:27.892, Speaker B: I would agree with all of that. Or, go ahead, Jordan. I want to hear your thoughts on this.
00:43:27.908 - 00:43:51.434, Speaker C: Then I'll both and I are more money people. I think we both approach the asset from an investment standpoint and looking for the portfolio construction. And that was also my initial foray into the space. So we're not talking past each other in that sense. We're very much aligned. I think it is a spectrum, though. People are not just zero or one there.
00:43:51.434 - 00:44:17.458, Speaker C: You know, even you can see, like now within, like, the bitcoin ranks. And bitcoin people are like, more money than tech, which are usually on Ethereum. But even within the bitcoin community, there's, like, different opinions. And like, you know, you have Udi and Eric wall on one side, you know, wanting a lot more kind of creative. And to be honest, like, I kind of love that kind of more giving some cultural creativity to the whole space. And let. Let us examine what is this? Because it is a social construct.
00:44:17.458 - 00:44:54.070, Speaker C: The people who are very dogmatic about what this is, forget that it's changed multiple times. It was envisioned in one way. It keeps adapting, and we have to be kind of more flexible and more fluid with it. You see, even Michael Saylor is kind of okay with what's currently happening. I guess maybe he's happy with miners getting more rewards and maybe that's fucking his bag. Who knows? But in a way, everyone is looking at it from a different angle. And we have to accept that there is no fundamentally objective way to look at it.
00:44:54.070 - 00:45:28.364, Speaker C: Nothing is objective with bitcoin. So if there are use cases that can make use of this asset, I think it's actually great. You should be able to at least use your savings account as a collateral to get loans. Or maybe there's some version of Dai where you secure it with bitcoin and there's some kind of stable version. Maybe there's other things we could do on L2s, like ZK rollups or something like that in the future. I think that's definitely an interesting path. And it does seem that bitcoin potentially could secure roll ups like that.
00:45:28.364 - 00:46:06.034, Speaker C: So we have to kind of accept that there's a fluidity to the situation. It's not as clean as we would like and we have to adapt. And bitcoin does have to adapt. And it's very possible that as computing increases, the current security model of. I'm not talking about the mining security, but just the actual cryptographic security might need to have some adoption. If computers get really powerful and they can crack the kind of private key, public keys that we have right now, we might have to change the code. Right.
00:46:06.034 - 00:46:12.254, Speaker C: And like do like quite a hard fork on, on that site. So, um, yeah, I think social consensus is the most important.
00:46:13.074 - 00:46:47.884, Speaker B: I think that's my only pushback to Lyn, to Lynn, what you said, which is like, the world is big enough for both, for both of them. Um, true, but a chain, like a network is only big enough for one of them. Um, you can't. And the reason for that is because of social consensus and branding. And it's like, even if you are a company with 100,000 people, for example, like huge company, you only usually get, if you look at this from like a marketer's lens, like one or maybe two words to describe your company. Like, you can't, you can't have it all. And, and if you're like a stock, you, you'll.
00:46:47.884 - 00:47:11.074, Speaker B: You only get one or two words to describe it. And some, like, my concern with bitcoin, like, I, I love bitcoin. I love bitcoin as digital gold. I love bitcoin as like, what you were saying with like, Germany moving gold. Like, I love bitcoin as digital gold. I don't like bitcoin as like, trying to do DeFi because they're not going to be able to do DeFi as well as like, ethereum is doing Defi. And that's where.
00:47:11.074 - 00:47:39.268, Speaker B: And I think if you're like, let's say an institutional allocator, next bull market happens and you're looking at the industry and trying to allocate capital, like, if it's like, I'm in, I'm in, I think you're, if you can make like two investments, you invest in tech, crypto, that's ethereum, you know, invest in money, crypto, that's bitcoin. But now that bitcoin is trying to do like Defi and things like that, I think it's like, I don't know, it just makes that less clear from an investment angle. I'm just curious how you think about that, Lyn.
00:47:39.396 - 00:48:05.176, Speaker A: Well, one thing I'd point out is that they're both one. I would say that bitcoin is not trying to do anything because bitcoin is just a protocol. So some people on top of bitcoin are trying to do something with it. It's not like the developers were like, hey, let's do this change to do defi. So bitcoin just is, and we build on top of it. So that's number one. Number two is that in some way, if you look at, say, bitcoin and ethereum, they're both, there's developers on both trying to cross over.
00:48:05.176 - 00:49:17.468, Speaker A: So Ethereum's got their ultrasound money meme, for example, where they're saying, hey, we are this programmable thing that's also ultrasound money. And then you have bitcoin, which from the beginning has been money. And then there's some, for a while now, there's been ever since Omni layer and things like that, there's been efforts to put more complex programmability on top of layers on bitcoin. And so I actually think that the investment thesis is still very clear that basically, if someone appreciates the immutability of proof of work and the long term verification of proof of work, and they say, okay, what is the network that has the most proof of work? And it has small nodes that users can run rather than relying on third parties to get their transactions into the blockchain or to initiate them, I should say then bitcoin is. There's no competitor anywhere close to bitcoin in that regard. Now, when you look at the DeFi landscape right now, ethereum dominates it. There's obviously in this last bull market, there were all sorts of l one s that made different trade offs.
00:49:17.468 - 00:50:03.930, Speaker A: Generally they sacrifice some degree of further decentralization in order to have more throughput, lower fees, different models like that. I think that from an institutional allocation standpoint, I think the thesis is still pretty clear for these types of assets. I think that there's always some degree of crossover, but I think it's pretty clear. And I think a main thing that if I were to argue that the tech people miss compared to what some of the money people see, is that the money angle is such a big market when you look globally, basically, that there are a lot of people around the world that want better money. Billions of people want better money. And that's not a small market. Even if it's just gold.
00:50:03.930 - 00:50:29.790, Speaker A: If it's gold that's available to everybody on a smartphone, that can be twice gold, ten times gold. And if it's also gold with layers built on top of it, with other stuff, who knows, lightning or side chains and things like that, that also allows for payments, which we have now to some degree, then that's even a bigger idea. And I think that that is still a completely underappreciated market size.
00:50:29.982 - 00:51:52.964, Speaker C: Yeah, I want to push back against this idea that DeFi on bitcoin can't be as good. And I agree on the programmability side. It's obviously like less flexible in certain ways than Ethereum or some of the other newer chains. But the more important thing on DeFi is TVL, right? Like if you have a uniswap clone, you don't have any money in it and you have huge slippage and you can't do anything, you can't do any substantial activity, then it's useless, right? So above, like programmability is like, how much TVL do you have? And if the thesis is correct that this is the better form of money and it's ten times gold, then the TVL is going to be here. And if the TVL is there, forget like, you know, you can't do like all these complex smart contracts that are maybe you can actually like, you know, who knows what you can do? But even if you can't, with just having a ton of like people's wealth held in this asset, you should be able to use it in some financial way, like Defi, just in the general sense of, like I said, use it for collateral, you get a house and use bitcoin to provide some security for the mortgage provider or a lot of basic things that you might still want to do with it. And it being such a huge monetary asset, should have some use cases. I think.
00:51:53.784 - 00:52:13.330, Speaker B: I think both those are phenomenal points. Yeah, I very much agree with both of those. Before we started recording, you were talking about this like derivatives, take that. I'll be honest, I was not really following. Can you explain what you were talking about there? Like there's this whole other bear case that maybe Ari has written a paper about. Can you, can you explain this?
00:52:13.522 - 00:53:00.316, Speaker C: Yeah, I mean, reluctantly, because, you know, some people are actually, I'm personally not concerned about this. I'm happy to talk about this. But, you know, when we look at attack vectors, like, we actually should be more specific about their security, and we can put a dollar amount on how much the equipment costs and how much miners getting paid, but we should look at specific attack vectors. And what do those mean? Why would somebody attack? One of the reasons they would attack is they want to make money. There's a financial incentive to attack. And you start thinking, okay, how would somebody make money by attacking? There's the double spend, for example. They'll do some ways to send bitcoin and then cash it out and send it again, and they kind of reorg the chain.
00:53:00.316 - 00:53:38.672, Speaker C: So I think Antonopoulos has talked about that and there's some great clips of him talking about that specific attack vector. So it's not worth getting into right now. I think there's better people to speak about why that's not necessarily a huge concern. Another concern is somebody can make it unusable. They can just buy all the block space, take control of the block space, not all the transactions get through and then becomes kind of like a frozen chain, right? It becomes frozen in time. Even if social consensus knows what coins everybody has, they can't actually use it as a settlement layer. So how can somebody make money on this? Well, potentially they do a lot of shorting.
00:53:38.672 - 00:54:26.790, Speaker C: They kind of short derivatives. Derivatives market is always much, much bigger than the spot market, right? You can do like ten x, you can do huge derivatives bets, and somebody might potentially bet billions and billions of dollars that bitcoin is going to go down, short it in different ways. They can borrow it and then sell it and try to rebuy it cheaper, et cetera. So this is another attack vector. I think making the chain unusable and trying to short derivatives for me, is not a real attack vector. And I just want to kind of point out why. We'll all see as social consensus, as I'm talking about, that this is happening, we'll all see that the bitcoin chain has become unusable, and it'll be pretty clear that someone is financially kind of shorting.
00:54:26.790 - 00:55:25.514, Speaker C: And as we've seen with GameStop and other times when a gang of people around the world realizes that someone is really short, there's a huge short squeeze possible and people can just buy the price and kind of try to squeeze somebody out of a short position and just make the opposite happen. And there are large financial actors that can coordinate such a squeeze. So yeah, the attack vectors, I would say, are maybe not financially related. The ones that I'm concerned about are more kind of state related. Like you saw Hillary Clinton recently talk about how bitcoin is potentially this big threat. They're already kind of seeing as a threat to the dollar, into the US government and to the US power. So those type of threats I think are more dangerous where it's done just purely to disrupt the system and not so much for monetary gain.
00:55:27.134 - 00:57:00.798, Speaker A: I would agree the state attacks are a bigger concern than financial attacks. In addition to the, what he pointed out of being able to squeeze derivatives attackers, I would also point out that because there's a real world component here, some financial analysts are easy to theory craft things, whereas if you actually look at it from an engineering perspective, it's like ten x harder than they think. So for example, you can say, well, you could do a massive derivatives position and then buy at 51% of the hash rate and then sent to the network and then whatever the steps may be for the Pacific attack. But if you look at actually what it takes to get 51% of the network, even if the total amount of ASICs are only worth a few billion, you have to like. So for example, when the China ban happened, and like big us mining corporations, they bought a lot of asics, marathon, for example, bought a ton and they were setting up all their facilities and then they ended up, they had frictions getting those facilities in place. And so they actually had like miners sitting in like warehouses for a while because they just didn't have the, they didn't have the data center infrastructure to get them plugged in properly. I think when you actually look at, when you look at what it takes to like acquire or build out, you know, the property rights, the data center, the power agreements, and then the ASICS themselves, in order to amount any sort of sustained attack on the network in order to benefit a derivatives position is harder than financial theory crafting would suggest.
00:57:00.798 - 00:57:56.384, Speaker A: I think that there's countless frictions you'd run into and it would very likely be visible to the network ahead of time. It'd be hard to do that in secret, even if you somehow could pull it off. And so that, you know, that's another reason I would just, I would for the most part not be concerned about derivatives attacks. And then as far as, yes, state attacks I think are more of a concern, then you can look at it. What if all of the institutional proof of stake coins were confiscated and then put into validators? There'd have to be some sort of network response against that. I think confiscation of miners is another risk. Back when China attacked it, one of the valid concerns, what if they just take all the miners and try to attack the network? For example, what if the United States one day tries to do it? I think nation state attacks are more valid concerns to theorycraft around than derivatives attacks.
00:57:58.284 - 00:58:03.476, Speaker B: I think you're giving the government too much credit. That seems like too complex of a thing for them to execute on.
00:58:03.500 - 00:58:05.076, Speaker A: Yeah, that's why it hasn't happened.
00:58:05.220 - 00:58:42.010, Speaker B: Yeah, exactly. One thing, actually, from our earlier conversation about block space, you guys have me thinking, is one of the things you've seen in the last. One of the things you've seen recently with Ethereum is a lot of proposals that help Ethereum manage the demand for block space. And if bitcoin continues down this route, bitcoin is also going to have to learn how to manage the demand for its block space in similar ways that other chains have. Such as, I'm thinking about, like, EIP 1559, dynamic block sizes, or like, EIP 4844, the ephemeral data blob thing. Like mev markets. Are we.
00:58:42.010 - 00:59:01.304, Speaker B: Is this, when you think about, like, the next couple of years for bitcoin, is this kind of the path that we go down? You're going to start seeing these, like, I don't know. We all saw how crazy the block size the block cores were in 2017. How do you think about bitcoin's strategy for managing the demand for its block space?
00:59:02.884 - 00:59:04.996, Speaker A: Is that at me or Jordy?
00:59:05.060 - 00:59:10.104, Speaker B: At either one. Whoever wants to take this one, Jordy, you want it?
00:59:13.974 - 01:00:10.792, Speaker C: Tough question. So I think right now, obviously, you're seeing a lot of people that are discontent with not being able to get a transaction through. When people are spamming the network with all kinds of other coins and images and things, they'll have to be some kind of solution at some point. Either they'll segment the block space in certain ways or maybe create some kind of roll up where certain things happen, and that's kind of how they can maybe get checked into the base layer. I don't know. In a way, it's okay if people want to pimp their satoshis, they have individual satoshis, and they want to pimp them out in a certain way and give them some extra value or creativity around it. Um, but, you know, we'll have to see, like, if this is still a problem in.
01:00:10.792 - 01:00:18.364, Speaker C: In a year or two years like this, this could be kind of like a short term idea. It's, it's still unclear. Right. It's very new.
01:00:18.704 - 01:01:04.902, Speaker B: I have a prediction for you guys, which is uh, and then Lynn, I want to hear your thought on that too. But I think that the block size war scarred so many people from introducing like some of these proposals that, that it actually won't happen and maybe it shouldn't even happen, by the way. But uh, I do think one thing that we'll see, maybe not this year, but probably next year, is some sort of l two on ethereum where all of the fees are actually paid in bitcoin and which actually uses bitcoin as the data availability layer instead of ethereum. And I think that could be like a really, that would be a really interesting thing from a tech lens, but also from a social consensus lens of like bitcoin and ethereum kind of working together. I don't know. That's something that would be an interesting experiment to try out. Lynn, I interrupted you though.
01:01:04.902 - 01:01:06.918, Speaker B: I want to hear your thoughts on this.
01:01:07.086 - 01:01:44.960, Speaker A: Yeah, I was going to say I think fees will sort it out and I think that. So constraints are kind of the source for creativity, right. When designers have constraints to work around, that's, that's where innovation tends to happen. And you know, for a while people have said why isn't there more L2 activity on bitcoin? And it's, it's like, well why would there be when base layer transactions are like seventy five cents and most people prefer to hodl their bitcoin rather than actively spend it, right. So you'd have basically small l two s for people that actually want to use that. Like let's say you want to do more frequent payments with lightning and things like that. That existed, it was increasingly a vibrant thing.
01:01:44.960 - 01:02:22.988, Speaker A: But compared to the size of the base layer, l two s have been small. And that's partially because there's been no, no constraint, that there's been very little fee pressure in most times. And the brief periods we actually had free pressure like before segwit, and now those are generally catalysts for change. We've already seen more exchanges announced they're going to use lightning. More exchanges announced that they're going to batch transactions better. We've had some of these bitcoin exchanges or brokers announce new ways, aside from lightning, basically all sorts of ways to buy bitcoin, withdraw bitcoin, things like that. And that's in response to fees.
01:02:22.988 - 01:03:22.590, Speaker A: And obviously fee spikes cause those changes. But also if there were a gradual period of just if adoption goes up three x and we've already kind of made a lot of efficient use of block space and now there's just a more sustained fee market from that point, let's say five years from now, then that creates another set of incentives that basically incentivizes more l two development. And so I think that the incentives and the foundation are already there. And that's why I even, I do some venture capital in the space that I'm funding some scaling solutions as well, and funding some privacy solutions, because we've seen, obviously there's been challenges to privacy over the past few years, including on top of bitcoin and ways to make bitcoin more private. It's also been challenged on Ethereum with the sanctioning of tornado cash. And so I'm personally funding types of scaling and privacy solutions. And this was before the current fee spikes.
01:03:22.590 - 01:03:59.142, Speaker A: This fee spike is just yet another kind of reason. I can point to why those things have to exist. And they might be uninteresting to people during periods of low fees, but then they become a lot more interesting during periods of high fees. I think one other thing I'll point out is loss in discussion is often that node, the ability to run a node is a key part of security. If you can't run a node, then you're reliant on third party node operators. If that's a challenging and network effect type thing. And there's only a few big providers, it's easy for them to be sanctioned controlled.
01:03:59.142 - 01:04:34.894, Speaker A: It's hard for people other than very, very power users to interact with the network in a super uncensored way. And so when you look at say Ethereum, there's something like less than like 7000 visible nodes. If you look at the percentage of those that are actually hosted like on Amazon and things like that, it's most of them. So there's less than 3000 nodes that are not hosted on these cloud providers. Ethereum nodes are also too big to run over Tor. So we actually have probably more visibility into the actual number of nodes out there. Whereas when you look at bitcoin there's like 17,000 visible nodes.
01:04:34.894 - 01:05:17.804, Speaker A: It's unclear how many nodes there are. They're not visible because you can run bitcoin nodes in those more private ways using Tor and things like that. And so I think that the ability to even ten years from now or 20 years from now, if we're talking about long term security, we also have to talk about the long term viability of how many nodes there are, both in terms of decentralization of the network. But then also from a practical standpoint, if you just want to interact with the network as privately and as censorship resistant as possible, being able to use a node is one of the key parts of that. In addition to the other layer of whether miners or validators are able to actually censor the network itself.
01:05:21.544 - 01:05:36.544, Speaker B: I have a couple of macro related bitcoin questions. Maybe we could transition to that as we think about wrapping this up. But anything else that you think is important to cover on the like, block space, ordinals, BRC, twenties, security part of the conversation.
01:05:37.084 - 01:06:06.706, Speaker C: I mean, just the one thing I want to reiterate is that I think, taking a very binary stance, that this is what bitcoin is. It's very clearly defined. And this very pure maxi approach is being shown as what it is, which is not sustainable. Things change over time. People have slightly different opinions about slightly different things. Even Michael Saylor is kind of taking a different stance than a lot of the other maxis. I think having that visibility is probably good overall.
01:06:06.706 - 01:07:08.236, Speaker C: It kind of creates a more realistic environment where we try to find social consensus. And in that sense, I'm quite pleased that we're seeing some of these assumptions get questioned. And some of the memes and kind of repeated arguments that a certain subsection of bitcoin holders were kind of kept repeating over and over again and kind of trying to present this as being the truth are not a base truth. And there's a lot of bitcoin holders, and I know a lot of bitcoin holders around the world that I meet with and talk with that don't share those kind of default views of like, let's just call them like the sponsored podcasts by the same companies and the same kind of few people. So I'm looking forward to, as Lynn said, over time, seeing what things come out and even in the venture space and scaling solutions and other ideas. And I think it's generally positive what's.
01:07:08.260 - 01:07:32.984, Speaker A: Happening, and I don't disagree with that. But one addition I would make to that is that one trap we fall into a lot is that we exaggerate the importance of loud groups on, say, Twitter. Right. And let's say, put bitcoin aside. That just happens in politics. Right. You know, you, like, you see like Bill Maher, despite his scale, there'll be like a couple angry people on Twitter.
01:07:32.984 - 01:08:08.484, Speaker A: And he, like, that's, he's, he's fine tuned to overreact or something like that. You know, the loudest people capture the most. They have the, they have the biggest microphone when it comes to bitcoin. Say, Troy Cross just did a poll about this usage of block space and what should determine what is spam or what is a viable usage of block space. And 80% of the results said basically the market, the fee market, it wasn't people trying. This is the only viable use of block space by far. The majority answer was basically whatever people pay for.
01:08:08.484 - 01:08:52.154, Speaker A: And so I think if you factor out a couple hundred people on Twitter, that's really not, that's like the tip of the iceberg of bitcoin. Bitcoin is this iceberg under the surface, around the world, countries all over the place, people that are all very different than each other, that have certain shared interest in the technology. And even I think those people are still a valuable role. I mean, a lot of them played a key role, I think, in bitcoins. Immutability, I think disagreeableness is a especially the best kind of disability. Disagreeableness is a part of network defense. And I think the technology in some ways, the fact that you can run your own node and that if someone wants to change the code and you're like, well, you're not going to change my node.
01:08:52.154 - 01:09:29.284, Speaker A: And then, so the burden of proof or the burden of difficulty is always on people that want to change the code, right? Which means that if you are super, if you can do something so good that, like, most people want to change to it, especially like a soft fork, you can. But otherwise the default status is immutability. And I think that balance is struck, right? That there's going to be loud people. I think they are useful, but they shouldn't be thought of as bitcoin. That's one segment of bitcoin, and there's millions of people around the world that interact with bitcoin in some way or another.
01:09:30.224 - 01:09:47.444, Speaker B: Very well said, Lynn. Yeah, I completely agree with that. A couple of macro related bitcoin questions before we wrap this. Do both of you think that. I guess this is a layered question here, but would you say that the banking failures are priced into bitcoin right now?
01:09:50.464 - 01:10:35.256, Speaker C: I mean, I think bitcoin and ETH as well, I think both of them are extremely undervalued for the potential that they have. I think there's going to be a huge supply squeeze on both of those assets at some point. So I don't think that the current price reflects a fair value. If you're looking at a five year horizon for both of those assets in terms of banking crisis, we're seeing a bid in gold in general, I think that bid makes sense. I see bitcoin is kind of different than gold. I see gold as being the game that central banks play with each other to kind of coordinate who has wealth. It's not a retail game, and I think bitcoin is more the retail version.
01:10:35.256 - 01:11:01.842, Speaker C: So gold has its use like Lynn described before. It's a terrible thing for actually sending around the world. It's only for nation states that are trying to deal with huge foreign reserves and kind of try to keep a ledger of those foreign reserves. It's great for that. But for normal humans, I think bitcoin is a different version. And it's not digital gold. It's just a human version of gold.
01:11:01.842 - 01:11:13.854, Speaker C: It's a retail version of gold. So I think there is a lot more that will happen in the bitcoin space as people start looking for this alternative over the next years.
01:11:15.094 - 01:12:38.188, Speaker A: Yeah, I agree. So the bank crashing narrative is decent for bitcoin and gold and things like that. I think possibly the boring answer is that the bank crashes. The bank issues, changed market expectations of the Fed's forward level of hawkishness. So the forward expectations of what they're going to hike rates to when those flatline or go down, that is generally a positive catalyst for various anti dollar or anti rate trades, which includes bitcoin, gold, other cryptos, to varying degrees, tech stocks, long duration high valuation tech stocks, those all some varying degrees, got a bid based on the fact that people started to assess the banking system as a potential constraint for how hawkish the Fed can be in their inflation fight. So I think that's a key macro thing that doesn't cleanly fit into that narrative, but it still is adjacent to the narrative, because if someone believes that the Fed can get back to a period of positive real rates for the next ten years, then the attractiveness, especially in the United States, for other assets, decreases by some marginal percentage. And you say, well, I can hold t bills and I'll sustain my purchasing power.
01:12:38.188 - 01:13:43.636, Speaker A: But if your macro view is that there's so much debt in the system and other adjacent problems, and that they're unable to get back to a sustained period of positive real yields, so they might be able to do it for periods of time like they technically are right now, but that they're unable to sustain that, then the case for alternative assets goes up, and so the bank failures play into it directly, but then it also adds to there as well. And when it comes to the sovereign layer, I think gold is attractive as a better word off the grid asset for people that really want, say, disaster insurance. If they're afraid the power is going to go out and they want some gold, it's good for sovereigns. If they don't want to be able to have one country like the United States just shut off their reserves, for example, or inflate their reserves. Gold attractive in that sense. The thing about bitcoin, and again, this goes back to my prior point about the total addressable market of a good money. Right now, bitcoin is really too small for sovereigns to really be able to use it effectively.
01:13:43.636 - 01:14:36.910, Speaker A: I mean, the oil market is two or $3 trillion a year. Even gold has trouble being big enough for that market to settle between countries and things like that, let alone other types of trade. Bitcoin is still a small and volatile market. And so its one of those things like if people can bid up bitcoin and adopt bitcoin at two x, five x or ten x, what they have now, and it becomes a bigger, more widespread, more liquid, less volatile market, then the sovereigns can get more involved. We already see, I mean, the kingdom of Bhutan is mining it and El Salvador is doing their thing. I mean, around the margins, you see smaller players that are more nimble perhaps, or more out of the core of the system, get interested in it. But the thing about money is that the more it's accepted or the more liquid it is, the more desirable it is.
01:14:36.910 - 01:14:45.154, Speaker A: You have up to a certain point that flywheel. I still think people underestimate the total addressable market of good money.
01:14:45.894 - 01:15:16.014, Speaker B: I agree. Bitcoin having is in about a year from now. It's like April or maybe May, probably end of April 2024. If you think back to what feels like yesterday, but was three years ago, the last bitcoin having, right as COVID was kicking off, I think it was like May 2020. It took about six months for the market to really start ripping. So when the market really started pumping was like. I think it was like November or December of 2020.
01:15:16.014 - 01:15:51.232, Speaker B: You had some defi summer action. But for the big stuff to really start booming, I think it was like November or December of 2020, if I remember correctly. So if you apply the super left bell curve take, which is okay, the next bitcoin having is April of 2024. Six months after that is like October, maybe it's November 2024. And that kicks off this bull market, which rips us into 2025. That's the very left bell curve. Uh, take on, like, how to assess when the next bull market is going to happen.
01:15:51.232 - 01:15:54.724, Speaker B: I'm curious how you guys think about that.
01:15:55.464 - 01:16:22.408, Speaker C: I mean, there's. There's two parts, right? Like, there's the initial part, which is like the six months before where the kind of speculators already anticipate that there's going to be a price rise. And then there's the reality, which is that there's like less selling demand because there's like, you know, miners get less. And that's. That's kind of like the part that you mentioned the most. But I think the, the first part, the kind of lead in, can see a lot of big price action. I think we're going to see it again, this happening.
01:16:22.408 - 01:16:42.824, Speaker C: My clues about it are even the litecoin happening, that's just going on a bit early now. It already had a very clear move based around the halvening timeline. If that can have it. I think that's a niche kind of side asset at this point.
01:16:43.164 - 01:16:47.504, Speaker B: Litecoin is still around. This is a still. We're still doing litecoin stuff.
01:16:48.164 - 01:17:18.884, Speaker C: We're still doing it. I mean, there's. There's still some people playing that game. So there's a lot more bitcoin holders than there were four years ago right now. You know, after COVID and I think we are going to see both the pre pump, which is kind of like this, purely speculative. You know, everyone's going to be talking about the happening, so let's buy in anticipation of that. I think that that will work and then potentially there will be a bit more of a supply squeeze after.
01:17:18.884 - 01:17:40.124, Speaker C: It is true that every time there's a halving, the effect diminishes. Just because as a percentage, we go from 4% to 2%. That's 2% reduction in supply. But you go from two to one. That's only a 1% reduction. I think it's still, at this point, it's still going to be significant. Maybe not in eight years, but I think this time around it still will be.
01:17:41.584 - 01:18:11.274, Speaker A: I agree. I mean, one way to quantify it, I mean, something like 900 bitcoins are produced today. So a $30,000 bitcoin that takes $27 million worth of new capital that wants to find a home, either the miners themselves just holding it or new buyers coming in. If the miners are selling what they mine. And when you. If you have the same price and you cut the supply in half, that reduces the amount of new capital that needs to come in. So if the same amount of capital is still coming in, that has a upward force on price.
01:18:11.274 - 01:18:47.124, Speaker A: I think the halving plays a key. One is, he pointed out, it's the narrative. Number two, it sets, I think, a higher floor, and it helps squeeze the price. And then you get that another wave of adoption, and people say, wait, this thing didn't die yet. And then they get in and it's around for another cycle. And more people know it, more people usability, more people listen to podcasts, more people read about it, and more people kind of change their view on it. And then it takes a lower level of new sustaining capital in order to set a higher floor in the next bear market.
01:18:47.124 - 01:19:26.418, Speaker A: The one part where I think the halving is maybe overdone as a concept is that for the past few years, I've done analysis on what drives bitcoin price. And obviously the having is important over the long term. It's not. The thing I find is most correlated with bitcoin price. I generally find that various liquidity indicators are better correlated with bitcoin price. And if you look at, say, the purchasing managers index, which is a rate of change measure of the economy, bitcoin is more correlated with that than the having. That's roughly a three year cycle, and so is liquidity.
01:19:26.418 - 01:19:41.002, Speaker A: Liquidity cycles in recent era have been more or less three year cycles that kind of correspond with that PMI. And so it's really easy to kind of mistake a three year cycle and a four year cycle and wonder which is actually driving price.
01:19:41.098 - 01:19:44.722, Speaker B: Lynn, what is that, the index there? What is the PMI?
01:19:44.778 - 01:20:16.196, Speaker A: Purchasers managers index, purchasing managers index. It's basically these surveys that have been done for decades. It looks like a sine wave over time. And when it's above 50, it means the economy is accelerating. The higher it is above 50, the faster it's accelerating. And the cool thing about that is it's not just are you growing or contracting, are you decelerating, you're still growing, but you're growing at a decelerating rate. That sine wave of economic growth and acceleration or contraction is actually pretty correlated with the bitcoin price.
01:20:16.196 - 01:21:17.984, Speaker A: And then liquidity conditions are heavily correlated with PMI and even front run it. And so if you just simply take global m two, so global broad money, and you denominate it in dollars, so the dollar value of global m two, and that's obviously mainly determined by how much money printing has happened, how much lending is happening, and then also how strong is a dollar relative to other major currencies. If you look at that in rate of change terms and map it with bitcoin price, its extremely correlated. Basically, when global m two in dollar terms is increasing rate of change terms, thats generally a very positive for bitcoin. And when thats decreasing or especially when its contracting, thats generally not very favorable for bitcoin. The way I tend to phrase is that in the near term, lets say any six to twelve to 18 month period, I think liquidity is one of the biggest factors that drives bitcoin. Obviously there's other factors, but liquidity is a key one.
01:21:17.984 - 01:21:30.464, Speaker A: But then that having plays in both in terms of narrative, in terms of how much new supply has to be absorbed by new buyers or existing dollar cost averagers, and then it helps set the floor in the next bear market.
01:21:32.684 - 01:21:36.476, Speaker B: Jordy Lynn, any last thoughts before we wrap this up? No.
01:21:36.500 - 01:21:52.454, Speaker C: I mean, I think it's been good to really kind of examine these issues from a, I think both Lynn and I try to be very objective. You know, we're not just trying to back a certain team, just trying to look at the facts. And I think it's been really productive.
01:21:53.154 - 01:22:07.850, Speaker B: You know, it doesn't make for as good of media. When I ask you questions like which camp do you fall into? And you say a little bit of both kind of in the middle, but it does make for a much better conversation. So I do appreciate both of your responses to all of this. Lynn, anything else that you're thinking about?
01:22:07.882 - 01:22:14.698, Speaker A: Not really. I think we covered a lot. Thanks for everyone for listening and hopefully they get something out of this.
01:22:14.786 - 01:22:25.994, Speaker B: Yeah, amazing. We will put links to Jordyn Lynn's Twitter's websites, newsletter links, all of that fun stuff. Whatever they have to plug, we will put it in the show notes. You can find them there. And yeah, as always, thanks for listening, folks. See you next week.
