00:00:00.330 - 00:00:50.262, Speaker A: Hey, and welcome to the weekly newsletter of Etherblocks, the newsletter for Ethereum Dapp developer. And this week I have a big news for you. But just before a quick reminder that if you want to receive the email every week of the newsletter, you need to go to my website and put your email, click on subscribe and every week I will send you the email and you won't miss anything. Alright, so let's get down to business. So my big news is that this week I've released my course, Ethereum Dap in motion in partnership with Manning. So Manning is a publisher of book in the US you probably know, or really well, Manning is a little bit similar to Aureli, same category. They are famous for their series of books with in action.
00:00:50.262 - 00:01:15.380, Speaker A: So they have a lot of technology in action, like Rust in action, Docker in action. And recently they launched their video platform. And previously this year they asked me if I wanted to make a course for them. And since they're a reputable publisher, I accepted. So I've been working on this course for about six months. So that's a huge work. In this course I teach DAP, of course.
00:01:15.380 - 00:02:05.960, Speaker A: And so we start slowly with a very simple smart contract, then we move on to do a multi sig wallet Dap. And the final project is a decentralized exchange where user traders are able to buy and sell ERC 20 token in a peer to peer way, like you would do with IDEX, for example. So right now, Dex are really big deal on Ethereum because they are by far the most popular kind of dapps. It's very interesting for you to learn how to build it, because after you can build your own DAP and maybe start a business. So yeah, I'm very excited about this. I hope that you guys will love the course. And if you have any question about it, please in the comments, write any question.
00:02:05.960 - 00:03:21.930, Speaker A: All right, so next, the other big news of this week is Metamask, that introduced its privacy mode. So if you remember a couple of months ago in a previous newsletter, I already told you that Metamask will stop injecting Webstery automatically from November the second because of privacy reasons. So why is this? What's the context here? The context is before metamask used to inject webstery no matter what. So that any website can check the presence of webstery and can know if you were a user of Dapps or not, and that can be used for analytics. So for some people it's no big deal, but for some other people, they don't want to give this information. So starting from metamask 50 there is an optional setting where user can tick and say hey, I want to activate the privacy mode. And when user do this, dapps will have to first ask metamask to release to ask the user to accept to show its address to the DAP.
00:03:21.930 - 00:04:15.162, Speaker A: And if the user does not accept this then the DAP cannot use the metamask of the user. So contrary to what I said before, actually metamask will not do this for every user the user actually have to activate this privacy mode. But in any case you need to adapt your DAP because for user who check who enable this mode, if you keep your old code it will not work as expected. So if you read this article you'll get more info on that. Next, there is an interesting article about atomic batch transactions. So what is this? So I know that it sounds complicated, but it's not so complicated. So what is the problem that we're trying to solve here? Actually the technical term is metatransaction.
00:04:15.162 - 00:05:06.602, Speaker A: So sometime on the blockchain you want to do several transactions in a row and you want to be able to do something where if all the transactions succeed then it's fine. But if any of the transactions fail, then all the transactions have to fail. So if you are doing a series of individual transactions that are unrelated, you can't do this. But there is another solution which consists in using a proxy contract. So you do actually only one transaction and this proxy contract is going to on your behalf do several transactions. But because these several transactions are sort of subtransaction and they are wrapped in your original transaction. So if any one of these transactions fail, the whole original transaction fail.
00:05:06.602 - 00:05:59.934, Speaker A: Also the state is reverted and there is no state change at all. All the transactions are canceled. So that's what you want. So in this article it explained to you how to do this? Yeah, I'm actually going to probably to make a video about it because I think it's quite interesting then what we have. Oh yeah, a credit collection of Ethereum and solidity tutorial so on codemental so codementor is this website where you can find customers if you're a freelancer and want to do some ethereum or solidity work. And they have a good blog and yeah they have this created collection of 26 tutorial. So I had a look.
00:05:59.934 - 00:06:27.510, Speaker A: The quality is pretty good, interesting and nice of conventor to provide this. You guys can check it out. Next we have the solidity cones. So solidity cones, it's based on something which is called ruby cones. Ruby cones. It's a series of exercise to learn Ruby that got quite popular. So three DT cones took the concept.
00:06:27.510 - 00:07:03.710, Speaker A: So they have a whole plan, of course, that they will release. So so far they only have this standard data type section that is ready. It's like search number, spice, rare, et cetera. And for the other section, function, time, transaction, detail, javascript, climb, et cetera, et cetera is still in progress. But I checked the first section and yeah, it's good quality. Yeah, so you guys check it out. Then we have this tutorial to explain you how to use slither.
00:07:03.710 - 00:08:12.934, Speaker A: So, Slither, if you follow my previous newsletter, I've talked about Slither. So Slither is a tool for smart contract analysis and security, and it's been deployed by trail of bits, a famous company in the. Yeah, so this is a tutorial just to introduce you to the command line of sleazer and how to do simple analysis. So if you are interested in security audit tools, then finally check out this tutorial. And then we have solpp preprocessor and flattener Cli. Oh my God, what is this? All right, so for me, the most interesting thing for this tool is the flattener Cli. So what is the flattener? So if you check out smart contracts on Etherscan, you will notice that a lot of time when they are deployed, actually all the code is put in one single file.
00:08:12.934 - 00:08:53.014, Speaker A: So you don't have to do this in solidity. You can use import statement and you could have your code split in different files. But in order to make your deployment easy, you can put everything in the same file. So a lot of people, what they just do is that they just copy and paste all the different file in the same file, which is fine, but if you have to do this often, it can be a little bit boring and also it's error prone. And as we all know, Ethereum does not really totally make mistake, because once you deploy a smart contract, you can change its code. So it's cool to have a tool that can do this for you. And that's the purpose of Solpp, as I said.
00:08:53.014 - 00:09:29.202, Speaker A: Also it also has some capabilities for preprocessing. So it's a little bit similar to metaprogramming. If you've done a bit of Ruby, for example, you have meta programming. Actually C Plus plus has some metaprogramming as well. With the preprocessor, there is also a preprocessor for C. It can make your smart contract development a little bit more efficient and less repetitive, so it's worth checking out. And then, oh my God, I love the next link.
00:09:29.202 - 00:10:02.810, Speaker A: Okay guys, really happy we got here because that stuff is really good. So this is a hilarious clip on how DaP works. So it's sort of comedy. It's to make fun of how complicated it is for end user to use DAP. So I don't tell you no more, you guys absolutely have to watch this video. It's like seven minutes. But if you've been in this space for a while, then it will really resonate with you and you will get it and you'll find it really hilarious.
00:10:02.810 - 00:10:43.686, Speaker A: So yeah, I had really good laugh watching this video. Then we have a release of a new Ethereum client by parity. So parity is the famous client written in rust. And recently they have released a lite client wallet. What is this? So lite client is not as popular in Ethereum as it is in bitcoin, but basically in bitcoin. A light wallet. A light client, sorry, is a client that has some degree of autonomy.
00:10:43.686 - 00:11:45.358, Speaker A: So it can verify that some transactions are included in the block, but it cannot verify that any transaction are included in the block, just the transaction that are specific to the address of the wallet. So the advantage of a light wallet is that it does not rely so much on a full node, whereas if you just have a wallet but it's not a like client, then you have to connect to a full node and actually trust that the full node is not going to deceive you. So like client are better because they don't require so much trust. And there's been some talk recently in the Ethereum industry to build like client for Ethereum as well. And so Barridi feather is one of these first likelian. So it's basically an improvement for wallet in general. And that might be the future of wallet in general.
00:11:45.358 - 00:12:16.310, Speaker A: So yeah, this article introduces you how to use. Yeah. So for the alpha it's only usable for Testnet, but if you are curious and you can download it and use it. And finally, there's sad news actually. So the SEC settled with the founder of Ether Delta. So the SEC is the security exchange and commission in the US. It's basically the policeman for financial activities in the US.
00:12:16.310 - 00:13:01.462, Speaker A: They are quite powerful and in the past they've already fined different people in the blockchain space, and this time they turned to the founder of Ether Delta. So Ether Delta used to be the most popular decentralized exchange on Ethereum, and it was actually the first decentralized exchange of its kind. It started, I think, back in 2016. And so for a long time, it's enjoyed no competition at all. And the founder was able to make quite a lot of money, if I'm not mistaken. I think he made several million in transaction fees from Ethio Delta. In the end, it suffered for some hack and the competition started to arrive last year.
00:13:01.462 - 00:13:58.520, Speaker A: And so after the volume on this exchange started to drop a lot, and it's been actually overcaught by other exchanges, like a folk delta or IDEX. So it's not the most popular Dex anymore, but it used to be. Anyway, it has a very long history of trade records. And recently the SEC basically accused the founder of the decentralized exchange to have operated an unlicensed security exchange, which is a crime, which can get him into big trouble. And so they've talked, then they settle for, I think, about $400,000. So let's just put things in context here, like how the SEC operates. So this fine is very small.
00:13:58.520 - 00:14:59.238, Speaker A: The SEC operates with message. So when they want to tell something to a new industry, they will find someone in industry that committed something and they will give him a relatively small fine. And that's a warning for everybody in the industry that the next fine will be higher. So for you guys who are dab developer and who are thinking of maybe building your own decks, what's the consequence here? Does it mean that you shouldn't build your decks at all? Well, it depends. First it can mean that on your decks, then you will refuse any customer from the US because the SEC has authority if you deal with american customer, but not with other country. So that might be your first level of protection. Also, you have to see in your own country what are the laws regarding the operation of securities exchange.
00:14:59.238 - 00:15:41.110, Speaker A: But the best thing if you're really worried about this is to actually consult a lawyer. In any case, keep in mind that you probably only have problem if your dex becomes really popular. If it's just like a few transactions, probably nobody is going to care about you. So, yeah, also keep in mind I'm not a lawyer guy, so you should not take my advice as legal advice. You should do your own research. So, yeah, that was the standard disclaimer in that kind of situation, quite usual. Okay, yeah, that's it for the link of today.
00:15:41.110 - 00:15:52.810, Speaker A: If you enjoyed this video, give it a like. Also, make sure to subscribe to my channel if you want to see more videos like this. And thank you a lot for following and I'll see you in my next video. Have a good day. Bye.
