00:00:00.240 - 00:00:23.790, Speaker A: Than f of the integral of H minu. Right. And why this so? Well, of course. Well, let's, I mean, of course it's, let's focus on this. Then the other is the same. Now, it is clear that if g is less or equal than f, given mu is a positive measure, the interval of Gd mu is going to be less triggered than the integral of f. Okay, so the non trivial implication is the other.
00:00:23.790 - 00:01:31.878, Speaker A: The non trivial inequality is the other one. But that follows from monoton convergence. You pick among all the g's in d, you can find a sequence that increases to f, right? And then this sequence is made of uniformly bounded functions because they are bounded from both by f and bounded from below by g, one which is continuous and bounded. Okay, monotonic convergence. The integral of this gn converts to the integral, right? And same for the other side. Okay, so in some sense, this fact, and this fact is what replace, I mean, suffices to replace the probability of Cb in the non composite. Okay? And once we have this countable collection of functions, we do what one always does if we want to introduce a distance and we define, to define a distance, I don't know, Delta between mu and u between two probability measures as just the sum over all n of.
00:01:31.878 - 00:02:12.114, Speaker A: Let me write it here. So that's the integral of f d. And then I take the absolute value, and then here I normalize with one over one plus two to the power n, the normal. Right? There are a few things that are trivial. So the first is that this is well defined, finite, and is actually a distance on the spatial probability. This is, these integrals are all finite. And of course, the value of this integral is at most two, twice the normal f.
00:02:12.114 - 00:03:07.514, Speaker A: So when I normalize, this sort of gets taken out, and then this factor is sufficient to be sure that they see this converges. Okay, sorry, Nikola, Nikola. Fn is an enumeration of, sorry, of the, of the countable collection that we call your formula is in shadow, Nicolas. And now the claim here is that Delta induces the reconversion, the topology of the Wicomas. You see what I mean in topology? Okay, this distance delta is terrible and nobody will ever actually compute it. Okay, the only, I mean, I'm putting here just to be sure that the topology convergence is induced by a distance. Okay, proof.
00:03:07.514 - 00:04:03.930, Speaker A: I mean, it's actually, the proof is quite, is quite easy. Let's, let's prove. So the first thing I want to prove is that the topology induced by Delta is stronger than the topology of weak convergence. How do I prove this. Well, the topology of the weak convergence is defined as the weakest topology such that mu two integral of f d mu is continuous, right? For every f bounded and continued, right? That's the definition of weak topology. So if I want to prove that delta is strongest and the topology is stronger than the one from the weak convergence, it is sufficient to prove that these maps are delta continuous for any f which is continuous and maps. Okay, so let f in Cv, I want to prove that this map is continuous at a certain measure mu.
00:04:03.930 - 00:05:19.064, Speaker A: So let me fix also mu probability measure, and then we also fix epsilon. Then I use, I use this, let's say the first identity over here to find, well, let me say a number such that, such that the integral, such that the integral of fn d mu is greater or equal than the integral of fdmu minus epsilon. And here fn is in d and lesser equal than a. .1. So I find an element of the, of the countable collection d. I will call sn. So I still fixed enumeration, I said this is true, right? That's a consequence of the product, right? All right, but then, but then, now if I do you know the integral of f d mu minus the integral of fd mud nu.
00:05:19.064 - 00:06:56.764, Speaker A: Now is another probability measure arbitrary. This integral, of course, is greater or equal than what is greater or equal than the integral of fn b nu minus mu epsilon, right? Because, because if I replace f with fn over here, I no get something smaller because fn is smaller. But on you not too much small, because, sorry, did, I mean, if I was, very well, but now, how much is this? I mean, I have, I mean, this is basically one of these terms, right? So this is at least, this is at least what it is. There is, let me say, minus delta mu nu. And then there is times two, one plus two to the power n normal f n, something like this, right? This is just one of the terms delta, you know, you know, the distance delta is bigger than this quantity. So, okay, well, but then if you pick new that delta converges to mu, this quantity goes to zero. And epsilon was arbitrary.
00:06:56.764 - 00:07:36.342, Speaker A: So out of this, you deduce that the limit, you know as delta. Let me write it this way. As mu delta converges to mu of the integral of f d mu minus z integral of f d u, this is greater or equal than z, right? The limb, okay, but now, you know, you argue symmetrically with the upper bound and you get it. Actually, the line inf is also less than zero. So the limit is actually zero. And and therefore, I've proved that for any f and any mu. Know this, you know.
00:07:36.342 - 00:08:57.992, Speaker A: Yes, this map, you know, is continuous at the measurement, but I knew is arbitrary. So, so I proved one inequality, right? Now for the other inequality, what is that? I have to prove, I have to prove that for any delta, any, yeah, for any delta open set, for any point, let me see. And every delta ball around that point, I can found an inbrood, which is a weak neighborhood which is entirely contained in the ball, right? So this proves that the delta topology has sometimes less open sense than the weak topology. Okay, but how can I do this? Well, conversely, fix new and the positive radius r. And now, and now, so, notice that, so the collection, you know, the collection of, so for every, say, n, the collection of news, such that modulus of the. Well, let me first write this way. So the models of the interval f I d, mu minus mu in absolute value is less or equal than, um.
00:08:57.992 - 00:10:00.704, Speaker A: Uh. Well, let me put, let me put, I mean, with this factor in front, one plus two to the n normal of n to the I normal phi, this is less or equal than, I don't know, uh, um. R divided two to the power I, for every I that goes from zero up to. Nice. This is a weak, what is a weak neighborhood of mu? You agree? I'm peaking. So I'm putting a factor, by definition, you know, this, the map that takes new and returns inter of FDU is continuous in the weak topology, right? So new is fixed. And you pick at the collection of news such that for one, given I, this quantity is less than, I don't know, three, whatever number, this collection is an open set in, it's a weak open set, and it remains a weak open set.
00:10:00.704 - 00:11:05.098, Speaker A: If I, rather than three, I put a factor in here in front and whatever, I mean, as far as I fix, you know, these numbers, okay? And then I can take the intersection of a finite number of those. So I fixed and I pick, you know, a finite number of constraints of this kind that this is weakly open and of course contains mu, because nu equals mu, zero is zero, and that's fine, okay, but then, but then, now you see, we are done. So call this set, I don't know, un, whatever, and let's see how far can be a measure new in un, how far delta sends can be from you. Okay, pick new linear and let's compute delta mu nu. Well, so, of course. So first of all, I, you know, so the first terms, the first n terms in the sum, they're all gonna, in some sense gonna pay. Cost me.
00:11:05.098 - 00:11:57.984, Speaker A: R to the power, two to the I. So that's, you know, bounded from above by the sum from y equals zero to the n of r divided two to the power I. Okay, and then I have plus the tail of this sequence now, and, but each term by, by definition of delta, each term here, you know, costs at most something like twice over one plus two to the n. Is that, okay, wait a second, maybe, let me put it to the n. Let me put it to the end of wrong. I mean, for the rest of the argument that nothing really changed, so that here it cost at least, you know, I don't have to normalize. Maybe it was not necessary because anyway, there was the df train over there, but anyway, it doesn't matter.
00:11:57.984 - 00:13:20.564, Speaker A: Okay, so this, sorry, so this is bounded by what r divided two to the n minus one, I guess, plus one over two to the n, something like this. Right. But now if you pick n sufficiently bigger, it is clear that this, you can make this quantity less than r. So it means that the open set, open set un is contained inside the delta ball of radius r. All right, so end of the, okay, now, yeah, there, I mean, could there be no template? But anyway. All right, all right. Now one of the first thing that one should do when introduces a weak form of convergence is to study its compactness problem, right? And that is what we are going to do now, let me notice, let me perhaps, first of all, recall the following fact is, anyway, you should be very well in mind.
00:13:20.564 - 00:14:23.534, Speaker A: So, risk theorem, I won't prove this, but I mean, it's, you shouldn't remind, it's behind all this stuff that I'm doing now. So the so effects is compact. Let x be compact. Then the space of finite random measures on x is isomorphic to the Banach dual of the space of continuous and bounded by x is compared to every continuous function is bounded. You do all of this via the isomorphism. When you specify that two things are isomorphic, always remember to specify the isomorphism. And the isomer is the one that sends an arbitrary finite, possibly sign the measure mu to the map that takes f and returns the interval of f.
00:14:23.534 - 00:15:17.984, Speaker A: So that's risk theorem. So this is a isometric isomorphism of Banach space. Okay, these are Banach space, the dual as a Banach. Now in particular by binacal oblique, under these circumstances, and. Sorry, sorry. And moreover, and moreover, clearly in this context, the weak start topology in this space of measures coincides with the weak topology that are defined on probability measures at any point. So by Bana Kalaoglu, I conclude that the unit mode of the space of measure measures, which is the space of signed measures of total variation, less bigger than one, the unit ball in this space is weakly star component.
00:15:17.984 - 00:16:27.090, Speaker A: By the way, notice also that by the formula for the duality formula for the total variation that we've given in our last lecture, we also know that the norm of the Banach norm of this guy is really the non total operational. Okay, you remember now, we had the formula that this is equal to the soup over all f in. Okay, this was true, complete and separable. Right? This, let's look at anyone, right? This is telling that the dual norm, the state of matrix construct is operational. All right, very well. So in particular, if x is compact, this, sorry, one other thing, the being so, the subset inside here, inside the space of finite measures, there is the space of probability measures, and the space of probability measures. If x is compact, is weakly closed.
00:16:27.090 - 00:17:46.520, Speaker A: Px remark again, if x is compact, px is weakly closed because, because so limit. So, so the, so how can I identify a measure to be probability? I need to be sure that the total mass is one. But this of course, but this of course is equal to the integral of the function one. Genuine, right? And I need to be sure that the measure is non negative, which of course is true if and only if for every f continuous. Next, non negative, the integral of f in d mu is also negative. Right, so, so these two conditions are closed conditions, right, so here and therefore, and therefore the closure of, right, very well. So, so in particular, the space of probability measures over a compound metric space is weakly compound.
00:17:46.520 - 00:18:31.132, Speaker A: Okay, by the way, you could wonder why I'm calling this weak convergence and not weak star convergence. Well, I guess that the point is that nobody really, I mean, at least in this, I will never care about the dual of the space of measures and use the weak topology in that sense of the space on the space of measure. In some sense you can think, or at least in our context, the measures are really born to act in the way with functions. So we start with functions, we dualize the space of functions and we have measures, and then we are satisfied by that. So the only duality relation that we really care is the one between functions and measures. So we don't take the bidual of the state of function. Okay, very well, so if x is compact, p of x is also weakly compact.
00:18:31.132 - 00:19:15.398, Speaker A: Okay, what if x is not compact? Well, for instance, you can easily see that, I mean, p of x loses immediately its compact. So really think in R. Pick this following sequence of measures. Delta is zero, delta one, delta two, delta three, delta. A direct mass at a point which is escaping at plus infinity. And then, and then it is, it is quite immediate to see that this cannot have any weakly converging subsequence. Okay? Basically, in some sense, the only possible weak limit, if you test against functions with compass support, would be the zero, the zero measure, because it escapes compass support.
00:19:15.398 - 00:20:37.964, Speaker A: But then of course, but then, of course, the zero measure, even if it was the weak limit, certainly is not a probability measure because you lost mass, because the mass escaped the plasma. Okay? So when we go to the non compact setting, the following concept is crucial. And in some sense, escaping mass, escaping out from, from compact subset is the only thing that can go wrong. So that can let you lose compactness. So the following concept is crucial. So now X is completely separable, okay? So Xd compute and separable. And then, and then I say that the family, a collection of probability measure is typed, provided definition for every epsilon, there exists a k epsilon inside x compact, okay? Such that the measure of the whole space minus this copper set is smaller than epsilon for every mu in my, in my class.
00:20:37.964 - 00:21:03.106, Speaker A: Okay? Notice that, no, no. Notice nothing. Okay? For the moment, as of now, we still don't know. We still don't know. We haven't proved yet that one given measure is, as a set is tight. We still don't know that. Okay? But basically what this is telling is that, look, now it's going a little bit toward the discussion that I was making.
00:21:03.106 - 00:22:30.694, Speaker A: So if all the measures were concentrated on the same compact set, then by the argument that I just gave immediately, it's clearly to the news that this collection is relatively weakly compact. Maybe it's not closed, but for sure it's relatively compact. And what it is telling is that, okay, look, I basically want to be not as close to the concept as possible. So for any epsilon, up to forgetting a little bit of mass less than epsilon, I know that all the measures are concentrated on the same composite, right? And the theorem, the theorem, occlusion theorem by Prokorov is that, you know, k is tight if and only if it is weakly, relatively. So tightness is exactly the concept that you should pay attention to if you care about, you know, relative weak components. All right, proof. And to prove this, I will, you know, I already proved that the weak topology is induced by a distance.
00:22:30.694 - 00:23:22.974, Speaker A: So I know that weak relative compactness is equivalent to weak sequential relative compact. Namely. Let me assume, let me assume. So say, so say let me prove the if. Okay, so I assume that is weakly relatively compact, and I want to prove, no, actually, let me start with only it's easier, your leaf is easier. So I assume that the space is tight, the collection is tight, and I want to prove that it is weakly relatively compact. Okay, what do I do? Given that I know this part, that weak topology is used by a distance, I pick a sequence new n inside k, and I want to prove that this sequence has a weakly converging subsequence.
00:23:22.974 - 00:24:28.088, Speaker A: If I do that, I'm done, because weak relative compactness is the same as, you know, compactness by substitute. All right, now what did I do? I, well, I use my tightness assumption. This argument is really, I mean, this kind of line of thought is really super standard, not only measure theory, it's really basically how one typically proves compactness in this sort of situation and simple situation where I know compactness, and I know that if I can be arbitrarily close to that situation, I still retain compactness. That's the kind of idea that is behind. Now I know now, now let me pick epsilon equal, you know, one over I, let's say, and then let's consider the measures mu n restricted to the set, you know, the compass set ki. This is, you know, ki, k epsano. So this is a composite.
00:24:28.088 - 00:26:10.504, Speaker A: Now, these measures are, um, okay, they are not probability, because I lost a little bit of mass, but anyway, not too much. And in any case, by Banachaloguru, in the, in the, in that, in the previous scenario, I do know that this family of measures, so the sequence, the sequence that takes n and this has weakly start, weak convergent, converging subsequent sequence, right? So by a diagonalization argument, I can assume up to, you know, relabeling the sequence. Thus, I can assume that, you know, this sequence that mu n restricted to ki weakly converges as n goes to plus infinity to some measure new I, right, which of course will be, will be concentrated. This will be a non negative measure. So non negative, this guy is non negative and concentrated on ki. Right, very well then. Okay, the idea is to prove, and I already claim, I make two claims, and these claims will give the proof.
00:26:10.504 - 00:27:12.774, Speaker A: So, first of all, the sequence I to new I is, you know, co she in the total variation norm in total variation, first of think, and therefore converges nu. I converges in total variation to some measure nu. And the second claim is that the mu n weakly convert this guy. And actually, okay, nu is a probability measure. I should also check, right, and how, and why is this the case? Well, let me. They're both easy. So the fact that it is Cauchi, what do they do? I take, I take a function f in cv.
00:27:12.774 - 00:28:02.304, Speaker A: Let's say we norm less or more than one. And let me compute, how much is it, the integral of f d nu, j minus nu I. Well, this is equal to the limit in n of the integral of a. The mu restricted to kj minus mu restricted to ki. Excellent. Right. Okay, now this is non negative.
00:28:02.304 - 00:28:18.474, Speaker A: This is a measure that I restricted to some set. If I don't restrict, I get something bigger, please. Of course, limiting. Thank you. Thank you. Absolutely. Thanks.
00:28:18.474 - 00:28:51.794, Speaker A: I would have been in trouble in a second. Okay, so this is, this is mu n restricted to x minus kx. Right. But how big is this integral? Well, f in absolute value is less bigger than one. So this, I can throw it away. And this is at most, you know, this is bounded by the mass. Well, let me say the limb or the mean in n of mu n of the complement of ki.
00:28:51.794 - 00:29:16.440, Speaker A: But the complement of ki has mass at most, you know, one over I. Right. So whenever, if I pick now the super among all the f of this form, I deduce that the total variation distance between u j and u I is less than one over I. Okay, sorry. If. Sorry. Of course.
00:29:16.440 - 00:29:47.412, Speaker A: Here I have in mind, you know, if, you know, j is bigger than I. Sorry, I have this in mind. Okay, well, that's it. So this proves that up to pass to a subsequence. This is a Cauchy. This is cauchy. Actually, I don't even need to pass the subsequent because when I pick now, you know, the rim soup in I and j of this, this is limbs loop.
00:29:47.412 - 00:30:05.584, Speaker A: That's right. So this is a Cauchy sequence. And if it is a Cauchy sequence, total variation, the space of finite measures. The total variation distance is complete. I didn't prove this, but I'll take this for granted. So there is a limit, okay. And it's easy to see that this limit.
00:30:05.584 - 00:30:25.596, Speaker A: So, so this limit measure, new. So new. So this is true. So converges to limit measure. So this limit guy is the strong limit of non negative measures, and therefore is non negative. And, and, and its mass. It's easy to see that this mass is one.
00:30:25.596 - 00:31:18.174, Speaker A: It is at least one minus one over I for every I. So, so it is, it is at least, it is at least there. Okay, the exercise prove that this limit must the limit measure as mass one. Okay, now why, why did mun convert to new? Well, now it's so, so I should, so the limit in n of the intel of fb, mu, n minus new, and what it is that I do? Well, I, you know, I write this guy as the integral. Let me see, of Fd, mu n restricted to ki, and then plus, actually minus mu restricted to ki. Let me think. Actually, let me, let me read mu.
00:31:18.174 - 00:32:30.210, Speaker A: Let me write this way. So, mu, this is the integral over ki of mu, n minus new, I minus the inter, over ki over the limit measure, nu minus nu I. And then I plus the integral with the complement of ki of f in v, mu n minus the integral over the complement of k over. So this is, I mean, without the limit, this is true, right? It's really an identity that is true everywhere. So when I pick here, the absolute value, this is less or equal. You know that the limb in n of the sum of this plus this plus this. All right? But now this goes to zero, right? Because, because d mun, restricted to the composite ki, weakly converts to nu I.
00:32:30.210 - 00:33:08.530, Speaker A: That's, you know, by, by, by our choice of our definition of the new I's, this is bounded. So let me see, this is bounded by, of course, by the total variation. So, nu I converges the total variation to f. So this is bounded by the total variation distance between these two guys that in I will go to zero. So, I mean, this goes to zero in I. Okay, this one is mole, goes also to zero in I. Uniformly nitness assumption.
00:33:08.530 - 00:33:50.590, Speaker A: And what about this? Well, the mass that the measure nu gives to the complement of ki, well, you can bound, again, let's use the triangle inequality. Let's bound this guy by this is lesser Eiga. By the total variation, I mean the distance between nu and nu I plus the mass that nu I gives to this complement, right? But this is zero. And this goes to zero, right? So, so I proved, I mean, one, one of the complications makes sense. All right. Now let's do the other. And the other is in some sense the surprise.
00:33:50.590 - 00:34:36.664, Speaker A: So this one, as I said, is the standard one. I'm closed as much as I want to a compact set, and therefore I'm compact. This is a very general principle that, very flexible. Now, this other implication is more surprising, I think, because it tells you that, look, if you start with an arbitrary competence of our workspace, you pick a collection of measures, probability measures, which is weakly, relatively compact, and then out of nowhere, these measures are tied. So out of nowhere, you can find compact sets where these measures are uniformly concentrated. Okay? And why is this declares. So? Now I prove the if and why is this decay? Because if you pick, if you pick.
00:34:36.664 - 00:36:09.100, Speaker A: So I claim, that is the volume claim for every I in n that exists. Well, let me, let me first, so let x n be dense. And now the claim is that for every I that exists, say capital n I such that, such that if I look at the set, I mean, I take the union among all the j less or equal than ni of the bolts with radius one over I centered in xj. And then I take the closer. So I take this family of dense, of dense points, I look at both fixed radius, small but fixed, one over I around those points, and I pick the first ball, the ball around the first point, around the second, around the third, etcetera, etcetera. I take a finite number of those and the claim is that nu of this must be smaller than one, two to the power I for every new in my set k, my relatively composite. Okay, um, no, sorry.
00:36:09.100 - 00:36:54.214, Speaker A: No, bigger than one, sorry. Bigger than one, minus, sorry. So let me repeat what this is telling. So if you fix a probability measure, fix one probability measure, probability measure, mu, and you look, so this set now depends only on n, right? Let's call it, I don't know, c and I, c I, c and I depends only on this parameter. Okay, now this set, of course is increasing with this index because I'm taking union of more and more volts. And of course the union of all this is double space because the center that I'm picking, they are dense. So it is clear that for one given measure, for every eye, I can find such an I such that this inequality is true for that specific measure.
00:36:54.214 - 00:37:28.220, Speaker A: For trivia, this or continuity from, continuity from below. Right. Here, the claim is that given that I am assuming k to be weakly relatively compact, I can find this ni uniform for all the measurements, right? And why is this the case? Let me see. Because if not, okay, yeah. If not. If not, I argue by contradiction. For every, I'm sorry.
00:37:28.220 - 00:38:59.728, Speaker A: If not, there exists, there exists some I bar such that and a sequence of measures. Now, I don't know, mu k, I guess, and mu k inside this guy such that, mu k of this c n of, yeah, mu k of c n, let me see, is smaller than one minus one over two to the I bar for every n, right? That's the negation of this statement. Okay, now these new k's are all these. Now this new k form a sequence inside this set, which by assumption is weakly relatively compact. Okay? So up to subsequence and possibly, you know, delivering the subsequence I can assume that the mu k is weakly converged into some measurement. Okay, but now what's the problem with this? The problem is that, the problem is that the measure mu is not a probability measure. And this will contradict remark.
00:38:59.728 - 00:40:02.184, Speaker A: I don't remember if I mentioned this last time, but let me, let me sort of open a parentheses. This is useful to know. So, if you have a mu and weak converging to mu, so let's say that these are all probability measures. Okay? Then for u open, you have that lower semi continuity of the measures. And of course for u closed, for c closed, you have the, you know, the other inequality, the way you should think at this is that under weak limits, the mask can escape open sets and can enter closed set, but not vice versa. Imagine, imagine for this Case, for instance, you use an open set. Imagine the measures mu n being deltas at the sequence of point that goes to the limit.
00:40:02.184 - 00:41:10.150, Speaker A: Then of course, at the limit, the mass is small. The mass given to this open set is molar, but on the other hand, it cannot be bigger. So if you enter the open set, it means that by definition of openness, you should have been there earlier. How do you prove this? Well, you can just observe that the characteristic Function of an open set, and this we mentioned last time, right? This is the super in n of the functions that are n times the distance from the complement, you know, truncated at one. So, so, so, because of these, now the measure of an open set, therefore, is the soup of the integral of this function. With respect to degree measure, this function is continuous, unbounded. So, integration of this function is weakly continuous.
00:41:10.150 - 00:42:22.744, Speaker A: And now you have a Functional, that is the soup of a Family of continuous functionals, and therefore is weakly lower semicont. Does it make sense? We are going to see this a lot, right? Soup of a family of continuous functions is lower semicontinuous. Here, the function which is continuous is the map that takes mu and returns the interval of dysfunction with respect to mu. Therefore, the super dysfunction, which is the measure of the open set, is lower semicontini. And then you change signs and you get the lower semicont. Okay? But therefore, here, what do we have? So this Cn is closed. There's a finite union of closed sets, right? And therefore, and therefore, and therefore, mu of Cn should be less or equal than the limit over k of mu k of c n, which is less or equal than one minus one over PI bar, right? But now here is the problem, is that c, I mean, this is true for every nice therefore, when you let n go to plus infinity, you reduce the mu, or the whole space x is less or even one minus one over.
00:42:22.744 - 00:43:35.452, Speaker A: And therefore, is that appropriate image, right, contradicting the fact that the mu k was tight. And therefore, I mean, sorry, the UK was a weakly, relatively compact. Okay, so it had a subsequence converging to a probability measure. Okay, make sense? Okay, now we're done. Okay, actually almost done, right? So, so where are, what is the compact set? What is this compass set ki that I want to build? Well, here is actually, let me be a little bit smarter than what I've just done. Let me, let me also say that I fix an epsilon, and let me put an epsilon over here. It's an armor, right? The argument carries over just, well, then I define K epsilon to be the intersection over all I of these circles.
00:43:35.452 - 00:44:27.724, Speaker A: And I, this is a subset index, right? And it's closed because it's an intersectional family of closed set. And totally bounded. Totally bounded, because for any radius, I can cover this set with, you know, finite number of volts of that radius. Why? Well, because you see K epsilon. So each of these, so take a radius, take I, so small that one over I is smaller than the radius. Then the corresponding set CNI can be, by definition, is the union of a finite number of bolts of radius, you know, bigger than the dark, smaller than the dark. So this is compact.
00:44:27.724 - 00:44:59.026, Speaker A: So that's what, that's what, that's so, so that's where compactness comes from. Right. And how big is the measure of an arbitrary, you know, u of the complement of the k, epsilon. This is, this is, of course is, let me think. I mean, this is, I mean, should be, okay, it should be done. Okay, this is the equal to the measure. Actually, it's bounded.
00:44:59.026 - 00:45:59.094, Speaker A: So this is equal to the measure of the union over I of the complement of CNN. So, so it is less or equal than the sum over I of the measures of these complements, right? But each of these is bounded by epsilon to the two to the I for any measure mu in my, my given family case. So I proved that, right? Um, now notice that. So now let me, let me show a corollary of this part. Corollary, this is Ulam's theorem. If you have one probability measures, this measure is radon. So it's tight.
00:45:59.094 - 00:46:41.156, Speaker A: That is to say, that is to say, actually it's not for a dome, but let me say, let me say this tight. So there exists, you know, there exists the kn compact. Does that mu of kn goes to one, which in general is not trivial. I mean, pick a probability measure on your favorite in three dimensional sphere. On l two, you pick a probability measure on l two, Borella, automatically. This is concentrated on a sigma composite. Okay? It's a priority.
00:46:41.156 - 00:47:23.974, Speaker A: You know, given that there are not so many compasses in three dimensional spaces, this is not true. Okay, in more general, you can say, with the same argument, by restricting a measure to an arbitrary borrell set, you can see that any finite Borel measure on a polish space is radon, right? You pick a Borel set e. You pick, you pick, say, mu, they say probability e morella. And then the measure new restricted to e. Let's say normalized if you want. This is either zero and therefore, it's easy to approximate the measure, the mass of e by compact set. You just pick the empty set, otherwise you normalize.
00:47:23.974 - 00:47:51.614, Speaker A: This is a probability measure which is tight. And therefore, you can find the compact subset. Oh, actually, no, sorry. No, no. I have to do one more. I may be more precise, maybe more precise. New probability implies new radon.
00:47:51.614 - 00:48:55.338, Speaker A: What does it mean? Radon? It means that for every e inside, you know, Bodette set, the measure of e is the in over the open sets containing e of mu of u and is equal to the sup, among compact subsets of mu of. Now, this first identity, we already proved last time, so this is, you know, does not require proper. Now, I proved this, this one last time. We proved that this soup is true if I pick closed sets, not if I pick composite. So I need to improve this. So what do I do? Let me fix a positive epsilon. And let me find, let me find c closed, c inside e closed, and such that mu of circle is at least mu of e minus epsilon.
00:48:55.338 - 00:50:16.954, Speaker A: That I can do, right? And now by this tightness argument, I can also find, I can also find k subset x compact such that, such that the mu of the complement of k is smaller than epsilon by tightness of one single measure, right? And therefore, and therefore, therefore, now, c intersection, k is compact because it's the intersection of a closed set with a compact and contained in e, because c is contained in either, right? But the measure, the measure of this guy, you see, that is at least mu minus twice epsilon. So I can lose epsilon. I'm going to see another epsilon when I, when I intercept with k. Okay, let's see what else we know. Yes, complete. Complete. Oh my gosh, complete.
00:50:16.954 - 00:50:34.458, Speaker A: In my defense, if this competition is for sure separable, but it's not a strong defense. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Complete. Complete and separate. Complete and separate. No, no, in the compact case, you know, there's nothing to. Now, here, here.
00:50:34.458 - 00:51:02.774, Speaker A: The point of Prokorov's theorem is that so weak compactness or relative compactness is equivalent to being almost, to being tight. We almost concentrated on compasses. Okay, all right, all right. Let me, let me, but perhaps let me take five minutes back. Now that's a good moment. We resume at eleven. 1011.
00:51:02.774 - 00:52:59.778, Speaker A: Okay, maybe I can, let me, feel free to, I mean, I'm here. Okay, what do you prove about that? So the if was, I'm assuming, what was, I'm assuming tightness. And I prove, no, the other one. I assume relative compactness. And they want to prove that also the last, the last part of the book. Yes. So we add.
00:52:59.778 - 00:53:45.586, Speaker A: So, by the contradiction argument was this. So suppose that there was some I bar, such that it doesn't matter how many balls of radius smaller than you know, of radius equal to one over I bar, I pick, I can always find one measure in my compact or relatively compact space that gives big mass to the complement of this. Okay, so I have these bolts, they start covering the space. I stop here and I find you find me, you know, a measure, you know, that's mu one. And then I add other balls. And then there is another measure, mu another, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera. So it doesn't matter how many I peak, you can always find another measure in the compact, in the relative composite.
00:53:45.586 - 00:54:46.054, Speaker A: Now, first of all, I take by compactness, this must come up to subsequences. This must convert to some guiding. And now the point is that what I wonder is, okay, but what it is the mass that mu gives to the, to one of these sets, the peak. And the point is that given that you know mass, so mu of the, this is the complement of this n, let's put it this way, okay? So if I try to get confused, I try to convey the idea. So the mass, so h of DCN is closed. So, so the mass that any of these mu gives to tn must be bigger than the limit of the masses. But the limit of the masses is far from one, because the way you select these measures for me.
00:54:46.054 - 00:55:16.366, Speaker A: So after a certain index, after the index n or whatever, all these measures are giving mass, at least epsilon whatever, to the complement. So there is some mass on the complement. Given there is a mass on the complement, this mass on the component remains in limit. But now, but now, but now once you get that this is less or equal than one minus this guy for every n. Now, now there's a problem. This measure cannot be a problem, because if I take, there is no capital n on the right. If I take the limit in capital n.
00:55:16.366 - 00:55:58.034, Speaker A: Now, this mass is less, strictly less than one. And that's, you know, the contradiction I would say. Okay, now the other topic I want to discuss today, and then, and then I will be done with general measure theory, is this integration theorem, by the way, how many, how many of you know about the disintegration theorem and their proof? And its proof? Okay, so let me, let me discuss this. It's a, it's a very beautiful theorem, very powerful, that for some reason, it has a bad reputation among students. So let me, let me, let me try to, you know, clarify. So let's start with the following example. Say that we are on the square zero one.
00:55:58.034 - 00:56:54.008, Speaker A: Let's say that we are given a certain probability measure, new on, you know, this is a probability measure on the interval zero one, whatever. More l. And now let's say that for every x in zero one, actually, let me call it y. For every y in zero one, let me say that given is given a certain measure mu y, on, let's say the, you know, on the strip y cross zero one. So this point is a point y, and there is a measure of probability measure. Suppose that the dependence on mu y and y is sufficiently regular. I will be extremely precise in a second, but for, let me skip now what you can think you can do, you can define a measure on the square by saying, look, let me some sense, put all these measures all together and let me integrate them according to mu.
00:56:54.008 - 00:57:44.032, Speaker A: So I could define a new measure. I call it mu on the square on the unit squared, by saying, look, the measure of a certain set e is equal to the integral in d nu y of mu y. That's the formula for doing what I was trying to describe. So you put, for every point here, you put the measure, and then you give a weight of this measure according to this initial measure. And then you, you integrated with this measure here. Okay, the disintegration theorem tells you that any probability measure on the unit square can be written in this form. Okay? I mean, a vast generalization of this concept.
00:57:44.032 - 00:58:40.906, Speaker A: Now, let me, let me, so let me say a couple of things. So, first of all, the definition of push forward is something we will see a lot during this course. So if t is a ma, these are two computer parabolic metric spaces. T is Borrell, and if mu is a probability measure on x, then you can define the push forward of mu via t. This is a probability measure on the Borrell on the target space y, and it is defined as p mu of e is by definition mu of the three major. Yeah. For every border, if the set is Borrell, the map is Borrell.
00:58:40.906 - 00:58:58.234, Speaker A: The pre image is Borrell. So this number is well defined. And, you know, usual stuff proves that this is countably additive. So it's an issue. Okay. So the picture that you should have in mind is that you have space x, space Y. You have here a certain distribution of mass.
00:58:58.234 - 00:59:35.550, Speaker A: You have a map from x to y. And you should imagine that you pick this mass, the mass that is a certain point x, you put it at the point c of x, and you do this for every time, for every point. Therefore, you get a new distribution of mass. Okay, how is the mass distributed over here? Well, how much mass will I find on subset on some set e? Well, I look at all the points that have been sent to e, so t minus one of e and they look at how much water. That's exactly. Okay, very well. Um, okay.
00:59:35.550 - 01:00:44.814, Speaker A: And the second thing, the second thing, okay, so concerning, okay, let me give perhaps another, another definition. Remark is leisure exercise. Let's consider them up. Picking points in a polish space and returning measures in a probability measures on another polystyrene. Then the following are equivalent. For every f continuous unbounded, the map that takes x and returns the integral of f d mu x is born. Two for every f non negative Borrell.
01:00:44.814 - 01:01:40.864, Speaker A: This is true. Three for every e inside y. Borel, the map that takes x and returns mu X of e is Borrell. Four. This map x to mu of x is weakly Borrell, that is to say, is Borel as a map that takes a point x in the starting space and returns a measure mu in the target. And in this space we put the Borek sigma algebra induced by the weak report. Okay, if any of these is true, I will call that this map is weakly border.
01:01:40.864 - 01:02:23.016, Speaker A: Okay, try to do this exercise. It's not up. Okay, but try to, these are all, these are really all equivalent. Concerning the equivalents from, from cb to these, perhaps, perhaps a sort of a sub exercise is worth to be noticed, but this perhaps is known from lectures on measure theory. Take the collection of bounded continuous functions on a matrix space and, and look at this smallest family of functions that contains continuous function, boundary function, and it is stable by passage to point wise limit. This coincides with the class of border function. Okay, so you don't need any algebra.
01:02:23.016 - 01:03:03.568, Speaker A: I mean I'm not asking that this class of functions should be stable by some products, multiplication by scalar, whatever. It's just, it's just, it's just that. And so, and these plasmonic convergence allows you to prove this thing. All right. Um, okay, now here is the statement of the disintegration theorem. And, and as usual, these things. The first thing that we should do when stating a theorem that is a bit technical is looking at the statement and being sure we agree on what it does.
01:03:03.568 - 01:04:38.224, Speaker A: So let x y be polished complete as a parable, no matter, and mu, a probability measure on x and t from x to y. Then there exists m up x into nu of x, weak liberal, such that two things are true. So first of all, for every f, actually, let me see, for every e inside y or l I do have, I mean, that formula over there holds. So the original, sorry, of x, the measure of a set on the source space, can be written as the integral of mu x e d mu. Okay, dx nu x I with a second staring at the statement, of course is important also for me. So the map goes. So let me first draw the picture.
01:04:38.224 - 01:06:20.534, Speaker A: And then, so here there is x, here there is y. Here I have a certain probability measure mu, and I also have a map. Now because of these, I do have a probability measure distribution of measure mu over the target space. And what I'm saying is that the original measure mu can be written as integral with respect to this measure of suitable probability measures, living on the premise of points of points in y. So I have a map that takes y and returns a probability measure mui on the source space weekly Borrell, such that for every subset this is, yes, okay, and two mu of y is concentrated on the pre image of y for nu, almost every y. And this collection of measures mu y is as unique as it can be if, meaning that if y to mu y tilde has the same property, then mu y is equal to mu y tilde for mu almost every. Yeah, right.
01:06:20.534 - 01:07:21.934, Speaker A: So it is clear, let me, let's comment a little bit on this step. So first of all, it is clear that if you have assert this weekly border map in this way, and then you redefine it for a set of y's that has zero new measure, then both these properties will be, are still satisfied. So in some sense this is the best uniqueness statement that you can hope, right? And so first thing, second thing, you see what this is telling. So let's have a look to the case of measures on the unit square that I started with. So, and take as a map the projection to the first coordinate. Okay. Then leaving on the pre image of a certain point means living, you know, on the vertical line.
01:07:21.934 - 01:08:08.876, Speaker A: And what, and what the theorem is telling in this specific case is that whatever probability measure you have here, you can always write it as the integral with respect to the projection to the first margin. So here is Newton, this new of suitable found measures on the only on this vertical line, right? But here topology in some sense. So this map is continuous, but the same theorem holds for t just Borrell. So this set is not a closed set, right? In general, might be not. Okay, now the questions. Sure, sure. Oh, good question.
01:08:08.876 - 01:08:48.673, Speaker A: Mu is a delta, is the delta on the primage. Okay, that's a good question. Yes, actually exercise prove this. So, t is a bijection, Borrell bijection between two spaces with the inverse Borel, I mean, and then look at what happens in this case. In this case, you don't have to disintegrate. So this integration tells you what happens after overlapping. And in fact this, I mean, I was going in some sense in that direction, because I want to point out that this integration theorem is a theorem that I mean is really just been discovered, I think in the context of probability theorem, probability theory, where it goes under the name of existence of conditional expectations and conditional probability measures.
01:08:48.673 - 01:09:37.105, Speaker A: Let me, let me illustrate this, because in the literature, this is really found most often in this way. Imagine, imagine t as just quite, on the contrary of what Robin was saying, t has just two values. You have space x, you have root dimension mu, and t goes either to this point or to this point and nothing else. Now you have already distribution. And you can wonder, so imagine t is a sort of a random variable, and you can wonder, okay, what will be my new probability distribution conditioned to the event that this occurred. Okay, well, what that would be, you would say, well, I pick, so I pick mu, I restrict it to the pre image. So this is a point p, I don't know, to the pre image of p.
01:09:37.105 - 01:10:21.690, Speaker A: That is what happened. And then I normalize, right, then divided by mu of t minus one, right? And the same for the other, see? And by the way, in this case, this integration theorem tells exactly this. You would put the mass that, I mean, t push forward, mu would be mu of t minus one. I mean, would be the sum of two direct masses. One would weight this guy and one will weight these other guys. It is q or p one, p two, let's say. And the disintegration theorem tells okay, look, I put on this finite number of points the probability that I reach this point.
01:10:21.690 - 01:10:58.034, Speaker A: And on each premade, I just normalize the normalized probability. Now, this integration is a vast generalization of this, because now the target is not assumed to be finite, it's just infinite. Okay? And of course, in order to do this operation, you need no topology. But when you want to pass from finite to infinite and getting some limit stuff, a little bit of topology is needed. So that's why, that's why there's polisher. This is a bit you don't really need in both cases, polish. I mean, things can be done in much higher generality, but I shall be comfortable.
01:10:58.034 - 01:11:40.470, Speaker A: Okay. All right. Now, other questions on the statement, or, you know, even big questions. I mean, is there something if something is not clear? Sure. Yes. Let me give two examples. Let's see.
01:11:40.470 - 01:12:44.426, Speaker A: Say that mu is the mu is, you know, the two dimensional Lebeg measure restricted to this. And t, you know, t is always the projection here, x, y is x, which I guess is a bit of confusion with, but sorry, the target is analogous. Okay, now what I'm saying. So, of course, the progestor t pushover mu is now Lebeg on the interval. Okay, and what do I know about fubini theorem? I know by Fubini theorem, I know that, you know, for every Borrell set on the, on, on the square, you know, v is actually equal to the integral, you know, from, I guess, on the interval, I don't want to grab from zero one because, you know, of, actually, I can write this way. So the integral zero one of e intersection, what it is, x plus zero one. Lebec, d.
01:12:44.426 - 01:13:35.476, Speaker A: Libek. Right. Now, how do I measure the size of a set? Well, I intersect with the strip, I look at the one dimensional measure over here, and then I integrate over there. This is telling that the disintegration of mu is given by, you know, a family of one dimensional right in such a, on the opposite side, on the other side of the galaxy, you can think the case where mu is concentrated on the graph of a function. Let's say it's ident f push forward Lebeg. So here, imagine f goes from zero one to zero one borrell. Right? Then in this case.
01:13:35.476 - 01:14:29.572, Speaker A: So what is this? This is, I look at the graph of f, and I put on this graph the Lebec measure. Now again, t push forward mu. If you just see what happens, this is just, this is just Lebed on the, on the unit interval, because I'm just pulling it back, it doesn't matter what f was, I'm pulling above. And then blue and, and, and then the disintegration, what it is then, then you exercise, if you want, mu x is going to be equal to the direct mass f of x for Lebe or most of the x. I mean, actually, I mean, this is not hard to prove. I mean, if you believe, if you believe on the uniqueness part, the statement that's maybe try to prove as an exercise that this is really the only disintegration possible. Did answer.
01:14:29.572 - 01:15:24.704, Speaker A: Okay, right. Okay, what is it that I want to, so, proof, now, the idea of the proof is simple. The tricky point is on some technical detail. So the idea of the proof is simple is, so what I would like to say is, look, pick e inside x more l and look at the function, I don't know, f of e. Let's call it f of e. This is a function from y into zero one. I guess we defined as is the density of t.
01:15:24.704 - 01:16:14.204, Speaker A: Push forward. The characteristic function of e mu divided. I mean the density of people. I mean, this is, this is mu, of course. Right. These, now in my mind, in my mind, what I want is that the measures mu y that I'm going to define, the measure that mu y gives to any set e should be equal to f of e at y for new almost every y. In fact, in my dreams, what I would do if I knew nothing about, about taking limits and whatever representative or whatever, I would say, look, I define this function at every single point y.
01:16:14.204 - 01:16:57.216, Speaker A: And I define this as my, as my, as my, as my mesh. If I could, I would, I would be, I mean, you know, I would be basically done if this was possible. What was the problem in giving this definition? That there's a problem of quantifiers, because I have, you know, too many sets over here. I mean, the set of Borrell sets are more than countable. I have an uncountable set of, an uncountable set of points. And it's not that I can, you know, here given e, I want to give this definition for almost every y. But if I really want to define a measure, a measure of mu y, I should say, okay, for this, for some y, I should really have a probability measure.
01:16:57.216 - 01:17:49.754, Speaker A: This means that I should be able to define mu y of e for every e, right? But, you know, okay, if the collection of e was countable, that would be easy, but the collection is uncomfortable. Okay, so here is where a little bit, a little bit of topology helps, because what do these data do I let. So given that x is a parable, there exists, there exists a separable algebra, let's say a sub. So this is algebra, separable, separate meaning accountable. I mean countable a number that accountable number countable such that, you know, generating, generating. How do you speak? The open sets. And you pick the algebra generated by the open set.
01:17:49.754 - 01:18:41.080, Speaker A: So an algebra is, you know, is stable by union, finite union, finite intersection, and complement, but not countable union or countable intersection, not necessary. Okay, so you start from open set, from a countable base of open sets is accountable. You pick the algebra generated by them. And that does the job. And now I do the following. I use the tightness of mu to say, look for every set I don't know a. In this algebra there is find a sequence of compact sets, ki, such that mu of ki goes to mum.
01:18:41.080 - 01:19:23.700, Speaker A: Ki, of course, included in a compact. My tightness I can do. I mean, that's the measure is drawdown, right? That's what we find and fix. Okay, so let's call a prime the collection. You know, it's a union. All these ki's for every, I have a countable collection for every set. Here I have a collection of countable sequence put all together.
01:19:23.700 - 01:20:25.644, Speaker A: This is a new family of sets, a prime which is decanted. Okay, and now, and now, now I can carry on with the program I had in mind before so I can define now I know. Okay, now I look. Now I look. So, consider the functions. So maybe I should, yeah, consider the functions f a for general a in these familiar functions. Okay, and let me observe that the following properties are so, first of all, fa is always between zero and one new almost everyone.
01:20:25.644 - 01:21:52.074, Speaker A: Two. F of the empty set is equal to zero, and f of the whole space is equal to one new almost everywhere. Three, if a one an are disjoint, then f of the union over I of the AI, this is a finite union, is equal to the sum over I of the f of a. Again, mu almost everywhere. Does it make sense since what I'm writing, so, and last, last, for every a, in, actually, let me, okay, for every a, let me write this. So in a prime, and, and the corresponding, and the given ki, we have that f of ki increases to f of a new almost every one. Let me comment on this.
01:21:52.074 - 01:22:45.154, Speaker A: So first of all, let's look, let's look back at the definition. Where was it? So remember that f of a is defined as the density of t push forward, psi a new over d push forward. So first of all, this is well, defined because, so this measure is absolutely continuous with respect to this measure. And therefore the push forward of the first is absolutely continuous with respect to the pushover set. This is t, in fact, even more. This measure is smaller than this. Therefore, this t posthold is smaller than this, right? So for sure this is less, bigger than one, almost surely new, almost surely.
01:22:45.154 - 01:23:11.730, Speaker A: And this is a positive measure, non negative. So this is also greater ego than z. Point, also greater than z. If I pick the empty set, I get the zero measure, and therefore the density zero. If I take the full set, I get, you know, the same measure. So it's one, this joint. Well, if this sets up this joint, you know, the corresponding, you know, chi, the characteristic function of disjoint union is the sum of the characteristic function.
01:23:11.730 - 01:23:42.284, Speaker A: So this joint unit works. What about this? Well, what? So, so here the ki's are always a subset of a. So it is clearly, it is clear that this inequality holds. On the other end, the. And if the ki, say, are increasing, let's say that they always chose them increasing. It is also clear that this is an increasing function. And how do I prove that there is convergence almost everywhere? Well, for instance, it's equivalent.
01:23:42.284 - 01:24:30.474, Speaker A: Now, to prove convergence in l one, I have one positive function, a sequence, an increasing sequence of positive functions smaller than this. When this deconver more surely. Well, if not, if it converges in l one. But what it is. So how much it is the integral of f of a minus f of ki in d nu. Well, if you look at the definition, this is equal to the integral or the, you know, the t push forward chi of a minus ki, d nu, d nu. As everybody know, you can erase this, and this, and this is, and this is equal to the mu of a minus ki.
01:24:30.474 - 01:24:58.016, Speaker A: That goes to zero by, by choice of ki. Okay, I still need five minutes, guys. Given that we start a little bit later, I think, you know, allow me to do this. So I conclude the proof I don't otherwise have to reintroduce the next week all the concepts again. Okay, so by the way, here I pick a in a prime. I should be a little bit careful because these ki's I chose for the initial algebra a. It doesn't really matter.
01:24:58.016 - 01:25:30.468, Speaker A: So if, if you pick si, one of the, of these compact sets will pick the sequence, the constant sequence. I mean, I want compactness here if I already have the start. Okay, now, here is the thing. So, 1234 are, you know, a countable collection of, you know, properties and requirements. So I can say, look, now I fix for every a in this set, I fix my choice, a border representative of this function. Define now every point. So I fix it.
01:25:30.468 - 01:26:29.828, Speaker A: And once I fix it, I know that there exists some negligible set inside y. Negligible means, I mean borl with nu of n equals zero such that for every y not in n, what is this not in n? These properties are true for my given well chosen, what I represent make sense. Okay, now. And now I want to prove. And now. And now. And now I want to prove basically for every y not in this set, I want now to define really my probability measure mu y.
01:26:29.828 - 01:27:08.252, Speaker A: And now, so now what it is my idea of course, is now, now it's clear I should define new y of a to be equal to f a. Now intending the border representative chosen and fixed of y y for every a in this a prime. Okay, now of course, a prime is not a sigma algebra. It's just an algebra plus some, some compass sets. But it contains an algebra that generates the borehead sets. And now, how so? And now there is, I need to use the following general factor of measure theory. I have what is willing to be.
01:27:08.252 - 01:27:53.174, Speaker A: So, first of all, this is a finitely additive. Because of this, because of three, it's non negative, takes both the value zero and the value one. You know, attempt is zero at the full page. This is one and it is finitely additive. Okay, I really would like this to be the restriction to a prime of an actual measure that is defined on the boresig margin. And when it is a general criteria measure theory that tells you that once you have a finitely additive measure on an algebra, whether it extends to the sigma algebra generated by that algebra, to an actual sigma additive measure. Well, this is basically if and only if and only the measure is sigma additive only prime.
01:27:53.174 - 01:28:37.114, Speaker A: Okay, here, let me remind, so this is a general result of measure theory. Remind you that when you have a, say, a finite additive measure on some family of sets, what you can always do is to produce the outer measure definitely out of it. You pick over countable coverings and you do infra. And then this outer measure is always a measure. It has a set of measurable subset on whose restriction then becomes a sigmatic measure. And the requirement that the initial measure was sigmatic on the original algebra is what ensures you that this original algebra is part is, I mean, elements is measurable and that the measure is actually what you wanted. Okay, so these are, we take for granted.
01:28:37.114 - 01:29:20.334, Speaker A: And so, so the goal is to prove goal, prove sigma additivity on, say a is an algebra that generates the border set. So if I do this, I'm done. Now, sigma nativity means proving that. I mean, it's equivalent to proving that if I have a collection of offsets decreasing. I mean, cn rolled in a. And I mean, this means that, you know, the intersection section of this cn is empty. Then mu y of c n goes to zero.
01:29:20.334 - 01:29:39.890, Speaker A: Sigma DVD is equivalent to this. If you look at this joint, guys, you take the union of details. The union of details. Okay. Okay. So sigma divine a. Of course, of course.
01:29:39.890 - 01:30:28.284, Speaker A: It means that if, let me be more precise. If a is are inside a disjoint and the union is also in a, then no, then your counterpart is. That's what sigma definitions. So in k in general, countable union is not outside a because it's not a sigma if it is there. Okay, here, now I have, I use, I use my trick of having picked these components because suppose that this is not the case. Pay not. Then you can find a family of bored sets in this algebra with empty perception.
01:30:28.284 - 01:30:56.054, Speaker A: And let's say that mu y of Cn is always greater than some positive sign. This is a decrease in sequence. If it does not go to zero, it means bounded from below. Well, but then, then by tightness. Tightness or what? No, wait a second. By. No, by not the fact that I.
01:30:56.054 - 01:32:01.304, Speaker A: So for every I, c I or c n, c n is an element of this algebra. So Cn as a sequence, you know, for every, for every n, for every n that exists, you know, this composite ki such that mu y of ki goes to mu y of c n because I've chosen y. So that this is true for every y, not in n. Okay, in particular, there exists. Let me say now we chose a ki that depends on n. So let me write kn compact inside cn and such that mu of k, mu y of kn is, um, um, let me see, mu y of c n minus kn is smaller than epsilon over three to the power n. Something like this.
01:32:01.304 - 01:33:06.330, Speaker A: Very. Okay. Now let's compute the measure, new measure, I mean, finite attitude measure of an arbitrary intersection, finite intersection of this k. And it is, well, let me be quick. So check that by finite additivity and the choice of this, this is bounded from below by, you know, a constant, you know, by some, I don't know, epsilon over two, something like this for every n, because the, each of these cn, a mass bigger than epsilon, each of the kn is, you know, is very close, in fact, closer and closer to Cn as n goes on, there must be a lot of intersection. Okay? Therefore, therefore, these, this intersection is not empty. But I have compass sets with a finite intersectional property.
01:33:06.330 - 01:33:35.244, Speaker A: Therefore, the intersection of all this composite is not empty. But this is impossible because DCN were going to zero and Dkn are included in Cn. Okay, all right, so, so this, no, here topology here enters into play. We use the poly structure to first find this k, and then to use this argument, to use this compatibility over here. And now. And now. Now.
01:33:35.244 - 01:34:35.804, Speaker A: So this proves that this measure mu I the previously were just finitely additive measures on this algebra, original countable algebra a actually can be and will be extended in a unique way to probability measures on the border on the boluscula. Right, okay, and now that's basically done what it is that is left. So I should, I should prove, let me be real quick with the outline. So for, for y in n, let's just define mu of y d delta at your favorite point, whatever. And then I should prove, well, this is by construction for every e in my original algebra, this is really by construction. So mu of e. So mu of e is the integral of the, what it is of d push forward.
01:34:35.804 - 01:35:43.084, Speaker A: Let me put this. It is, it is the integral of one in d push forward chi e mu. That's a very complicated way of saying this is true, but this is of course equal to the d push forward chi mu d nu. D nu, right. And this is mu y of e, by definition, for mu, almost every y by the feature. So this formula holds for e in the algebra, and then it extends by monotone convergence to all the models s. Um, okay, I should prove, okay, let's, let's perhaps, okay, now I'm taking a little bit too much time, so let me just, let me just say that we, okay, let me just observe also that the map is weak liberal, because the assumption, the assignment that takes y and returns mu y of e, at least for y, not in this negligible set.
01:35:43.084 - 01:36:20.196, Speaker A: This is really, you know, the, my chosen borrelia representative for this guy. So this map is border. And then if you extend this map to be a constant direct mass or the constant measure, whatever in the set, n remains border. Okay, and this again, so it's true for any e in my regional algebra, remains true by Bono to convergence theorem for every ebola. Okay, so I have proved, let me remind, so I have proved border regularity, the weak border regarding. And this formula. And let me stop here.
01:36:20.196 - 01:36:41.800, Speaker A: Next time I will prove these, the fact that these measures are concentrated on the pre made and the unicorns. Okay, but I don't want to exaggerate with the time. Okay. Okay. Other questions? Or we can. Friday. There is knowledge.
01:36:41.800 - 01:36:52.264, Speaker A: So Friday, you know, I would actually be sitting on the next. On the next room, and. But. So the next lecture is next Monday, no week from now, right?
