00:00:06.970 - 00:00:49.580, Speaker A: Thanks for tuning in to this week's news recap. Thanks fomz crypto is Tanking because of you probably. On Sunday afternoon, the total crypto market dipped to lows not seen since September 2021. Bitcoin led the way, dropping below $40,000 for the first time in roughly three and a half months. Overall, the crypto industry's market cap hit a weekly low of $1.86 trillion on Sunday, before bouncing up to above $2 trillion for the rest of the week. According to data from Coinglass, the market drop saw over $300 million worth of positions liquidated on the 9th, which is the third time this has occurred in 2022.
00:00:49.580 - 00:01:53.870, Speaker A: The dip coincides with big time money flowing out of Digital Asset Investment Products. CoinShares notes that Digital Asset Investment Products experienced the largest outflow of money on record for the week ending January 7. Bitcoin and ethereum based products were hit especially hard, losing $107,000,000 and $39 million, respectively. The CoinShares data shows four consecutive weeks of outflows, which has not happened since September. The firm points to last week's Federal Open Market Committee meeting as the catalyst for the market drop, which hinted at inflation risks and the possibility of interest rate increases, a take that haseeb Koreshi partner at Dragonfly Capital agreed with on the chopping. Block bitcoin developers are now protected by Jack Dorsey, block CEO and avid bitcoiner. Jack Dorsey announced plans via email to set up the Bitcoin Legal Defense Fund, a nonprofit organization aiming to protect bitcoin developers from legal pressures.
00:01:53.870 - 00:03:16.650, Speaker A: Dorsey wrote The Bitcoin Legal Defense Fund is a nonprofit entity that aims to minimize legal headaches, that discourage software developers from actively developing bitcoin and related products such as the Lightning network, bitcoin privacy protocols and the like. According to Dorsey, the fund's first goal is to coordinate and organize defense for bitcoin developers. In a lawsuit coming from Tulip Trading Limited, a company associated with Craig Wright, who claims to be Satoshi Nakamoto and was a leader in the bitcoin, cash and Bitcoin Satoshi's Vision forks. Dorsey makes it clear that the board, which includes himself, chain Code Labs'alex, Morcos and Martin White, an academic at the University of Sussex, is not seeking additional money for operations, but may in the future. Cash App is rolling out Lightning Network integrations Cash App, the blockowned payments platform, has begun integrating Lightning network into its iOS mobile app. Lightning Network is a bitcoin scaling solution that allows users to transact cheaply and efficiently without settling each transaction. On chain, Lightning has grown from holding just over 1000 BTC to 3344 BTC in the last year, which means roughly $150,000,000 in bitcoin is locked in the Lightning network.
00:03:16.650 - 00:04:34.110, Speaker A: While that growth is impressive, Cash App may bring an even further stampede of bitcoin to the layer two solution, as data shows that Cash App ranks as the 14th most popular app in Apple's US. App Store. Furthermore, in a recent report, the company noted that over 40 million users transact on this platform each month lightning Network should also receive a boost in activity from Strike, a Lightning based company led by Jack Mallors. Strike announced that its Lightning Network enabled app is extending its reach to Argentina. Expanding a Bitcoin lightning payments operation into a country with a 50% annual inflation rate and 45 million people seems like a decent product market fit, commented Lynn Alden, an economist on Twitter. In related news, The Wall Street Journal published a piece on how citizens of Turkey are turning to Bitcoin and Tether in lieu of the Turkish Lira, notably Ezra Alpe, the chief marketing officer at the Turkish Crypto Exchange. Bitlow told The Wall Street Journal the Turkish Lira's volatility and rising inflation seen in recent months has led our investors to see cryptocurrency as a profitable investment in the long term and as a hedge against inflation in the short term.
00:04:34.110 - 00:05:06.654, Speaker A: The Wall Street Journal notes that the lira is down 40% against the US. Dollar since September, which has led to crypto trading volumes in the Lira jumping to $1.8 billion per day. Despite the country banning cryptocurrencies last year, Paradigm and Citadel securities make an OD couple. Citadel securities made headlines on Monday by taking $1.15 billion in capital from two venture firms, Paradigm and Sequoia. The deal values the market maker at approximately $22 billion.
00:05:06.654 - 00:05:42.650, Speaker A: Citadel securities is massive. According to its website, the firm handles 27% of equities trading volume on the US. Stock market each day and executes 37% of US. Listed retail volume. Because Robinhood makes a lot of money from Citadel in exchange for data on its users trades. When Robinhood halted purchases of GameStop stock in early 2021, rumors swirled that Robinhood was acquiescing to a request from Citadel. However, the actual reason was because Robinhood did not have enough collateral for the compliance demands from the GameStop mania.
00:05:42.650 - 00:06:39.194, Speaker A: The move to take money from Paradigm, which backs quite a few crypto powerhouses like Compound, Cosmos, Sky, Mavis and Uniswap, is an interesting move by Citadel securities because back in September, founder Ken Griffin said the company did not trade in crypto due to regulatory uncertainty. However, based on comments from Paradigm co founder Matt Huang in a press release, it sounds like Citadel will be moving into crypto. We look forward to partnering with the Citadel securities team as they extend their technology and expertise to even more markets and asset classes, including crypto, wrote Huang. Coinbase enters the derivatives game. On Wednesday crypto exchange coinbase announced the acquisition of FAIRX, a US based CFTC regulated derivatives exchange. The purchase could soon allow Coinbase to offer regulated derivatives products to their US. Customers.
00:06:39.194 - 00:07:18.914, Speaker A: The press release noted. The development of a transparent derivatives market is a critical inflection point for any asset class, and we believe it will unlock further participation in the crypto economy for retail and institutional investors alike. Other crypto exchanges have made similar acquisitions. Ftxus acquired LedgerX in August, which is also a CFTC regulated derivatives exchange. Crypto.com Disclosure, a sponsor of my podcasts is also in the derivatives game. After purchasing Nadex in December, data from Coin Market Cap shows that Finance did $53.4
00:07:18.914 - 00:08:11.590, Speaker A: trillion in derivatives trading volume in the 24 hours Eastern time spanning Wednesday. Spot volume during the same stretch on Finance was only $17.3 million. Gary Gensler avoids answering whether ETH is the security. On Monday, during a CNBC interview, securities and Exchange Commission Chair Gary Gensler was asked whether ethereum is the security or not. Gensler responded carefully, saying, we don't get involved in these types of public forums, talking about any one project, one possible circumstance, or give legal advice over the airways that way. However, he then added in a somewhat ominous tone for ETH holders that if you're raising money from the public and the public is in anticipation of profit based upon that promoter sponsor, that group's efforts that's within the securities laws in 2018.
00:08:11.590 - 00:09:17.502, Speaker A: Bill Hinman, the SEC director of corporation Finance, said in a speech Putting aside the fundraising that accompanied the creation of Ether, based on my understanding of the present state of Ether, the Ethereum network and its decentralized structure, current offers and sales of Ether are not securities transactions. However, this is not quite the same as an official position by the SEC. Visa and Consensus want to bring CBDCs to TradFi visa is partnering with Ethereum infrastructure firm Consensus to help traditional financial companies integrate central bank digital currencies, explained Visa's head of CBDC Catherine Gu in a press release. If successful, CBDC could expand access to financial services and make government disbursements more efficient, targeted and secure. That's an attractive proposition for policymakers. The partnership could see Visa issue CBDC linked payment cards using Consensus's quorum blockchain. In related news, PayPal confirmed reports that it is exploring a US.
00:09:17.502 - 00:10:03.226, Speaker A: Dollar backed stablecoin solution of its own. We are exploring a stablecoin if and when we seek to move forward. We will of course work closely with relevant regulators, PayPal's Jose Fernandez Duponte told Bloomberg. Ethereum's largest L two went down for 10 hours Arbitram, the largest Ethereum layer two solution by Total Value locked, went down for nearly 10 hours on Sunday. Offchain Labs, the developer behind Arbitrum, says a hardware issue that led to Sequencer downtime was the outage's root cause. A sequencer is a node with special ordering powers that allow transactions on the chain to be finalized more quickly. For now, off chain has control over the loan arbitram Sequencer.
00:10:03.226 - 00:11:03.226, Speaker A: The team says it is looking into decentralizing Sequencer control in light of this event. According to Arbitram's Twitter account, no funds were lost due to network downtime pulled together. Sued by a former Elizabeth Warren presidential campaign staffer Joseph Kent, a software engineer and former tech lead for Elizabeth Warren's 2020 presidential campaign, has filed a lawsuit in New York federal courts against Pool Together, a DFI lottery protocol. Kent says he deposited $10 into Pool Together in October and argues that Pool Together does not qualify to give out lottery tickets under US. Law. Notably, anyone who purchases an illegal lottery ticket under New York law is allowed to bring a class action lawsuit on behalf of themselves and other ticket holders, which could lead to $244,000,000 in damages, according to the Wall Street Journal. In essence, the sue questions whether Pull Together is autonomous and self governed.
00:11:03.226 - 00:12:12.834, Speaker A: However, in the journal, Pull Together lawyer Kevin Brugle claimed that Pull Together simply owns the front end with information on how to use the protocol and that the operations are governed by the original code, which pool token holders now control. As the article states, quote According to legal experts, Mr. Kent's lawsuit could be among the first to squarely address the question of who is legally accountable when a DeFi application known as a protocol is at ODS with the law or causes actionable harm to a user. Time for fun Bits cryptoland is a Meme Do you want to be part of the world's first physical? Crypto island asks a male narrator to begin an 18 minutes, 35 second video promoting Cryptoland. After watching the full video, which is a cross between a metaverse hellscape and a cheesy infomercial, I personally would say the answer is no. The idea is bold and familiar. If you have kept up with NFTs and DAOs recently, Cryptoland is attempting to purchase an island in Fiji through the sale of NFTs.
00:12:12.834 - 00:12:45.210, Speaker A: After that, the details get sketchy. For one, it appears the island's acreage is smaller than the amount offered in the NFT sale. More humorously basic questions such as how would the island get plumbing? Were not particularly well covered. Alright, thanks so much for joining us today. To learn more about ofTub and the recent NFT news discussed in today's show, check the show notes for this episode. Unchained is produced by me Laura Shin, with help from Anthony Yoon, Daniel Nuss, Mark Murdoch, Shashank and CLK. Transcription thanks for listening.
