00:00:00.490 - 00:00:42.358, Speaker A: Constructors are special functions that are only called once when the contract is deployed. It's mainly used to initialize state variables. Let's take a look at how to define a constructor and for this example we'll initialize some state variables. Here we have a state variable of type address named owner and a un named x. We're going to be using the constructor to initialize the owner and the state variable un x. So, to define a constructor, we type constructor parentheses, and inside the parentheses we can put in some inputs. For this example, we're going to be initializing the state variable x to an input that we pass into the constructor.
00:00:42.358 - 00:01:34.266, Speaker A: So here I'll type un x curly braces, and inside here we can write any code just like a regular function. We'll initialize a state variable owner to the account that deploy this contract, and we'll do that by typing owner is equal to message sender. Message sender will be the account that deploy this contract. So here we're saying that set the owner to the account that deployed this contract. We also set the state variable x to the input by typing x is equal to the x from the input. Again, unlike a regular function where we can call multiple times, the constructor is only called once when we deploy the contract. To show you this, I'll deploy the contract passing in some input x.
00:01:34.266 - 00:02:15.480, Speaker A: So I'm going to compile the contract hitting Ctrl s and then deploy the contract. Notice here that we can pass in an input x. This is the input that we're going to be passing into the constructor. For the input I'll pass in one, two, three and make note that the account that we're going to be deploying the contract from is this address over here. Okay, so we're going to hit deploy, scroll down, and then click on the contract the owner state variable. This address over here is the account that we use to deploy the contract with this address. And the one that you see over here are the same.
00:02:15.480 - 00:02:31.770, Speaker A: Remember that we passed in one, two, three for the constructor argument. Well, now x holds the number one, two, three. So in summary, constructors allow you to initialize your state variables. It is a function that is only called one when the contract is being deployed.
