00:00:00.200 - 00:00:19.110, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Daily Gray Refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Sasano. And so it's the 15 November 2022. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So I'm not really going to be talking about anything FTX related today. I think I've gone over that whole situation enough on the last two refuels, right.
00:00:19.110 - 00:01:04.864, Speaker A: It's about, you know, 2 hours worth of content there, just talking about that whole debacle. Obviously there's still a lot of information coming out, but I don't think any of it is critical at this point. I think everyone pretty much has the full story now, right, in terms of them obviously declaring bankruptcy and not having customer deposits and all that sorts of stuff. So I'm going to get back to our regularly scheduled programming. Firstly, starting off with something that is related to FTX, right, but is something that I want to talk about just generally. And that's a tweet here from Boaz, who said, thanks to KYC AML regulations, the criminals at FTX now have the name, address and passport details of millions of individuals. And on top of that, these details could potentially come out during the bankruptcy proceedings and be made public.
00:01:04.864 - 00:02:10.326, Speaker A: And that could attach these details to people's balances on FTX as well at time of the withdrawals being closed. Right? So this is just another mark against KYC and AML regulations. You guys know my general view on this, and I guess like to recap, just for those who don't, my general view is that if KYC needs to be done, which obviously there are instances where it does need to be done, and proving who you are and proving your identity is definitely very valuable, I think it needs to be done in a way that preserves people's privacy. And the way that we can do it within the ethereum ecosystem is through use of things like seismo ZK badges, for example, or just using ZK tech in general to basically have it so that you can, you retain the, your privacy by having all the data kept on your own device, and then you're able to share proof of that data with, with certain services to basically prove who you are. Now, obviously this is a much better way of doing things because it doesn't create a honey pot. The service that you're proving who you are to doesn't have any of your actual details. They just have a proof, right, as a proof that says, you know you are who you, who you say you are.
00:02:10.326 - 00:02:33.842, Speaker A: And that avoids all of this. Now, something like this will probably get implemented eventually. I'm pretty confident in that. But I don't know how long it's going to take. I don't, I feel like it's going to take a while for that to happen. Obviously, the tech isn't mature just yet, and there's a lot of kinks to, to iron out, but we have to do better. I mean, the fact that these exchanges have to ask for KYC and AML details, and if they don't, they get, you know, obviously in big trouble.
00:02:33.842 - 00:02:56.106, Speaker A: But the thing is, it creates a massive honey pot. And so many of these exchanges have gone under or just very dodgy. We don't know which ones are selling out info and which ones aren't. I mean, it's very hard to prove that. So, yeah, just generally, I think we need an overhaul of that whole system. But I think KYC hopefully, well, I mean, hopefully it only within the crypto ecosystem, it only stays with the centralized services. KYc for anything.
00:02:56.106 - 00:03:31.744, Speaker A: Defi automatically makes it not defi. And I'm not talking about the front ends. There will definitely be front ends in the future that tap into DeFi protocols but require, you know, some form of KyC. But I guess what I'm talking about is the actual DeFi contracts themselves. Like if any DeFi backend, like any defi related contract has Kyc on it, well, then it can never be defi, right. But you know, that, that's, I guess, like classical Kyc. What if these contracts had KYC in the way that I just described it, where you could preserve your privacy and prove who you were with a ZK badge, for example.
00:03:31.744 - 00:04:45.762, Speaker A: Could that still be considered DeFi? There are instances where this makes sense, and I think the biggest one is unclateralized lending, where essentially, instead of collateralizing with, you know, with, with ETH or something like that, or with another asset, you're collateralizing using your reputation, you know, who you are. Now, I've always taken issue with the term un collateralized lending for just because of, the fact of the matter is that nothing is ever unclateralized. Just because you're not collateralizing it with assets, you are collateralizing it with your personhood, so to speak, and your identity, your reputation and your freedom. Because, I mean, in the real world with banks, if you don't pay the bank back, in the worst case scenario, you could end up in prison for that, right? If the bank wanted to take it that far, depending on the money that you owed and if you couldn't pay, but most of the time you don't end up in prison, but you still ended up in a really bad place. You know, you can declare bankruptcy yourself or you, you basically say, well, I don't have the money to pay these back, but the debt is still there, which means that power could be given to these institutions to garnish your wages so that it's basically forcibly taken from you to pay back that debt. So, and obviously, those are like the worst case scenarios, but they happen. And the reason why banks are confident in and able, and the reason why we have credit score.
00:04:45.762 - 00:05:36.470, Speaker A: Sorry. The reason why we have banks can be relatively confident, and the reason why banks give different lending rates and different amounts to different people is because of something like a credit score. So doing a credit score in DeFi is something that we should be able to do, but we could do it in a privacy preserving way without needing to people to identify themselves to the protocol, not having to have any big, you know, honey pot of storage of KYC information. We can do it through things like, as I said, Cismo, ZK badges, or something like gitcoin passport, or any other number of things that are, that are trying to build decentralized identity or decentralized credit scoring options. Because at the end of the day, the DeFi ecosystem can't grow to service the world on just collateralized lending. Most lending is done in a unclateralized way, and I'm just using those terms because they're easy terms to use. But I think, you know what I mean.
00:05:36.470 - 00:06:31.430, Speaker A: You know, obviously collateralize, you have to collateral, you have to put up an asset, hard asset, such as, you know, ETH or BTC or some other asset out there. Whereas unclateralized DeFi lending would require some level of identity and trust because you can't offer unclateralized, or I guess that the same lending, or you can't offer credit, I should say credit's the correct term here. You can't offer credit to an anonymous person online, just some, some random address online, because you have no guarantee that they're going to pay that money back and you have no way to chase them for that money. Whereas if you had a decentralized identity system and you had a decentralized credit scoring system, there would be recourse there because you know who your counterparty is. Uh, they just don't have to give you their information to store and to potentially lose. So I think that's super valuable. But yeah, very sad for people who did KYC and AML with FTX potentially their details becoming public here? And not just that.
00:06:31.430 - 00:07:15.734, Speaker A: I think the biggest, I guess the biggest worry here is those details being linked to balances. So I know that there has been estimations that maybe five to 10% of funds will be able to be recovered through these bankruptcy proceedings. But essentially people could still infer that the people who had large sums on FTX still have large sums elsewhere and they become a potential target, which is obviously not ideal, but we're going to have to see how that plays out, hopefully during the bankruptcy proceedings. There's no need to publicly publish kind of like a spreadsheet or whatever it is linking these things together. But there might have to be, just by virtue of how these things work. But we'll keep, I'll keep tabs on it as time goes on. As I've said previously, the bankruptcy proceedings are not going to happen overnight.
00:07:15.734 - 00:07:42.928, Speaker A: They're actually going to take quite a while. And I wouldn't be holding your breath for, for it if you had funds on FTX and even if you had haven't, just generally it's not going to happen for, for quite a while here. All right, so moving on to some news from Slingshot. So this is a pretty timely move from them. They said say goodbye to C five. Slingshot's non custodial defi wallet is now available for the first to the first wave of Android users. Now, I've covered their wallet before.
00:07:42.928 - 00:08:26.844, Speaker A: I believe I've played around with it on, on iOS in testflight. So test flight is the kind of, I guess, testing beta environment on iOS. And they've also replied saying that it's coming to iOS in a few days. So if you do have Android, you can go check out and you, and you were and you signed up to to get access to this link shot wallet. Check your email. The first wave of invites for Android users went out and iOS is coming in a few days here. For those of you who have been following slingshot for quite a while, you know that they have been doing not just this wallet, but they have a decentralized exchange aggregator and they've been live for quite a while on various networks in the ethereum ecosystem and on Polygon POS chain as well.
00:08:26.844 - 00:09:06.938, Speaker A: So yeah, definitely go check out their wallet if you were invited to it, and if you weren't, I'm sure the second 3rd, you know, more waves will be coming up for Android users as well as iOS users as time goes on. Alright, a couple of updates out of Uniswap Labs over the, over the last day or so. So they put out a tweet saying new users of Uniswap's web app reached a 2022 high. Self custody and transparency are in demand, and users are flocking to what they know and trust. Let's keep building. And you can see here in terms of daily new transacting wallets, we had a record of 55,550 daily transacting wallets on, on Uniswap here. This.
00:09:06.938 - 00:09:54.394, Speaker A: And the Uniswap's web app reached a new high as well. So this is really cool, because I think the. What, I've gone through this before, but I think that one of the biggest positives of the FTX fallout really, is the fact that people are going to be taking self custody more seriously. I saw a tweet from, from someone at, I think it was TechCrunch who talked to someone from Ledger, and they said that they had their biggest one day sales in history, I think yesterday or the day before. And that's obviously as a consequence of the FTX collapse. Now, I'm trying to get answers about, about the lattice one as well, the grid plus lattice one from people I know there, to see if they had some, some, some bigger sales days, which I expect that they did, because obviously the ledger. Ledger isn't the only manufacturer of hardware wallets.
00:09:54.394 - 00:10:22.858, Speaker A: But this is really positive. This is something that's actually got me really, really excited, because we been talking about, not your keys, not your coins for a very long time. We're talking about the importance of self custody for a very long time. But such is life, and such is with everything. People tend to listen once something goes wrong. Like, if you look at actually outside of crypto, a lot of the regulations, not just financial regulations, but regulations in general, a lot of the protections put in place, they're usually done after the fact. There usually has to be something bad that happens.
00:10:22.858 - 00:11:00.426, Speaker A: Then people are like, oh, shit, like, let's do something about it. And I think that's what's happening now. Where the FTX collapse has basically made everyone aware of the dangers of keeping your funds on entities, where even if they seem like super legit, there's a re. There is a chance, a high chance, a relatively high chance of you losing all your funds. So that unless you're an active trader and you need that liquidity on these exchanges, there is literally no reason to just keep it there. Cold storage, even the most trusted exchanges. I've gone on record and said that I think places like Coinbase and Kraken, you know, fully regulated in the US, are fine, but I still wouldn't leave my funds on there.
00:11:00.426 - 00:11:43.642, Speaker A: I still would rather self custody, because one, there's no point, I'm not an active trader. It would just be sitting there doing nothing. And two, the risk is always greater than zero of these things, you know, going, going bad. Like, not to say that they will, but it's never 0%. Now, that's not to say that self custody comes with no risks either, but I'd rather remove the risk, the custody risk, completely from the equation than. Than have it there, no matter what, kind of, like, what platform it is. But one thing that people miss is that your funds being on an exchange is, aren't only at risk of the exchange becoming insolvent or getting hacked or running off with the money, they're also at risk of the exchange just arbitrarily freezing your funds for whatever reason.
00:11:43.642 - 00:12:19.028, Speaker A: It could be that the government has ordered them to freeze your funds because of whatever reason they've deemed the exchange could be freezing you because they believe you to be involved in criminal activities or something else. They could indefinitely freeze your funds for whatever reason. So those are the two major risks, and I think the second one doesn't get enough attention. So, generally, as I've been saying over the past, past couple of refuels. Please, please, please. If you are not. If you have no reason to have your funds on a centralized exchange, in terms of, as I said, if you're not an active trader or anything like that, buy a ledger, buy a lattice one, store your funds on a hardware wallet.
00:12:19.028 - 00:12:35.458, Speaker A: That is, in my opinion, is the best way to keep yourself safe. The only thing you really have to do is make sure that you secure your seed phrase. You can even lose the. The hardware device itself. It could break, it could. It could stop working altogether. But as long as you have your seed phrase, you're fine.
00:12:35.458 - 00:13:12.014, Speaker A: Now, of course, that is the single point of failure, that seed phrase. If you forget that, the seed phrase, or if you misplace it, or if it, you know, if your house catches on fire and, and you've written it down on a piece of paper and that paper burns up, that is obviously the main risk. But that's why you should practice good seed phrase management. You know, not just keep it in one place, keep it, you know, you could split it up like kind of horcruxes from Harry Potter is an analogy I've seen used where you split up parts of it with different people. But there are risks inherent with that as well, because you may give it to someone and then. And then they lose it, and then you don't have all the pieces. Or maybe you give it to a few people and they all collude to steal your funds.
00:13:12.014 - 00:13:37.670, Speaker A: That can happen, right? So you're never going to be at like 0% risk here, 0% risk of losing your funds, but you want to get as close to zero as possible. And I think that the only way to get there is through self custody. Even though there are risks associated with self custody, everything carries a risk. I mean, just. Just living carries a risk, guys. If you really want to get down to the of it, like, just doing anything carries a risk at the end of the day. So it's all about lowering your risk as much as possible.
00:13:37.670 - 00:14:22.124, Speaker A: And I think that there, in 2022, there is literally no reason to keep your funds on centralized entities if you have the choice and the know how and the ability to keep your funds on a higher wallet. And as I've said before, I don't actually think it's that hard to do that, but. And that's the ending of that little rant there about self custody. But it's really, really cool to see uniswap kind of growing here. And Hayden actually put out a tweet showing even more growth where he said, we was, quote, tweeting Alex Vic from Nansen here, who said Uniswap has more volume on ETH than any centralized exchange over the last 24 hours. And then Hayden, quote, tweeted this by saying, dex is starting to replace sexes. Total ETH, USD or stables volume on binance is 1.9
00:14:22.124 - 00:14:46.294, Speaker A: billion, Uniswap is 1.1 billion and coinbase is 0.6 billion. So Uniswap really is like continuing to dominate here. And the volumes show that volume is definitely something, especially on Ethereum mainnet, that is incredibly hard to fake. Because to fake it, you have to spend money even for the lowest tier pairs, such as the stable, stable tier pairs. On Uniswap, it still costs money.
00:14:46.294 - 00:15:24.358, Speaker A: And not just money in terms of Uniswap fees or LP fees, but also gas fees on Ethereum. That's why I say on Ethereum main, and it's very hard. Yes, Uniswap is on other networks like optimism and arbitrum, the polygon Pos chain, and I think a couple others, but that's also, like expensive because of those LP fees, but on optimism and arbitrary would still add up with gas fees as well. So. And obviously binance and Coinbase has fees associated with their pairs, too, in terms of trading fees and things like that, which I guess LP fees in uniswap land. But Uniswap just continues to dominate. And it's an amm, right? Like Binance and Coinbase are not amms, they are clubs, central limit order books systems.
00:15:24.358 - 00:16:10.784, Speaker A: So they're actually very different systems. But it seems like uniswap is, is winning the game here or continuing to dominate here, which is awesome to see because it is a true decentralized product on Ethereum as part of the Ethereum ecosystem. And it's not just them. I really do think that more and more of these defi protocols are going to get more and more usage just as people become more aware of self custody, more aware of what they can actually do on chain. You know, funny enough, there are tons of people who really think crypto just goes as far as buying a coin on an exchange and thinking that it's a currency. And the more people that adopt that, that coin, the better it is and the more that coin will go up. That is actually like, believe it or not, the surface level thinking that a lot of people have about crypto, because, I mean, it's still called cryptocurrency to the outside world.
00:16:10.784 - 00:17:19.716, Speaker A: And the amount of people that have told me in real life, they, that, you know, they say to me, they basically say, oh, you know, how can, and you've probably heard this a million times, but they say, how can BTC be money if it's so volatile? And that question in of itself is such a huge thing to answer, but it shows that these people still think about cryptocurrency just as, as currencies alone. Now, obviously, you know, some of them are just pure currencies. They're not really trying to do anything else, but most of them are not. Most of them are actually pseudo equities in different protocols, and some of them are, you know, transcend every thing that we know about what an asset can be, such as ETH, and kind of is an amalgamation of all that stuff. So I think when you're, when you're looking at all of that, it definitely, and kind of like teaching people about self custody, what they can do on chain, there is still a large set of people, the majority of people, who are yet to come into the ethereum ecosystem and yet to experience all this stuff. And I do think that the FTX collapse is going to encourage that as time goes on. All right, so another massive BD announcement out of the polygon ecosystem, which may you may have not seen considering how noisy Twitter's been, but Mahalo here.
00:17:19.716 - 00:18:03.728, Speaker A: The co founder of Polygon announced that Nike is building their web3 experience exclusively on the Polygon Pos chain. This is just another absolutely massive BD partnership that the polygon has landed here. And, you know, I've been thinking about this a lot lately, or the, I guess over the past few days because as I said, I think it was last week on a refuel or maybe the week before. Polygon usually competes with other ecosystems to land these, these BD partnerships. Right? And some of the other ecosystems include Solana and Avalanche and, and Aptos and some others out there. But polygon is so strong right now, right? Like, and because they're part of the ethereum ecosystem, that makes them even stronger. And then their competitors are looking very, very weak.
00:18:03.728 - 00:18:37.360, Speaker A: Like Solana, for example, is looking very weak right now. And that's a very good window of opportunity for Polygon to take their existing awesome bd team and turn that up to eleven by basically by, by landing more of these partnerships simply because the competition is weaker. So I thought that that was a, something that was, I guess, like an unintended consequence of FTX going under because the Solana ecosystem was so close to them. We're seeing this, we're going to see this play out, I think. But it's not just them. I mean, avalanche looks very weak right now, I believe, as well. I know some people will disagree with that.
00:18:37.360 - 00:19:17.918, Speaker A: But honestly, just looking at the metrics and looking at the developer activity, it seems that both optimism and arbitram have just completely leapfrogged avalanche and are doing much better than them and are looking much more sustainable than them. So, you know, people can disagree with me, it's fine. But this is just based on what I've, what I've been looking at. So, yeah, I mean, just a huge partnership that's been landed here with Polygon. It's got to do with NFTs. I forgot to mention that before. Nike's been involved with NFTs for quite a while now, actually, but they're going to be doing this in 2023 on their new what's called a swoosh web3 platform, which is a destination for virtual apparel and other NFT based products with the first drop due in January.
00:19:17.918 - 00:20:18.168, Speaker A: So you can go read the article. For full breakdown of this, I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so Terrence from prior Labs has a short thread here about how AIP 4844 improves staking decentralization he says. 4844, which is proto dank sharding, changes data availability resources to lower core data misuse. It makes home staking more more viable, thanks to bounded disk usage. Scaling 4844 versus decentralization with withdrawals is not a zero sum game with homestaking concerning recent events, a good argument for prioritizing scaling is if we can not host more users on Ethereum and the reliance on centralized platforms stays the same, hence which hurts users and hurts Ethereum. I think this is a really good point, and I would actually add to this that given the the collapse of FTX and given all the concerns around centralization right now, I'm even more keen to see beacon chain withdrawals go live, because I do think we're going to see even more people withdrawing their ETH stake from these centralized services because they've just lost trust in them.
00:20:18.168 - 00:20:55.870, Speaker A: Right? So that's another, again, positive unintended consequence of the FTX collapse. And I know I said I wouldn't talk about FTX much on this on this refuel, but I think it has a lot to do with some of the events that are happening lately outside of it. Right, as part of the Ethereum ecosystem. So it's definitely still looking forward to the beacon chain withdrawal stuff for all the reasons I've outlined previously. But I hadn't thought about 4844 improving staking decentralization before. And I'm glad Terrence put together this thread because it makes total sense to me that that this would happen now. Obviously, the gold standard of decentralization on the beacon chain is having as many home stakers as possible.
00:20:55.870 - 00:21:47.380, Speaker A: And obviously, as I've mentioned before, I think there will be a, you know, not not small sum of people who have 32 ETH now. It counting the ETH that they may have staked with the centralized provider that they're waiting to withdraw from that centralized provider, put it together and do a solo stake operation at home, or maybe even get involved with something like a decentralized staking provider such as rocket pool. So definitely looking forward to all of that. And thanks for thanks to Terrence for putting this thread out. All right, so frolic here announced today that ETHFs is now on Mainnet, so you can now browse and upload on chain files at ETH FS XYZ. Frolic says that they have been working on this project since February and needed a, that needed a good sorry he's been work. They've been working on a secret project since February that needed a good place to put reusable on chain assets.
00:21:47.380 - 00:22:37.566, Speaker A: They had put the project on pause over the summer while they did a bunch of freelancing and job hunting, and then Dom's rose appeared and lit a fire under me to get this project going again. EThfs started out as an exploration building in public on Twitter and in the math castles discord. Shout out to all the on chain Maxis for the feedback along the way. It's built upon a content addressable file store leaning on store two for gas efficiency. If you know of any assets already living on chain via store to let them know and they continue on my yeah, I'm not going to read the whole thread here, but yeah, this is really cool to see that another, I guess non financial application has been launched on the Ethereum mainnet with ETH FS xyz which you can go visit yourself actually and check out yourself. And there's kind of a file explorer here which you can see file uploader to upload your own file. You can connect your wallet and all that good stuff there.
00:22:37.566 - 00:23:10.394, Speaker A: But yeah, more of these non financial applications please. Like this is exactly what we need. I mean, financial applications are all well and good and obviously defi continues to get better over time. It continues to strengthen and it's uh, I guess some product market fit has never been more more apparent to people. But I personally like being in this ecosystem for so long and seeing so many defi things come and go and seeing them grow. Like I would love to just see more non financial products get actual growth and get actual product market fit. I've been following along with lens protocol a bit lately as well, and that seems to be doing really well.
00:23:10.394 - 00:23:42.562, Speaker A: But these other pieces such as ethfs definitely add a lot of value to the ecosystem as well. So you can go check this out for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so Danny Ryan put out a tweet today, just giving a reminder that the L2 grants round is still open. Now this was announced on October 25 that I talked about this at time of announcement, but it is still open. So this was, the submission deadline was in six weeks from that date. I believe the deadline is November, something I can't do.
00:23:42.562 - 00:24:12.582, Speaker A: Mathematician no, December 5. So you still have a bit of time here. You have about 20 days to apply. So if this is up your alley, if this is something that you think you could add value to, or you could be potentially accepted into, accepted for a grant, definitely go check it out. Just a friendly reminder there, I'll link this in the YouTube description below. All right, so an update from l two beat today. So they said starting today, we decided to mark projects with unverified contracts read to warn anyone about the danger of interacting with such code.
00:24:12.582 - 00:24:53.422, Speaker A: Once the contracts are verified, the highlight will automatically go away. Hopefully this will encourage current and future teams to always verify the code and therefore be more transparent to the end users. This is very important because if a co, if a piece of code is open source, but, but kind of like not verified on chain, you can't really trust its validity. You can't really trust that it is what they say it is and it mirrors kind of what's on chain here. So I'm really glad to see l two beats kind of highlighting this in a really obvious way on their website. And if you go to l two beat.com, you can actually see it live here as you scroll down which ones don't have unverified, which ones have unverified contracts and which ones do have verified ones.
00:24:53.422 - 00:25:47.114, Speaker A: So thankfully most of them have verified contract, which is really awesome to see and all that, like the major ones definitely do. But there are still some out there that definitely need to verify their contracts and I'm glad that l two beat is highlighting this and man, l two b just continues to improve over time. You know, they're relatively, I wouldn't say they're slow, but they don't release like updates every day or anything like that. They tend to wait a bit and work on stuff for a bit and then release a really important and really impactful update that users can get a lot of value out of. One of their newest updates was something that I covered the other day, which is their activity tab here, which basically tracks activities across Ethereum, Mainnet and all the L2s and other such constructions around Ethereum. And they also have their bridges section as well with bridge, TVL and risk analysis. The risk analysis thing, honestly, is, I think the most important thing on this website because it keeps l two s honest.
00:25:47.114 - 00:26:31.720, Speaker A: It allows users to check out these l two s and what they've, what we know, what, what kind of centralization vectors they have and where they are in their decentralization journey. And I think that's very, very important for anyone who cares about security of their funds and things like that. So yeah, just wanted to, I guess like Fawn over l two b a little bit there, but you can go check out their kind of like new labels on the unverified contracts here. But great to see that most projects don't fall under that kind of category currently. All right, so a walkie put out a little meme here that I really, that really kind of spoke to me today in the wake of all the FTX stuff over the last week. So this is the meme of the two people looking outside of the bus. And the left side sees darkness, the right side sees kind of like light and positivity.
00:26:31.720 - 00:27:04.896, Speaker A: On the left side it's got past lunar three AC FTX. On the right side it's got future ultrasound money, ZK ZKVM, digital democracy, impact, daos, funding for public goods and daos in general. And this speaks to what I was talking about yesterday with regards to how Ethereum is in such a strong position right now. It has such a strong future ahead of it. It has been kicking goals all this year in the face of all the negative and bad shit that's been happening. Right? So I won't rehash what I said yesterday, but I'm really glad that a Wookiee put this out in meme format because look at that. Look how much stuff we have to look forward to.
00:27:04.896 - 00:27:34.936, Speaker A: And this is like such a small percentage of the things we have to look forward to going forward. For Ethereum, I mean, you really only have to bring up Vitalik's Ethereum flowchart roadmap that he's. That he put out the other a couple of weeks ago, the updated one that I, that I shared on the refuel. To really get yourself excited about all the things happening and coming to Ethereum and, and, and on top of that, then you can go look at all the l two s and what they're doing. Right. We have optimism, bedrock coming soon, arbitrary nitro has, has been live. Hopefully they turn on Odyssey again soon.
00:27:34.936 - 00:28:00.020, Speaker A: Right? I, I remember saying that I thought they would turn on Odyssey soon after Nitro, but it seems they haven't. So hopefully that's coming sooner rather than later. Then you have all the ZKVM stuff to look forward to. Layer threes, layer fours, non evm l two ecosystems like Starknet. There is so much happening in the Ethereum ecosystem like that. Honestly, the FTX stuff is just. And all these other stuff on the left hand side of the meme is really such a distraction.
00:28:00.020 - 00:28:33.874, Speaker A: And it really is amazing to me how Ethereum definitely had its period where things were blowing up. And I think that was during Defi summer where Ethereum as a network had like an extreme degen period. But I'm really glad it happened then and not, I guess, this year or last year, because in 2020 Defi summer, there are a lot less people involved. It really was just the remaining people from the bear market. There was hardly many new entrants that participated in Defi summer. It was a lot of the same money floating around, and it was a lot of people coming from other ecosystems. I remember a lot of BTC bridged over during that time as well.
00:28:33.874 - 00:29:07.858, Speaker A: So there was a lot of bitcoin is coming across. But I'm really glad Ethereum has seemed to have, over the last couple of years, gotten away unscathed for most of these sorts of stuff. And not only that, but has also just continued to thrive and continue to add value to people and go through things like the merge, you know, so perfectly. It really gives me hope for this ecosystem. And as I mentioned the other day, I put a tweet out where I said, the only reason I'm still in crypto is ethereum. Without a theorem, I'd be gone. There's nothing else in crypto that appeals to me right now that that kind of gets me interested in things that makes me feel optimistic about the future of this ecosystem.
00:29:07.858 - 00:29:27.314, Speaker A: It really just comes down to ethereum, and I think that that sentiment is shared with a lot of people in the ecosystem right now. But again, I'm preaching to the choir, but I'm going to end it there. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone. Bye.
