00:00:00.840 - 00:00:56.264, Speaker A: So again, welcome, everybody, to the first edition of the Zoom geometry and model Theory seminar. It's nice to see a few new faces that we don't usually see. So the seminar is quite old in some sense. It first started over 20 years ago when there was a, a conference of two programs at the Fields Institute, one in model theory and one in real analytic geometry. And it just happened that way. And we started to work together, especially between beer, stone, and people like Vanderdrees and so on. And since then, we have been running this seminar on and off, sometimes more busier, sometimes less busy.
00:00:56.264 - 00:01:37.494, Speaker A: It was a little calm last year due to all the events, but hopefully we'll pick it up again this year. And it will certainly be busy again in two years if everything goes well, because we have another fields program coming up in the winter of 2022. Anyway, without saying more, now, I would like to introduce the speaker, Ari Sharif from Princeton University. He's our first speaker today, and he will speak on, as you can see on your screen already, a short spaces of definable manifolds and short equivalents of planar domains.
00:01:39.394 - 00:01:42.854, Speaker B: Okay, thank you, Patrick. So can everyone hear me?
00:01:44.174 - 00:01:45.634, Speaker A: Bit quiet right now.
00:01:48.334 - 00:01:53.934, Speaker B: Oh, it's too quiet. Yeah, I have no idea what I should do. So I will just try to speak up. Is it better?
00:01:54.054 - 00:01:54.926, Speaker A: Yeah, it's better.
00:01:55.030 - 00:02:22.974, Speaker B: Okay. Okay. So thank you, Patrick, for inviting me here. And I want to talk today about two different but related subjects. So we'll talk about Schwarz spaces or spaces of Schwarz functions in two different frameworks. So the first will be the definable framework. We'll talk about this in the first half of this talk.
00:02:22.974 - 00:03:03.614, Speaker B: And the second will be the quasi conformal geometry framework. So the second half of this talk will be based on a joint work with Eden Privas and. Okay, so let's start, so let's start with what are Schwarz functions? So the setting will be quite simple throughout this talk. So we'll have an open subset of RN. Later we'll talk about the complex plane, but we'll think about r two. So Schwarz functions for us will always be real valued. Even when we'll say Schwarz functions on the complex plane, we'll just think of Schwarz functions on.
00:03:03.614 - 00:04:04.520, Speaker B: So what are Schwarz functions? So let's start with Schwarz functions on Rn. So these should be thought of as functions that rapidly decay with all and older derivatives also rapidly decay. So these are synfinity smooth functions such that for any two multi indices. So the alpha multi index should be thought of the derivative multi index over f and the k should be thought of the polynomial multi index. So when we write x to the k, we mean x one to the k one times x two to the k two, and so on. So if we take any polynomial and any derivative of f, and we look at this product, this should be bounded on the entire Rn, which means that f decays at infinitely at infinity faster than one over polynomial for any polynomial. And also all the derivatives of f have the same property.
00:04:04.520 - 00:05:07.564, Speaker B: So these are Schwartz functions on Rn and Schwarz functions on our open set u will be Schwarz functions on the big space on Rn, such that for any point outside our set, we need to think about it as for any point outside our set, the Taylor series of our f at this point is identically zero, which is to say for any point and any partial derivative of f, the value of the partial derivative at this point z is zero. So this will be the space of Schwarz functions on u, and this will be the basic object we will study today. So let's say some easy remarks. So first, the Schwarz space of Rn is a freshet space. There you have the topology. It's just the seminorms given by these supremums. So we have countably many seminorms and these defined the topology.
00:05:07.564 - 00:05:39.788, Speaker B: Oh, you can see when I'm doing it. And s of u. The Schwarz space of u is a closed subspace and so also a fresh air space. The second remark, which is also quite important. We usually think of Schwarz functions on u as smooth real valued functions on u. So in the definition it is given as a subset of Schwarz functions on Rn. But in fact, we think about functions that live only on u.
00:05:39.788 - 00:06:30.548, Speaker B: And if we extend them by zero to functions on Rn, we get this, the same definition. So this is the same thing. And the third comment would be that if we take an open subset of an open subset, then extension by zero gives us a closed embedding. And in fact this is according to the second remark. So in the definition you can just see that if something is a Schwarz space, is a Schwarz function on a small subset, it contains more condition than being a Schwarz function on the big space v. So we have this tower, right? So we have extension operator. And this is important because later, when we talk about sheaves, Schwarz functions will not form a sheath.
00:06:30.548 - 00:07:18.014, Speaker B: It will form a co shif, which is the same thing with all arrows flipped, right? So usually we think about, I don't know, smooth functions, they form a sheaf. So it means that we have a smooth function on a. If we restrict it to an open subset of this big space, we get a smooth function. In this case it's wrong that the direction is the other way around. So this is a precocif, and later it will become a sheath. So there is your first proposition that will be very useful, especially in the second part of the talk, but it already makes sense to state it. So if we take a Schwarz function on the big space on rn that is identically zero outside our set utilize, then there you have two equivalent conditions.
00:07:18.014 - 00:08:24.174, Speaker B: The first will be that our function is Schwarzenegger u, which is to say that the Taylor series is identically zero at any point outside u. And the second is that we have these bounds. So if we take our function f and we divide it by the distance to the boundary function, and even if we take the distance to the boundary and take any high power of it to the ten or 15 or 1 million, and if we look at this quantity, it will be finite. So our f rapidly decays as it approaches the boundary. I want to stress that one and two, as they are written now, they are not equivalent. You must also assume that our function f extends to at least a c infinity function, or to a Schwarz function on the big space on rna, because you can have a function that satisfies two that goes to zero really, really fast, but under this going to zero really, really fast, it also oscillates even faster. So this will not extend to a c infinity function.
00:08:24.174 - 00:09:16.578, Speaker B: But given that our function comes as a restriction of a function on rn, everything is okay. So this is the proposition. We will use it later. Now, what is Schwarz equivalence? So two subsets of rn are Schwarz equivalent if we can find the deform of between them, c infinity deformorphism such that it pulls and push the Schwarz spaces of the corresponding sets to form an isomorphism or freshet space. So if we have a function on v, we can pull it via phi, or push it via phi minus one, or wherever you put the stars and get a new function on. Uh, so if this thing induces an isomorphism of freshest spaces, we say that these two sets are Schwarz equivalent. So this is the definition.
00:09:16.578 - 00:10:00.550, Speaker B: Now note that not any c infinity diphomorphism induces such an isomorphism, right? So let's see an example. So if we look at the exponential map from the real line to the positive ray, this does not induce an isomorphism. Why? Because we have this picture. So please look at the right hand side of this picture. So if we took, we take any function on the real line that is zero from some point small enough so we don't care about the negative side. And for big x's it decays like e to the minus x. So many such c infinity functions exist.
00:10:00.550 - 00:10:56.994, Speaker B: And of course any such function is a Schwarz function or r. So if we take this function and we pull it via log or push it via exponent or whatever, if we first take the logarithm, meaning go to the coordinate system, not the left, and then we evaluate our function, we get one over x for big x's right. So on the left hand side, this will not be a Schwarz function because it doesn't decay rapidly enough. So exponent exponent map does not induce an isomorphism. Note, however, that the real line is Schwarz equivalent to the positive ray, because we have another phi we can take. We have this x plus square root of x squared plus one. And you can check and see that this is a c infinity deformorphism that induces and isomorphism of the Schwarz spaces.
00:10:56.994 - 00:11:44.138, Speaker B: Okay, so good. So these two subsets, the reline and the positive ray, are Schwarz equivalent, but not via exponent only, but for instance via this phi. Note that this phi is semi algebraic, right? So it's a, or if you want, it's a definable function over r in the structure given by just real line. And this leads us to the following proposition. And I will, and I will talk about this proposition with some detail. And later I will give many results without details. So there is a proposition.
00:11:44.138 - 00:12:23.402, Speaker B: If we have a file that is a diphomorphism that is definable in some polynomial bounded or minimal structure, then this phi always induces an isomorphism of fresher spaces. So this is the proposition that I want to kind of almost prove, and later talk about other stuff. So maybe it's a good time to stop and ask if there are any questions, because we finished with the introduction, real introduction. Everything is clear. Okay, very well. And if you have questions later, please stop me. Good.
00:12:23.402 - 00:13:27.764, Speaker B: So how to see this proposition is true? First, it's not a big surprise, right? It's kind of, you expect it to be true, but let's see how to prove it. So let's start by defining temperate functions. So temperate functions on again u, an open subset of rn. The function is tempered if it satisfies two conditions. So first, if we take any alpha, a multi index, which is again any partial derivative of our function t, and if we take any point outside our set u, then we can find the neighborhood of this point such that, and we can find some big, maybe very big integer mix such that if we look at the alpha derivative of t and multiply it by the distance function to the boundary, to the power m. So m may be very big. Then around this neighborhood, around this point, in this neighborhood, this quantity should be bounded.
00:13:27.764 - 00:14:22.974, Speaker B: So how you should think about it. You should think about it that you should think about a function that maybe explodes as goes to infinity as you approach the boundary, but not too fast, namely, we can find some polynomial in the distance to the boundary, some m, some monomial. It's the same such that if we multiply these things, it will be bounded so it doesn't explode like exponent as it approaches the boundary. And so this will be the first condition. The second condition will be the same condition, but for infinity. So for any multi index of t, we can find again some monomial such that for big enough x, which is to say in the neighborhood of infinity, the alpha derivative of t is bounded by this monomial. Okay, so you can think of two as being the property of being tempered at infinity.
00:14:22.974 - 00:15:24.882, Speaker B: Okay, so these are tempered functions. Now let's state, okay, so the space of all temperate functions is denoted by t of u. So now let's take three lemmas and see how these lemmas, I'm reminding you, we want to prove a proposition saying that definable b, four morphisms in all minimal structures always induce Schwarz equivalence. So the first lemma would be the following. So if we take any function defined on u, then this function is tempered if and only if it has the property that if we multiply it by a Schwarz function, by any Schwarz function, we again get the Schwarz function. Now, one side is almost obvious, right? So if your function is tempered, then if you multiply it by a Schwarz function, you can immediately see that it is Schwarz. But the other side is also true that if your function is not timbered, you can find the Schwarz function, that if you multiply the two, you get something that is not Schwarz anymore, which is again not a big surprise.
00:15:24.882 - 00:16:10.978, Speaker B: But you have to cook this function. The second level would be a very, I don't know, basic. Or you can think about it as basic or as very technical. So if we have open subset and we take any map that pulls the Schwarz space of v into the Schwarz space of u, then the map is continuous, right? Because formally we want to show that not only our phi star or Ni star maps sv onto st, we also want to show that this is an isomorphism of fresh air spaces. So this lemma tells you that you shouldn't worry about continuity. If it's onto, then it's an isomorphism. So this is quite technical.
00:16:10.978 - 00:17:00.494, Speaker B: And the third one will be that if we take any function on the real line, that is, see infinity smooth, and we assume that this function is definable in some polynomial bounded or minimal structure, then this function is tempered, which is to say that if you have a definable function, it can't explode too fast when it approaches the boundary. So these are the three lemmas. Oh, something happened now. Okay, so the first and the second lemma hold for any open subset of rn. So you don't assume anything about definability. So as I said, the first lemma is quite technical. To prove, you just need to cook this Schwarz function and the second one.
00:17:00.494 - 00:17:46.118, Speaker B: Essentially, it's just the closed graph theorem that also holds for fresh s spaces. You have to show that the graph of nistar is closed and it's not too difficult. So these two holds for arbitrary open subset. And the third lemma follows from luisevich inequality. So what you do, you look at the maximum of your function in an epsilon neighborhood of the boundary of your set, you, and then you think about, and as you vary epsilon, you get a definable function. And then you see that receivable inequality implies quite easily the bound we want. Okay, so just 1 second, I have something.
00:17:46.118 - 00:18:25.834, Speaker B: Okay, yeah. Okay, now I see everything. Okay, good. So we have one, two, and three, and they together imply quite easily our proposition. So what do we have to do? So I'm reminding you, we want to show that if phi is definable in the polynomial bounded or minimal structure, then it induces an isomorphism of Schwarz spaces. So first of all, note that the second lemma tells us that it is enough to check and it pushes the Schwarz space to the Schwarz space. Right? We don't have to be worried about continuity.
00:18:25.834 - 00:19:25.894, Speaker B: And then we have a function that is s composed with phi, that is written down here below, and this, and this s composed with phi. We need to check that it is Schwa on the new space, right? And it is enough by two to check that these issuers. Now how do we do it? We just show that if we take any partial derivative of it and we extend it by zero, we get a continuous function. It's enough, right, to check that all derivatives extends by zero. Now, how will the derivatives of s composable phi will look like it will be just s, some derivative of s evaluated at phi of x times some derivatives of phi, right? We will have sums of such things we use the Leibniz rule and the chain rule. So we have many such creatures. But any derivative of s is Schwarz array also, right? The derivative of a Schwarz function is Schwarz by definition, almost.
00:19:25.894 - 00:20:25.040, Speaker B: And all the elements outside the derivatives of phi will be definable, right? Because derivatives of definable functions are definable. So we will have s composed with phi times partial derivatives, but partial derivatives are definable. And by lemma three, they are tempered. So this product will be a product of Schwarz function and a tempered function. So it will be Schwarz again by lemma one. Okay, so this is hand waving the the proof. But these kinds of games show you that when we are walking in a definable structure, in a definable setting, in a polynomially bounded environment, or in polynomially bounded structure, then this notion of rapidly decaying makes sense and everything works.
00:20:25.040 - 00:21:19.868, Speaker B: So, for instance, we can define Schwarz functions for abstract manifolds, right? Because this diphomorphism will preserve the space. So this is the proposition I wanted to present in some details, because it gives us kind of the taste of what's going on. So let's just list the other results and then go to the quasi conformal setting. So, and I called it more implications of leosevic inequality, because essentially all you have to do is do nothing special. And when you're stuck, you must use Luis Everich, and it shows you that everything is compatible. So, yeah, I need to. Okay, so if we have a definable manifold in a polynomially bounded, and I'm stressing polynomially bounded on minimal structure, and, for instance, an open definable subset of rn would be an easy example, then we have essentially that the whole theory works.
00:21:19.868 - 00:22:03.266, Speaker B: So, first of all, the assignment of the space of temperate functions will be achieved, which is to say that the notion of being tempered is a local thing. So if you have two subsets, you have a function that is tempered on one. You have a function on the union of two subsets such that it is tempered here and tampered there, then it is also tempered on the union. And, well, it's not really shift. You don't have a topology for a definable money, you have a restricted topology or a grotendic site or whatever. But essentially you have everything like a topology, but you only allow finite unions of open sets. So you have a kind of a topology.
00:22:03.266 - 00:22:51.228, Speaker B: So in this setting, the assignment of the space of temperate function will be sheath, which is to say that the notion of temperate is local. The assignment of the space of Schwartz function will be a cochief, right, because we said that if we extend the Schwarz function, we get a Schwarz function on the big space. So the direction is going to bigger and bigger spaces. And, well, flubby is, it's like flubby sheath, but all error is reversed, which means that the extension is injective. But if you have a co shift of functions, then the extension is almost always injective. Well, in any case, it's not very important. What is important is that the assignment of the space of temper distributions is a flabby sheath.
00:22:51.228 - 00:23:25.808, Speaker B: Let me say a few words about this. So the space of temporary distribution is just the dual, the continuous dual to the Schwarz space. And in fact, often when people are talking about Schwarz functions, they are really worried. They really care about temporary distributions. And Schwarz functions are just a tool to define them in a sense. So we have that distributions not only extend, but they extend. And this extension is, I'm sorry, not only restrict, but this restriction is onto.
00:23:25.808 - 00:24:13.206, Speaker B: So if you have a small space and you have a temporary distribution on it, you can always extend it to some temporary distribution on the, on the big space because the restriction morphism is onto. This is the meaning of flebi. So, okay, so this works. The third property is kind of technical, but it's also important because, well, I will explain that any complexly supported function is Schwarz. So first, it's important because you expect it to be the case, right? Complexly supported functions are just zero as you approach the boundary. So they should be Schwarzenegger. But moreover, it is important because if you're looking on a compact space, then any c infinity function is Schwarz.
00:24:13.206 - 00:25:03.760, Speaker B: And this is important because if you care about infinity functions, and some people care about c infinity functions, and you want to study them on compact spaces, then you can study Schwarz spaces of these spaces, and it will be the same. So sometimes it's more convenient. And the fourth property, oh no, I have two more. So the fifth property will be okay. And this will be especially important as a motivation maybe for the second part of this talk and maybe in general, that no matter how bad your space is, well, in this case it's definable in a polynomial, bounded or minimal structure. So it's not too bad. But in general, this holds for any open subset of rn, you can always find a Schwarz function that is positive everywhere.
00:25:03.760 - 00:26:10.104, Speaker B: So no matter how bad your boundary is, maybe your boundaries of house dose dimension, almost two and you live in r two, but still you can find a function that is positive everywhere. So your boundary, even if it's really bad. It can't force you to be identically zero as you approach it. Ok, I'm saying, following Whitney, because there is a classical theorem by Whitney saying that any closed subset of rn may be realized as the zero locus of sc infinity function. So here we show something a bit stronger, but the proof is very similar. Well, there is something else to do, but in principle, the idea of the proof is the same, saying that any closed subset of rn may be realized as the fleck locus, as the place where a function is zero with all its derivatives, and not of a c infinity function, but moreover of a Schwarz function. So you can also make sure it decays at infinity.
00:26:10.104 - 00:26:53.866, Speaker B: Okay, so this is this statement, and the 6th statement will be just temperate partition of unity. So if we have a finite definable open cover, then you can always find enough tempered functions such that a, each function is supported in one of your patches. B, they all sum up to one. Well, they're also non negative and they all sum up to one. And c, if you multiply one of these functions with any Schwarz function on the big space on m, you get a Schwarz function on the small space. This ui, and this is important, for instance, to show part three. So.
00:26:53.866 - 00:27:24.654, Speaker B: Oh, I didn't say so. Part two. I'm sorry. So a sheet for functions means that if you have a function that lives on the big space, it is tempered here and tempered there, it must be also tempered on the union. A cauchy for functions mean that if you have a Schwarz function on the big space, it must be the sum of two functions, Schwarz functions. One lives here and one lives here. So this is the notion of a cosi for function, it's not so important.
00:27:24.654 - 00:28:13.986, Speaker B: But if you think about it, c gives you the proof. Because if you give me a Schwarz function on your big space, and you want me to show it, or to present it as the sum of Schwarz functions on the small spaces, there you have it using this temperate partition of unity. Now, I wrote in parentheses C also Fisher, because Fischer, in fact has a theorem saying that you can always have dress Fisher, I should say you always have definable temperate partition of unity. And we said that any definable function is tempered. So there's a proof of six in three words. When I wrote it, I wrote the proof, which is easier than, than Fisher's proof, because I prove less. Right? I'm only saying it's temperate.
00:28:13.986 - 00:28:58.908, Speaker B: I'm not guaranteeing that it's definable. Okay, so this is a polynomial, bounded or minimal case. What happens with non polynomial bounded. Well, we have a nice theorem right by Miller saying that if we have a no millimeter structure by Chris Miller, I should say there's more than one Miller, we have a polynomial bounded. We have a o minimal structure that is not polynomially bounded. Then the exponential, the global exponential from the real line to the real line is definable. So this immediately tells us that almost nothing works in this case, because in any ominous structure, this is not polynomially bounded.
00:28:58.908 - 00:29:34.814, Speaker B: We will have the example that we already seen. We've seen this example, and this example tells you that you cannot even say what is a Schwarz function because these two pictures are the same manifold. In, for instance, r x. These are just two coordinate systems. And you see that the notion of being Schwarz is not consistent. In fact, it's even worse. Even if you fix your embedding space, say you are walking in rn and now you think about definable open substitute in RN.
00:29:34.814 - 00:30:19.304, Speaker B: So forget abstract manifold, because it doesn't work. Even then, many things will not work. For instance, there is a very concrete example showing there is no tempered partition of unity in this case. Namely, if you allow me to use only polynomials and exponential, which is something you are always allowed to do in non polynomial bounded or minimal structures. We can take, and this is a very easy example, it lives in r two. We can find two open subsets, and the function that is tempered here and tempered there. But a function that is defined under union, it is tempered here and tempered there, but it is not tempered globally.
00:30:19.304 - 00:31:04.174, Speaker B: As long as I am allowed to use the exponential, nothing works. Okay, so this is all I wanted to say about this theory in the ominimal case. Are there any questions before I proceed to the, to the next part? No. Okay, good. So we will get to quasi conformal geometry in a few minutes, but let's build it. So everything I'm about to say from now on is based on our, my joint work with Eden. So let's try to understand together which other deformorphism induced Schwartz equivalents.
00:31:04.174 - 00:31:45.184, Speaker B: So we've seen that definable deformorphisms in polynomially bounded or minimal structures induce d for morphisms. So this is the main problem we want to address. So we have a c infinity smoothie philomorphism, under which conditions it induces an isomorphism of fresh spaces. So the first step is really easy. We know by dilemma we had before that we only need to check that this diphomorphism pulls and pushes Schwarz functions to Schwarz functions. We are not worried about continuity of this operation of this map. This is the first step.
00:31:45.184 - 00:32:56.034, Speaker B: We fix the Schwarz function on v, and we want to show that if we pre compose it with s with phi, we get a Schwarz function on u, and we'll do everything symmetrically, right? So everything will later change the names and think about phi minus one and from v to u. So it will make assumptions on both v and u together. So, recall our proposition we had in the beginning. If we have a Schwarz function on the big space on our end that is identically zero outside some set, then in order to show that this function is Schwarz on this set, it is enough to show that if you divide it by the distance to the boundary function to high powers, you get something that is bounded. Let's just keep this in the next slide. We have a function on v, and we want to show that it is Schwarzenegger. So we know by the proposition that we have the supremum on v of our function s divided by the distance to high powers.
00:32:56.034 - 00:33:33.496, Speaker B: This is finite. So this quantity is bounded. And we want to show the same thing for s composed with phi on u. This is what we need to do. So if by any chance our phi distorts the distance to the boundary polynomially. And what do I mean by this? I mean that we can find two positive numbers such that the distance of phi of x to the boundary of v is comparable to the distance of x to the boundary of u. So, and I'm align constants in all kinds of places, right.
00:33:33.496 - 00:33:57.720, Speaker B: So polynomially. So maybe we need to take high or low powers of this distance, and maybe we have some big constants, but we don't care. So these are good news. Why? These are good news because we look at the supremum. Do you see my pointer? Can you see my pointer here? Yeah. Okay, great. So we need to show that this supreme is finite.
00:33:57.720 - 00:34:49.442, Speaker B: What do we do? We use this inequality to change the denominator, and then we get something that is very similar to this bound we already have. So these are good news. And what kinds of functions phi only distorts the distance to the boundary polynomially. For instance, Helder maps. So if we have any Helder map actually from u to v, then we can show that it has this boundary, this distance to the boundary distortion property. And I write by Helder, because as I said, we want to do this thing for Schwarz function on v to show that this is being pulled to a Schwarz function on u. And we also want to do the other side.
00:34:49.442 - 00:35:30.520, Speaker B: Right? So if we assume that our phi is by Helder, then we are in good shape. So we can show that the bound for two of the proposition holds. Now we are not done yet, right? Because we said that we need to show two. And we also need to show that our function extends by zero to a Schwarz function on Rn. So how do we show that our function extends by zero to a Schwarz function on Rn? First of all, let's assume that. Okay, so yeah, so still need to show that s composed with phi extends by zero to a Schwarz function on rn. So first, let's assume that u is bounded nv.
00:35:30.520 - 00:36:21.398, Speaker B: So if everything is bounded, then being Schwarz is like being c infinity function, right? So now we need to show that if we take s composed with phi and we extend it by zero, we get something that is c infinity smooth. So what we will do, we will show that all the partial derivatives of s composed with phi extend by zero to a continuous function. This is enough, right? So now let's go to the n equals two case. So think about two reals or think about the complex plane. But again, I want to stress when we're thinking about the complex plane, it's just because it's convenient to work in this notation. We're still thinking about real valued functions. So if n equals two v and u are bounded and phi happens to be a conformal map, then we can have a nice bound.
00:36:21.398 - 00:36:56.826, Speaker B: Let's see this bound. This will be the ugliest formula I would write. So if we look at the kth derivative of phi. Now I'm sweeping some stuff under the rug because here k is a natural number, right? So when I write phi k, I mean d to the z to the power k. I'm taking derivatives of phi as a complex function from c that lives on the complex plane. So we can take derivatives. It's a function from r two to r two or from c to c.
00:36:56.826 - 00:37:33.390, Speaker B: So this is the d to dz derivative, if you want. But since when we are talking about Schwarz functions, originally we're talking about derivatives in the x direction and one y direction, right? And now we're moving to talk about d to the z and d to the z bar. But since phi is conformal, then d to the z controls this, d to the x and d to the y. Actually, it's the same up to some constant I or something. And d to the z bar would be just zero. So in any case, there's some technicality to verify. But everything is okay.
00:37:33.390 - 00:37:58.104, Speaker B: You can, you can believe me, it's okay. So let's look at this derivative. So this derivative, we have a formula, right? Cauchy's integration formula, which says that. So I just wrote it down. This is the first equivalent. This is the first equality. So we just integrate along a closed curve containing this point z.
00:37:58.104 - 00:38:34.384, Speaker B: And what is the closed curve? We take gamma to be a circle centered at z of radius, the distance of d to the boundary over to one half of this thing. So this phi lives inside u, right? Because the distance to the boundary is something. And we take a circle that is smaller than this thing, right. So everything is okay. We can take this integration and. Okay, so I just wrote the formula. So the first inequality is just putting absolute values everywhere.
00:38:34.384 - 00:39:20.854, Speaker B: And then we have an equality saying that, okay, what is w minus z in this expression? It's just the distance. It's just the radius of gamma, right? W minus z. The absolute value is just the radius of z for any point in gamma. So this is distance of z to the boundary over two. So I just plug it in here and we get this equality. And the last bound follows from the fact that v is bounded, right? So if v is bounded and phi is a map that maps u onto v, then this phi of w is bounded by something by the diameter of v. Well, if it contains zero, so that it's bounded by something.
00:39:20.854 - 00:39:50.274, Speaker B: So in any case, we have that the case derivative of z is bounded by some constant over the distance to the boundary function to the power k. Maybe k is very big, but I don't care. In fact, it's not big. K is exactly the case derivative here. So if we look at the first derivative, it does not explode more than one over to the distance to the boundary. But in any case, we have this bound. And now we are pretty much done.
00:39:50.274 - 00:40:38.574, Speaker B: So, in this case, all the partial derivatives of s composed with phi goes to zero as z approaches the boundary. Why? Because the partial derivatives of this thing will be something of the form. Some derivative of f evaluated at phi times inner derivatives times these derivatives of phi. But you can see that these derivatives of phi only explode as one over some polynomial to the distance to the boundary. And the first element of some derivative of s evaluated in phi is Schwarz. So it decays faster than one over to the distance. We'll have a Schwarz function multiplied by something that explodes.
00:40:38.574 - 00:41:14.244, Speaker B: But not too bad. So we have that s composed with phi extends to a c infinity function and hence to a Schwarz function. So we kind of proved the following theorem. So if we have phi from u to v, that is a conformal by Helder map between bounded domains in c, right? So we said conformal. We said bounded, we said by Helder. Then it induces an isomorphism of reshare spaces. So we kind of proved it up to me, cheating and sweeping things under the rod.
00:41:14.244 - 00:42:00.890, Speaker B: And then we have a nice corollary saying that any two bounded quasi disks are Schwarz equivalent. Now, I didn't tell you what's a quasi disk? I will tell you in a minute. But let me give you an example. So, for instance, if we look at coarse snowflakes, so we have the, we start with an equilateral triangle, and then we construct equilateral triangles on the third, the one third segments in every side, and we keep on doing it, but in every step we take one third. So the angle is fixed in this iteration. So this snowflake defines a bounded open domain in the complex plane, right, the interior of this thing, right. This snowflake is a Jordan curve.
00:42:00.890 - 00:42:48.156, Speaker B: So you have the bounded component and the unbounded. So the bounded component will be a quasi disk, bounded quasi disk. So in particular, we proved that the interior, of course, snowflake, is Schwartz equivalent to the unit disk, because the unit disk is also a quasi disk. And this example is interesting, first, because it's nice, and second, because this snowflake is not definable in any, well, o minima structure, not to mention polynomially bounded. Right? So it's not definable in any o minimal structure. So this is a nice example. So now let me give you the example of a quasi disk and a quasi circle and a quasi arc.
00:42:48.156 - 00:43:35.794, Speaker B: But I need to stress that this would be a very, very brief review. So there's a lot of interesting mathematics behind it. In particular, I will not say quasi conformal at any point. But you may ask, why is it called quasi circle? So the answer is it's an image of the circle under a quasi conformal map or under a quasi symmetry. So on the complex plane, quasi conformal maps and quasi symmetries are almost the same. But in general, you can say a lot of interesting stuff that I will not say, but I will give just the essential definitions. So what is a quasicircle? So, a quasi circle is a closed subset of the complex plane such that if you look at its closure in the Riemann sphere, then this is a Jordan curve.
00:43:35.794 - 00:44:15.876, Speaker B: And moreover, if you take any two points on your g naught, on your quasi circle, and you look at their distance, it controls from above the diameter of the connected component of j naught, so of the smallest connected component. So how would I explain it. So you have your quasi circle. You take out two points so you can look at the smallest connected component that connects these two points. Maybe there's more than one, maybe there is two. So take the smallest. So this diameter should be bounded by the distance of these two points up to some big constants.
00:44:15.876 - 00:44:36.484, Speaker B: But, okay, but some constants, I think maybe in the literature, sometimes it's denoted k, this c. Right. And then it's called. Yeah, I think. And then it's called the k quasi disk. But, okay, but this is a quasi disk for us. And so this is a quasi, I'm sorry, this is a quasi circle.
00:44:36.484 - 00:45:35.486, Speaker B: What is a quasi arc? A quasi arc is a subset of some quasi circle such that its closure inside the Riemann sphere is homomorphic to zero one. Know that this subset doesn't have to be connected. So, for instance, if you look at two infinite rays that have a hole in the middle. So in the Riemann sphere, it's just, you know, these two ends connect, and then this is a nice quasi arc. And the third definition would be what is a quasi disk? So a quasi disk is a simply connected open subset of the complex plane that its boundary is a quasi circle. Okay, now these definitions, you may not like them. So sometimes people work in the Riemann sphere, and then you don't need to think about the difference between bounded, unbounded, simply connected, not simply connected, the closure.
00:45:35.486 - 00:46:02.164, Speaker B: So you just think about stuff that live in the rhythm sphere. However, we used to think about, we used to think of Schwarz functions on rna, in particular on two reals. So we prefer the approach on just work in the complex plane. But it's a matter of taste, and everything is equivalent, of course. Okay, so let me give you some examples. So the upper half plane is a quasi disk, right? It's a very, the boundary is just the realign. The real line is a nice quasi circle.
00:46:02.164 - 00:46:45.884, Speaker B: However, an infinite open strip is not a quasi disk. Why? Because if you look at the closure of the infinite close of the infinite open strip. So these are two parallel lines at infinity, they meet. So it's not a Jordan curve, right? It splits the Riemann sphere into three connected components and not two. So it's not a quasi disk. And this is an important example because it is definable in any polynomially bounded or minimal structure, right? So we know that this infinite open strip, for instance, is Schwarz, equivalent to the unit disk, because this infinite open strip is Nash diphiomorphic or semi algebraically philomorphic to the unit disk. To the unit disk.
00:46:45.884 - 00:47:10.814, Speaker B: But it is not a quasi disk. So this is an example to show you that neither the two approaches are over. The two approaches is strictly stronger than the other. I mean, we have definable stuff that are not quasidisc, and we have quasi disks that are not definable. There is another example. If you take a cusp, an algebraic or exponential, it's never a quasi circle. So an algebraic asp would be just the zero set of x squared equals y cubed.
00:47:10.814 - 00:47:57.914, Speaker B: So this is again definable in any reasonable, in any ominable structure, but it is not a quasi circle. And in fact, this too is hints for a big, I don't know, classification theorem or equivalent definition of alfor, saying that if you have a topological circle, it is a quasi circle if and only if it has no zero angle cusps. Okay, I didn't define everything properly. So this is like, but this is the motivation, the intuition behind it. This is an interesting example. If you take the real graph of a sinus, so take just sinus x. I have something.
00:47:57.914 - 00:48:29.356, Speaker B: Five minutes. Okay, we'll try. I'll try. So if you take this thing, this is a quasi circle because it's infinity, it's nice. But if you take this thing, that a sinus that is oscillating faster and faster, so you take the sinus of x squared of the real part squared, this is not a quasi circle. And this is a very interesting example. Okay, so these are quasi discontinuance, quasi circle.
00:48:29.356 - 00:49:18.094, Speaker B: Let me very quickly tell you some more results without details. So what are the different morphism in Deus Schwarz equivalence other than these bihelder conformal and definable. So we can show that if you have a Mobius transformation that maps u onto v, it's also, it induces Schwarz equivalence. And then we have the corollary that any two quasi disks, in general, Auschwarz equivalent. And why is it true? Because if you take an unbounded quasi disk, you just take a Mobius transformation that turns it into a bounded quasi disk. And it is well known that Mobius transformation maps quasi disk to quasi disks, again because they are quasi conformal on the sphere. Another example, which is very nice, this is Eden's favorite, I think.
00:49:18.094 - 00:49:56.078, Speaker B: So if you take two open simply connected domains that do not contain zero, and we take any holomorphic square root, any branch of the square root function, then it also induces Gwart's equivalence. And know that these two lemmas are very similar to being definable. Right? Because Mobius transformation is kind of definable, but not really because you don't know that your u and v are definable. So you are given a formula that is definable, but it lives on a set that is very bad. So. Yeah, and also the second lemma. So you have a square root.
00:49:56.078 - 00:50:19.384, Speaker B: So it's a formula, but you don't know how the formula changes. So. And quasi disk and this u and v here can be really bad. Can be like infinite spirals and bad things. Okay. And this lemma gives us another theorem about what happens if you take the entire plane and take out a quasi arc. But let's skip it, because I want to take two minutes to talk about Cobb's theorem, which is really nice.
00:50:19.384 - 00:51:03.354, Speaker B: So, Kobe's theorem is not ours, unfortunately. So we tell you that if you have a domain in the complex plane that have, well, finitely many or countably many connected components in its boundary, then it is conformally equivalent to what people call a circle domain, which is a domain such that the boundaries components are only points and circles. So this is true for finitely many connected components in the boundary proven by Kobe when he made it conjecture. It should be true for any subset, for any domain. And by Hashram, it was proven for countably many. And note that, okay, nothing works. Okay.
00:51:03.354 - 00:51:42.500, Speaker B: That this theorem is a generalization of the Riemann's mapping theorem. Right. Because if you have a simply connected domain and it's so, it must be conformally equivalent to a disk. Right? And in particular to the unidisc. But note that in contrast with Raymond's mapping theorem here, the fact the fundamental group does not completely determine the surface, the domain. Let me skip on this, but just tell you our theorem. So, if we take a domain whose boundary connected components consists of, at most countably many points and finally many quasi circles.
00:51:42.500 - 00:52:29.520, Speaker B: So we cut out many coarse snowflakes, for instance, and we also allow one quasi circle that is unbounded. So we take the complex plane, we cut out five coarse snowflakes and a few other rectangles, and we also take out the entire half plane. Then this is Schwarz, equivalent to a circle domain. And the proof of this theorem is essentially saying, okay, let's take the map that Cobe gives us, and let's show that it extends to a quasi symmetry on the complex plane. And this is enough to be by Helder, and this is enough to give us everything we want. So, in the last minute, I will tell you what are the open questions. So, we still don't know.
00:52:29.520 - 00:53:16.202, Speaker B: Is it true that any two c infinity diphomorphic subsets of RNA are SCHwarz equivalent, right? So I told you, in many, many cases where you have Schwarz equivalents, I show you the exponential map that doesn't induce Schwarz equivalence. But a minute after I showed you why these sets are Schwartz equivalent. So it's not clear whether any two c infinity diphomorphic subset of Schwarz equivalent. And there you have two examples. So if you take this, the real, the complex plane, and you cut out the infinite, the faster and faster oscillating sinus. If you cut it out, we don't know if it's diphromorphic to the unit disk. We know that if you cut out just the sinus, it is diphelomorphic because it is a quasi arc.
00:53:16.202 - 00:54:11.234, Speaker B: But if you take something that goes faster and faster, we don't know the second example, and it would be less example. So if we take the zero one interval, we delete the one third counter set, we get an open subset. It's quite bad, but it's an open subset, and it consists of countably many intervals. So the question is, is each warts equivalent to just a union of intervals far away from each other? So we don't know this question, too. If I would have to guess, maybe I would say that, yeah, I made a guess once, and then I turned out to be wrong. But if I would have to guess, I would say that the second example should be true. Somehow we should be able to cheat and construct a Schwarz equivalent.
00:54:11.234 - 00:55:05.430, Speaker B: Okay, so, thank you. So if you want to read more, the first reference is to the thing about definable stuff, and the second is the preparent of myself. And since you told me five minutes ago, five minutes ago, so I can take 30 extra seconds and just tell you that there you have another example of application of Koch Snowflake. If you have a five year old that is really into frozen and he likes Anna and Elsa and all these snowflakes, then you can show him how to construct this thing. So you see, there is my son. He's dressed up like Elsa, and he saw me preparing this slide in the weekend, and he asked me, what is this snowflake? So I showed him how to construct. On the right hand side, you can see him trying to.
00:55:05.430 - 00:55:15.214, Speaker B: Yeah. So we stopped after three iterations. I think it would be too difficult. Okay. Yeah, thank you.
