00:00:04.410 - 00:00:52.766, Speaker A: Thanks for tuning in to this week's news. Recap. First headline bitcoin institutional adoption strengthens as Bitcoin ETF is delayed Sources tell CoinDesk that JP morgan Chase will be offering an actively managed bitcoin fund to certain clients as soon as this summer, marking an about phase for the company led by CEO Jamie Dimon, who infamously called bitcoin a fraud back in 2017. NYDIG, a bitcoincentric investment firm, will serve as the fund's custody provider. Asian video game publisher Nexon, a publicly traded company, announced the purchase of roughly $100 million worth of bitcoin. The allocation represents about 2% of its total cash and cash equivalents as of December 2020. The US.
00:00:52.766 - 00:01:36.154, Speaker A: Securities and Exchange Commission delayed its ruling on Van X bitcoin ETF application, extending the original 45 day decision window to 90 days. The new deadline is set for June 17, though it could be further delayed to encompass 240 days. The extension should not come. As a surprise, the securities regulator has delayed other bitcoin ETF proposals, each ending in rejection. Next headline Tesla sold 10% of its bitcoin position. A Q One earnings report showed that Tesla generated $100 million in income from the sale of bitcoin, helping boost profits to a quarterly record high to start 2021. The electric vehicle company's original purchase of $1.5
00:01:36.154 - 00:02:14.466, Speaker A: billion in bitcoin is currently valued at $2.48 billion. Even with the sale barstool CEO Dave Portnoy acting as a stand in for crypto day traders and people who don't know how to hodl tweeted at Musk. So am I understanding this correctly? Elon Musk buys bitcoin, then he pumps it, it goes up, then he dumps it and makes a fortune? Listen, I own one bitcoin, but bitcoin is exactly who we thought it was. Just don't be last one hoddling the bag. Musk responded, no, you do not. I have not sold any of my bitcoin.
00:02:14.466 - 00:03:13.322, Speaker A: Tesla sold 10% of its holdings, essentially to prove liquidity of bitcoin as an alternative to holding cash on balance sheet. Bloomberg columnist Matt Levine noted that Tesla's chief financial officer, Zachary Kirkhorn, discussed bitcoin liquidity a lot on the call. As Levine put it, quote, Tesla decided to put a chunk of its corporate cash into bitcoin and I guess needed to make sure that its money wasn't trapped a reasonable concern. He then brought up the accounting rules that can be a negative for companies holding bitcoin on their balance sheets. He says, quote, when your bitcoins go up, you don't book a gain, but when they go down, you do book a loss. The only way to book a gain on bitcoins is to sell them. The upshot, he says, is that, quote, if you are Elon Musk and you can make bitcoin go up by tweeting about it, you almost have an obligation to do it.
00:03:13.322 - 00:04:09.786, Speaker A: Perhaps a fiduciary obligation to your shareholders, but at least a sort of aesthetic obligation to comedy. If bitcoin wants Musk to manipulate it, musk really ought to manipulate it. Speaking of Bitcoin, I recommend two long reads this week. April 26 was the 10th anniversary of Satoshi's last known communication with the Bitcoin community. In bitcoin magazine kraken editor at large Pete Rizzo analyzes the last days of satoshi when there was, Rizzo writes, quote, a growing belief, stronger perhaps, than any confidence in satoshi himself, that no bitcoin user could be greater or less than any other. That they are where all nodes on the network, authors of code, individuals responsible for the software success. Alex Glasstein, chief strategy officer at the Human Rights Foundation, wrote about the hidden cost of the Waning petrodollar and its impact on U.
00:04:09.786 - 00:04:55.798, Speaker A: S. Fiscal policy and political power. The petrodollar, by the way, is a US. Dollar paid to a petroleum exporter in exchange for oil. Gladstein believes a transition to a Bitcoin standard from the petrodollar quote plays to the strengths of open societies, does not depend on dictators or fossil fuels, and is ultimately run by citizens, not the entrenched elite. Next Headline Ether reaches a New Alltime High After hitting two $600 for the first time last week, Ether soared to a new Alltime high over two $700. On Wednesday afternoon, coinciding with the Alltime high, the European Investment Bank, the EU's lending arm, announced it used Ethereum to issue $121,000,000 in digital notes.
00:04:55.798 - 00:05:43.990, Speaker A: Here's how it works The EIB issues a series of bond tokens on Ethereum. Investors purchase and pay for the bond tokens in Fiat. The money used to purchase the bonds is minted as a CBDC on Ethereum, and then the principal is paid in Fiat at maturity to CBDC holders. Next headline ethereum 20 Updates. Last Friday, Ethereum creator Vitalik Buterin outlined the development roadmap for ETH 20. His plan would see Ethereum evolve into a full proof of stake blockchain, implement Sharding strategies to improve throughput and Tweak security measures for the better. On Saturday, Ethereum 20 had its first major incident when a bug was discovered that prevented a large set of validators from producing blocks.
00:05:43.990 - 00:06:53.850, Speaker A: Validators are users staking 32 ETH or more on Ethereum 20 to power the proof of stake blockchain. The bug was patched after 403 blocks and caused little disruption outside of certain validators losing out on block rewards. Next Headline Finance Smart chain announcement marred by $50 million hack and potential violation Cryptocurrency Exchange Finance plans to launch an NFT marketplace that will run on its Ethereum competitor, the Binance smart chain. That announcement was overshadowed by a Binance smart chain DAP Uranium Finance, losing $50 million in a potential rug pull. Several tokens, including Bitcoin and Ether, were drained from the protocol early Wednesday due to a bug that allowed the exploiter to use a swap function to steal the funds. Furthermore, Binance's recent release of stock tokens that track Tesla coinbase and MicroStrategy stock caught the ire of Germany's financial supervisory Authority boffin as being suspicious the exchange could incur up to $6 million in fines 3% of Binance's annual revenue. Regulators in the UK.
00:06:53.850 - 00:07:52.258, Speaker A: And law firms in Hong Kong have already questioned the legitimacy of the stock tokens. In related news, Brian Brooks, the soon to be CEO of Binance US, has grant plans to build the exchange as a Coinbase competitor and out of the shadow of its parent company, Binance. He is determined to expand the exchange's reach across the US. Brooks told the bloc that his quote, priority is doing what is necessary to get what needs to be done on licenses for states where Binance US is currently unavailable, such as Texas and New York, amongst others. Brooks said he believes that if the firm quote just added those states and nothing else, the business would probably double. Next Headline Payment platforms continue to embrace crypto. In an earnings call earlier this week, Visa CEO Alfred Kelly described the firm as, quote, extremely well positioned to achieve its crypto goals related to a multi pronged strategy, including Bitcoin services.
00:07:52.258 - 00:08:34.962, Speaker A: Stablecoins and CBDCs. Mastercard was revealed as the partner for Gemini's upcoming credit card, which will offer rewards in crypto for cardholders. Gemini is the crypto exchange founded by the Winklevoss twins. In a recent profile by Time magazine, PayPal CEO Dan Schulman said quote, Demand on the crypto side has been multiple fold to what we initially expected. There's a lot of excitement. Paxos, the blockchain infrastructure company Powering, PayPal and Venmo's crypto offerings raised $300 million. CEO Charles Cascarilla is optimistic about Paxos's growth, telling the block quote we thought we could add one customer the size of PayPal this year.
00:08:34.962 - 00:09:33.710, Speaker A: I think we can add three to five. By the way, for those of you who are interested, I am conducting a chat between a CEO Charles Cascarilla and Robinhood CEO Vlad Tenev on Tuesday, and I will put the link to that talk in the show notes so you can register for that. Next Headline NFTs Field criticism from art Collectors The New York Times reports old school art collectors are reticent to join the blockchain art craze over concerns about the quality, ownership and authenticity of NFTs. Critics of NFTs wonder about the exclusivity of an NFT, which anyone can see online, along with, as one put it, the, quote, enormous unresolved copyright issues. By the way, I do have an episode on that that came out recently. You can also check the show notes for that. However, the NYT cites artists excited to produce digital content on the blockchain and art galleries adding NFTs to exhibits.
00:09:33.710 - 00:10:29.734, Speaker A: Positives aside, Tina Rivers Ryan of the Albright Knox Art Galleries said it best quote the $69 million question is whether this is going to become another hype cycle like virtual reality was in 2016 or like net art was before the.com bubble burst in 2001. Next Headline The alleged administrator of Bitcoin Fog is arrested Bitcoin Fog was one of the first Bitcoin washing machines, a service designed to help anonymize cryptocurrency transactions by mixing user funds. On Tuesday, US officials arrested Roman Sterlingov, the alleged administrator of bitcoin fog on money laundering related charges. The IRS used an analysis of bitcoin transactions, along with other investigative information to identify sterlingov. More than 1.2 million BTC was sent through bitcoin fog worth $336,000,000 at the time.
00:10:29.734 - 00:11:06.130, Speaker A: According to Wired. At least $78 million passed through the mixer to illegal marketplaces such as Silk Road. All right, time for fun bits. This article was a terrible idea. The Financial Times published an article titled A Bitcoin ETF is a terrible idea, saying that for ETFs quote, the assets need to be liquid too. That could be a problem with bitcoin, the supply of which is capped at 21 million coins. In a market plunge, investors could find themselves locked into the shares.
00:11:06.130 - 00:12:00.722, Speaker A: All I have to say to this is that maybe before publishing something in an international newspaper, it's a good idea to do some research on it. 1st 2nd fun bits. Which is more fun? Vacationing using Bitcoin paradise is on its way. The One Becky development, where 39 luxury villas are set to be built in the Caribbean, intends to become the world's first fully bitcoin enabled community. People will be able to pay for property in bitcoin while also using BTC for everyday essentials like groceries, paying at restaurants and at movie theaters. The property owner, Storm Gonzalez says the adoption of BTC is more necessity than gimmick, citing banking challenges arising from small island nations sending and receiving money internationally because of derisking by large international banks. Okay, well, thanks for tuning in.
00:12:00.722 - 00:12:21.890, Speaker A: To learn more about Dan and MetaMask, be sure to check out the links in the show notes. Follow Unchained on Twitter at unchained underscore pod, where you can find all sorts of content ranging from my weekly newsletter to updates on my upcoming book and a whole lot more. Unconfirmed is produced by me, Laura Shin, with help from Anthony Yoon, Mark Murdoch, and Daniel Ness. Thanks for listening.
