00:00:00.320 - 00:00:31.675, Speaker A: Don't close. All right, I think we're live. Welcome Zon. Everyone, we have Zon from Initia today to tell us all about the Interwoven stack. There's been a huge amount of excitement around initiative and rightfully so. They completed a successful testnet like a month ago and Mainnet is imminent. They have released a lot of new details about their stack in a blog post earlier this week.
00:00:31.675 - 00:00:52.475, Speaker A: So we're going to unpack all of that, we're going to talk about all the applications. There's 15 different application specific roll ups that are building on an issue and we're also going to talk a bit about, you know, Celestia underneath, why they chose Celestia Da. It's going to be a really interesting stream. So Zon, thank you so much for joining and why don't you just give us a background of yourself and Anisha at a high level.
00:00:53.095 - 00:01:53.855, Speaker B: Sure thing. So I'm zoning. I'm one of the co founders of Initia. My quick background is I've been deep in Ethereum and Cosmos Defi for a very long time, played with everything during Defi summer, farmed every single yam and pickle, nearly almost all the Olympus Dao forks, which is a lot, and then spent a decent amount of time building within Cosmos itself at a large L1 there, building a startup in Cosmos and then starting off Initia with my co founder, Stan. So Initia, the brief introduction there is Initia is a network for interwoven roll ups. And what that means is we're essentially holistically rebuilding how multichain networks should look, feel and operate along the architecture stack, the product stack and the economic systems that kind of bind them together through the initial layer one and an interconnected system of L2s.
00:01:54.795 - 00:02:09.019, Speaker A: Cool. So basically you're saying that you were a massive degen back in the day and that installed it still am. And does that, does that help kind of build the culture of initiative and the initial ecosystem to some degree?
00:02:09.187 - 00:02:58.715, Speaker B: Yeah, for sure. I think we are. The, the roll ups on initiative are definitely a bit more geared towards Defi and financial products. And I think, you know, that's one of the core pillars of crypto as a whole. And just being an active user of actual chains, you make a lot of decisions on the product side on how these things should work. And I think after spending so much time in Cosmos, you realize there's a lot that can be done better. And I think with the rise of modularity is you have this million chain idea, a lot of that UX stack also needs to be glued together in the right places and I think Initia is just holistically doing it by building the architecture stack but also the product suite at the same time.
00:02:59.535 - 00:03:24.507, Speaker A: Yeah. You have to start with the user experience as the goal and then work backwards from there to the infrastructure. And I think that you guys are very, very good example of that. And order to know what the user experience should be and how it's impacted by the infrastructure, you have to be a power user yourself. So it sounds like the whole NISHA team are power users of defi and crypto in general. So that's extremely bullish.
00:03:24.571 - 00:03:27.415, Speaker B: Do use the chain. Yes, I can.
00:03:29.035 - 00:03:41.181, Speaker A: You actually use crypto. That's yeah. Pretty rare these days. Anyway, so let's talk about. You guys published a blog post. So yeah, I want to start off with like just explaining what initiative is. Right.
00:03:41.181 - 00:04:50.475, Speaker A: You talk about being interwoven. My understanding of your definition of interwoven is that like it's this synthesis of modular and monolithic where you're going to have this L1 hub which is the initial chain, and then you're going to have these roll ups on top of it called minutias and they're going to be application specific roll ups and you've built a whole stack to make it so that those things all feel like one unified interwoven experience to a user. And you've also made it so that it's very easy. From the developer perspective, building a minutia is very similar to building a smart contract application. You have a lot of these tools that just come out of the box and things just work. TM and so why don't you explain what interwoven is? And then this whole tech stack that you guys published recently with optimistic modules and how they tie in together, you have the OP host, you have OP child, you have these OP bots. Why don't you just break it down for us? And if helpful, I have the diagram which I can pull up at any time.
00:04:50.895 - 00:05:34.439, Speaker B: Sweet. Yeah. Essentially when we looked at revisiting this problem of like how should app specific chains be built? You look at kind of the two existing worlds right now, which are basically cosmos chains and roll ups on Ethereum. Cosmos chains just they are the most flexible system possible to build something unique. And that's why so many people still use the Cosmos SDK. It is literally the only toolkit to change the way that transactions are ordered, the way that they're processed, like everything about your chain. But it's difficult to bootstrap A chain, you have to run a validator set, you have to deal with token inflation, you have to bootstrap that economic security.
00:05:34.439 - 00:06:32.575, Speaker B: Then also all the integrations and that integration piece is also definitely seen on roll ups on Ethereum. I think roll ups there you basically get the same copy paste fork every single time using something like the OP stack or Arbitrum Orbit. And then every kind of RAS provider is like a vending machine. And I think the vending machine example is very good for the vending machine because they have all these different options that you can plug and play and choose from. But I think when you're trying to build a system that's very integrated and concise, there is benefits to having things on the same stack so that you avoid things like liquidity, fragmentation or where data is posted. And so rather than doing the vending machine design initiative, stack is very opinionated. So we essentially work with what we think are the best in class external parties, so namely Layer Zero and Celestia.
00:06:32.575 - 00:07:20.685, Speaker B: And then we kind of integrate everything within our roll up framework. So roll ups on Initia are full fledged Cosmos SDK based chains. So you can change the way that they order transactions. You have in app MEV lanes, you have the ability to change the gas fees or have multiple different types of gas tokens. We also support three different VMs, so EVM movie or WASM VM. But then everything else that you would need to typically go deal with a BD team and figure out these integrations is just built into the stack and you don't have to do anything so you can just focus on building your actual application. And so what that means is Oracles are just directly built in and atomically fetchable by every layer too.
00:07:20.685 - 00:08:05.523, Speaker B: You have fungibility across all of the roll ups because of the interoperability providers we have which are IBC and layer 0. So you can onboard from any chain direct from day one when you launch your roll up there are enshrined indexers. So indexing is very critical. When you're building your front end applications. You need different types of APIs to be able to pull, you know, the NFT contract data, the transactions made by a certain account. These are typically all external things that you add into a chain, but they just come out of the box on Initia as well. And then of course Celestia for da, which is just the most scalable DA service that I think exists on the market right now.
00:08:05.523 - 00:09:06.555, Speaker B: And having also been a Cosmos chain, it makes posting data very easy. And since it's integrated into the stack. Having basically everyone hosting data in the same place makes it very handy when we have to do things like fraud proof challenges or call in our layer 1 validator set to fetch that data and take a look at it. So the word interwoven I think describes a few different things to me. Firstly, it describes how the rollups on initiative are just connected to everything from day one and that being through layer zero ibc, but also things like fiat on ramps, native USDC and CCTP access. Like these are just huge critical pieces that when you launch your chain you're instantly connected to. And then it also describes to me the way that the ecosystem on Initia and the chains that use the interwoven stack work together to basically build up and grow the pie.
00:09:06.555 - 00:09:37.235, Speaker B: Right. I often think of roll ups elsewhere as like these sovereign states that are kind of fighting alone and for themselves. But it's really difficult to win when you're trying to, you know, reach attention just by yourself as a sovereign chain. And I think having such a tight knit community of chains building on the interwoven stack and having so many integrations between them just allows teams to work together and, you know, win together.
00:09:39.015 - 00:10:43.763, Speaker A: I love that. So one of the things I heard you say, which is a really important point, and this is often something that critics of the modular stack talk about, is we've now made it possible to spin up a roll up very easily, you know, to actually build a new blockchain with the click of a button or just, you know, a couple hours of work or whatever. But then the problem is that once you have your blockchain or your roll up live, you don't have all these other auxiliary features that you need to make it actually work and functional for the end application you're building to make it easy for users to onboard, et cetera. And so there's things like you mentioned like, well, if I'm doing defi or whatever, I'm going to need an Oracle. And it used to be that, you know, I have to go talk to an Oracle provider and like negotiate with them and probably pay a ton of money to have them integrate with me. But with initial we have that out of the stack. I'm assuming with Skip, correct, we have things like indexers as well, where it used to be, okay, I need to talk to, you know, get a block explorer, get an indexer.
00:10:43.763 - 00:10:58.717, Speaker A: Had to pay for that again out of pocket sometimes a lot of money. A lot of these providers are extract, like pretty extractive by the way. And with Initia all these things and usdc, it used to cost a ton of money and take literally years. Actually way back in the day it's.
00:10:58.741 - 00:11:10.105, Speaker B: Basically impossible to get native USDC on a roll up unless you're like massive. Right. Unless you're the scale of something like Arbitrum or Optimism, you're not going to have native CCTP access.
00:11:10.645 - 00:12:07.051, Speaker A: Exactly. Shout out to Noble, by the way. Thank you. People probably wouldn't believe this, but back in the day each one of these things like getting an Oracle, let's say a chainlink, getting a block explorer, slash indexer, let's say it was Etherscan or getting USCC or USCT support, literally used to be like a year long BD process and over a million dollars each. A lot of people were saying the real cost of building the module stack is not that it's so hard to build your own chain and get a validator set, whatever, but it's these other things and there was some truth to that. But then teams like Initia have been working on solving that other part of that other aspect of modularity and not again, bridging and fragmentation is another huge part of this. So you know, when there's not like a clarity around a specific bridging standard or hub, you know you have fragmentation even if you know you're going to have all these different bridging providers.
00:12:07.051 - 00:12:22.805, Speaker A: It sounds like you guys have also kind of like made it so that the developer doesn't have to think about that or worry about that. It's just like plug and play from the beginning. So I could not be more in agreement with like you guys have solved the right problems to make this vision actually possible.
00:12:23.425 - 00:14:01.795, Speaker B: Yeah, I think just having opinions on how these systems should work lets you just focus on like the real problems. Right. If we obviously can't please everyone and I think there are potential use cases of like why you would use a different DA provider or a different interoperability solution. But to a large degree I think just working with the best in class teams and integrating into the system so that no one has to make these choices or deal with choosing between multiple and doing a whole process for that is much more effective because often teams that want to build app chains are doing so because they want to control their economic stack, they want to control their sovereignty, they want to make sure they retain value, but they do not really care about dealing with any of those third party service providers, they just want to build a kick ass app and I think the interwoven stack is the best place to do that. Especially because not only do we solve the architecture problem there, but we also have a full product suite. So what does it actually look like for end users when they come in and use the applications here? What does it feel like to bridge in from say, Arbitrum to a roll up on the interwoven stack? What does it feel like to connect to wallets? How can we lower as many barriers to entry for users across multiple different ecosystems to come, use these chains and make it as seamless as possible to move around them. There's a lot of talk about this chain abstracted future and I'm definitely bought into the belief that there will be like thousands of app chains, of course.
00:14:01.795 - 00:14:14.175, Speaker B: And so making it as simple as possible for end users to interact with them and go between them and cross pollinate is how we can build like a strong, tight knit, thriving modular expansion.
00:14:15.035 - 00:15:11.097, Speaker A: Modular expansion. Well, the other thing is that we just talked a lot about the infrastructure and the developer experience and clearly there are 15 different teams, many of which are venture backed, building on the Initia stack from, I assume are also going to launch as you guys launch Mainnet, which is extremely exciting and I keep hearing the feedback that, you know, the user experience of using initiative and these minicias is like, just tells, tells it all in the sense of like it's working. So let's, let's talk a little bit more about the applications themselves. And I was looking down at your guys sort of like ecosystem map and there's some really cool ones. Obviously you're wearing a Milky Way shirt. We're very familiar with Milky Way. It's like a liquid staking protocol.
00:15:11.097 - 00:15:44.179, Speaker A: Really strong team. There's Blackwing, who I also listen to them on the expansion podcast. They're building margin trading without liquidations. We have Czar, which is like the fun chain and has NFTs and stuff like that. And then I also saw Inertia, which is lending. So anyway, you have this really big ecosystem, but I want to give you an opportunity to talk about, you know, any individual teams. I know it's hard to like, you know, pick favorites or you know, you know, spotlight all of them, but are there any that stand out to you that are interesting, that would be interesting to the audience.
00:15:44.179 - 00:15:59.635, Speaker A: And then also like, how do you see the ecosystem of Anisha as a whole essentially, and how they all, all these different things plug in together? Right. Because they're not just isolated applications. They're all, they're part of a cohesive, interwoven ecosystem.
00:15:59.795 - 00:17:03.255, Speaker B: Right. So I think one of the things that we really want to address when trying to kick start some of the teams on the Interwoven stack was if you look at the way successful ecosystems have formed, it's always because there's a couple of killer apps that are doing something interesting that have reasons to bring new users to interact with them. Right? Like if you look at Arbitrum, it was basically GMX and everything was built around glp. If you look at optimism, it was like things like Synthetics and Velodrome. Now you have stuff like Hyperliquid which is really taking off. I think one of the things that is often done wrong is new ecosystems launch their chain and then you get the exact same copy paste forks of your lending, your dex, your univ two forks, maybe a GMX fork. And I don't think that's going to move the needle long term for being a compelling reason for new users to actually come and engage with this system, unless you're just paying out a lot of incentives.
00:17:03.255 - 00:18:06.489, Speaker B: And one of the things that's great about modularity and roll ups and especially application specific roll ups is the reason you're ideally doing this is because you want to customize something to build something unique. That's where you can actually create powerful applications because you have full control over how everything works. And so there are a handful of teams on the Interwoven stack that I think are building really unique products that have real product offerings that are compelling to new users and are going to be just bangers when they launch. And so some of those are like Blackwing, like you mentioned. So Blackwing basically uses or what they are is limitless. Basically they use this design called Limitless Pools which allows you to take leverage trades on any asset without liquidation and without Oracle risk. And they specifically use their chain on the Interwoven stack as like an intent solver hub.
00:18:06.489 - 00:18:59.425, Speaker B: And so the reason they do that is because they want this Limitless Pools design to be across literally every chain. So if there is a token on pump fund that makes it onto Radium, you can outperform leverage on that. If there is something that is on Thruster, on Blast, you can perform leverage on that. If there's something on Osmosis, you can do the same. And the way that they create that chain abstracted and Dex abstracted experience, is by having trades done on each individual chain. But as a user, you just come to Blackwing itself, you make the trade and then the intent solver system basically goes out to the destination chain and makes the trade that you need to create that leveraged position. And so they've really just customized to this chain specific for what they need to create this amazing experience where you can trade leverage on any token on any chain.
00:18:59.425 - 00:19:40.571, Speaker B: So I think that's a very good example of someone doing something unique with the stack. Another one is Milky Way, right. I'm obviously wearing their shirts, so I have to show them. Milky Way is, you know, the largest and the first LST for Celestia. But they're now moving towards a restaking angle. And I think restaking makes a lot of sense within the modular landscape, right? Because in Modular Land we have like the most amount of little pieces of things like connecting to each other, things like IBC relays, these roll up nodes. Any little part of the modular system could typically use some additional security.
00:19:40.571 - 00:20:28.863, Speaker B: And so Milky Way is building a restaking hub on the interwoven stack, which allows you to restake things like tia, INIT and potentially other assets and then use that security to bootstrap it for pieces in Modular land. Another one that I think is very interesting is called Contro. So Contro built this mechanism called the Glob. Really good word. I think I'm most bullish on contra just because of the word glob, but it stands for the gradual limit order book. And what it does is it basically slows down the time of markets and it's specifically built for stuff like prediction markets, which is very timely right now. But the founder, Andreas built this like two years ago.
00:20:28.863 - 00:21:37.535, Speaker B: He came up with an initial design and now it's all kind of coming together. But what it does is if you look at traditional prediction markets, time is often something that people compete on, right? Like if I find out information sooner than someone else or if I am doing some insider trading and I know some Intel, I can basically snipe all the remaining upside of a given pool or a given prediction. But the glob removes that time element. And so what it does is even if you're Learning this information 30 minutes before someone else or an hour later, you can still make your prediction and still capture some of the upside. So it isn't actually a fair prediction market that no other prediction market can do, because they built this glob mechanism directly into their roll up. And it can power all sorts of additional things in the future outside of predictions, stuff like trading and perpetuals as well a few other interesting ones. So there's this project called Infinity Ground they're building on the interwoven stack.
00:21:37.535 - 00:22:29.957, Speaker B: They are building basically AI entertainment. And so what that means is they've developed a bunch of really cool AI models that let them create games, videos, memes, all that sort of stuff extremely quickly. And so they can essentially pump out new video games for people to play every three days using this AI model that they have. And some of the games are really fun and they're working with incredible design studio. The founder used to work for my shell, so she has a bunch of experience here. And basically one of the games I played was basically Dance Dance Revolution, but you're tapping and you're trump dodging bullets. This other one that they're making is specifically for Initia, which is like a jumping game that will come out in the next few days.
00:22:29.957 - 00:22:49.205, Speaker B: But they can crank out these games in like three days. And they're incredibly good. Like they have a lot of quality. I think it's going to be basically like mini clip but has a chain and I think it's going to be phenomenal. Are there any that specifically caught your eye that you want to dive deeper into?
00:22:49.825 - 00:23:19.681, Speaker A: No, I think that was a great overview and I mean there are 15, so it's going to. It would be, you know, take too long to go through each one of them. But we got a good cross section, right. We have restaking and LSTs, we have various defi mechanisms, we have games, we have NFTs. It's clear to me that you guys have a really robust and diverse ecosystem that kind of hits a lot of the main categories. I even saw one actually that was. Had some kind of AI angle as well that was like, I think you use AI to generate NFTs or something like that.
00:23:19.681 - 00:23:21.045, Speaker A: I thought that was kind of cool.
00:23:21.945 - 00:23:30.577, Speaker B: So anyway, yes, sorry, it was called Init AI, which is funny, you just initiative but you swap the last two letters.
00:23:30.721 - 00:23:35.001, Speaker A: Yeah, that was planning for that all along. The pivot to AI.
00:23:35.153 - 00:23:35.965, Speaker B: Yup.
00:23:37.465 - 00:24:12.431, Speaker A: Well, anyway, well, the other cool thing is that each one of these. So the initial L1 is its own L1. Right. I don't think it's not actually tied into Celestia for da, but each one of these roll apps or application specific rollups, applications building on Initia, the minishas all post their data and become essentially to some degree Celestia roll ups while settling to Initia. So that's, that's really exciting because There are currently 20 roll ups live on Celestia, a lot more in the pipeline. But as soon as, you know, Initia launches, I guess there's going to be.
00:24:12.463 - 00:24:47.203, Speaker B: A bunch more at least. Hopefully. Hopefully there'll be around 10 for day one, that's our goal, to make sure that everything's lined up. We're going to be doing a large orchestration soon where we practice doing a mainnet launch with all of the teams on the interwoven stack. It's just a big coordination effort. I think adding each one later on is very easy to spin up a new one, but doing it all at the same time is a hard task. So we're going to practice it so that we can get it right when mainnet comes along.
00:24:47.203 - 00:25:53.953, Speaker B: But yes, every roll up on Initia, just by default, post data to Celestia. And I think it's incredibly valuable to have all the data in the same place for a few different reasons. One is we have this system called omniscient shared security. And basically when a fraud proof challenge comes in on one of these roll ups, if someone is acting maliciously, we use our layer 1 validator set as a way to basically solve these fraud proof challenges. So, you know, typically in a fraud proof challenge is something like a rollback, but you also typically need to replace either who the operator is or who the challenger is if one of those two were lying. And so the way that we decide that is having our layer one validator set come to consensus on which one of those should be replaced and being able to just look up a NMT on Celestia and knowing that all the data will be there because of the chain ID that we're looking at makes it really easy. Like these validators don't need to look at five different DA layers to figure it out.
00:25:53.953 - 00:26:36.395, Speaker B: It's all just in one place and very easily accessible because of NMTs. And then we also have this really cool feature called state sync rollbacks. And this is basically when we need to do a rollback of a chain. We can basically just fork the roll up, fetch all the data from Celestia and then create a new instance of it from before the fraud proof challenge. And that makes things really easy for us. Celestia was kind of designed for this and taking advantage of this modular idea where certain teams are optimizing different parts of the stack so that we don't need to build it. Makes it a lot easier on our end.
00:26:37.055 - 00:27:20.135, Speaker A: Yeah. And my understanding is that these minutias are optimistic roll ups and so in order for the challenger to also be able to challenge a fraudulent state update or whatever, they need to be sure that the data is available on Celestia so that the watcher, the challenger, actually can get the information it needs to generate the fraud proof. And anyway, that Mainnet launch, if you're like launching Mainnet on its own is hard enough, but you have to coordinate with 10 or more roll ups at the same time. I can just imagine. So glad that you guys are practicing and very excited to see it go live. It's a very, very ambitious launch. In fact, I mean one of the most ambitious launches I can think of.
00:27:20.135 - 00:28:04.905, Speaker A: So we only have a few more minutes left. So let's just talk quickly about this VIP program you guys have published a while back, which is like vested interest program. It's basically as I understand, sort of like the incentive mechanism that kickstarts the whole on chain economy of initiative and also ties the whole ecosystem together economically. And I feel like one of the themes of that blog post was taking learnings from the Ethereum ecosystem and how things have played out there and also from the Cosmos ecosystem and how things have played out there. So maybe just give people a quick background of that.
00:28:05.205 - 00:28:46.787, Speaker B: Yep. So Hindsight really is 2020 and we're kind of thankful for that because we got to see how these systems evolved. Right. I think basically in Cosmos land, Atom doesn't really have a strong use case and that's because it never really tried to like no one really uses ics. There hasn't been a new consumer chain for quite a while. The Atom token is not a token that anyone cares about integrating on their chain and it's not being used to help attract new users for any of the consumer chains. Roll ups on Ethereum I think Ethereum is just very lindy and so ETH is canonically the asset that's used across every roll up.
00:28:46.787 - 00:29:12.845, Speaker B: Maybe that's originally because you could only use ETH as gas, but also it is just a massive asset and everybody basically holds it. So it's just canonically the largest item on every dex. On every lending market it is the gas token. But on Inisha we want teams to be able to customize what they care about. Right. Maybe they're using a different token for gas. We don't want to force them into anything.
00:29:12.845 - 00:30:35.311, Speaker B: And so we wanted to ensure that the native token in it has a strong use case within the world that we're building. And I think teams often focus on the supply side of things. How can we burn tokens to reduce the supply? But I think in 99% of cases you will not be able to burn enough tokens to create substantial demand effects, but you might be able to create like some narrative. So rather initial we focus on the demand side of things, how can we create more use cases for the native token and how can we incentivize that programmatically while helping teams on the interwoven stack win attract more users and keep them there over time? And so we basically created this system called Initia vip, which kind of structurally changes the way that interwoven roll ups expand and gives them a reason to have stake in the underlying ecosystem and initiative at large. What it does is Basically we have 10% of the token supply. It is distributed to L2s based on the amount of init tokens they have on the L2, as well as a gauge vote on the layer one. And then each L2 can decide how they want to distribute it to their users.
00:30:35.311 - 00:31:35.597, Speaker B: So they can make their own point system, essentially where they say, okay, I actually care about incentivizing volume on my chain, or I care about incentivizing borrows or the mints of these NFTs, whatever is actually most valuable for them. And then Inisha, the system distributes rewards directly to those users based on the KPI you set. So it is a very flexible design that leaves the design choices up to the layer 2 operator to figure out what they want to incentivize. And then these rewards are distributed as escrowed init tokens and the way that they're unlocked is by users continuing their engagement. So if I earned a bunch of escrow in it by trading volume on blackwing, I have to maintain my volume on blackwing over time to unlock these rewards. But as I maintain my volume, I'm going to earn more locked rewards. And you have this kind of a flywheel effect where you have created a new use case for the init token.
00:31:35.597 - 00:32:03.725, Speaker B: Ideally, on that chain you have given the layer 2 team additional means to attract new users, and then you've given users a very strong reason to keep coming back over time and engaging with the layer 2 again and again and again. And I think ultimately this system exists to help Layer twos on initial win, but also make Init token like the canonical money of our interwoven system.
00:32:05.825 - 00:32:49.741, Speaker A: I love it. I mean, it's a critical part. And this to me ties together the whole vision of initiative. It's the interwoven infrastructure which tackles all these developer experience problems and user experience problems, and then it's this whole ecosystem of applications. And then last but not least is this economic aspect which is also equally important that you guys have thought about. So really impressed with the entire vision and just execution of Anisha as a project. Last but not Least I want to just ask you, what does build whatever with Celestia underneath mean to you? It's a phrase that we say a lot in the Celestia ecosystem.
00:32:49.741 - 00:32:55.995, Speaker A: But I'm curious, how does that resonate with you? What does it mean from where you sit?
00:32:57.375 - 00:33:55.905, Speaker B: Yeah, I remember being at Modular Summit in Brussels and I forget who was on the panel, but he was basically saying that the tagline should be build fucking something. But I think build whatever also kind of means that. And I think it's just talking about how as the, the future evolves and as we go down this path of application specific chains, we're going to have new design choices and new primitives and new things built that are only unlocked because you have these application specific chains where you can actually customize something to your use case. And I think Celestia being a big proponent of that and being so supportive of Initia and the teams on the Interwoven stack has really meant a lot, right, like teams can come in and build anything that they want to build that can attract users and hopefully be a fun product.
00:33:57.765 - 00:34:49.185, Speaker A: Yeah, love that. And also the whole stack that you've built, I think, I mean if it's successful, can attract an extreme amount of activity as well as new developers and new applications and it's going to need a very secure scalable data availability system kind of underpinning it. And I think that hopefully we can rise to the occasion as your ecosystem grows, our block space grows in stride to keep this whole system working. Well, this has been a great conversation and we have a good grasp of where you guys have gotten to so far. You guys just wrapped up testnet. Mainnet is imminent, but what can people expect for the roadmap ahead for Anisha and where can they follow or get involved if they're interested?
00:34:50.645 - 00:35:35.475, Speaker B: So you can follow us at Initia FDN on Twitter and you can visit Inisha xyz. Testnet is still live. It is no longer incentivized, but you can definitely play around with it and try out some of the applications. There might be some jankiness as we, you know, do this whole orchestration practice relaunch. There's four new chains on the Interwoven stack that are to be announced which will be releasing ideally over the next month or so. So keep an eye out on Twitter for those and then ideally we will have Mainnet coming up within the next two months. So stay peeled, get ready to become interwoven and I'm very glad to have Celestia underneath all of this.
00:35:36.165 - 00:35:45.385, Speaker A: Awesome. Thank you, Zahn. So stay interwoven, but be patient, because what's the meme? It's like, be patient. I'm interwoven.
00:35:45.925 - 00:35:47.957, Speaker B: Please be patient. I'm interwoven.
00:35:48.061 - 00:36:02.415, Speaker A: Yeah, Mainnet is coming, but be patient. Anyways, on. This has been awesome having you on. I really appreciate it. And all the best to all the Initia builders out there. And to the broader modular ecosystem. Cheers, everybody.
