00:00:01.450 - 00:00:39.750, Speaker A: This week, we're all focused on legal battles, as always, and not just Sam. Bankman freeds, ripple dodged an SEC bullet, coinbase fights back and Binance faces new scrutiny. Meanwhile, Ethereum ETFs make a lukewarm debut. Stay tuned for the latest in crypto. I'm Michael Del Castillo, a Night Badget fellow at Columbia University, and this is your weekly Crypto recap. This week, a significant development unfolded as A-U-S. Federal judge, Annalisa Torres denied the SEC's appeal against Ripple Labs, the company behind the Ripple blockchain, and its respective XRP token.
00:00:39.750 - 00:01:25.366, Speaker A: The SEC has sought to overturn an earlier ruling that found Ripple didn't violate federal securities laws in its sale of XRP to retail customers. In a 14 page decision, Judge Torres wrote that the SEC, quote, failed to meet its burden to show that there were controlling questions of law, end quote. Thereby quashing the appeal. The decision appeared to immediately impact the market, with XRP's price surging nearly 6%. Following the news. However, this is far from an outright win for Ripple. Not only is the XRP cryptocurrency still down 80% since its alltime high in the winter of 2018, but Judge Torres has scheduled a trial for April 23, 2024 to address the remaining issues.
00:01:25.366 - 00:02:19.350, Speaker A: This ongoing legal battle began in December 2020, when the SEC filed its initial lawsuit against Ripple alleging unregistered securities offerings. The SEC's legal pursuits are not limited to Ripple. They have also targeted other major players in the crypto industry, including Finance and Coinbase, which we'll talk about next. Also this week, San Francisco based Ripple secured a license from Singapore's Monetary Authority to offer regulated digital asset services. In another legal twist, the SEC has urged the US. District Court in the Southern District of New York to reject Coinbase's motion to dismiss the ongoing lawsuit against the crypto exchange. The agency, chaired by Gary Gensler, argues that its original complaint sufficiently establishes that Coinbase operated as a broker through its Wallet application and that crypto assets offered are indeed securities.
00:02:19.350 - 00:03:07.790, Speaker A: Coinbase's legal team contends that the SEC has overstepped its regulatory bounds and claimed the SEC labels as, quote, backwards end quote. The regulator also cited a judgment by Judge Jed Raykoff, which dismissed TerraForm Labs motion against the SEC. Marissa Toshman Koppel, senior legal counsel for the Blockchain Association, wrote about the issue on social media, quote, The SEC ignores the realities of Coinbase's staking program and focuses entirely on a user's expectation of profits. This can't be the case. End quote. She further explained that Coinbase needs to reply to the SEC's opposition by October 24, and a court decision will follow, which could take some time. Finance, the world's largest cryptocurrency exchange, is under a new source of scrutiny.
00:03:07.790 - 00:04:12.334, Speaker A: A Forbes investigation has raised questions by the company's 2017 initial Coin offering, or ICO, of its finance Coin, aka BNB. Contrary to CEO Chang Peng Zhao's claims of raising $15 million, forbes suggests the ICO might have garnered less than 5 million. The report claims that Binance secretly amassed 65 million BNB tokens. For context, that would be worth only $10 million at the time of the ICO. Now it's worth a staggering $14 billion. Comparing the role BNB plays in finance's business model to the role the FCT token played at the defunct FTX, the Forbes report also cites forensic analysis that indicates that Binance controls nearly 117,000,000 tokens, or 76% of the total BNB supply, a figure that contradicts both finance's claims and previous data analytics. At today's price, that would make Binance's Stash worth about $26.6
00:04:12.334 - 00:05:16.546, Speaker A: billion, Adam Zarazinski, CEO of Inca Digital, told Forbes. Quote, the dissemination of misleading information leaves the possibility for Binance to maintain an artificially high BNB price, end quote. One person who apparently didn't speak to Forbes CZ himself nor anyone else at Binance, for that matter, which the Forbes report says did not reply to requests for comment. The legal complexities for the crypto industry don't stop with finance, either. Alex Machinsky, the former CEO of the collapsed lending platform Celsius Network, which filed for bankruptcy last July, is set to stand trial on September 17, 2024. Mushinsky, who resigned following the company's bankruptcy, faces charges including wire fraud and conspiracy to manipulate the value of the native Celsius token, according to a Bloomberg report. Machinsky's defense is looking at whether or not a cryptocurrency can be considered a security at all, given what the lawyers described in a hearing on Tuesday as the fluidity of the law on the matter.
00:05:16.546 - 00:06:01.994, Speaker A: Simultaneously, New York based Celsius is seeking court approval for a restructuring plan recently approved by stakeholders that would distribute $2 billion in ethereum and bitcoin to creditors by the end of this year. The plan also includes seeding a new creditorowned entity, Nuco, with $450,000,000 in crypto at least partially provided by a group of stakeholders collectively known as Fahrenheit LLC, including TechCrunch founder Michael Arrington. Speaking at the New York bankruptcy hearing, Celsius lawyer Christopher S. Koenig sought to frame the effort as more than just stakeholders trying to cover their butts. Quote Fahrenheit believes in the business, he said. They are putting their money where their mouth is. End quote.
00:06:01.994 - 00:07:06.050, Speaker A: Michael Lewis, the author of 2010 bestseller The Big Short, faced a wave of criticism from the crypto community following a 60 Minutes interview about his latest book about, of course, FTX. The interview served as a media kickoff for the book Going Infinite, which many believe portrays Sam Bankman Fried, the imprisoned founder of the now bankrupt FTX exchange, in a favorable light. Quote Lewis has essentially become persona nograda within the world of crypto, end quote, said Daniel Lewis in a CoinDesk article questioning the veteran author's role in the FTX saga. CoinDesk published the article that is widely credited with helping bring down the exchange. Among the controversial claims in Lewis book, Jump Trading, a major market mater allegedly lost $206,000,000 in the FTX collapse. Lewis writes that the source of this information is private documents from former FTX chief operating officer Constance Wang. Among the more shocking claims of the book, Lewis writes that Sam Bankman Freed was considering paying former US.
00:07:06.050 - 00:07:57.894, Speaker A: President Donald Trump to not run for president in the upcoming elections. What's shocking isn't that SPF was politically active. We know he gave at least $40 million to both Republicans and Democrats. What's wild is the amount lewis claims SBF was mulling a $5 billion payoff to the former president. There's already at least one company denying some of Lewis's claims. A spokesperson for New York market maker Virtue Financial, which was last month sued by the SEC for failing to protect investor information, denied Lewis claims that the firm lost $10 million with the downfall of FTX in a block report or any money at all this week, the US. Market saw the debut of nine Ethereum Futures ETFs, but the trading volumes were less than stellar on their first day.
00:07:57.894 - 00:09:11.474, Speaker A: The ETFs, which let investors bet against Ether but don't directly track the price of the cryptocurrency, recorded a combined trading volume of just $2 million. Bloomberg ETF analyst Eric Belchunis called the volumes, quote, pretty average end quote, noting it's too early to declare a winner. Among issuers, Valkyrie's BTF led the pack with $882,000 in trading volume, though that's perhaps not an apples to apples comparison, since it also trades bitcoin futures, followed by Vanex Efut at $312,000. For some perspective, here proshare's bitcoin strategy ETF saw $1 billion in trading volume on its first day last year. Adding to the Ethereum ETF landscape, Grayscale Investments has filed an application to convert its Ethereum trust into a spot Ethereum ETF that would directly track the price of Ether. Grace Gale's CEO Michael Soninschin said in a statement, quote as we file to convert EThe to an ETF, we recognize that this is an important moment to bring Ethereum even further into the US. Regulatory perimeter, end quote.
00:09:11.474 - 00:10:05.118, Speaker A: Speaking of ETFs, Michael Bednal, a former BlackRock executive, said the SEC will approve a spot bitcoin ETF simultaneously to avoid giving any firm a first mover advantage. At the CC Data Digital Asset summit this week. Steven Schoenfeld, CEO of Vanek owned Market vector indices, concurred suggesting approvals could happen within the next three to six months. Both believe this will be a significant catalyst for the crypto markets. That is, assuming it happens at all. An unknown group or individual allegedly behind the Nftx hack that occurred during last year's collapse of the exchange has reemerged, moving a total of $17 million worth of Ether to multiple addresses. This marks the first activity from the exploiters wallet since the hack in November last year.
00:10:05.118 - 00:10:54.240, Speaker A: The funds were divided and sent to blockchain token, bridge Torchain and privacy tool Railgun. Interestingly, the movement of these funds happened just hours before the start of criminal trial against FTX founder Sam Bankman Fried. In one of Vitalik Buterin's monthly blog posts, the Ethereum creator warned of centralization risks in major staking pools lido and rocket pool, Buterin criticized Lido's Dow governance and Rocket Pool's eight ETH deposit requirement for node operators. Writing somewhat ambiguously quote, one layer of defense may not be enough. End quote. He urged ecosystem participants to diversify staking operators to mitigate system risks. He was perhaps alluding to the seemingly monthly thefts from poorly secured, decentralized protocols, but didn't go into much detail.
00:10:54.240 - 00:11:38.390, Speaker A: What he did elaborate on, though, was his reluctance to add more features to ethereum's core protocol, what has somewhat derisively become known as protocol enshrinement. Buterin explained the reasoning behind the sparse original codebase and cautioned that while new features could reduce centralization, they could also strain governments. And that's all. Thanks so much for joining today. Stay tuned to Unchained for unparalleled coverage of Sam Bankman fried's criminal trial. Laura is in the courtroom delivering first hand observations and in depth analysis of this pivotal case. With daily podcasts, videos and written updates, unchained is your go to source for all developments that could redefine the crypto landscape.
00:11:38.390 - 00:12:02.160, Speaker A: Visit unchainedcrypto.com and never miss an update. Unchained is produced by Laura Shin with help from Kevin Fuchs, Matt Pilchard, Juan Aronovich, Megan Gavis, Ginny Hogan Shawshank, and Margaret Couria. This weekly recap was written by Juan Aranovich and edited by myself, Michael Del Castillo. Thanks so much for listening and looking forward to speaking next week.
00:12:07.050 - 00:12:21.730, Speaker B: Unchained is now a part of the CoinDesk Podcast network. For the latest in digital assets, check out markets daily seven days a week with new host Noel Atchison. Follow the CoinDesk Podcast Network for some of the best shows in crypto.
