00:10:14.894 - 00:12:47.334, Speaker A: It. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will not start yet. We will still wait for two to three minutes. So just a quick update. Yeah, it. Ladies and gentlemen, we are about to begin.
00:12:47.334 - 00:13:44.964, Speaker A: Please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the second day of Ethereum Zurich 2024. I'm very pleased to introduce you to Ben Herzl, founding member of Dow Swiss and founder of FTW Dow, and he will be presenting the preliminary findings of the Dow Raider Switzerland report. Ben, the stage is yours. Thank you very much. Good morning, everybody. Really good to see you all here.
00:13:44.964 - 00:14:11.154, Speaker A: Also Daos. This is already there some other folks who I know from the launchpad. So a little bit about myself. So yes, I'm a founding member of Dao Swiss, also founder of FTW Dao. Before being in blockchain, I was a traditional banker working for UBS and Deutsche bank. And since four years I basically have a new life. And today I want to introduce you to the Dao Raider Switzerland, which is an ecosystem report focusing on Dao, solely not working.
00:14:11.154 - 00:15:09.860, Speaker A: Sorry for that. But anyway, again, the Dao Raider Switzerland. So basically, the idea was born actually last year during Ethereum Zurich, because there, there was a workshop about Daos, also prepared by Daos Swiss. And after the workshop, there were a lot of questions about Daos, and the questions were always the same. So do I need a legal wrapper? Where should I go? Who is a tax advisor? Who could help me with that? Who is a legal advisor on that? Which tech stack should I use? Which tools do I need? Do I need a telegram channel, a discord channel and a discord server? And based on that, we thought it would maybe make sense to create a report about the Daos here in Switzerland. And that's the Dao radar, Switzerland. The idea is really looking into daos which have a strong connection to Switzerland, and also then looking at the entire ecosystem holistically, looking at service providers, layer two blockchains, and also communities which are here active in Switzerland.
00:15:09.860 - 00:15:42.262, Speaker A: And I hope with that the technical issues are solved quickly. And we are very sorry, we have a slight technical hiccup now. It should work. Good. So for the presentation for the next ten to twelve minutes, I want to give you a short recap. What is a DAO? Because so many people are talking about daos, and then there is no consistent definition of that. I want to go into the DAO ecosystem here in Switzerland.
00:15:42.262 - 00:16:19.194, Speaker A: And then I want to give you a short sneak peek into our report, which is going to be published in May or June of this year. And then specifically, I want to go into the insights which we found in legal and taxation tech and tooling, the challenges and also the trends. So I gave already the introduction about Dow radar Switzerland. The idea is that it will be a publication with around 20 to 30 pages going into the ecosystem here in Switzerland. And we look at different aspects of the ecosystem, legal, taxation, all the other things. What I mentioned there before, what is really important, it's an ecosystem report. So we also have ecosystem partners.
00:16:19.194 - 00:17:05.298, Speaker A: Civilabs Zetaave and also Daoswiz are driving that forward. First, what is a DAo? In the report we conducted around 40 interviews with DAO operators, but also like service providers. And our first question was always, what is a DAO? And based on these 40 interviews, we got around 60 or 70 different definitions. Because everybody has multiple definitions. For me, that's just some sample definitions or the responses. For me, the most favorite one is a DAO is a community or a group with a shared bank account which work towards a joint vision or mission. And I think the big takeaway from all of these different quotes and also the definition, there is actually a common understanding of a DAO, what a DAO is.
00:17:05.298 - 00:17:43.852, Speaker A: If you take a academic definition of a DAO, that it has to be decentralized, it has to be autonomous. If you look into aspects, what people say it has to have on chain voting, then probably there's almost no real DAo. So I think what we have here in the ecosystem is there are Daos which call themselves daos, and they are on different levels of the definition. And that's just like a short insight on that. So maybe that's then bringing us to the ecosystem here in Switzerland. So there on the right side, you see how we see the ecosystem here in Switzerland. At the core there are these Daos.
00:17:43.852 - 00:18:29.742, Speaker A: Of course, daos are global, but for us, really the starting point was to look at daos which have a strong connection to Switzerland. Could be they have a legal wrapper here, like a foundation or association or the team. They have a strong presence here in Switzerland. Beyond these Daos, we also extended our view and looked at other aspects of the ecosystem at swiss service providers, communities, universities, in layer one and layer two blockchains. And that's for us, actually, the ecosystem. What makes Switzerland really unique for other countries in the world when it comes to Daos is it has this legal clarity, because you have two proven legal wrappers here. So a foundation and association.
00:18:29.742 - 00:19:07.684, Speaker A: And if you are of the opinion that a DAO needs a legal wrapper, then there are only like a small hand of countries where you could incorporate a DAO. So typically when you think about jurisdictions to incorporate a DAO, you think about Marshall Islands, Cayman Islands, BVI and Switzerland. And what makes Switzerland really different is that you have this amazing ecosystem here. You have legal and tax advisors who are specialized into daos. You have communities which are focusing in daos. Also other aspects, you have universities which are doing research here. So you have the strong ecosystem, and that makes Switzerland really unique.
00:19:07.684 - 00:20:01.144, Speaker A: When we conducted these interviews, as I said before, we looked at different dimensions of the DAO ecosystem and from there we tried to look into challenges. What Daos face right now, and when we look at the legal and taxation aspects, there's like the biggest, I think the biggest question in the DAO space is, does a DAO actually need a legal wrapper? And I think they could say it split 50 50. 50% of the people say, no, a DAO doesn't need a legal wrapper because it's an Internet native organization. It doesn't need. And others say, yeah, it definitely needs a legal wrap up. And our opinion was, or also like the conclusion of that is if a dao doesn't have a legal wrapper, it makes it really difficult to interface with the rest of the world. It's extremely difficult to get a bank account, for example, to enter into contractual relationships.
00:20:01.144 - 00:20:35.360, Speaker A: So daos really struggle if they don't have a legal wrapper. If they don't have a legal wrapper, it also makes it difficult for the contributors because suddenly you have liability for all the contributors and members of the DAO. So a legal wrapper is really like an important piece of the entire puzzle. When you look at taxation. Taxation is also like a big, big problem for daos. As soon as you have on chain voting, as soon as you have a token, it becomes really messy from a taxation point of view. So you really have to keep track of that and you have to focus on that one challenge.
00:20:35.360 - 00:21:16.658, Speaker A: What we surfaced in these interviews when it comes to Daos is right now, there is no good software actually to track these transactions. So there's a lot of manual work involved. If you have a Dao which has a token. So that's also like a concern. What these different daos have. If we go to tech and tooling, the first question, what founders always ask or people who want to start a Dao, in which blockchain ecosystem should I start it? Most daos which we observed, they are somewhere in the Ethereum ecosystem. Of course there are others in Solana, in Polkadot, but the majority of all the daos will be interviewed and also what you see in Deep Dao, they are in Ethereum.
00:21:16.658 - 00:22:19.694, Speaker A: First question Dao founders always ask, which blockchain should I build my dao upon? When you look at the tooling stack, it's really interesting that you see some commonalities across all the daos. So almost every dao we talk to and also like we know they have a telegram channel, they have a discord server, they have a Twitter account, which you could say that's required for community building and marketing. Most of them often use notion as a vehicle to do knowledge management to drive project forward. But then you have other tools which are not so often used. For example, some daos use deeper to do project management, also to hand out boundaries. So that's really interesting. So the takeaway from our work in the Dao radar is that there is no common tech stack or tooling stack when it comes to daos, because there's still a lot of tools evolving and there's not a clear opinion from the different daos we talk to which tools you normally should use as a DaO.
00:22:19.694 - 00:23:25.682, Speaker A: When I would go to the challenges, there are different kind of challenges. What these Daos face. Some of them I already touched base. But because a DAo is a community, ultimately, and most Daos start from scratch, a huge challenge for these Dao operators and founders. How do I build a community? How do I engage this community? Also, the longer this dao exists, how can you incentivize contributors to continuously contribute to the DAO? And then also how do you coordinate, how can you help the people to coordinate themselves to work towards a common goal? For example, when it comes to finances, it's also a big challenge for these Dao founders and DAO operators, how can they keep the operations sustainable in terms of finances? Some daos have a token, for example, which they sold and created a treasury with that. But how can they generate revenues? And that comes back to the discussion of a DAO needs a business model in order to generate revenue sustainably and then also like to set up itself to sustainably operate. So that's a big challenge.
00:23:25.682 - 00:25:02.670, Speaker A: The legal and compliance topics are already touch base a little bit. And the tech and tooling I already mentioned also before, it's really like the challenge around which blockchain should I build my Dao upon and which tools should I use in order to stay abreast and also stay up to date when we look at the trends and we ask all of our interview partners also what kind of trends do you see in the Dao space right now, and there are like five different themes. What we saw, one topic which is really like, came often up, was the topic of forking with communities, for example, splitting, because there was like a different understanding of where the DAO should evolve subdaos or guilds, for example. That's a really pressing topic for a lot of daos, which goes back then. How can you coordinate and orchestrate work? Does it really make sense that the entire community in the DAO is deciding upon everything? Or is it possible to delegate, for example, tasks and activities and decisions to a smaller subgroup? Is that subgroup then a guild, or should it be a subdao? And that's an entire topic which is evolving. One interesting aspect, what we also saw, which is really like, going up a lot, is, when it comes to daos, is decentralized science. So we saw that there are more and more daos focus on focusing on decentralized science, where communities are brought together, and basically focusing on doing research, for example, for big pharmaceutical companies in a decentralized way, or also, like other research.
00:25:02.670 - 00:25:47.872, Speaker A: So that's also like a trend. What we see here, and when it comes to governance, it's also, again, the system, how daos set up their governance is not yet really established. There are different approaches from different daos, how they do it. I think all the daos, what they share when it comes to governance is that there are a lot of challenges. Right now, you have a lot of voter fatigue. If you look at daos and their voting, what you often see is that only a small group of the entire DAO is voting upon all the decisions. So that's, I think, a pressing issue where a lot of people in the DAO space are focusing their efforts on how can we set up a governance which is also engaging the people sufficiently so that we can really materialize this democratic approach about decisions.
00:25:47.872 - 00:26:36.426, Speaker A: And lastly, now with the current bull run, again, it's a topic, treasury management. How can a DAO manage the treasury effectively and efficiently? How can they set it up? Also that it's transparent. Some Daos, what you see, for example, out there, they have processes when it comes to treasury management, which are cumbersome, which are not really transparent. So treasury is always also a topic, because as soon as you have people, for example, stepping up to become a member of a multisig, these people take over responsibility and also liability, you could argue. So there needs to be established processes and policies to focus on. And that was also, like what we got from our interviews, just to conclude that and sum this up. The DaO radar report will be published in May or June.
00:26:36.426 - 00:27:19.826, Speaker A: We really tried to create a DaO ecosystem report looking into DAos, the entire ecosystem here, bringing together trends and challenges. And also, then out of that, we want to create hands on action plans for founders who want to start a Dao. And that's, for example, one outcome also of the DAO report was a DaO launchpad. So we had set up a launch pad for people who wanted to start a Dao and tried to give him some advice on how to set up a Dao. Think about topics like legal, tokenomics, or operations, because we really wanted to hand over our knowledge, what we generated in this DAO report, also to founders to make it more easy. So this report should be really like an actionable report which people can use. Beyond that, Dao Swiss.
00:27:19.826 - 00:27:58.270, Speaker A: What we do is we offer or we organize conferences. So every year we host the Daos Symposium, which is a big conference here in Switzerland, focusing on Daos. We have monthly meetups. So the next meetup is in beginning of May, focusing on the legal aspects. It's in cooperation with MME, and we also have working groups. So if you want to join us as a member, we have working groups on legal and taxation, operations, governance, and tech and tooling. So we are here the organization or the association, which is really focusing on daos, and to drive forward, because our mission ultimately is to make Switzerland the go to place for Daos globally.
00:27:58.270 - 00:28:41.850, Speaker A: And with that, I would open it up for questions. Thank you so much, Ben. Are there any questions in the audience? Sorry I missed the beginning of this. I really wanted to be here, but have you ever looked into associations connected with Dallas? I'm creating an association in Switzerland right now. Was advised not to do the DAO because it was sort of the same thing, except for not decentralized. I'm doing an e commerce site, so that's the difficulty in the legals. So I wasn't sure if you had looked into that at all, which, again, can you into association as a legal rapper.
00:28:41.850 - 00:29:25.108, Speaker A: It's going to be a registered swiss association. So basically what we saw from our interviews is that there are two legal entities, or rappers, which are currently used. One is a foundation and the other one is an association. What we saw is that the daos, which are a little bit older, they used the foundation setup because this was the initial idea. And the newer projects, they're using an association as a legal wrapper. There were different opinions on the benefits and the disadvantages of that what I personally think is that a foundation makes sense if you have a long term vision project and you want to basically set up guardrails to achieve that. If your project can do that, then maybe a foundation is better.
00:29:25.108 - 00:30:32.068, Speaker A: It's a little bit more expensive and more rigid if you need more flexibility and also, like, lower cost than an association is a better way. Also, when we talk to different lawyers here in Switzerland, we always ask this question, do you actually see a need for a new legal entity? Because, for example, in Colorado, I think they set up this digital cooperative some months ago, and the people we talk to, they are not yet sure. I think that's a little bit more of explorative work, which is required, whether here in Switzerland you need a new legal entity. But for now, I think most of the projects, they are really happy with the association setup, what they have. Thank you. Really awesome talk. Like, what problems do you see are being solved with daos? Yeah, so, you know, when I got into Daos, which was when I got into Daos in 2021, it felt a little bit like everybody wanted to start a dao for every problem in the world.
00:30:32.068 - 00:31:24.194, Speaker A: And I think I was one of these people. Since then, I think my opinion changed a lot. So that goes back to the question around the business model. So when you're a founder or person who wants to start a dao, I think you have to think, is the problem I want to solve better solved with a traditional organization, like a startup or a Dao? And for me personally, which is a little bit. The guideline is, if you think about your problem and you think ten people spending 10 hours is doing the job instead of like 100 people doing 1 hour, then maybe a traditional setup is better. So as soon as you can, as you are convinced that your problem can be solved better by a swarm of people contributing some time, then a dao might make sense. But also, as a Dao founder, I have to say daos are really tricky, because on the one side, you want to build a product often, and you have to build a community, which is also a product in some way.
00:31:24.194 - 00:32:08.062, Speaker A: The question is, do you really want to make your life really hard in building a product and a community? Because a community is based on humans. I would say, not that it's scientifically proven, but I would say only 10% of the problems or business models in the world can be better served by a DAo than a traditional organization. But that's my opinion. I think there are different opinions all around. Does it go in the right direction? Thank you so much, Ben, thank you to the audience. Any last questions? We still have a few minutes, so if there any pressing questions or not so pressing. Yeah, just one quick question, because I.
00:32:08.078 - 00:32:16.254, Speaker B: Also worked with a lot of daos, and a lot of the daos are not, in my opinion, real daos because they always controlled by a few token holders.
00:32:16.414 - 00:33:22.892, Speaker A: So did you do any researches that actually showed that any dao out there is really decentralized in the sense of not being unwrapped or stateless, but in the sense of actually having a really big community? We have a very variety token holder voting, so I didn't do the academic research on that, but my feeling would be there's maybe one or two from the 10,000 daos which you see on deep dao. So from our sample size, I would say there's not one dao which you could consider close to this aspirational definition of a Dao. And even if you look at deep dao with the 10,000 daos, I think there are not many. It's also like, due to the nature, how daos evolve. So often, or most of the time, you have a core team which is driving the community forward and they try to decentralize. But most of the daos, they get stuck at a certain point in time, they are no longer decentralizing it further, and then it stops. And I personally, for example, a really cool example of a different approach is bankless dao, which was in some way conceived by token airdrop for subscribers.
00:33:22.892 - 00:34:02.284, Speaker A: And that was maybe, like, more true to a DAo, how a DAo should look like. But, yeah, from our research, I would say of the Daos here in Switzerland, there's a lot of work to do. But I think it's also this trial and error, because there are all these common challenges and problems when it comes to governance, when it comes to tech and tooling. I think there needs to be more groundwork to solve these issues in order to basically focus on this problem. How can you set up this perfect DAO? Thank you so much, Ben. I think we have one last question. Thank you, Ben, for the presentation and also for the DAO launchpad, by the way.
00:34:02.284 - 00:34:42.434, Speaker A: Yeah, my question is, in your research, what's the percentage of daos using one token for governance and tokenomics, and what the percentage was multi tokens to separate. So in the DAO report specifically, we didn't look at that. So again, coming back to the previous question, many daos also right now, they don't have a token. For example, when you look at these because they want to launch it in the future. They don't want to launch it. So that goes back to the question, what do you define as a Dao? What you are talking about is, I think, a highly sophisticated Dao model. And you wouldn't find so many different ours who have that presently.
00:34:42.434 - 00:35:10.484, Speaker A: Thank you very much. Thank you so much, Ben. Thank you to the audience. Really, really interesting. I think we all can't wait for the full report to come out. Please check it out. And the next session, Dao modularity, the next unlock, we'll start in approximately five minutes.
00:35:10.484 - 00:41:34.718, Speaker A: It it. Welcome, ladies and gentlemen, to this session on Dow modularity. The next unlock, it will be presented by Anthony Luttenager. Anthony, CEO of Aragon. Anthony, the stage is yours. Great. Thank you so much.
00:41:34.718 - 00:42:01.054, Speaker A: Hello, everybody. Welcome. It's great to have a very small but powerful group here. As mentioned, I'm Anthony, the CEO of Aragon. Aragon's been building DaO technology since 2017 and actually have been part of the swiss community since early 2018. We have several different tech stacks that have helped Daos govern themselves on chain. We have over $40 billion in TVL.
00:42:01.054 - 00:42:56.924, Speaker A: And last year we launched a new tech stack taking all the learnings that we extrapolated from the last five ish years to really create something new that would be very future and forward looking and support daos and moving forward because of some of the issues we had seen. So I'll be talking specifically about Dao modularity, governance modularity, this new tech stack and how that's going to help this next generation of Daos from learnings from the past. So let's talk about a little bit about the state of governance today, especially in relation to Dao tooling. Queue the burning room. I like to include some memes to keep things light and fun. So we always hear this Daos don't work sort of statement, which doesn't really make too much sense. But one of the things that is a problem is they have a lack of reliable, secure governance tooling.
00:42:56.924 - 00:43:22.104, Speaker A: Their options don't fit the needs and what they're looking for. They're very cookie cutter right now, which I'll explain in a second. And members don't care enough to participate. We have a huge amount of voter apathy. We don't have a lot of voters that are actually participating for various reasons. And so what we need is to try and get beyond this scope. So as I said, organizations aren't cookie cutter.
00:43:22.104 - 00:43:58.964, Speaker A: So why is there governance protocols with cookie cutter governance experience problems, obviously, and it holds them back from decentralizing, from moving forward. As you can imagine, if you only have a few types of governance methodologies that technologically exist on chain in the ecosystem, it's pretty hard to move beyond those, to ideate new ways for daos to become successful. So what we end up having is a lot of daos have the exact same model that can be just. Most of them are just token weighted voting, for example. So daos have different needs. They're obviously trying to reach different goals. Not all daos have the same goals.
00:43:58.964 - 00:44:39.234, Speaker A: And so we need to create flexibility for these daos to be able to build how they want to reach their goals. Just like if it's nation states, for example, businesses, community clubs, like all these different organizations around the world don't have the exact same structure. Why? Because they have different roles. So one way to get around that which we've seen in the space is custom governance builds. Think of the aaves, the makers. They're able to, because they have a ton of resources, they're able to simply spend a lot of money, spend a lot of time, get a lot of developers in the room, and build custom governance what they need. Right, but not everybody can do that.
00:44:39.234 - 00:45:25.520, Speaker A: It's time consuming, it's resource intensive. You need developers, and often it's monolithic. It's not easy for another organization to take this and grow it out for their own organization. Aragon does provide custom governance builds for organizations, but how can we take that and make it more accessible to other daos around the world? So build a modular stack. We hear a lot about modularity at the infrastructure level, blockchains being modular. Celestia is a great example, is really the big one right now, talking about modularity. But we're starting to see modularity up into the defi level, and now we're building something for daos in the DAO level.
00:45:25.520 - 00:46:09.754, Speaker A: Morpho is a great example of a protocol that's building modular, and Aragon's now building a DaO stack that's also modular. So what does that look like? So bitcoin might not fix this, but our new protocol, AragonosX, does. So it's a new generation DaO framework. And as you can see here, we've actually separated a lot of the governance and other types of logic for your DAO from the DAO contract and the permission manager itself. So the DaO vault itself is simple and secure, and the DAO actually manages permissions to these plugins and most of, or a lot of the customized logic that you may need for your DaO. Is actually built into these plugins. And I'll explain that a little bit more forward.
00:46:09.754 - 00:46:52.340, Speaker A: Look at them as plugins as a way to install different types of governance, for example. And when your dao wants to involve in governance, you're able to unplug or detach one of these plugins and plug in a new one. And so for the first time, with on chain governance, you're actually able to change your governance on the fly, and you can start to have a Dao that can evolve and adapt over time. Previously, you'd have to either rebuild your dao fork another dao, and this creates potential security problems. And so this makes it a lot easier, it makes it a lot faster and more secure, which I'll mention in a second. So, obviously, an example would be, you could start your dao with a multisig. You have off chain voting.
00:46:52.340 - 00:47:26.972, Speaker A: You have a multisig, it's trusted. Some people would not even call this a dao. But then you decide, okay, I'm going to now upgrade my dao to have token weighted voting. You launch your token, you put up a proposal within that multisig, and you're able to uninstall a plugin and install a new plugin, which is token weighted voting. So now your token holders are able to vote, let's say, in ten years. And one of the issues in our space right now is we don't really have a lot of data of what a Dao is going to look like in ten years. There is no dao unless you consider bitcoin a dao that is more than ten years old, right? So everything's quite young and new.
00:47:26.972 - 00:47:55.380, Speaker A: But in ten years, you may not want token weighted voting anymore. Maybe now you want to change to one person, one vote. Okay. So then you uninstall and you can change to one person, one vote. So this avoids, the great thing about this is it avoids trusted intermediaries. And daos right now are too heavily reliant on these trusted intermediaries to propose actions, proposals to actually execute on these actions. And so that's one of the fixes that it does.
00:47:55.380 - 00:48:44.414, Speaker A: So the plugin model is, first of all, it's a lot safer, it's easier, and most importantly, it's faster. And right now, we working with a lot of daos. It can take multiple years to actually launch a large dao. Multiple years of building your community, multiple years of working on the legal aspect, the tax aspects, and then you have to build the daO. And that build can take sometimes as long as six months in and of itself. So by reducing the time it takes to launch these daos, the cost, of course, and increasing security, you're starting to allow for this technology to flourish and allow for organizations who don't have all these resources to do the same thing as DaO with resources. So let's go over some examples now, because it's like, okay, great.
00:48:44.414 - 00:49:08.090, Speaker A: There are these plugins from technological perspective, like, you can uninstall them, install them. That's great. But, okay, let's look at some examples. And Ben actually sort of showcased what some examples could be, funny enough. And so let's take a look. So the first one could be multi chain governance. We're starting to get into a very fragmented world in the crypto space, where people have assets across different chains.
00:49:08.090 - 00:49:56.564, Speaker A: And now what does that mean? Is that governance may exist across different chains. So stator labs, for example, their tokens located on five different chains. Well, okay, well, how do they actually then vote on chain if all of these tokens are across different chains? Well, you can install a multi chain governance plugin, and we've already built this. You can then basically create a custom census where you can pull tokens from different chains, comprise that voting power together, and then your token holders can vote. And guess what? Your dao is still going to live on your layer one. So your dao can still live on ethereum, where it can have the maximum amount of security and liquidity, but you can have tokens across different chains and still get your voting power. And the great thing about this is now you can start reducing voter costs.
00:49:56.564 - 00:50:56.426, Speaker A: One of the biggest issues we have is that people don't want to participate, because on chain, they're going to have to spend anywhere from five to $30 to vote. And how many of you here, if you're asked to vote weekly, are going to actually want to spend that much money to vote on a proposal? So here you actually have voters getting voter costs on a layer two, which could be a couple cents on polygon. It's probably $0.01. But then actually have your dow living on an l one, and then you can execute this payload onto the l one. So now we're starting to again allow for daos to be living across different chains, different ecosystems, and still be able to keep all that voting power on chain, removing trusted intermediaries. So the second, what Ben mentioned is a topic of conversation right now is multibody governance. Like camera systems, granular permissions, means we can separate groups with different governance permissions, and they can exist in one dao, a cool example.
00:50:56.426 - 00:51:24.276, Speaker A: So let's use Lido as an example. Lido, probably right now, somebody asked if there's a Dao who has multiple tokens and can make decisions in one Dao. That's pretty rare. But actually, Lido have announced that they're launching exactly this. So basically, Lido has their LDO token. That's the token of their dao. And when they have proposals, the Lido community, whoever holds LDO, can vote on this proposal.
00:51:24.276 - 00:52:29.004, Speaker A: Now, the problem with this for Lido was that actually, yes, LDO holders are very important, but their user are staked ETH holders, and there's over $40 billion worth of staked ETH holders. Now, how does LDO token holders, which could be comprised of a market cap of a couple hundred million, make decisions for the 40 billion? Okay, so they're adding in a system which will allow staked ETH holders to actually veto an LDO token holder vote if it compromises staked ETH itself. Now, this is going to open up other questions for LDO holders, of course, and, like, what is the purpose of that token, et cetera? But they're trying to keep it a bit separate. But at the same time, yes, staked ETH holders will now be the power holders in votes. And so now you have multibody governance system, two tokens, one dao, and this can start to change. You can even have a multisig. We're working on one dao right now where the multisig is, the core team will be able to create protocol upgrades, remove a treasury amount from the multisig.
00:52:29.004 - 00:52:52.352, Speaker A: Optimistically, if after seven days, nobody vetoes from the token holder community, then that proposal will automatically execute. Right, but this now allows for them to work optimistically. But then you have this group of token holders who don't have to vote every day. They can simply look at the vote itself and say, this is totally fine. The team's doing what they want to do. Leave them alone. Not going to veto.
00:52:52.352 - 00:53:34.554, Speaker A: Let it pass. If they see a malicious proposal one day, they can say, oh, no, no, no, we're not going to allow for this, we're going to veto it. But then you can even add another layer on top of that. You can add a layer where in this same multisig, if a majority or a maximum majority is reached, so a ten out of 13 on the multisig, then it's going to actually pass through token holders for an emergency proposal and will upgrade the protocol. Okay, so now the power holder is still the multisig but only an emergency situation. So you have three layers of governance happening there. So this is the type of customizability you can create with a modular stack, which you cannot create on a monolithic stack, at least not easily or securely.
00:53:34.554 - 00:54:05.144, Speaker A: So, optimistic dual governance. This has been by far, by far the most popular sort of feature and request that daos around the space have come to us to build. It's relatively new, but we have over $1.5 billion worth of TVL building actively on this stack right now. We obviously can't announce who they are yet. Coming soon, which is really exciting. So another really cool thing about this plugin system and this modular stack is now you can finally have network effects.
00:54:05.144 - 00:54:46.004, Speaker A: Once a plugin has been created, it is reusable by any other dao through the ergonom plug in repository. This create network effects so you could end up having what's called a marketplace for governance. And the great thing about this is, previously, if you have a cool monolithic Dao, the Aave Dao, for example, if you wanted to have the exact same type of on chain governance built that they have, you would actually have to fork the entire code. You would have to then somehow manage to fix it to work within the parameters of your dao. And that can open up security risks. I mean, it's not that easy to do. It's not so easy to just fork a DaO like that, and then it automatically works for your dao.
00:54:46.004 - 00:55:43.750, Speaker A: No, it's quite tailored to their governance. And so the great thing about network effects is now, for the first time, if a plugin is built, so a governance type methodology, et cetera, and audited, any other DAO that wants to use it can simply actually go into the Aragon plug in repository and plug that plugin in and start using it. And so this means it's a lot faster and cheaper for smaller daos who may not be able to afford to build their own plugin or have it audited, now they can access that exact type of governance, plug it into their dao, and start moving forward. And this really has the potential to democratize access to governance tooling around the industry. This could be really, really big. In ten years, you could have thousands of plugins built, all different types of custom governance types. And it doesn't just have to be custom governance, it could be tokenomic models that are included into the governance, and people can simply take that and install it in their Dao and start running with it.
00:55:43.750 - 00:56:10.948, Speaker A: So this could really, really open up a next wave of daos. That have the ability to customize themselves and change over time. So it makes it safer again faster, and it also reduces liability. Whenever you can remove trusted components, you can to some degree reduce liability. A lot of teams come to us like, let's be frank, and that's what they're worried about. Why are they building a DAO? It's not just to have a community. It's often because they are building a huge protocol.
00:56:10.948 - 00:56:41.864, Speaker A: For example, they want it to be resilient, capture, resistant. I typically use lido as a great example because I feel like they're just so far ahead in terms of they're looking at not being captured by a regulator. They have 40 billion in TVL. Let's be honest, Ethereum itself is quite reliant on Lidar right now. That might not be the best thing, but it is what it is, and they're great stewards of the Ethereum ecosystem. They cannot afford to be taken over by a bad actor or by a regulator. So what are they after? They're after resilience.
00:56:41.864 - 00:57:28.176, Speaker A: So what does future proof governance add up to? It means that you're able to adapt and change over time. A lot of daos have not been able to do this. A lot of them are stuck in old technology that may still be very, very powerful, but that is extremely, extremely hard to upgrade or change as their Dao evolves. And this is really concerning. No organization in the world, no country or nation state in the world is stuck, or hopefully not, at least is unable to change. And that's what's happening to many of these daos, because only now are we starting to see these daos come to an age of maturity where maybe they do need to change. I think we have to be very realistic of that.
00:57:28.176 - 00:58:00.184, Speaker A: As an industry, we often want to move way too fast. We expect that daos and their governance systems and their communities are going to pop up and automatically start working very well and be extremely decentralized. But that's just not the reality. Communities take time to build, products take time to build. Resilience takes time to build, and thus you need a dao tooling stack that allows you to actually grow over time. And this is what underpins a truly resilient dao. So modern problems require modern solutions.
00:58:00.184 - 00:58:41.878, Speaker A: Yeah, so I think that's really it. I mean, the important part is that dao tooling is going to continue to grow and adapt with the industry. There's not too many players actually working on this. We're very proud to be working on this, and we want to ensure that your daos, however you envision them growing over time and progressively disappear, centralizing that you're able to do that. So, of course, if you have any questions, if you want to talk shop, if you have a DAO that you think needs to change or be fully on chain, whatever that might be, come speak to us. I have some great teammates here as well, some of whom are smart, contract developers, UX professionals, front end developers. And we're here to answer any questions.
00:58:41.878 - 00:59:02.384, Speaker A: So thank you so much. Really appreciate it. Thank you, Anthony. We have time for questions. I can see already today your teammate. Thanks. Thanks for the very interesting presentation.
00:59:02.384 - 01:00:50.692, Speaker A: I think it's absolutely fantastic and absolutely needed that daos have all these possibilities to create these organizations and to create these governance models. I'm just wondering, because now with all these opportunities or possibilities in the future, and I know you were providing that technology, I see also more challenges, maybe for those to think about sensible organizational designs, for example. So out of your experience with discussions with daos, what are they? Or do you see some strategies they employ to think about how should we set up this organization, especially if they now have almost endless possibilities once there will be all these modules? Yeah, so great question. Often, I mean, I think the important thing is first is what is a Dao looking to do? I think that's the first thing. When we have a client come to us and they say, we want to build this type of Dao, we say, okay, what are you trying to actually achieve? And let's be honest, be honest with yourself. What are you trying to achieve? Are you trying to exit early as a founder? Are you trying to create, reduce legal liability and risk on yourself? Are you trying to be like Lido and help secure Ethereum and be extremely resilient towards any type of capture, whether that be a nation state trying to capture you. Are you a small startup? So first of all, let's actually figure out what you're trying to achieve here, because most are not trying to just grow a community, right? So once you start to define these goals, then you can start to look at, okay, what type of governance might you want to use? And we do typically see people copying other methodologies that they think might be good for them.
01:00:50.692 - 01:01:23.632, Speaker A: And this is challenging because as I mentioned, there's actually not a lot daos have not existed for a long time. So we need to look just beyond the Dao space. We need to look at governance as. As a whole. Now, I would say some popular ones that we see right now, daos that are a bit younger and less mature that are launching typically want to have checks and balances, so give their token holders the right to veto, for example, but still allow the core team to function and operate quite quickly. A very decentralized Dao on the social layer. And it's important we extrapolate the two.
01:01:23.632 - 01:01:49.748, Speaker A: There's a technological layer, which is typically what Ergon works on, and then there's this social layer, right? You can have a Dao with a small community, a very small community that's completely on chain. That's totally, totally fine. But if you're a new business trying to build a product, you might not want tens of thousands of voters voting on what your next feature is, for example. Or maybe you do. Maybe that's how you want to build your product. But let's say you don't. You want to move fast, scrappy, build your product.
01:01:49.748 - 01:02:35.934, Speaker A: Well, that's when you can have a dao where you have optimistic dual governance. Your team is able to focus work. Maybe you want to have still some community engagement off chain in your forum, but then you give them the hard power. They can veto a malicious protocol upgrade, or sending more than 50%. You can customize these parameters, sending more than 50% of the treasury out at one time. You can really start to, with this technology, start to actually create custom parameters using our permission management system to decide, okay, how are they able to interact? So I'd say typically they look at previous models, and the good thing about this is let's get some new models out there, let's play around with them, let's test them and see if they stick and see if other organizations can. Then for free, just take those models, plug it into their dao, and start to move forward.
01:02:35.934 - 01:03:11.018, Speaker A: But not easy. Do you have a follow up question, maybe an additional comment about the previous models? Because I would also argue, or I hope that daos in the future will also look not only at previous daos, but also maybe at traditional organizations. Because, I mean, organizational science has a long tradition for several decades, if not centuries, and I think many things can also be learned there. And then trying to do this in a more decentralized way could also benefit those. Sure. Yeah. I mean, we have a lot to learn from.
01:03:11.018 - 01:03:55.414, Speaker A: I mean, we have thousands of years of data, data and history of governance, and there's no reason why we can't learn from that. I think you have to look at what do on chain components, and this is where it gets confusing. We want to focus on being on chain because that's the whole point. Of this technology, what does it unveil or what does it support? If you're moving off chain, then I think you can really start to focus more on traditional methodologies if you want. Because I mean, what are you here for? For having these on chain components allow for certain things, right? And they allow for your token holders to have the hard power. It allows for you to be resilient. These are the types of things that I really think from an on chain perspective, create the most value.
01:03:55.414 - 01:04:36.278, Speaker A: And whether it's off chain or on chain, you as an organization need to decide how that fits into you reaching your goal. I think too many people want to decentralize without thinking about what am I actually trying to achieve here? And that's really important. Thanks for the questions. Thank you for your presentation. So I also think that Dao is the future and we have not thousands of years of data, maybe 700 because of Switzerland. For me, the only Dao working dao. My question is about your business model for between Oregon X and deep down we absolutely need great tools.
01:04:36.278 - 01:05:11.534, Speaker A: Governance is crucial for to achieve decentralization. So between the beginning with a startup like centralized, we need agility, but with the time, we need security and also decentralization. So what's your business model? So what's the cost? Like? I'm funding a DAO. So what would be my cost? The cost of the members. Yeah. So the question was like what is our business model? I guess, how are we making money? Like, you know, we don't charge right now, so, and we haven't. So basically you can spin up your DaO, the only cost will be gas.
01:05:11.534 - 01:05:26.930, Speaker A: So on Ethereum main net, that could be anywhere between 100 and $400. It really depends on gas prices. Maybe even cheaper. On an l two, it can be cents. Actually. We don't charge where we generate revenue in our business models. We build custom daos for clients currently.
01:05:26.930 - 01:05:54.404, Speaker A: So if won't see any names. If a big dao wants to create some complex governance structure and they don't want their developers to build it, typically most Daos, their developers build their product, then have to also build their dao at the same time. And this obviously is not great for actually creating your own product. We're experts at building dao tooling. We will build it for them. They pay us. Sometimes that includes we help with governance ideation, finding delegates if they want a delegate program.
01:05:54.404 - 01:06:23.222, Speaker A: So that's sort of how we generate revenue. There are other ways we sometimes can get within the platform. So there's a great front end where your dao can manage itself, it can put up proposals, it can manage its treasury. We can also scrape fees, not off of the user. We never charge the user off of. Let's say, if you want to connect to Uniswap and you trade with Uniswap directly from your dao or cowswap, while we can maybe scrape a fee off from them. So we try and generate revenue from different methodologies that don't impact the user itself.
01:06:23.222 - 01:06:44.202, Speaker A: Obviously, we're completely open source technology, so it can be forked quite easily. If we started just tapping and charging people for launching their dao, it could be forked, for example. But our ethos anyways is to try and democratize this technology. Thank you. Thank you. No worries. Thank you so much.
01:06:44.202 - 01:07:04.334, Speaker A: Ladies and gentlemen. We have another question. I just wanted to say that. Yes, one moment please. I just wanted to say that our next speaker, Frisco D'Anconia, unfortunately will not be here. So we do actually have more time for questions. So if that's okay with you, Anthony? Yeah, I mean, yeah, no worries, please.
01:07:04.334 - 01:07:40.404, Speaker A: Great presentation, Anthony, and impressive what you guys are building. Thanks. The modularity aspect is great in terms of the initial design and also the ability to adapt over time. The question I had is around security safety and also how do you actually transition from one module to another? Is that programmatic, is that vote based or is that manual? How does that work from a transition standpoint? And how do you make sure it's safe? Yeah, so great question. So basically, the way to transition this change is actually to put up a governance vote, which is really, really cool. So you actually create a proposal. Now, you probably need some developer support there, to be honest.
01:07:40.404 - 01:08:15.414, Speaker A: But you create a proposal to actually, and within the payload is the change which allows you to actually change, uninstall one plugin and install a new plugin. So it's quite secure in that sense. I think as long as the plugin that you are using is obviously really well built. Obviously plugins, if you're building your own plugin, you have to create your own custom logic. You need to have it audited. So make sure it's audited. And we help with all these types of things, but the process itself is quite seamless in that regard and is much more secure than other methodologies of trying to change your governance.
01:08:15.414 - 01:08:45.670, Speaker A: I can't remember the DAO, but about four or five years ago, a DAo tried to somewhat change its governance and it forgot to deinstall a permission that it had, and that actually left a huge vulnerability, and it was drained by a white hat hacker, actually. Luckily. So this actually is a very clean system, right? That's why modularity can be so beneficial. It's a very clean system which allows for this transaction, which is very clear cut. And I think it auto uninstalls the permissions for you to make this. Yes, to make this, actually. So like, it takes care of that automatically.
01:08:45.670 - 01:09:14.419, Speaker A: Our system, which is super good. Another thing for security is because you have your plugins and the DAO contracts don't change. For example, we actually can propose security upgrades for your DaO. We can never touch your DaO. The minute your DAO launches, it is completely autonomous. We never have access to that DAO. However, what we can do is we can propose a security upgrade, and your DAo then can decide, and it's actually really cleanly put in the UI.
01:09:14.419 - 01:09:48.954, Speaker A: If you use our UI, you can click put to proposal, basically, and it will auto create a proposal with that payload for your voters to vote if they want to upgrade the DAO contract. So it's actually immutable. If you want it to be immutable to some degree, like, you don't have to accept these upgrades, you can leave your Dao on v one forever, or you can actually accept Aragon to propose you upgrades and trust us to have the highest level of security for you. So we keep it optional. Your Dao, your rules, we like to say. My pleasure. Do we have any other questions? Right here.
01:09:48.954 - 01:10:14.412, Speaker A: Hey, great presentation. When the concept of a Dao and maybe Aragon was founded, crypto market cap was maybe measured in billions, maybe hundreds of billions. Now we're at 2.5 trillion and growing. How do you see the role of Daos and Aragon evolving accordingly? Yeah, great question. Yeah, that's a really good question. We definitely have seen quite a few changes.
01:10:14.412 - 01:10:43.564, Speaker A: So the first Aragon stack. The first Aragon stack was the first DaO framework ever created. So for the first time, a DaO didn't need to just create itself, for example, and all custom code and logic. They could go into Aragon and use a framework that was already created for them. And those daos back then, to me, are still the OG truest daos. Actually, they're the ones where the protocol is actually governed by the token holders and the DaO itself. Think Lido, Decentraland, NFTX, sarcophagus.
01:10:43.564 - 01:11:30.514, Speaker A: These types of older daos. Actually, since then, we've seen a reversion, in my personal opinion, a reversion where a lot of daos, their protocols are no longer governed by token holders. So you've had a move. And this, I think, primarily came due to the bull market in 2021, where gas cost became so high to actually vote and manage on a layer one on the Ethereum mainnet, that Daos started moving to off chain voting. And so, sadly, what you've seen is a huge reversion where most daos now are not daos, they're community votes, completely off chain, no verifiability whatsoever. And then a group of trusted stakeholders go and actually execute or not on what the community decide to vote on. And these are some of the biggest daos in the space.
01:11:30.514 - 01:11:55.036, Speaker A: Arbitrum, for example, which has a wonderful community. The only thing the Dao controls in arbitrum is the token contract and some of the arb token itself. The same goes for optimism. For example, the token holders do not govern the protocol itself. And so I would say we've seen quite a large reversion from the original concept and the original daos created, which I guess to some degree is sort of sad. But that's the market dynamics. People didn't want to pay.
01:11:55.036 - 01:12:21.006, Speaker A: They said, we're all going to move off chain and just trust people. So now, actually, in the last year, maybe because of the bear market, we've started to see a little bit more of more on chain governance, which is really, really cool. More daos moving on chain. Obviously, now you can launch daos on layer twos. So if you come on the Aragon website in ten minutes, you can launch a Dao on base polygon arbitrum. And so now the cost to vote is starting to decrease. So you're starting to see more on chain governance.
01:12:21.006 - 01:12:47.288, Speaker A: And then I showed you that multi chain governance plugin where actually you can now have layer two voting costs with a layer one dao. And actually you can add a paymaster and you can start to extrapolate away the fees for your voters. So I'm actually quite bullish. I think in the next three, four years, we're actually going to come way back, we're going to start to see on chain daos fully governing on chain as we solve some of the issues that have created voter apathy. So, yeah. Does that answer your question? Thank you so much. Thank you so much.
01:12:47.288 - 01:13:09.154, Speaker A: Anthony, we would have one last question. Is that all right with you? Yeah, of course. No worries. Hello, I'm actually using Aragon for my project. Oh, sorry, could you speak up? I'm saying I'm actually using your framework for my project. How many projects are using our framework? Yes. Yeah.
01:13:09.154 - 01:13:35.428, Speaker A: So do you have another question. I see you. Yeah, well, actually my question is, do you have like some incubator? Are you incubating project? Are you helping project to start up? Yeah. So, okay, so two questions there. How many daos are on Aragon? Second question, are we helping incubate daos? So the first answer is we have two tech stacks. The original from 20 1718, and the current version. The old version is more TVL.
01:13:35.428 - 01:14:00.992, Speaker A: Over 40 billion in TVL. There's probably like ten major, major daos on it. The new stack, we've had over 7500 daos launch on the new stack. Smaller, more scrappy daos. And that makes sense because it was a newer product. We wanted to make sure that newer, smaller daos, less at stake, were launching on it. Now we're into the hundreds of millions on TVL on that stack, so we're definitely in the thousands in terms of daos that have actually launched on Aragon, which is great in terms of helping incubate.
01:14:00.992 - 01:14:25.504, Speaker A: We don't help incubate currently by providing grants or money. We do provide a lot of support. So if you are really interested in getting support, just reach out and we're able to give you ideas. We have a great education portal that our team works on. It has tons of information on how to launch your Dao, how to run your Dao, how to manage your Dao. So we're always willing to help, of course, in that aspect. Cool, thanks.
01:14:25.504 - 01:17:23.774, Speaker A: Thank you so much, Anthony. Thank you again to the whole audience. The next session will only start at 1130. As I mentioned previously, the speaker who was supposed to present the previously planned session, he unfortunately couldn't make it today. So Frisco de Anconia's session is unfortunately canceled. The next presentation will be on breaking the code east debug format for smart contract debugging by Nibosio Orosevic at 1130. It.
01:17:23.774 - 01:37:02.294, Speaker A: It. It. It. It. It. It. It.
01:37:02.294 - 01:40:58.084, Speaker A: It. It. It. Ladies and gentlemen, we are about to begin our next session, which is titled breaking the code ETH debug format for smart contract debugging, presented by Nibosha Ossevich. Nibosha is currently senior vice president of research and development at Tenderly, and he's also one of the co founders of Tenderly. Nibosha, the stage is yours. Thank you so much.
01:40:58.084 - 01:41:23.934, Speaker A: Does this work? Cool. Hey, everyone. Thank you all for joining. My name is Nabos. I'm one of the co founders at Tenderly, and I'm also the lead for our R and D team. With me is Marco, one of the R and D engineers who's going to help me out with the live demo. Hopefully nothing goes wrong.
01:41:23.934 - 01:43:04.264, Speaker A: Today we're going to be talking about ETH debug format for smart contract debugging. So what is ETH debug format? So a brief history some year and a half ago, after the merge in Bogota Devconnect, we assembled as a group consisting of so AoT developers, tooling company focused on building debuggers and tooling company focused on building security analysis tools. And we started talking about what's missing from the tooling perspective and what can we do to make lives of developers easier. And we sat down with the solidity team and we started giving them feedback. Fast forward some year and a half ago, we now have this group that meets usually once every week where we talk about the specification of the format that solidity compiler and hopefully other EVM compilers are going to implement in order for the tooling to get to the next level. So why having a good debugger is important for all the similar reasons for why debugger is important in web two. So all the essential stuff that the developer use it for, such as navigating through the code, understanding how the execution is correlated with the source code, what's going on on the high level, and if an error occurs, it helps them navigate to the bug much easier.
01:43:04.264 - 01:43:50.040, Speaker A: On top of that, in web three, the stakes are much higher and the bugs that could occur in production and usually irreversible. So one aspect of it is of course the security. So like whenever you're developing smart contracts, in most cases a lot of funds are going to be stored on them. So you want to make sure that everything is working and that there are no bugs. The second thing is that you're usually interacting with some other third party contracts. Navigating and managing complexity is one of the most important things in the web three. So a good debugger should help with that as well.
01:43:50.040 - 01:44:42.476, Speaker A: And of course it enhances your confidence and reliability in your code once you push it to the production. All of these reasons is why at tenderly, some six years ago we built, one of the first features that we built was a debugger. It sort of helped us solve some of our problems while we were building on hackathons, et cetera. So what are some of the frustration that happened during the debugging? And this is not just for our debugger. This is basically for any debugger, for any EVM debugger. So usually we get the incorrect source code for the given instruction. This can happen in a case where solidity source maps don't point to the right line of code, other things are misidentified function calls.
01:44:42.476 - 01:45:43.512, Speaker A: So what solidity optimizer can do sometimes is when the optimizer sees two blocks of code that are usually identical or almost identical, it's going to use only one of those. So like, it's hard to navigate and it's hard for us to showcase which exactly function is called. In that case, error in the coding function parameters. This is something that quite often occurs. It's usually hard for debuggers to pinpoint where the value of some parameter is. Is it on stack? Is it in memory, is it in storage, etcetera, etcetera. And this is even harder for some of the more complex structures in solidity or wiper bad or if any, local variable detection, especially when the optimizer is enabled, we are usually unaware of where the variable is on stack.
01:45:43.512 - 01:46:56.524, Speaker A: Is it a pointer, is it a value? Etcetera? And there are numerous other other minor inconsistencies and errors. These are all some of the problems that we hope that e debug format is going to solve. But so first of all, what's a debugging format? So it helps us make sense of the bytecode that is being executed on the EVM. So we all write code in the solidity or wiper, maybe like less than 1% of the people write direct bytecode. But for the people that write solidity or wiper, we need some way to map instructions to high language features such as for example function variables, et cetera. The thing is that when we talked to the folks at solidity, they told us that compiler has most of this necessary information during the compile time, but they don't output it. And so there is a need for these debug format due to the data complexity that exists and various compilers differences.
01:46:56.524 - 01:48:13.654, Speaker A: And for all of these reasons, we need EVM specific debugging standard. So it won't just be for the solidity, it should, all the EVM languages should apply it, and it should account for the unique aspects of the EVM, such as 256 bit memory locations, gas data storage methods, etcetera. So what's the current state of the debugging today? In short, there is no reliable way to build a debugger. Simply put, the compiler doesn't output sufficient amount of information for us to build a reliable debugger, or even in some cases, existing data can often be unreliable or mislead us to thinking it's something it's not. Therefore, we deploy some of the heuristics and guesswork. But of course there are certain edge cases where those heuristics or guesswork don't work, simply don't work. This is usually the case when the optimizer is enabled or where UL optimizer is enabled.
01:48:13.654 - 01:48:59.690, Speaker A: In those cases we simply mislead the developers and we hope that debug format is going to solve most of these problems. And the last thing is that mapping storage slots to variables is relatively complex. We can do it. It requires much more compute today, but ideally solidity compiler can point us in the right direction of the storage slots. So some of the key problems that this format is aiming to solve. So there are a lot of things, but hopefully with four of these it can solve most of the problems for people building a debugger. So first is type definition.
01:48:59.690 - 01:49:57.844, Speaker A: So ideally for every structure, ideally for every type, we should have a structure of it. We should have name field declarations. And the idea is to have an information on how to detect it, like where it is, is it on stack, is it in memory, is it in storage? For some more complex structures, ideally we would have pointers. So for example, if there is a memory of array of structures, we would have an information of where it is and what's the location. And ideally something that can tell us how to decode it. As you can see, pointers can be anywhere on stack memory storage. Now after transient storage called data return data code, on top of that we would need source locations, some way of mapping how each instruction on the EVM corresponds to the high level source code.
01:49:57.844 - 01:50:52.304, Speaker A: Currently we use source map for these, but it can be quite unreliable, especially in the cases where yield optimizer is enabled. And the other thing is what I talked at the beginning. So in certain cases the optimizer is going to deduplicate some of the code segments. Ideally we can have information pointing us to the multiple locations and ideally of course tell us how to determine which one it is. And the last thing is variable decoding. One of the most painful thing I would say today for someone who is building a debugger is so some way to represent variables visible in the scope right now. What we do is we basically deploy a bunch of heuristics in order to determine what variables are on stack.
01:50:52.304 - 01:51:40.674, Speaker A: It's quite hard for us to know if the variable is optimized out, meaning that it's not even used. So ideally debug format should tell us that. Or what could be even better is a way to reconstruct some of those optimized variables. Now this format is in, we have first draft of the specification. Afterwards we're going to enroll in the implementation phase. So after we have the implementation phase, we're going to be talking like what we could have with better data. So after we do that, we can have 100% accurate code locations.
01:51:40.674 - 01:52:35.874, Speaker A: We can decode function, call stack, we can be certain about all the parameters that are inside of the functions, like what's the input, what's the output. We can have all the variables in the scope. We can know which variables are optimized out, meaning they are not used. We can decode fully decode memory, we can have 100% accurate storage decoding. We could have evaluate expression without the need of the compiler, or set them to watch variables and of course line by line debugging and so much more. I mentioned at the beginning that we are going to have a quick demo. So this is very very early proof of concept that we have built of how the future debugger might look like.
01:52:35.874 - 01:53:07.032, Speaker A: Onto Marco for the demo. Yeah, hi everyone. I'm going to show a small demo of what we could have in the future and hopefully it works. Let's see. So here I have a basic erc 20 token implemented. So I'm going to try to run a function in the debugger, and it's going to be a pretty basic function that just means some tokens in a weird way. So let's go through it.
01:53:07.032 - 01:53:50.654, Speaker A: First we are going to be prompted to enter the parameters of the function, which are some x and y coordinates. And then we are going to start debugging. And the first thing that we can do is actually find the function. It's this one. Fish for tokens and select where do we want to start debugging from? And let's hit a breakpoint there. Then we can hit continue and hopefully we do stop at the point. Currently this is pretty hard to do without source locations provided by the new format since there is a lot of instructions that are jumping around.
01:53:50.654 - 01:54:25.064, Speaker A: You can't really create trace points anywhere, so you need some logical ways to stop the code. But in the future we could possibly map every instruction there is and just have a line by line debugger. So currently what you can see here is just the stack on the top. I have some heuristics parsing the local variables. You can see the inputted x and y values. Yeah, I actually inputted them in decimal, but they're showing up as hex values. Whatever, they are the same, trust me.
01:54:25.064 - 01:55:27.400, Speaker A: And you can see the local variable, today's maximum that has been calculated. We can turn on the instruction history, we can see which instructions were on. With some additional information that can be useful to us, we can maybe do some, let's say, watched expressions. If I put in something like x plus five, we should be able to evaluate that expression. We should be able to do that with local variables. So I'm going to add something like today's maximum plus one and hopefully it does evaluate. We can maybe try to evaluate the weekday which is currently not in scope since we are not on that line yet.
01:55:27.400 - 01:56:11.626, Speaker A: So the evaluator can't do it. But if we go a couple of instructions forward, let's go jump instruction by instruction, or maybe just skip to the next line. And next one we have the weekday, which is in this case two, it's calculated in some way. It's like days after start modded by seven. And the days after start is calculated like in a standard way. You can see there on the line 41 where we actually broke the or created a breakpoint. Some other interesting stuff that we can do, that we can't really do now is debug Yule.
01:56:11.626 - 01:56:58.128, Speaker A: I'm going to turn on Yule debugging and let's cycle instructions until we hit some Yule code. Here we have if anybody saw utilities, you old. Did anyone actually see this file before utility zero? No one. It's a file that solidity generates itself actually, and it has like some crazy named functions. You can see like function name that is long like over 128 characters and stuff like that. So yeah, the solidity generates actually this helper file that we can now debug. We could also debug any file that you write yourself like Yule is a low level assembly language or an intermediary language.
01:56:58.128 - 01:58:10.224, Speaker A: Not many people use it, but maybe we could create a debugger for it if needed. But currently it is pretty hard to do without the debug format since we are missing a lot of information that would allow us to do stuff like this. Okay, let's run off yield debugging. So we saw that we have evaluating expressions, we have breakpoints. Why not combine those two and have conditional breakpoints? I'm gonna hit like conditional breakpoint on line 49. So I added a conditional that if x local variable is greater than three, which it is, and if we hit continue, we should hit that breakpoint and we actually do that. Another thing that we could do reliably is the decoding of 1 second.
01:58:10.224 - 01:58:54.004, Speaker A: We could do the decoding of function stack. Let's try to get that. So yeah, we are currently in the function context of the fish for tokens function. But if we go into the next line, we are going to prepare the parameters and we are going to jump into the distance function. And you can see the function stack has been, let's say, reliably created. We can do that currently, but it's not completely reliable with the source map because we often get some inlining or some deduplication that often messes this up. And you can get really, really weird function stacks from the current source maps.
01:58:54.004 - 01:59:28.618, Speaker A: But yeah, so even if we enter the ul, we can actually see the called ul function. And that's pretty useful I would guess. Also I think that very, in my opinion useful is like this stack annotating. You can inspect the stack and see which value is what. These gray ones are not really that useful. Anything that's colored in is probably some useful information. I color coded local variables to be blue.
01:59:28.618 - 02:00:05.958, Speaker A: And you can see the third or the second value on the stack is currently calculated as x plus 256. This could be actually pretty useful. If you have some values that you don't know the origin of. You can just check and go to the point where you are interested in the value of the storage slot or, sorry, stack slot, and then just check the expression that actually calculated it. And it's actually pretty easy to do once you have reliable source map. Pretty easy. Create.
02:00:05.958 - 02:00:50.176, Speaker A: To create things like this, you just remember a tree of expressions. Like every arithmetic operation, you just track and construct a tree and just show it there like some representation. But yeah, we can also check out the memory. Let's turn off these and turn on the memory. This program doesn't actually use human readable memory. It usually uses it to generate random numbers. You can see the function down there that uses the ABI encode pact and ABI encode pact just dumps everything into memory so it can be hashed.
02:00:50.176 - 02:01:37.056, Speaker A: And so you can see those values there. If it were some values that we could actually read like humans, it would be useful. But in this example, it's not really that great. The place like the memory on the left is actually just bytes, and on the right you have the SQl ASCII representations if they actually mean anything. But yeah, so generally you could debug stuff like this. And I'm just gonna go through until we hit some of the inherited functions from the code in GRC 20 token. And you can see here on the stack everything is prepared.
02:01:37.056 - 02:02:14.154, Speaker A: You can see how many tokens you fished it's two tokens that's going to get minted. You can see who is the caller, who's going to actually receive the tokens, and you can track the history of the values through the stack and see how they were generated. So yeah, I think this could be improved upon a lot, but for now it's not. I just let it run instruction by instruction with some pause and we hit the end and that's it. I'm going to let Nabush continue. Yeah. Thank you, Marco.
02:02:14.154 - 02:03:27.640, Speaker A: Now we see how the things could look like after the debug format is implemented. But what's going to happen beyond? What are some of the benefits of it? Of course, we're going to see improved debugging efficiency, which is going to result in more productivity for the web three developer, which is going to result in more applications and more users coming to the web three and trying things out. Of course, this format is supposed to be cross language, so we could see some very interesting cross language tooling come out. And it's much easier for us as we would have to adopt just the one debug format and not like for, for each language implement debugger. For the security analysis tooling, it's going to of course enhance it. There's so much more data that these analysis tools can now work with. It's going to be much easier for the developers in the web two ecosystem to join in the web three, because they're accustomed to having a full debugger and not like some, some quasi implementation of it.
02:03:27.640 - 02:04:17.784, Speaker A: And with the rise of the AI and llms, and with the amount of data that we can now finally extract and have it visible from the on chain execution, we can train these models and hopefully catch some of the vulnerabilities or potential attacks before they even occur. Of course, all of this wouldn't be possible without people coming and contributing to this debug format. So if you're looking to contribute, or if you have some idea, or if you just want to brainstorm, go to the Edebug GitHub format. We post all of the updates there. Currently, as mentioned, we have draft implementation of the specification, and if you have any feedback on it, please let us know. That's it. Thank you.
02:04:17.784 - 02:05:11.114, Speaker A: Thank you so much. Thank you so much, guys. Are there any questions? We have time for two questions. Can we add any data for it? For example, like you have tested this contract against a local node maybe can I use against Mainnet data? Like can I check and upgrade against my mainnet data currently? So what are the changes of my storage or the stack storage there? Yeah, sure. That would be one of the improvement that we could add with the debug format. Definitely. Basically anything in the execution layer that is relevant to the high level programming language, we would be able to decode it.
02:05:11.114 - 02:09:52.274, Speaker A: Anyone else? Any other questions? Thank you so much guys. Thank you. The next session, ladies and gentlemen, will start at 12:00 sharp. Dancing with Moore's Law the mobile cloud disruption by Doctor Christian Killer. It. It. It.
02:09:52.274 - 02:11:29.234, Speaker A: Welcome, ladies and gentlemen. We are about to start with the next session. It's titled dancing with Moore's Law the mobile cloud disruption presented by Doctor Christiaan Killer. Doctor Killer wrote his PhD thesis on blockchain voting and he's currently head of research at Accurast association. Doctor Killer, thank you for the warm introduction. So welcome. We're going to talk about Acarus today.
02:11:29.234 - 02:11:45.690, Speaker A: Don't worry, I will not dance. This doesn't work. So I'll just click on the laptop. Maybe somebody can check. So, as I mentioned before, I'm not going to dance. Don't worry. But the title is dancing with Moore's Law.
02:11:45.690 - 02:12:58.196, Speaker A: We're going to look at Moore's law from different angles and I'm going to outline why this law is important for us as a society, as an economic system, and also for us especially as a project. Gordon Moore is a very famous computer scientist. He was a co founder of intel and he said more or less that the number of transistors on a microchip would double approximately every two years, while the cost would halven. So some of you guys probably know about this law and you never think about it, but it's actually the defining thing when you look at economic development around the world, because it enabled everything to scale up, from small businesses to the Internet itself. So it's quite fundamental looking at it this way, especially from all these wafer chips, silicones that always became smaller and more efficient. But we just looked at the performance mainly with Moore's law, and it sort of hits a boundary right now with physics. So miniaturizing all these chips further, it becomes harder and harder, and we're sort of stuck there right now, at least it seems.
02:12:58.196 - 02:13:46.284, Speaker A: So maybe there will be some breakthrough there, but I think we're reaching some limitations also. The industry is sort of agreeing on that, so it's not me perpetrating this information. So what's another perspective to look at things when it comes to the performance of computer? Essentially, we can look at performance per watt, which means that we don't just look at the pure horsepower. But we look at how efficient is it compared to how much electricity consumption we use. And this is quite important. If we look at the industry at large, we can see that there's a lot of cost pressure everywhere. That's why we have these layoffs, maybe.
02:13:46.284 - 02:14:37.756, Speaker A: And also there's a lot of pressure, ecologically speaking, from the environment. We don't want to use that many resources anymore. We want to reuse stuff, we want to upcycle stuff and be more aware of that. So opex, as I mentioned, is one of these important things. We can, and we want to significantly decrease them and the ecological aspect. So decarbonization, also a huge and important topic at large. Now painting our problem that we tackle directly as acurist and also many of the blockchain projects tackle, is that we have this issue of 66% of the global cloud market that is very centralized.
02:14:37.756 - 02:15:29.260, Speaker A: And if we look at this from a consensus perspective, that would be very bad, right? So we're already afraid of 33% with Lido, and here we're talking double that. So it's quite insane. And if you would look at all the subsidiaries and the dependencies that we have of other resellers, et cetera, I think this number is not even close to what it's really like. What's the effect of this centralization? So we have monopolistic pricing, we just accept it, right? If prices go up, prices go down, we have arbitrary charges, we have to check really carefully what's going on in our accounts. We have a lock in situation. Of course, from an economic perspective, if I'm an ecosystem by now, I want to lock in users. So this is what we learn at university.
02:15:29.260 - 02:16:33.344, Speaker A: This is very good, because then we can extract more customer rent, right? So it's good for a company, but if it's like in a monopolistic scale, this is a problem. And the second thing that I'm very passionate about is the data ownership confidentiality. So if you want to run something confidentially, you essentially are forced to set up your own data center with your own hsms. I talked to a lot of builders yesterday as well. They do that because there's no other option, because if they run it on AWS or GCP with an HSM, there is a lot of trust involved in the provider and verifying that it's done the way it should be done. I mean, that's essentially impossible unless you buy the data center yourself, which is also possible, of course, but then you need to be heavily funded. So ownership is a problem, as well, and confidentiality, not just from data addressed, but also data that is being computed on then accessibility.
02:16:33.344 - 02:17:41.144, Speaker A: Some regions of the world they are not able to access, for example, cloud providers without the credit card. I know there's workarounds, but there's always like these arbitrageurs that sell resell for crypto, certain cloud instances, but then you have essentially no control over that instance, so that's not really feasible. You have censorship at play. So if these 66% decide to do a, then it will happen. So of course, we're also talking about nation states here, for example, the US centric organizations that really have a lot to say, let's put it this way. How can we change that? Our approach is that we want to leverage mobile devices because we realized it's a huge untapped opportunity, a because mobile hardware really excels and surpasses server hardware on many aspects. It's made to be run 24 7365.
02:17:41.144 - 02:18:11.504, Speaker A: They have highly efficient processors, and we know from chip producers directly that in mobile phones, they always use the most bleeding edge technology first. So you're always ahead of the servers. Always. Of course, it depends on what kind of device you use. You cannot just use a ten year old Android phone. You can for certain computation, but not for maybe highly sensitive stuff. And additionally, we have these special purpose chips.
02:18:11.504 - 02:19:07.149, Speaker A: Probably you are all aware that you have these tpus inside, or you're not tpus and secure elements and secure enclaves, or however the provider calls them outwards, and they're really optimized for the compute they execute. So this is the opportunity that we realized. Now I'm taking a step back, and since we're an ethereum conference, I guess some of you people realize what this is. It's the blockchain trilemma, popularized by Vitalik. Don't remember the year, so he sort of said, we can optimize for two, but optimizing for all three is really hard. Hence all the other developments, right, we have all these layer two s and ck roll ups, etcetera, happening, but recent research shows. So, gladly referencing this later, I forgot the reference directly.
02:19:07.149 - 02:19:50.824, Speaker A: But we're extending this by adding confidentiality, because lots of problems arise without this confidentiality. Of course the naysayers are going to say, yeah, everybody's using it for money laundering. No, we're talking about just basic privacy needs and confidential computing needs. I mean, not everyone needs to see what you're computing doing on. And the second thing is the effectiveness of that computation. Not every node needs to execute everything, right? So this is also an issue, not just in Ethereum, just in the blockchain space at large, and the efficiency of the hardware that is being underneath. So the infrastructure layer is also not really being looked at.
02:19:50.824 - 02:20:27.976, Speaker A: And hence that centralization in the cloud providers. If you go look at certain big projects that have certain validator structures, everything is run in one data center, because it just doesn't work any other way. So how can we achieve then permissionless confidentiality, which I just mentioned right now, we can use most of these newer devices. They have these co processors, they're called. So these dedicated chips. And from within these chips we can bootstrap a. A trusted execution environment.
02:20:27.976 - 02:21:13.024, Speaker A: The trust execution environment term, I'm just using it loosely here, I'm not going to elaborate on the terminology, but this is more or less what we do, because we leverage the hardware directly and not just virtualization. And through that we can actually have it by design. So we have physically separated dedicated chips on these devices. We can verify it was that chip that executed this code at this point in time. And if something is not verifiable anymore, we can just retract and the device will not be used anymore. We have no leakage of any data and we have cryptographically signed results. So this is like why we addressed this from that perspective.
02:21:13.024 - 02:21:43.380, Speaker A: And now we're looking at some numbers since I claimed. Now let's put some proof there. As you can see, we're comparing a poweredge server to a pixel seven a. The acquisition cost is like six times lower for a new device. So if you go for an old device, it's even less. Then look at the next number, cpu mark, which is like average benchmarking test for cpu's. Even the phone is outperforming the server, which is insane.
02:21:43.380 - 02:22:32.668, Speaker A: And then this is my favorite part over there. The 83 times is when you look at TPU and GPU performance, I think GPU is 50 times and TPU is 83 times. So if you have machine learning tasks, you can outperform a server by 50 to 80 in terms of factors and then in terms of cost. Also you can cut cost by 50 times because of that performance per watt that I mentioned before. Since we're highlighting more the efficiency with different architectures there, you can save a lot of cost and also energy. And you're not using hardware that was built for a specific server. You don't need to build new hardware, you can even use old hardware.
02:22:32.668 - 02:23:31.510, Speaker A: So yes, the G, I don't know why it's flowing down there should be up there. We can upcycle devices, so old broken devices, we can take screens out of broken phones, exchange them as long as the motherboard and the chips work. It doesn't even need to have a working battery unless you want to have it as a fallback mechanism. Right? And then comparing that, we have just $25, so we have it even cheaper. Depending on your supply chain. You can get it cheaper most likely, and also depending on the specific motherboard you look for now, we did some evaluations because we wanted to know, ok, this is all fine and nice, but is it really faster? So is it really worth it? Do all these theoretical calculations of the translate to real world performance? Yes, they actually do. So we compared cloud function providers directly.
02:23:31.510 - 02:24:07.952, Speaker A: So this was not just a one time run for multiple hundreds of runs. This is also under submission right now. I can hopefully publish this in a few days because of these great double blind processes. So we have here acrist really outperforming in pure execution time. So this is without any latency. Of course if you would add latency you have some more variance in the results, but at the end of the day it's still faster. So pure execution time of deceive, of eratosthenes.
02:24:07.952 - 02:24:58.228, Speaker A: So some nerd prime number developers here might know what it is if you ever played with some prime number generation. We did this up to 50 million times and we also had to limit it at 50 million because some cloud functions would just not return after 75 or 100 million prime numbers. There's also some limitations there. Yeah, hopefully we'll put this out soon. What I'm also excited about is that we have true decentralization. That's one thing that was talked about at some point in this space, but sort of it got lost. Always when there's a bull market, I believe there's a people forget about decentralization and everything is going into certain other directions.
02:24:58.228 - 02:25:40.944, Speaker A: But with acrist we can actually achieve true decentralization because we have resilience in a heterogeneous mass of devices. So we don't have not even one cloud provider with maybe ten different server configurations, but we have literally thousands of different phones. And that's per se a harder attack surface because you hardly can write an exploit for, I don't know, anything. Right. You need to have some target group. So this makes it less prone as a single point of failure and denial of service risk. We support most Android devices.
02:25:40.944 - 02:26:30.994, Speaker A: If you ever developed something on mobile, you know how cursed that is. So there's so many Android devices, so many configurations, and so many like I learn every day of new devices. I didn't even know they exist, to be honest. On iOS that's a bit simpler, but also you're much more constrained. So Android actually was the perfect platform to sort of lock down a device and dedicate it to the network, whereas in iOS this is harder. But we're working on that as well. And we have true physical decentralization because we don't have just, we're not constrained to data centers, but we can actually have people building farms or just leaving them somewhere connected to 5G or Starlink or Wi Fi or even directly to Ethernet with an USB C port.
02:26:30.994 - 02:26:53.966, Speaker A: Right. So there's a lot of possibility to actually scale this massively. As of now we cover every continent. We have around 3000 devices. Heart beating regularly. I did a talk one month ago and it was just 2000 roughly. So as you can see the growth is going strong and it's very easy onboarding.
02:26:53.966 - 02:27:48.104, Speaker A: You scan a QR code, APK is being put on the device and you move on with your life. I'm going to finish on this note. I mean this statement, you can do for anything literally. But why deepin? So more or less deepin came and we were like, oh, we realized, damn, we are actually a deepin project. So why is it important to me? I just want to paint this very clearly because, you know, and you want to know that bottom up, the infrastructure is decentralized and you know, the keys are stored safely. It doesn't really matter what you do at the end of the day, crucial, right? If you don't have that down, then there's always some possibility of a detrimental failure to your network, etcetera. All right, just a short picture of some farms.
02:27:48.104 - 02:28:10.508, Speaker A: So people are farming our testnet token. As you can see numbers are growing and short. Call to action. Join the mobile cloud revolution. Thanks. Thank you so much. Doctor Christian Kilner.
02:28:10.508 - 02:29:00.984, Speaker A: Do we have any questions in the audience? Great talk. I really liked how you added a fourth dimension to the trilemma. So I have two questions. To measure efficiency, pure physics is somehow output over input. So what would you consider the right count? Like a transaction count in blockchain can mean various things because to claim that there is a higher efficiency you somehow have to have output of transactions in the numerator and kilowatt hours produced consumed in a denumerator. Yeah. Second question, maybe on decentralization.
02:29:00.984 - 02:29:56.244, Speaker A: I don't know if you use something like some networks use like a Nakamoto coefficient. I didn't get that, sorry. What, what measure would you use to calculate level of decentralization. Like some networks use something like a Nakamoto coefficient. But my question is rather to, you made a point, decentralization geographically, would you also not need to be decentralized by counterparty? If someone believes in your business, which I do, and secretly buys lots of secondhand phones, and you realize that you have a nice geographical decentralization, but it's actually Jeff Bezos who's been buying up all the old phones. So most networks you look at data center decentralization, counterparty decentralization and geographical decentralization. I'm just wondering how you would also consider all three.
02:29:56.244 - 02:30:31.126, Speaker A: Wow. Very, very structured and good question. Thanks. So for the first one, maybe I didn't make that clear. I definitely didn't make it clear. So the phones are used not for the consensus layer, but for the execution layer. So in there you can for example run v eight JavaScript code and whatever you do in there is by definition more efficient because you use the mobile device, right? So that's our efficiency measure, I would say for that in terms of the blockchain layer, we use it for the matching of these jobs to the processors, which are the devices.
02:30:31.126 - 02:31:32.900, Speaker A: So we have like a demand side, which is developers or people that want to run code, and the supply side which are the phones, so they provide the execution layer off chain. And of course you can do an oracle job on demand in these devices. That's sort of the architecture very easily explained. I guess this answers the first question, because you were going towards efficiency of blockchain transactions, right? Okay, so there's not really a limit there because you just do the matching of the jobs on chain and that works quite well. And the second thing about decentralization, I completely agree and I think on buying somebody, buying a lot of phones per se is not a problem because the person cannot really tamper with the trust execution environment. And that's a security and trust assumption that we have depending on the device. So these bleeding edge new, for example, Google Pixel devices, they have huge bug bounties, and so far nobody has managed to, to get in.
02:31:32.900 - 02:32:05.960, Speaker A: Of course that's the assumption. Right. So I would say that's the thing. And also if you provide compute to the network, you still supported the growth of it because you participate in that permissionless manner. So I think that's not a huge threat per se. And the last question, I don't, can you help me with that? What was that about counterparty decentralization? Right. I think you answered it.
02:32:05.960 - 02:32:32.272, Speaker A: So what I would mean with counterparty we run a network, actually Internet computer. And so to become a node provider, you need to self identify yourself. Right. And then you also, that is the counterparty one. And then you need to certify which data center you will place it in. And we obviously know which region you are in, but the counterparty is the person physically buying and owning the hardware. And you basically want to know that.
02:32:32.272 - 02:33:03.354, Speaker A: What is the probability of a number x reaching 51% control of your hardware? So that's, we mean it's a real person or entity, whoever someone needs to buy. It's a great case that you make, you make a very strong pitch that we need to rethink the type of hardware. Our hardware costs about $15,000 for one rack, and so six of them you're $100,000. So it's a real person with real money writing a check. Exactly. Okay. To that maybe the last thing.
02:33:03.354 - 02:33:45.554, Speaker A: This is just a protocol and it enables everybody to also make direct deals. You can even disable the cost for your processor. And I can make off chain deals with you because I can whitelist you on the demand side as a process, like you want to run code, whitelist your wallet, and you can even pay me off chain. You don't even need to use our protocol, you can just use the software to directly execute code. And this is exactly what projects do. They buy phones and then they run oracles on them directly without really using the token mechanism for a permissionless way. Of course you can do that, but then it's like a public cloud case.
02:33:45.554 - 02:34:12.536, Speaker A: So I think this sort of solves that problem directly. For example, somebody in Kenya could buy 100 phones and provide like his community with compute. So thanks. We have one more question. Thank you. You talked a little bit about performance and you said like latency is also one of the things that is important. Important.
02:34:12.536 - 02:35:01.408, Speaker A: I wanted to ask if you can expand on that and if there are any other performance related metrics that, you know, you thought about or you're kind of thinking about like now we did just this prime number generation, but we are now building like a benchmarking that is more testing different things on different servers. We also just did it locally, just as a benchmark comparison. And it's not, it's like a couple hundred milliseconds less than if you run it on a processor. So there's this part of the equation and also about the latency. You can also optimize this, the larger the network grows. You can choose device that are closer. Right? So we're also thinking about how to add that in a way that makes sense.
02:35:01.408 - 02:35:24.524, Speaker A: Where is the process or how close is it? And it's actually quite easy to evaluate this through just latency measurements. Right. So, yeah, I don't know if that answers the question. This is not like a final benchmark evaluation. We're still going forward there, but it's like first step. Thank you so much. Thank you so much, doctor Killer.
02:35:24.524 - 02:44:24.244, Speaker A: Thanks to the audience, the next session will start in approximately five minutes. It will be about how to build an on chain staking pools platform. It, it, it, it. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems like there will be a slight delay. We will start in approximately three minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, like I said before, we apologize for the delay, but we fixed the issue now. So the session will start in approximately 1 minute.
02:44:24.244 - 02:45:03.724, Speaker A: All right, we fixed the issue, luckily. Thank you for your patience. I want to welcome you to the next talk, how to build an on chain staking pools platform by Loic Titrant. He's product manager at Kiln and he's also one of the architects. Architects. I apologize for that. Of kilns on chain suite of products.
02:45:03.724 - 02:45:26.274, Speaker A: I'm sorry for that. Lloyd, the stage is yours. Yeah. Hey, everyone. Very happy to be here today. I'm going to talk about the staking pool platforms because they are very interesting, sort of decentralized application with their own challenges. And it has been a space that has moved a lot recently, I think here everyone heard about Eigen layer, for example.
02:45:26.274 - 02:46:07.342, Speaker A: So we're going to go through that just before a quick introduction. Loric, product manager at Kiln we are a staking company, so we operate validators, many on Ethereum, where we have about 4% of the validators running there. And we also develop smart contract products on top of that to help wallet stake on validators. And staking pools are one of them. So maybe we should start with a small introduction on istaking in general. Really from a high level perspective, what you can think about for is taking is locking 32 is on a validator. And then this validator will do some work for the network, like attesting where we had in the network.
02:46:07.342 - 02:46:53.048, Speaker A: If the validator does a good job, the network will pay it and that will be its revenue. If the network does a bad job or try to be malicious, the network will slash part of the collateral. So part of the 32 ETH that has been staked, this is called the slashing. And in this case, you lose a part of what you staked originally. The very interesting property of staking is that your main counterpart is the network itself, which means that you earn yield based on the protocol, inflation, because the protocol pays you with inflation directly. So it is the lowest risk form of yield actually in Ethereum, because you're directly rewarded by the network. And this kind of yield is of course unique.
02:46:53.048 - 02:47:42.254, Speaker A: There is only one kind of staking on Ethereum, and it has been very popular like compared to deFi, you can see that the total value locked in staking is way higher. And also the general average revenue also is, is better. On Ethereum mainnet, we've recently reached 1 million validators, so that's 1 million times 32 is that are stacked and locked to validate the consensus and that earn reward from the protocol. And so this validator, which you logs your 32 is on, is basically, if we define it in a few properties, it's earning rewards. So there are two types of rewards. The consensus layer rewards, which are basically a part of the inflation distributed to the validators. And the second one is the transaction fees, which we call execution layer rewards.
02:47:42.254 - 02:48:21.964, Speaker A: It does two jobs, it attests, so that's a regular job that it does every slot, so every 12 seconds to attest the current state of the network. And it's rewarded with small rewards for that from the inflation. And sometimes one validator out of the million that are active is chosen every 12 seconds, propose a block. And when you propose a block, you earn inflation rewards. So consensus layer rewards, but also part of the transaction fees and mev tip that are inside the block. And this is a pretty important dynamic in the rewards of validator, because it has a lot of variance. We have seen some mev block go up to 600 east, for example.
02:48:21.964 - 02:48:48.214, Speaker A: So that could be a lot of potential revenue there to be active. Of course, evaluation is 32 ETH. The very important property here is that it needs is 32 is, and not much like, not more, not less. And finally, it has two credentials. So the validation key, which is used to sign the attestation and bug proposal, that's the operational key that is on the infrastructure. And the withdrawal key, which is the wallet that will receive the 32 is back. Once you unstake the validator.
02:48:48.214 - 02:49:16.478, Speaker A: The deposit pro is very simple. You deposit to an official deposit contract developed by Israel foundation. You send certificates to ease and the deposit data of your validator. So that's the public key of the validator, the wallet address that will receive the Certi twist. So the withdrawal credential and the signature using the validation key of this message, you send that to the deposit contract with 32 e's and these es, they will stay inside that contract. They are considered burned. No one can withdraw from the deposit contract.
02:49:16.478 - 02:49:54.694, Speaker A: And the consensus layer will mint this 32 ETH on its own state and create a validator associate. The 32 is to it, and your validator will start doing its attestation and block proposal work. You can see the first interesting properties of staking compared to other type of application. You can burn token, mint them on another layer, we'll see how it creates some changes. But if we look just at the vanilla staking mode, which we've just seen, it has some limitation. You have to stake 32 ETH only if you have 35 e's or if you have two ETH. Either you can't stake or you are not efficient in your position.
02:49:54.694 - 02:50:20.790, Speaker A: You don't receive a liquid staking token like an ERC 20 that you can use in defi that would represent your position. So not really efficient. There. There is no auto compounding, only the 32 es are stacked. The rewards you receive them on your address, but they do not auto compound, they are not considered in the stake balance. And finally, no reward smoothings. Which means that if I propose a block now until second later someone proposes a block, maybe I'll have portraits and no mev in my block.
02:50:20.790 - 02:50:43.534, Speaker A: So I have like 0.1 ease of rewards and the next block will have 600 ease of rewards. There is no like average on all the network of this, of this east that is accumulated. So no rewards missing there. And so that's kind of the goal of staking pools. You have two types of staking pools. You have the custodial staking pools, which is basically, I tell you, this is my wallet.
02:50:43.534 - 02:51:24.234, Speaker A: Send me your east, two east, 35 east, whatever, and I will pull them and stake them by batches of 32 east. But you have to trust me, because in this case I'm custodian or your phone. That's what exchanges do when you stake on, for example, binance or coinbase. And to counter that for the non custodial part, like if you have your own wallet, your own keys, we have on chain staking pool, which bring these interesting properties. Staking pool on chain are basically a set of smart contracts that are added on top of the official deposit contract. And the job is very simple from a high level perspective. They receive ease, any amount really, 35 to one whatever, they accumulate it.
02:51:24.234 - 02:51:54.602, Speaker A: And once they reach a certain threshold, they deposited by batches of 32 to the official deposit contract. And then they own their own fleet of validators. And what they do then is that they accumulate this ease deposit to validators. These validators, they earn rewards. And these rewards, they fly back to the smart contracts of the pool. So the pool balance keeps increasing and the rewards are joining actually the amount that are deposited. So you have auto compounding there.
02:51:54.602 - 02:52:39.294, Speaker A: If you have enough validator under your pool, you can accumulate 32 east from rewards and deposit them into new validators. And also, an interesting property of staking pools is that as a user, if I deposit an amount of east inside of it, I will receive within the same transaction a representation of my shares inside the pool. This represents my position inside the staking pool. And this position has an exchange rate with east that will vary in time as the pool accumulates rewards. So when the pool receives rewards, it will process the new exchange rate of your share and you will earn value from that. So the LST, the liquid staking token emitted by the staking pool is a yield bearing token, because you can just own it in your balance. Wait.
02:52:39.294 - 02:53:10.520, Speaker A: And in a month you will already have increasing value just by holding this asset. And then of course, you can have more efficiency with the staking pool than with the vanilla staking. Because you have this liquid staking token which you can using defi. So you have composability, you can stake any amount. So if you have like 35 east, you can put all your capital to work and earn yield on that. You have auto compounding by default. And you have all of that, all of that in a non custodial way.
02:53:10.520 - 02:53:55.054, Speaker A: Because here everything is processed by the smart contract, from the validated deposits to the rewards management and the compute of the new exchange rate. So that's high level what a staking pool is like. And we are seeing in the space three type of staking pool, which we will see in more detail by giving some examples. The idea here is to give kind of an overview of the current design space of staking pools and then talk about the challenges for each of them. So let's start with the basic one, the first one that has been there, the liquid staking platforms. I guess you all know about Lido. Lido is kind of the first mover in this liquid staking ecosystem.
02:53:55.054 - 02:54:22.984, Speaker A: You can see from the dune dashboard. It says about 30% of the state is today. Its focus is on running on as many professional validators as they can. So Lido is a Dao. You can become a validator operator by passing a registration process. The DAO has to vote to include you in its operator set. And once you have that, you receive volume from Lido to stake on your validators.
02:54:22.984 - 02:55:17.772, Speaker A: And this is interesting because it means that you have the lido staking pools, and behind it you have 36 different validators. So a very good geographical distribution, very good infrastructure, type of servers and so on distribution and also validator clients while maintaining in the Lido spirit having good validators. Most of them are dedicated companies like kiln, for example, and not have a full permission validator set. And of course, the advantage of slido is that as the first mover, they have captured almost a third of the staking market. They have a lot of liquidity to pay for defi yields and DeFi bribes. So I think Lido today is one of the most successful yield bearing token in DeFi. You can see that on curve, for example, or AAvE or other protocols.
02:55:17.772 - 02:55:42.686, Speaker A: It's very well integrated. Then you have other liquid staking protocols, of course. And what's interesting is that each of them has a different focus. Rocket pool, for example, is, is very focused on decentralization. They have a permissionless way of adding validator operators. That means that anyone can join rocket pool and run validators for the protocol. Their emphasis to have what they call solo stakers.
02:55:42.686 - 02:56:06.936, Speaker A: So people running validators from home directly and kind of the same as Lido, they have their own token. So the are, which is pretty well integrated into defi today while maintaining this decentralized, decentralization spirit. And then you have plenty of other liquid staking protocols. I just wanted to mention three which are interesting. Swell network. You have Frax. Frax.
02:56:06.936 - 02:56:46.444, Speaker A: It's pretty interesting because the stack Frax token is very well integrated inside the fracs ecosystem. And you have Diva, which is an upcoming protocol. Diva is interesting as well because they have this tank, they are staking pool. And in the, in the back, the validators that are operated by this pool will be under DVT technologies. So it's a way to basically distribute the validation key and not have it run by only one operator. This minimizes the slashing risk and create overall more safety for users. So a lot of different innovation in this space, a lot of different focus, whether it's decentralization, security, diversity, and so on.
02:56:46.444 - 02:58:20.394, Speaker A: And this is kind of, let's say, the first design space of staking pool that has been there since Lido. So since the beginning of the VCON chain about two years ago, now we see in the space a new wave of staking pools with the incoming risk taking era. So I guess you've all learned about Eigen layer. Eigen layer is a protocol where basically you can put your stake takes ease at work for other protocols than is and these other protocols will pay you more rewards kind of as you earn like staking rewards from east you will earn staking rewards from other protocols but with the same 32 ease staked at the beginning. And this is what this liquid restaking platforms look like from a high level point of view you still have your staking pool contracts and the deposit contract but in the middle you have, have the eganlayosma contracts and the flow is basically the pool wants to stake validators and it will stake them through the Egan pod contracts which are contracts can deploy in the eggnay smart contract platform and deposit the validators through them and then they can put this staked east to work on any protocol supported by Eigen layer like Eigen Da, Omi, Lagrange and so on, and earn extra rewards. So that's very interesting because it gives like kind of new dimensions to the rewards of the pool here and so to the reward of the end user. But it creates of course an additional smart contract layer so more risk on that end.
02:58:20.394 - 02:58:51.878, Speaker A: The players here, maybe you've heard of them, they've been quite successful recently. So Renzo et al fi Raio protocol as well launch a liquid risk taking platform. Platform. They emit not liquid staking token but liquid restaking tokens. So we'll talk about LRT's there and they've been able to capture very quickly a large share of this. I think it's 12 billion markets right now, Eigen layer. So I think for example et al five is around two to 3 billion right now.
02:58:51.878 - 02:59:38.976, Speaker A: So pretty, pretty interesting new era for this staking pool and new volume coming into space. And then I want to talk about a third type of staking pools which we call white label platforms. So the end goal here is to have staking pools that can be deployed white label for an integrator. So let's say you are wallet and you want your own liquid staking token as part of your ecosystem. You can use a white label solution to deploy that what it looks like. So that's for example the product we made with skilled Unchain is that you have a full smart contract platform. So at the beginning you have operators, they deploy their own operator contracts and on top of the operator contract they can deploy applications.
02:59:38.976 - 03:00:28.774, Speaker A: We have a pooling application. So this pulling application is like the smart contract managing what we saw earlier. So the rewards, the deposit of validators, the update of the exchange rate and on top of this operator pool, smart contracts you can deploy integration contract per integrator and each integration contract can emit its own token representing the shares inside of it. So for example, Ledger can deploy an integration contract there, have their user see it as a pool, where in reality it will deposit inside the operator pool. So it will benefit from all the liquidity of the other integration of the operator pool. So faster auto compounding, faster exit times and so on. And you will be able to have your own receipt token branded as you as an integrator.
03:00:28.774 - 03:00:53.230, Speaker A: If you want to see kind of all these components, how they interact together. We have an explorer that represents all of that, but this is for example what we have on Mainnet today. So we have the kin operator. There is also coinbase cloud operator and we deployed a vpool application on top of it. It manages today about 100K ETH staked. And on top of that you have a lot of integration contracts. So crypto.com,
03:00:53.230 - 03:01:47.154, Speaker A: Legerlive, trust wallet, Dakota deployed on that, and they are all able to emit their own liquid staking tokens if they want. And in an upcoming version you will be able as well to deploy a site to the Vpool, a rest taking Vpool, which basically does the same thing, but deposits through Eigen layer. So you will be able to have kind of here the same diagram integration contract that will be able to emit their own liquid rest taking token in that case. So this is what we call the white label print platforms, and it has great advantages, especially in customization and in branding for the end user, while being able to work with existing operators in the space. So we've seen these three types of staking pools that exist today. They all have kind of the same challenges. And of course the main one is security.
03:01:47.154 - 03:02:31.722, Speaker A: So as you see, as you saw, like all the logic of depositing validator, managing rewards, computing exchange rate is done at the smart contract level. So everything needs to be very well secured there. We've seen, for example, in 2020, like more than 80% of the protocol were hacked. So smart contract security is a big topic and it's hard to secure. And also actually this number is false, it's way higher than 40 billion. But there are a lot of funds that are actually secured by staking contracts if you consider all the protocols we saw in this presentation and this need to be secured. Finally, there is two issues with security of smart contract of staking pools.
03:02:31.722 - 03:03:17.532, Speaker A: The main one is that this contract are complex because of the asynchronous nature of consensus layer and execution layer. The pool needs to be aware of what's going on on the layer that it cannot interact with. So this creates a lot of security implications and a lot of possible edge cases. And finally, it's very hard to find a good security auditors for that because these security auditors need to be knowledgeable about the usual smart contract risk, defy the consensus layer, all the validator like possible state transitions, all the mechanism around staking. So as we saw, like there are many like new mechanisms that you don't see in the part of the space. For example, consensus rewards of the validator, they are not like sent to your address, they are minted on the address. So there are edge cases like that that needs to be considered.
03:03:17.532 - 03:04:01.268, Speaker A: And it's hard in general to have auditors that have, have this variety of skills. Finally, on security, another point is the oracles, all these taking pools, they need to rely on oracles because they need to know information about the validator that are on the console layer, which is basically another network. So these are oracles. They aggregate the validator states, they push that to the staking pools once they reach quorum. And the pool can then say, okay, my validators earn that much rewards so I can update the exchange rate this way. And of course, records are very critical because they determine in the end the value of the LST or the alert you have. And yeah, you need to decentralize them.
03:04:01.268 - 03:04:52.822, Speaker A: They are big point of failures, kind of the usual oracle security stuff. But here they are very like the core of the staking pools. So we need to make sure that each staking pools in this space have good oracle security because, because they are as much secured as their oracle quorum is. And finally, when you design a staking pool product, you need to be aware about the Israel protocol changes. Since then, there is the state, the hash of the state of the consensus layer that's available from the EVM. So smart contract can now verify part of the state of the consensus layer directly, which is interesting, but it requires a lot of design modification inside staking pools, like uploading proof regularly to process rewards and so on. And later on the SRM roadmap, there will be some changes that will deeply impact this space.
03:04:52.822 - 03:06:00.424, Speaker A: First, consensus layer rewards are going to decrease. It's what the core dev wants to limit and cap the amount of staked east in the space. There is an IP that will be in the the next hard fork, Bellatrix, I think, from Mac noder, which basically will allow validator to have more than 32 e's as take balance. So this is a big change in how the pool have to distribute the ease between these validated fleets. And finally, one thing that will be very interesting in the future is how the ZK space evolves. Because as I mentioned, Oracle is very the critical piece of the system and we can remove them if in, in the end we can create a permissionless way to upload a proof that would recursively check all the validator of the pool or the state or their rewards, and that could be processed cheaply by the smart contract. So for that we need to follow the ZK space, especially on the performance and the cost computation on the smart contract to remove this bad point of failure that we have today on oracles.
03:06:00.424 - 03:06:21.844, Speaker A: So yeah, thank you. If you want to know more about, like this space and the weight level part I mentioned, we have a website there. Otherwise you can follow us on Twitter kinfinance. Thank you. Thank you so much. Loic, I think we have time for one quick question. Sorry, quick question.
03:06:21.844 - 03:06:43.856, Speaker A: Great presentation. Thank you for that. On your website, you described kiln as enterprise grade. What from a product standpoint mixes enterprise versus not. Yeah. So what we do is we try to provide a lot of guarantee around how we run our validated infrastructure. So, for example, it's like a lot of insurance.
03:06:43.856 - 03:07:28.556, Speaker A: We have package insurance for our b two B customers. We also have SLA is defined around that. We pass a lot of certifications. Unfortunately, there is no like specific certification to staking today, but we have like all the infrastructure, you know, soc two, type one, type two certification going to ISO soon as well. And yeah, we try to basically always have good metrics to show, like, in client diversity and performance, to really have, like, metrics to show like, the risk profiles of our validators. So, yeah, that's a big focus of ours. Thank you so much.
03:07:28.556 - 03:07:54.284, Speaker A: Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Loic Teitra. And please don't leave the room. The next session titled hello, Mempool by. Are you talking to me? We'll start in a minute or two. We just have to quickly set up a few things. Once again, we apologize for the delay of the start of the previous session.
03:07:54.284 - 03:11:35.484, Speaker A: It, it. Can you say something? Hello? Yes, now it's working. Excellent. Well, thank you for being here. I'm Herman from Uruguay. I live in Mexico. I'm exploring the mempool, mainly from evms.
03:11:35.484 - 03:12:05.924, Speaker A: Here is for checking the presentation here. I want to go duplicate. Yes, yes, yes. Was in duplicate, but yes. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems like we're experiencing some technical difficulties, but we will start any moment. I'm studying the mempool, mainly for Ethereum and l one, because it's the most secure evm we have right now. Let's see what happens with the bitcoin.
03:12:05.924 - 03:12:25.948, Speaker A: L two s, who knows? Okay, excellent. So, hello, mempool. Push boundaries, invoke prolamate. We are going to explore the mempool territory. So, what is the mempool here? Someone knows what the mempool is. Can you put your hand up? 123456. Okay, it's a lot.
03:12:25.948 - 03:12:55.444, Speaker A: Excellent. The first time, there is more than the 50% in the mempool. But for the others that doesn't know is the ethereal space where the transactions are waiting to be executed into blocks. So, to interact in the Ethereum mainnet, what we do usually is to send the transactions to RPC. This is validated by the all node that we are interacting to. It's received by the queue of this node and then is integrated into his own mempool. There is no one mempool.
03:12:55.444 - 03:13:29.664, Speaker A: The mempool is something that is shared between all the nodes. And sometimes one transaction never reach many, many, many nodes that are in other parts of the planet. So there is not one mempool. The content between all the mempools that exist is about 20%. At the higher rate is 80%, but there is always at less than 20%. That as a standard rate, is unique for each node. So what happens in the mempool? The user uses a wallet and then interacts with the mempool.
03:13:29.664 - 03:14:07.216, Speaker A: If we forget all these inner inner transactions. So each node will receive the transaction from the user into a local queue. This will be validated by the own node. This says, okay, this user, this account has balance, the announce is balanced, the signature is correct. I will include into my mempool and I will spread it broadcasting. So what for what is the mempool? Today, the mempool behaves like a waiting line, that the first ones are the ones that are paying more. Okay, so if you want to pay more, you get first in the blocks.
03:14:07.216 - 03:14:44.594, Speaker A: Everybody knows more, less how this works. But why this should be like that, I don't agree very much. I don't know if somebody from here went to Cuba. In Cuba there is an ice cream store that is called copelia, where in one line you pay cheap and in the other line you pay like ten times more. Of course, people, tourists go to the line that pays ten times more, that is cheap anyway, and you get your ice cream. But why, why this should be like that? Well, the same, that is like strange for us. Because it's a clear example is happening right now on the mempool and Ethereum.
03:14:44.594 - 03:15:35.484, Speaker A: So let's have some fun. Have you ever thought about the hiding features of the mempool? I mean, the mempool is reliable, it's a source of truth, but not in blocks, because we say that the blocks is a unique source of truth of the blockchain. But the main pool is still being a source of truth. It's broadcasted, it's cheap to don't say almost free is reasonable fast. 0.1 second to have a transaction that is looking very good within the 80% of the nodes that is fast for the size of Ethereum, it's a clear path. Sender received, no hijacking because all the protocols that we know until today that are easy to use are subject to being hijacked.
03:15:35.484 - 03:16:21.866, Speaker A: No spoofing at protocol level. So isn't this beautiful? So what we did, I myself and my company, we invented something that is called rolamate. We solved the expensive gas and slow speed problem on Ethereum l one mainnet. So we took this feature that we are using the mempool for this to invent an eat payment metaprotocol for EtU mainnet to send crypto payments with at least 95% discounts on gas fees. And of course, this also works for ERC 20s. Leveraging these two mempool features very low gas fees and reusing knowns. So at the end of the day, the user just connects with mainnet deposit, pays and withdraws, normally using any wallet.
03:16:21.866 - 03:17:07.454, Speaker A: So relying on the mempool capabilities, the relayers that are denotes capture. All these transactions are part of our metaprotocol as well because we put some code on them and we validate the transactions and we send them to a different chain. A side chain that now can be an avalanche chain, can be an orbit or any other chain that also could have no gas in a decentralized and permissionless way. I'm going to show how this works a little. Welcome to the first demo video of Rolla Mathy. On the right side, we can find a brand new wallet of a store called Mathy store. As you can se, this wallet has zero f.
03:17:07.454 - 03:17:45.304, Speaker A: On the left side we have a wallet that already has 0.0065 f that here is rounded up. But in metamask we can see the exact balance. Trough this demo, we will use the rolla mate payment protocol to send ETH from the left wallet to the right wallet without paying gas for the ETH transfers. So the first thing to do is a deposit of ETH into the rolla mathy metaprotocol. This transaction should be included into blocks so we are going to pay the gas for it that luckily now is cheap at $0.26. We need to wait for this transaction to be confirmed so our deposited ETH will become available to use in the role of mathi payment protocol.
03:17:45.304 - 03:18:30.204, Speaker A: Once this happen, we will be able to send payments using Ethereum mainet with at least a 95% savings on gas fees. But for this example, all the ETH transfers will be completely free since we will not be doing a high demand. Feel free to ask how this works in the comments. Now we are in the pay section so we will start to send ETH from the left wallet to the right wallet. This dapp is just a transaction constructor that let the user configure an ETH amount in the destination wallet. Then the transaction is constructed with low gas, just enough to be valid, then broadcasted tufthememenple and finally captured by our rolla Mathie anonymous node that will process it without need of a confirmation. Let's repeat the process as many times as needed to transfer all the ETH from the left wallet to the right wallet.
03:18:30.204 - 03:19:20.616, Speaker A: As you can see, the left wallet ETH balance in Ethereum mainet remains always the same and all the already processed transactions are in a pending state. This is because Rolla Mathy Metaprotocol doesn't need the transactions to be confirmed, we need them just to be broadcasted. A broadcasted transaction information is as valid as the information of a confirmed one, but not permanently since is not included into any blocks yet. For the last ETH transfer of this demo, we are going to show you how to construct your own transaction manually. You will see how it will work as well. This permissionless, trustless and decentralization level will help the developers to integrate Rolla Mathie very easily into their process products. First we configure a transaction to the Rolla Mathie smart contract for zero ETH value, but in the hex data which contains the ETH transfer information in the Rola Mathy metaprotocol format we configured a 0.001
03:19:20.616 - 03:20:01.876, Speaker A: f transfer. Then we configure the gas price to be so low to not be processed, but valid enough to be accepted by the RPC and broadcasted. As you can see, the transaction goes through and is confirmed for both wallets. Now it's time for the withdrawal so the Mathie store starts it. As this transaction needs to be confirmed, it will pay a gas fee, which in this demo version we are handling for security reasons. Finally, the mathy store receives the withdrawed balance and thanks to rolla Mathi payment protocol, no one had to pay gas fees for any of the wallet to wallet ETH transfers. Welcome to the well, this is a demo that is working.
03:20:01.876 - 03:20:42.326, Speaker A: This was made in October of past year. Right now we mounted a wall metaprotocol, a virtual evm evvm on a sidechain. So now we are going to use smart contracts, account abstraction and many other use cases of EVM. And people can build their own metaprotocols on the same technology that we are using rollamate. And now I want to show another use case. Four acid chain protocols start deploying acid chains. Acid is pushing Ethereum's scalability to the maximum while providing faster transaction processing.
03:20:42.326 - 03:21:27.794, Speaker A: Ideally infrared gaming, daos, token swaps, interoperability, defi data sharing and decentralized exchanges. So which is the problem that we are facing. Ethereum scalability should limit transaction speed and volume, leading to network operations. So basically here we want to give more scalability to Ethereum without changing the infrastructure. So we think anyone can leverage their own also a virtual machines on the main pool of Ethereum one. Every protocol, every blockchain has to have their own memory. It's like making a highway or roads for your city every time you make one and don't use the main road that is there.
03:21:27.794 - 03:22:10.076, Speaker A: Now what happens is we have slow speed, lot of congestion, hypergas, and we have layer one, the users and the main mempool. What we propose here and made a proof of concept was what happens if we have a layer 1.5 that is sharing the main mempool with Ethereum l one just having different gas specifications. And the tradeoff will happen anyway. So what happens here is you have a standard node, they shared it mempool, a acid virtual machine that could be any you will have. In this case we use cartesian hard hat. We have the metatransactions in the layer 1.5
03:22:10.076 - 03:22:45.404, Speaker A: and then you have checkpoints that is the same that the roll ups does. But this will happen organically. So what you will have the acid virtual machine, you can. Well here is just a tail of contents. And then I want to show you the last example of what we just done. That is streaming video and radio user ethelium l one node without paying gas. So we were literally welcome to patio station stream vision on radio using Ethereum l one nodes as infrastructure without paying gas.
03:22:45.404 - 03:23:39.094, Speaker A: How this work? You can cast, you just need to connect your wallet using your private key input, audio or video. Then the transactions will start going out through the RPC node and then this goes to the mempool and be spread all across the blockchain infrastructure. Using the nodes view is very easy, you just need to put the station address, tune in and then you start consuming it directly from the mempool API or the node. Enjoy and donate so how is the tech stack? We use incremental gas plus decremental transaction weight. This lets us do 1.2 megabytes per minute. This means high processing probability zone avoided and we are making big data weight transactions with low gas fees.
03:23:39.094 - 03:24:08.414, Speaker A: And then we decrease the data weight and we increase the gas fees so we avoid this to happen. So congrats. We're in l one. No no no. We are delving into a real solution for a global problem, communication censorship by powerful groups in an out of band scenario. This solution offers a clean and readily available method to warranty and secure authenticated communication. So let's go with the demo guys.
03:24:08.414 - 03:25:26.824, Speaker A: Here is a demo where first a caster will put his private key here for the proof of concept and then he will be uploading his input file that will be radio or audio and then he will be sarcastic. The transaction will go through the mempool and he can receive donations and then we can see a user that is consuming this information directly putting his address in the nav bar of patio radio. So enjoy it and thank you so well I will change to the presentation. So the retribution compromise is we know that this feature was not designed yet as it is, so it should be considered as a fair use commitment, at least as intentions for any developer until this is incorporated. I'm talking with the Ethereum foundation about this. They are worried a little of course, because it can finalize in some spamming in some block out of the of the mempool of l one. So we need to find something, some way to retribute paying gas every entrance sections.
03:25:26.824 - 03:26:09.896, Speaker A: Because with all these protocols I was showing you, you are not paying any gas on l one and you are consuming in high demand nodes if you want. So also don't use future nodes because there is a few vulnerabilities in ethereum l one I shouldn't disclose, but I will. So it's like you can use any nonce, in fact you don't need to use consecutive nonce. And there is some attacks that you can accumulate nonsense in the future. Then you just send one to reactivate all of them. And maybe you can send 100 transactions just in the same block. I won't set valid transactions to transmit and well, this is a little more of information and well have a great metaprotocal develop Shorteney.
03:26:09.896 - 03:26:35.104, Speaker A: This is this QR. I don't remember where it takes you, but we'll be to some place that is good. Are you talking to me in Twitter? Well, we are developing metaprotocols on the l one mempool, on any mempool. So do you have any question, are there any questions in the audience? Oh, I think I saw two.
03:26:37.104 - 03:26:38.768, Speaker B: I just wanted to ask if that's.
03:26:38.856 - 03:27:28.514, Speaker A: Also going to be applicable in some moment. If layer twos also get a little bit congested and a little more expensive, would that be also applicable on layer two s? Sorry, the last part, your protocol, would it be usable on layer two s and l two s? Yes, of course you can use it on l two s. And in l two s is extremely more, let's say more free. You can say more free, even more free because l two usually has extremely high gases prices. I mean, the gas at the end of the day is low, but the gas price, the gas limit and the priority fee are extremely higher than on l one. I mean, in quantitative matters. So yes, you can use it and this will be even better for you.
03:27:28.514 - 03:28:23.564, Speaker A: But we are doing all this on l one because we feel is the biggest, strongest and more prepared mempool, bitcoin also. But we want to do all these things in ethereum. Now we have one more question. Hi, I wanted to understand a bit more, like if everyone starts doing this and sending a lot of transactions to Mempool, et cetera, that's going to lead to some sort of spam. But are the transactions going to go through or is it going to get congested as a normal transaction? If it's not just yourself but 10,000 more users doing all of this and broadcasting and streaming and doing all of this stuff. Yes, well, that's the thing that is worrying. Ethereum at the moment is a fair question.
03:28:23.564 - 03:28:56.654, Speaker A: Your transactions should pass after you reuse the nodes. I didn't specify that. That's why I asked if many people knows or not how the mempool works. But you can always reuse announced. So people use this function only to cancel transactions sometimes, and they pay a little more gas in gas price. Sometimes it's less gas in the real price because there is a kind of feature with a vulnerability. I don't know if I'm live on Internet, but.
03:28:56.654 - 03:29:37.594, Speaker A: Well, it's a vulnerability that in the protocol, they planned to tell you, okay, if you increase the cash price and the priority fee by 10%, you can replace your transaction. They found this. I don't know who they. I'm sure it was someone in a chart that said, let's do this, that this happens with these kind of decisions to make. Okay, you will reuse these nodes. You already consume some data and processing from the nodes. So the trade off will be like, you pay 10% more and we hear to you again, but if you decrease the gas limit, your transaction will pay less.
03:29:37.594 - 03:30:28.616, Speaker A: So will you start doing high demand transactions with a lot of data, maybe 40 kb that you can send on a transaction is almost the limit. And then you send another one with 10% more gas price priority fee, but 10% less data. This will pass through and you start doing this. This. Until you have a transaction with gas limit in 21,000, that is the smallest, you will have about eight of gas price and two on priority fee. And this transaction is never going to be processed because the gas prices are always like 1920 to 4100. But if these get processed someday, you will pay about $0.60.
03:30:28.616 - 03:31:05.854, Speaker A: But then if you are doing this and this and this and this, you will have like 100 pending transactions. But the first one that is taken to calculate if the transaction could go or not is the first one. So the next ones are part of the first one. In the summary of how much money do you have in your account to take it or not? But in the first one you can replace it to a transfer. So you get out all the funds that were collateralizing, all the 100 transactions. And this one goes through and the next one will be automatically dropped, cancelled. A transaction never dropped.
03:31:05.854 - 03:31:34.644, Speaker A: Be careful. If you get money in your wallet again, all day will be realized, maybe and process it. So you have to be careful about this. Thank you so much. German thank you. Thank you also to the audience. Our next session, why developers drift away strategies and challenges in the web three ecosystem by Omti park will start in approximately two minutes.
03:31:34.644 - 03:35:38.654, Speaker A: It it. Ladies and gentlemen, we're about to start. Please have a seat. I'd like to welcome you to the session titled why developers drift away strategies and challenges in the web three ecosystem by Omji Park. Omji is currently head of research and operations at ENC code club, and she's also a guest scientist at the Technical University of Munich. Please welcome OMT park.
03:35:41.194 - 03:36:16.374, Speaker B: Hello everyone, can you hear me well, lovely. So first like, thank you Michael, for a kind intro. And also Ethereum Jurek team. This is always great to come to engage with local community. Today I'm going to share why developers drift away, but truly what we're going to discuss is what is the motivation developers come to the ecosystem, how they can stay and what kind of strategy we can take. So let's get started. First in code club, perhaps some of you never heard about this or heard about us, but don't know what we are doing.
03:36:16.374 - 03:37:06.126, Speaker B: So we are education community. So we are helping you to develop your career path through different types of like learning program, building program, and also like a different career path program which is like bootcamps, hackathons, accelerators and hack house and so on. So last years we have been working a lot with the different protocols and projects to run developer training program or early stage projects, onboarding program and we could see spanish specific patterns and today we are going to share about that. So first thing, perhaps some of you coming and thinking about what is the key like to have a lot of developers on ecosystem. Everyone is cautioning about this and I must give a live answer. The absolute answer is there's no one specific solution fit to every protocol. Maybe if you think about what protocol has the most developers, maybe like three, four come to your mind.
03:37:06.126 - 03:37:53.968, Speaker B: Do you see any like specific things they are all doing together? I'm sure that it's really difficult to find the mutual patterns like everyone doing. There's the best practice stuff. So there's a lot of components you need to do, but you cannot exactly copy the other strategy. And there's like a multiple reason. First is like open and decentralized nature of the web three ecosystem make it difficult to creating like some developer retention, like we cannot generate like how to say natural logging effect. And this limited control over our audience is actually a feature. That's what, what we love about web three, like we come for permissionless, like a system that anybody can come and build and deploy on your network and if they don't like they can leave.
03:37:53.968 - 03:38:40.322, Speaker B: So we actually like it. But when we are on the shoes, in the shoes of like onboarding developers, we start to worry about how can you lock them in? Why we actually came to this ecosystem because we don't want to be locked by something. So let's think about how can we provide specific value to developers low switching costs. So like as we discussed about like creating locking effects like a, we have a very low switching cost, you cannot charge them a membership fee of the one year so that they will stay in your platform. So it's rather easily people can come entering and exiting your platform. So you can see that platforms are making different vampire attack. Especially if you have a similar tech stack, you will have similar events trying to luring others into your ecosystem, which works.
03:38:40.322 - 03:39:35.874, Speaker B: Also you need to think about that same way you can lose your audience as well. So why developers are coming to web three? I specifically said that why developers? But we can ask same questions to ourselves as well because a lot of people are coming to web three due to in the beginning maybe similar but yet broad reasons. One is like of course like a passion for learning something new. A lot of people coming in web three, especially even during the bear market are like people who are genuinely curious about something new. That doesn't mean necessarily they are staying around because when they see another new and interesting thing they may run away. But this is still like an interesting point that like early stage like developers, users are coming into the market because they are very very curious and they will become your market users and advocacy becoming advocates. And another thing is of course like attraction of the ethos, like decentralization and autonomy.
03:39:35.874 - 03:40:16.690, Speaker B: Now a lot of debates going on with the mass adoption making less dislike ethos visible, but still we cannot, you know, neglect that this is like a great ethos, like driven community. Another thing is of course you have a desire to be part of some revolutionary shift. So there's some technique here, like a paradigm changes happening every 2030 years, perhaps like a fast is like ten years. But there are certain things you have missed. When I was young, you know, like when people were building like a Internet, like I was like a user but I couldn't contribute at all. When there's dot bubble, everyone making an app, I was basically teenager. But then when smartphone comes, when people start to making app again, I miss that wave.
03:40:16.690 - 03:40:58.486, Speaker B: And I see that blockchain is another interesting paradigm shift and I want it to be in. And I see that a lot of people coming in there and of course afterwards we heard a lot of people come for texting, for community. So you see that a lot of smart people working with you. So those forward thinking people, collaborative community, make you stay. And of course like last but not least, we cannot lie to ourselves that a lot of people are coming for the potential financial upside as well. But those like grids should be matched with your ecosystem needs. So if you're building your own ecosystem or project and you want to onboard a developer, you need to think about why you need those developers in your ecosystem.
03:40:58.486 - 03:41:56.820, Speaker B: And if your stage of your projects, your protocol is serving those. Let's say this is like a kind of simple ones like when you think about you want to raise your awareness, you want to test your product market feeds, you want to test your latest protocol updates, support some tooling and infra projects by those developers coming in. So you don't need to hire 100 developers, but your community is going to be building or finding some solutions. Like you couldn't serve it yet. So maybe your protocol is like I keep stopping, you need to kind of test it with the community members or nurturing ecosystem projects, startups and finding talents. If you're ecosystem looking for developers and thinking that this is all you want at once, you are having a very wrong strategy, because not every one of these can come all at once together. If your protocol is so young that there's no tooling and no lucky jobs are ready there, how would you like to handle some startup coming and building on top of it? And they even don't have a basic tool.
03:41:56.820 - 03:42:42.964, Speaker B: So I'm not saying one is superior or it should be chronicle only. But what I want to say is like when you're setting up the strategy, you cannot simply ask your team achieving these six goals with like one thing. It should be like a different approach and different things by stage and program. So let's think about why developers are coming, but why they're staying in your ecosystem and not going away. And before going forward, I want to ask questions. What scale are we talking about? Because all of you want to have million developers in your ecosystem in the future, but what is the scale now we are talking about? In the end of 2023, Electric Capital had a developer report about over ecosystem. So there's less than 7000 full time developer.
03:42:42.964 - 03:43:28.074, Speaker B: And then this definition of full time developer is the people who work more than ten days a month. So it's basically like less than two weeks, you know. And we consider as a full time developer, monthly active developer around our ecosystem is like 22,000. So let's make a simple calculation over this, like how many protocols are fighting for getting developers. Of course it can easily, we can say hundred, but let's say there's like a top 50 protocols actively working on onboarding developers. If you divide like 25,000 by 50 when it comes to something like 400, 500 developers might be active while only 30% of them are actually full time. So 150 full time.
03:43:28.074 - 03:44:42.708, Speaker B: Why like 500 in average? Which when you ignore that Ethereum has the biggest community in this sense. So in reality all of you going to have a smaller set. So this simple math we went through, so 400 like developers while 120 going to be a full time developer in your ecosystem, do you feel like it's small group or it's a big group of developers, like 120 developers in your protocols? Small, right? Feels really, really small. But let me ask this question. If you're onboarding 400 developers every quarter, do you have 400 jobs in your ecosystem? Do you have 400 opportunities? They come not only taking one tutorial and finish, but do you have any other opportunities they can stay and do something? If you don't have maybe you don't want to onboard 2000 developers at once and it's a little bit delusional. So those retention hurdles, we need to think about why developers doesn't come back to your ecosystem and we are talking about like a high number, why we actually don't have infrastructure or even opportunity to serve them. So you see that there's a little batches, so that what we need to do is we need to improve the developer experience, experience funnel by creating different types of opportunities.
03:44:42.708 - 03:45:44.472, Speaker B: It should be curated. So they're like you shouldn't just simply follow the other ecosystem how they're doing because there's an even huge culture difference. And also you need to align that with stage of your ecosystem depending on if you already launched your testnet, mainnet, if you already start to have some startups that they start to offer some job opportunity or are you still like working on basic tooling? If there's basic tooling is driven by your core developer team or community team. So all this kind of thing going to be playing a role to onboard developers in your ecosystem. So let's think about some simple funnel. So there's like a funnel when you think about like oh, there's a developers up here, you may encounter developers in maybe conferences like some general hackathons so that they may not take your bounty but they saw your name, they had a chat with you, maybe like if they saw you in some like a YouTube or Twitter space. So like hey, there's some example that they just discover you and they just know your name but they don't know exactly what you are doing and they don't know exactly like what kind of thing they can do.
03:45:44.472 - 03:46:32.344, Speaker B: And then when it comes to a little more like an interest, like they will start to look at your documentations, they read some articles and here it comes. That they may, they may see that a lot of Twitter thread of the rails of your ecosystem time. They start to kind of getting engaged and they are following those market users or their friends were talking about like, hey, I was building this and they have something, something or like there's some kind of basic education tutors, they start to watch because in this evaluation stage, they start to actually spend time. Because first one is like, you know, they didn't decide to spend time, it just got exposed. But at the second stage, they start to like spend time and try to evaluate if I want to use my time more. And then they start to learn more. So once when they said they're like, okay, it's worth it to spend time a little bit, they will start to have some dedicated learning experience.
03:46:32.344 - 03:46:54.284, Speaker B: It means that they may follow your boot camps. They will take some specialized workshop on specific SDK or certain API. They will start to build something even though there is no direct rewards there. They will request one on one support with your team. They will talk to your engineers, they come to your office hours. And after those, they need the opportunity. They actually can build.
03:46:54.284 - 03:47:25.634, Speaker B: So they learn something and they start to build something. And building is sometimes like they are very creative, but sometimes you need to give some guidelines which can be one is like a very specific hackathon focusing on your ecosystem. Or you start to kind of make the meeting in the community events, they start to feel more belonging. And this building period, they are not only building projects, they actually start to evaluate the culture of your ecosystem as well. So they come. So in the learning evaluation period, they just check the documentation. In the documentation.
03:47:25.634 - 03:48:10.308, Speaker B: If documentation sucks, they may just leave because they just don't see that. Why I need to spend 20 hours to figure out this bug, to having a simple test. When they pass this one, they come to learning and spending some time after that they may not decide to build and they still going to think that this is worthy of learning. And I got some new extra batch I collected, but I will not stay. But if they said that, okay, this was quite like a lean experience, I start to build a little thing and then actually they start to evaluate your culture as well. At that time it's really important that what kind of contact they have. If you see like one of the biggest deaf communities, it's crazy how, how many times they are spending time with the developer in one on one interaction.
03:48:10.308 - 03:49:12.710, Speaker B: I know this is not scalable, but your market users, in the beginning, the small set of people who are going to be the advocate of your whole ecosystem, you need to actually spend time with them because a lot of them are going to be following your ecosystem in a way unreasonable way. At a certain point they like it, then it's beyond the tech, they like the culture. I'm not talking about funway, just like a meme card, but in general people start to like, you know, build a relationship. They start to feel belong there. You didn't ask but they start to explain about your technology to someone else and then their friends come and building together. And these afterwards like you need to then have like these like lawyer users, they become your advocate. You need to offer programs like Ambassador program, like maybe you need to create an accelerator incubator grant program, who want to be a startup in there or you offer bounty program who doesn't want to fully commit but they want to freelancing around because they can just take contributing to the creator dashboard or they want to fix some bugs for you or different career opportunities and many more.
03:49:12.710 - 03:50:17.280, Speaker B: These are not set in stone in exactly chronic order because maybe some of the events you want to use for different purpose. But what I want to say is you need to think about how developers come to your platform, how to discover until they become a lawyer and advocate users in your ecosystem, you need to provide certain opportunities. Otherwise you may just like going to say in a paper number like we have 2000 developers got more than our ecosystem, but definitely there will not be 2000 different activities around in the ecosystem. So that's pretty much it in a nutshell. And what I wanted to say is obviously there's no single key and one solution. I can say that in this stage of your protocol you just need to follow this formula, but you can see that this is quite complex and still a lot of parts are not scalable solution, but you need to go through the funnel. So my suggestion is first you need to of course talk to your own Devrel team.
03:50:17.280 - 03:50:49.640, Speaker B: Devrel is the best. There's several devrels here. So Devrel is the best. You need to talk to them how to build those relations with developers. It takes time to see your community sentiment and what kind of opportunity you can offer. And then of course you need to create all those educational contents around. So developers going to keep learning and going forward, you're going to offer job opportunity or any other opportunity, they can stay longer and becoming a person who can contribute and they can create opportunity for someone else.
03:50:49.640 - 03:51:19.264, Speaker B: So that's pretty much it. And if you have any question, I am very happy to answer. I wrote my Twitter accounts there so they're like happy to, happy to send me a DM if you have any other question. Also in Code Club. So we are education community, we have a lot of different education program for developers. So if you want to take some program as developer you're very welcome. If you're ecosystem building developer community you want to discuss about education program, I'm very happy to discuss as well.
03:51:19.264 - 03:51:21.024, Speaker B: Thank you very much.
03:51:24.004 - 03:52:10.304, Speaker A: Thank you so much. Omchi, do we have any questions from the audience? Hello. Thank you. I actually have a question regarding the hackathon part. We found out that a lot of people just show up for the hackathon, they build on a hackathon and then they just leave. Because the reason they were hacking on the hackathon is because of the bounty and not because they were actually interested in continuing working with the protocol. And that has actually made us drift from hackathons a little bit.
03:52:10.304 - 03:52:19.496, Speaker A: I wonder, what strategies do you recommend or would you define for making these people stay instead of just choosing away?
03:52:19.640 - 03:53:12.092, Speaker B: So very good caution. So a lot of hackathons, this is not only actually the worries about the protocols, but that's the worries about the hackers as well. Because often hackers are asking us that I started to become a multiple hackathon winners and people are keep asking me to build on different protocols. I don't know what to do. And then even though they have some motivation to building like the same thing further and they start to get some like, you know, temptation that others are asking, if you build this one, is it going to be like kind of short term rewards? So this one, my suggestion is like if you're thinking about different types of hackers who come to build like a father, but who just like build for the bounty, are they bad actors? I would say they are not actually bad actors. Rather we need to design bounty more clearly and cleverly. So those bad, so to say bad actors who are perhaps like quite skilled yet they are not intended to stay in your protocol.
03:53:12.092 - 03:53:51.874, Speaker B: You need to use them as a product tester. So your hackathon projects, that must be a tester so that there's a very specific new protocol, updates, you want to make them some hackathon projects so that your devil team doesn't need to build a demo anymore. So you need to make them build a demo for you, you need to make them testing things for you. Those hackathon prizes are kind of freelancing bounty. So they're like there's a competition building, they're building a demo for you and then they are leaving your ecosystem still fine, they contributed their own way. If their idea is very innovative and open source because it doesn't exactly belong to them, because it's kind of open source projects, then others can build on top of it. And I see it as a contribution.
03:53:51.874 - 03:54:42.454, Speaker B: So if you're rewarding certain hackers building exactly same thing, then you should stop rewarding them, but rather make them try very new thing, a little bit like push the boundary and then they leave. Still it's worthy that you use them as your extended dev rail team. And then maybe each time when you have a new feature to try out, you can invite them again because they will be very interested in trying something new and then building a prototype for you and they will leave again, which is completely fine. So my suggestion is like a please don't reverse someone building exactly same thing. You need to perhaps even like making two different types of track for people who are making copying appish when they're beginner. But if they're like a good developer, even though they don't want to stay around them as like part time contributor, try to build a leopard. If they are like making great prototype, that's a great win.
03:54:42.454 - 03:54:47.134, Speaker B: Any other questions?
03:54:48.314 - 03:55:12.644, Speaker A: Do we have any other questions? Hi, so I thought you made a lot of really good points throughout the presentation, and I'm curious if you had any stories or kind of real world examples that you could share of protocol or of projects that do those things either really well or haven't done those things really well.
03:55:13.184 - 03:55:39.976, Speaker B: So there's like a few case I can share. So one thing is like the individual developer, let's say. So it's around four and a half years ago at the Devconnect Amsterdam, we were giving this a discovery time. We were giving us some like workshops on recast and there was like a lady like sitting in the crowd and she was there even not because she wanted to come, her friends was coming. She was web two person. She just came there. She was developer at IBM or like some kind of web two company.
03:55:39.976 - 03:56:41.580, Speaker B: And then she started asking some provocating like cashings, you know, and after those workshop like she sent a message that she's actually interested in and she wanted to learn. So we provided like a lady debut camp slot to her even though she didn't have any like experience previously. And then after like solidity and expert solidity, you see that like a, those people start to come to the hackathons and around. So last year in Denver, so around a year later we got the news that she became a solution architect that opens zeppelin. It took a year and then a lot of hackathons. You want to have a KPI in like two days, three days or in a month, but it take a year for developer onboard in the ecosystem ending up having a job so that they can have a sustainable their dev journey by themselves, not protocol injecting money to their like a their how to say they're like activities. Same thing with like a startups like we got some startups like asking us, they're like okay, we are, we are keep suggested building something from scratch all the time.
03:56:41.580 - 03:57:30.496, Speaker B: So I'm not saying that every hackathon should be like this, but in, in code cloud what we do is we allow people entering the hackathon with existing project, but what they need to do is they need to build something like a new feature on top of it. And they will be only judged by the edit part so that if you are in the motion of the longevity, you can still incentivize them building something, making a fair playground to compete with the others without stopping them. And by doing that, you see that sometimes they come, they don't need to. Let's say you're building a game and you want to test VRF. You don't need to like build a game in the hackathon. But they were making a lunch menu, select a VRF app which they are having existing project, they're going to implement it. So those kind of curated approach, depending on the stage of your ecosystem, stage of project, you need to offer differently.
03:57:30.496 - 03:58:00.034, Speaker B: So some success stories I would say is like those type of developers who successfully ended in the job or those hackathon projects who successfully raised and then ending up in the ecosystem. But there's a case that also they move the different ecosystem depending on the support. So like those one, if you're a protocol, I don't know if you're a protocol, a case, or if you're the project case, but if you're a protocol, you want to curate your program and those like market users, you want to stay in contact very tightly.
03:58:02.414 - 03:58:25.230, Speaker A: Thank you so much. OMG. Another round of applause please. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. I will now be replaced by my colleague Benedek. You're in luck. He's a much more gifted, much more charming Mc Benedek.
03:58:25.230 - 03:58:59.270, Speaker A: So hi everybody. First of all, before I introduce myself, put your hands please together for Michael for doing this for today, for you in the morning. MC Ing, we are doing this all congrats, we are all volunteering here, so we're not getting paid. Thanks very much, Michael. And thanks for it's my honor to take over for the afternoon. So very briefly about myself. I'm Benne, or Ben, I'm here from Switzerland and in my I will be emceeing you through the afternoon, there's an amazing lineup of speakers and speeches coming up.
03:58:59.270 - 03:59:59.198, Speaker A: I'll announce the next one in a second. About myself. I'm here in the swiss ecosystem in my work time, daytime. I built my own ZK startup, and actually I'm working for Chronicle, a decentralized oracle protocol in the nighttime or in my free time, actually building the ecosystem here with two hats on. One is Swissdao web three builder community from the area Zurich and Zug, and the other one is the creative Crypto Valley association, where I am very active in the startup direction and working group. So this afternoon we're going to have an amazing lineup and we will start up with something very interesting you will hear about, if you want to become a ZK engineer, what it takes, how much mathematics you need to know, and generally is it fun or not? So I'm calling on stage Osgur from elliptic curves. Osgood, the stage is yours, and are you ready to go? You're ready to go.
03:59:59.198 - 04:00:27.574, Speaker A: Amazing. So this is Osgur from elliptic curve, and enjoy his speech. I'll talk to you in a moment. Okay. Hello everyone. Let me check. So, yeah, I can start, I guess, today I will talk about elliptic curves and a little bit about the ZK proos.
04:00:27.574 - 04:01:27.616, Speaker A: Yeah, I am azgarmanjit and I work for PSE. Yeah, let me wait for the presentation. Yeah, I was going to show the discord card to you guys to join. If you want to join Pac's discord, you can go check it out, you can ask questions to developers there if you have interest in ZK and ZK proofs or, I don't know, apt curves in general, all the mathematics part or the coding part. Sorry. Oh yeah, cool. So yeah, apt curves, yeah, there is the QR code if you want to scan it.
04:01:27.616 - 04:02:06.150, Speaker A: There's my GitHub as well. I'm not too active right now, but yeah, we just started a new project. We can chat it about it later. It's a cool project as well. So yeah, let's start. Apt curves. So aptit curves is a very important cryptographic tool that we use when we calculate cryptographic things or calculations on cryptography, because they provide you a group, and discrete logarithm is very hard when you use these groups, when you do calculations.
04:02:06.150 - 04:02:58.948, Speaker A: So weird. Rust form is one of the most common forms that we use when we build our ethic curves. As you can see here, there's a special formula for that. When you put numbers to a and b, you will get different kind of elliptic curves, but of course there is one special case. You have to be careful about the singularities, because if you for example, put zero to a and b, you will get something we call as cusp or, I don't know, is it the correct way to spell it? Yeah, cusp. And this is something that we don't want because there's a point that has two same tangent lines. I will talk about the tangent lines that why we are carrying this too much.
04:02:58.948 - 04:03:49.394, Speaker A: You will see in the next few slots the slides. And if you have a but something special that satisfies this function, you will get something that we call node and you will have a point that has two different tangent line directions. And it's also that something that we don't want. So you have to be careful about this. And after elliptic curves we can talk about what is field. And field is very important because we are constructing our elliptic curve over the finite fields. So yeah, finite field is also very fundamental component that we use in cryptography.
04:03:49.394 - 04:04:33.538, Speaker A: It has two binary operators, addition and multiplication. And for example, for a good field, example, we can say real numbers, r is very good. And if you restrict it in a modulus, moduli, sorry, you will get finite field. Then you can put your that equation, your elliptic curve on this. You can restrict your elliptic curves with this finite field. You will get something like this, for example. So this can be a little bit confusing at first, but here is, for example, our model is 19 and you can get at most 18 on an example elliptic curve.
04:04:33.538 - 04:05:25.664, Speaker A: So these points are your elements. When you use this elliptic curve over this finite field, if you increase your size, for example, this is 97, this is 127 moduli, you will get more and more points. So this is something we want. You have to choose very big model to make your discrete logarithm harder, or actually make the try and find method a little bit harder. People can try every number to find your secret or whatever calculated, whatever you calculate, it will be very easy. That's why we have to pick very big number and you have to pick prime number, because if you don't pick a prime number for this, for example, in your field, some numbers will have no multiplicative inverse. So it's a bad thing.
04:05:25.664 - 04:06:00.932, Speaker A: We want every number to have multiplication inverse in our calculations. For example, if you have modulo four, you won't have any multiplicative inverse for two. There will be no solution for equation. So we don't want this. Yeah, these points are our results, like our results on epic curve. And we call, if we pick them as a set, we will get a group. If it satisfies these five properties, we will call them as a group.
04:06:00.932 - 04:06:34.248, Speaker A: So what's group? Yeah, it has only one binary operator, which we call addition. And this addition has to satisfy the closure method, the closure which says that a and b are members of the set. A plus B identity has to be in the set, right, associated with t. I don't know, it's hard to spell. A plus b plus c should be equal to a plus b plus c. And identity. We want an element that we show as zero here.
04:06:34.248 - 04:07:22.712, Speaker A: A plus zero should equal to a. And inverse says that you have to have inverse for every element that you, when you add two of them, you have to get identity element. And commutativity says that a plus b should be b plus a. So if you have a set, and if your set satisfies these five properties, you will get a group. It's a special type of set. So yeah, so these are, for example, p, q are our results that when we restrict our elliptic curve, we will get some results I showed you, if you remember, with dots. So for example, p is a result and q is a result of this or, sorry, point of this elliptic curve.
04:07:22.712 - 04:08:03.274, Speaker A: And if you want to add these two points, we have to draw a line on the elliptic curve and the third intersection point will be our result. But we have to take mirror like the negative it on the y axis. Sorry, x axis. So you will, sorry, yeah, you will have like minus r is your result. So p plus q is equal to minus r. So this is how we do addition. And what if you want to, for example, double your point, so q plus q.
04:08:03.274 - 04:08:41.688, Speaker A: So you have to take tangent of your point and just look for the intersection point. And again, you have to take the negate of it on the y axis. So q plus q is equal to minus p. So this is how we do double operation or addition to itself. And yeah, there's a case if you want to add p to its negate, which is minus p. Or we show it here as q, you will get zero. There is no intersection point on this curve, so we call it as zero point at infinity.
04:08:41.688 - 04:09:27.396, Speaker A: So here, the fourth thing that you can do on elliptic curve is if your p is point at infinity, which we call as zero, you can add p to p and you will get pointed infinity again. So it will be zero. Yeah, so yeah, there is. So we talked about, for example, q plus q, so, or p plus p is equal to two p. If you add one more p, you will get three p, one more p, you will get four p. So there is something like, something more than p, right? You have four, five, six. You have some scope numbers that we are talking about here.
04:09:27.396 - 04:10:16.768, Speaker A: And we have something, some good algorithm to calculate this five ps, ten piece, or, I don't know, millions of p's. You can calculate it very easily. We will call this color multiplication, but technically it's just addition in a very good way. In a good algorithm, for example, if you want to add eleven p, sorry, calculate eleven p, we have to convert our eleven to binaries. And then if the rightmost is one, we say, okay, take your p and multiply it with two over zero. Then if your second one is one as well, your second bit is one as well. You say, okay, take your p and double it and add to your p.
04:10:16.768 - 04:10:59.838, Speaker A: So you will get three p, right? And then take your two p and double it again. You will get four p, but the next bit is zero. So we say, no, don't add this. And for the next one you get, you take your four p and double it again, you will get eight p. And you can, if you have one here we have one, you can add to your three p, which you will get eleven p at the end. And this scholar multiplication, these scholar numbers gives us a new field which we call a scholar field. And if this field module is prime q, we call this as FQ.
04:10:59.838 - 04:11:38.024, Speaker A: Yeah, it is a little bit messy, but here is FQ. Yeah, this addend double is very special algorithm. You will see in every calculations in elite curves. So yeah, let's talk about ZK proofs a little bit. So basically, if you are attending to these events a lot, you will see ZK, you will hear ZK, I think, a lot. I will just mention it very briefly. It's a proof that you don't have to give any information to your verifier.
04:11:38.024 - 04:12:22.610, Speaker A: Actually you have to give, but it's nothing compared to your information, it will be very little. And verifier shouldn't be able to get your secret by giving this variables or values. So it allows you to prove something without giving any data to your verifier. It's a very cool method to do. You can say that, okay, I know the solution of this, for example, puzzle or circuit, and the other one won't ask you, the verifier won't ask you for a result. They will just believe you because of this proof without seeing any solution. So yeah, it's a very cool method.
04:12:22.610 - 04:12:56.666, Speaker A: It's a little bit, I think, old. Now we can say right compared to the field that we are in. But you will hear a lot about this. So it has some criteria that you have to satisfy. For example, completeness. It says that if your input is valid, your result will be valid for 100%. Like, not 100%, but it's really, really small chance to do something weird in these fields because the fields that we are inside is one over.
04:12:56.666 - 04:13:26.280, Speaker A: Like think about one over two, sorry, one over two to the 256. So I guess it's like ten to 80, something like that. And I checked it. I don't know if it's that correct, but I think in the universe it's the same number, very close numbers in the atoms. I atom numbers in our universe. So it will be very hard you to pick some random atom and say, okay, this is the, this is your secret or this is your solution. Right.
04:13:26.280 - 04:13:56.400, Speaker A: It will be very hard for the calculation. So it's very important for the completeness. If your input is valid, the result will be valid as well. It will always return true soundness means that if you have invalid input, if you want to trick someone with your invalid input, you cannot create a valid proof, right. Your, your result always will be false. But as I told this, theoretically impossible because there's a little chance. But it's, yeah, it's impossible to get.
04:13:56.400 - 04:14:18.970, Speaker A: I guess right now for zero knowledge means that you don't have to give any information. So that's what makes it zero knowledge. The verifier won't know your witness values. So. Yeah. What is witness value? So this is a kind of elements that we, I think using zero knowledge. We call this as witness.
04:14:18.970 - 04:14:48.942, Speaker A: Witness is your secret information that you don't want to share with your verifier. So if verifier knows that, everyone knows your solution. Right? So we call this as witness. We have challenge. You will hear this a lot, I guess, like in the crypto field, there's always challenge. If you are not using snarks or like, you have to communicate with your verifier to get your challenge, give them response back. Response is your response to this challenge.
04:14:48.942 - 04:15:17.586, Speaker A: Challenge. Like a random number, he will give that. Okay, calculate this. If you have the correct witness values, you have to calculate correct result. So he will give you several different challenges, and he will check if your, he or she will check your response, and if it's correct, then they will accept it. So this is the zero knowledge, I think, first way to explain. And thanks for listening, I guess.
04:15:17.586 - 04:15:39.540, Speaker A: Yeah. Thank you very, very much, Osgo. My duty is to ask the audience if you've got any questions so far, then I can walk up to you. Any questions on ZK? Thanks very much. Very nice. Questions. Questions nobody dares to ask.
04:15:39.540 - 04:16:01.172, Speaker A: It was very complex, but it was very important. Maybe I am very good explaining to. Okay, so everyone understand me? Sir, I think that if you don't have or don't dare to ask a question, then you can reach us Ger outside. Yeah, we can talk about ZK. ZK proofs, calculations. I'm okay to it. I can tell about my new project, ZK proos.
04:16:01.172 - 04:16:20.118, Speaker A: I'm okay with it. Okay, so let's give a round of applause to Oskar and elliptic curve. Thanks very much. So my aim is to keep you in here for the next, let's say, 40 minutes. And for that I give you a bit of teaser. What's coming up? There's a coffee break in approx. 40 minutes.
04:16:20.118 - 04:16:56.856, Speaker A: Good. So. And until then we have two more presentations and there are new people joining, some leaving. But now we are moving over a bit to the UX and UI side. And by that we keep hearing that wettery's adoption really struggles because of UX and UI difficulties. And next up we will have Nuno from speaking to you about the UX and the UI issues, the problems and the potential solution for web three adoption. So next up we have Nuno.
04:16:56.856 - 04:17:52.916, Speaker A: Is the speaker here? Do we have the. Oh, we've got. Sorry, I didn't see you from the lights. Yeah, yeah. We need to take one, two minutes break just to keep the swiss timing, which is fair, and then I'll hand over straight away to Nuno. Meanwhile, I'll just tell you that right after Nuno's speech, we are going back to the OG times, meaning we will hear a small presentation and talk from Swarm, who will actually one of the archive node sponsors of the conference, who will talk you through the values, the OG values, which have been back like six, seven, eight years ago or even ten years ago, set up what is left of that. What is left of those cyberpunk values today.
04:17:52.916 - 04:18:25.992, Speaker A: So this is coming up right after, and then we'll have a coffee break. So I think it's super exciting. I'm very excited about the next one, because whoever has been trying more than one day to get onboarded in Webtree probably failed. Okay, you are the survivors here who made it, but who are actually building it. But super interesting to see what is coming up here and how we will go into the mass adoption. Let me check the clock, the watch. Okay.
04:18:25.992 - 04:20:41.464, Speaker A: I think, you know, if you are ready? We are not ready yet. As soon as we are ready, we can kick off it. We are just fixing a little tech for you to have the best slides prepared and so Nuno can really bring you the best quality. Nuno, are you ready? So please welcome on stage you're ready to go. Welcome on stage Nuno from ethereum.org team, and he'll be speaking to you about the current hurdles ux Ui in the next 20 minutes. Nuno, the stage is yours.
04:20:41.464 - 04:20:58.244, Speaker A: Go ahead. It's okay. Can you. No, it's okay. It's okay. So let's see if the setup is alright. My slider notes, it's over here.
04:20:58.244 - 04:21:25.734, Speaker A: So welcome to my talk. I will be talking about design for something different. So why this talk? Mostly because that's. We need to start talking about design on this kind of consciousness a lot more. I think it's something that we all feel that it's needed within the ecosystem. Experience, user facing, user centric, whatever you call it. We need more design.
04:21:25.734 - 04:21:52.804, Speaker A: And then again. Yeah, so every now and then we hear these things all over the place, and just by design conference, I'm the only one talking about design. So let's try to bring this in the table. And that's why I'm doing this talk, mainly because of that, if I manage to do this talk right now, it's already a win, because we need to think about design. So that's it, I'm done. Thank you. Now I'm kidding.
04:21:52.804 - 04:22:20.272, Speaker A: So if you go whatever Twitter, whatever podcast, whatever publication, you see a lot of things, talking shit about experience. Ux, it's broken, it's not ready for the user. It's not that thing. So this is why I'm doing this thing. This is so. Okay, so I end up giving a title to this kind of question. Try to answer this question during this talk.
04:22:20.272 - 04:22:36.180, Speaker A: Let's see if I can do this. So, mass adoption, it's kind of. Yes, design, it's a last frontier. And we all assume that it's the very end. It's the users. We are working for the users. In the end, we are building products, we are building infrastructure, whatever you call it.
04:22:36.180 - 04:22:57.944, Speaker A: But some of them might think, no, the tech is not ready. Probably might not be the final frontier, probably might not be that. So in the end, it depends. Depends on what you're looking for. So let's try to unpack this a little bit. But to start, though. Hello, my name is Nuno, I came from Lisbon.
04:22:57.944 - 04:23:24.022, Speaker A: I've been a designer for over 20 years. In a lot of different things. My white hair on my face tells you that I'm a bit older than some of you, so I have some experience and that's why I'm trying to bring that to a new area, which is the web three space. So this is where I spend all my day. I work@ethereum.org comma, I build this platform. This is a community driven learning platform for Ethereum.
04:23:24.022 - 04:23:53.734, Speaker A: It's well known. I hope everyone here knows and been there at some point learned something from it. I really truly hope that you keep going there and join the community, help us build the better community driven platform out there. So this is me. So back to the topic. So let's identify what is frontier in this perspective. So frontier is something that it's on the edge to be explored, something that is new, something that we don't know the outcome.
04:23:53.734 - 04:24:47.630, Speaker A: Somehow you want to feel that it's the next thing that you want to break, that you want to explore, whatever that is. So that's what I call the frontier. And yeah, design. So there's a bunch of different ways of defining what you've designed, but I just chosen a bunch of keywords. So problem solving, functionality, aesthetics, user centers, innovation, communications, this fits on the big picture of what is designed. So in that sense, both of them might work well, but with the lens of web three, we might add that design can help on the learning curve on balancing security and usability. What it's secure? How can that be useful? And how can users engage with more secure products? Educating.
04:24:47.630 - 04:25:17.176, Speaker A: So we can help a lot of educating. And sometimes design is not on the educating face. So there's a lot of new things on the field and trust, transparency and honesty. So that's another field that probably design. It's not really what you think of as a designer, but. And even on the, on the honest part, I just wanted to bring something to you guys. Do you know what this is? Do you know the other hams? Famous designer, German from Brown, he started the ten principles of good design.
04:25:17.176 - 04:25:59.342, Speaker A: This is not the topic of it. I just wanted to bring one analogy because in the end the number six, it's about honesty. So somehow when we talk about trust your UI and put the products, honest products in front of the users, somewhere down the line in the sixties, way, way back, someone was talking about this anymore. And just for the reference, that's why he was important. Like we all use probably if you have an iPhone on your pocket, you have a the other hams based calculator for sure, because it's where Johnny have inspired all the products. So again, and then this is a design talk. So I need to have an Apple reference.
04:25:59.342 - 04:26:22.290, Speaker A: So that's why. And most of that, like, I had two references. This was my second reference from the beginning. So that's. And a side joke. Okay, back to the topic I wanted to try. If it is a frontier, normally you understand a field, like a layer, something that you can build upon or be on top of it.
04:26:22.290 - 04:27:02.318, Speaker A: So what I see is that design is kind of the window. It's kind of the thing that you need to put in front of all the users. And something that we don't discuss anymore, we don't use that much. So you have the code, the data, the chain, whatever, all those big words, all those big tech that. It's like the backbone of everything. But we need to talk. We need to spend more time thinking about the users, who are the users, who are we working for? And then in the end, behind it, there's another layer, which is all the ethos, all the values that we stand upon and we build upon, and we think that they are the true, rightful way of building.
04:27:02.318 - 04:27:41.548, Speaker A: Building products within the web three environment. So again, this was the inspiration. Do you know the COVID from the pink Floyd? So it's another pop reference there. Yeah, funny. So I have a few topics might be a sort that might not be connected with each other, but I wanted to bring them in order probably to pick a little bit your brains on some ways of thinking differently about design and about incorporating design within your field. While you're developer, researcher, developer, whatever you're doing within the field might be one way of doing. So I will bring some topics, and this is one of them.
04:27:41.548 - 04:28:21.340, Speaker A: First one, web two, web three can bring disruption. And I came up with this image. Did you saw the movie? Poor things, just went to the oscars. And if you didn't like, there's, I will not do a spoiler, but there's a bunch of animals that are like half of one ammo and half of the other. And sometimes this is how I feel. Some of the products that we are shipping right now, it's kind of, you're using the browser, and inside the browser there's a metamask thing coming up that it doesn't feel like within the product, but it's a wallet, but it connects to the other thing. So when I was building the presentation, this was what came to my mind, probably.
04:28:21.340 - 04:28:47.564, Speaker A: I saw the film recently. I was mine, great, but I did it. I really think this is how I feel. What we are shipping right now, but it's what it is. The tech is not ready, but design needs to adapt. So somehow it feels a little bit weird. This thing, another thing that we as designers need to take it, that new patterns, new ways of interacting with products will emerge from this.
04:28:47.564 - 04:29:07.880, Speaker A: And for web two, this is one example that I always bring too. I'm not sure if you remember, but back in the day, Twitter was a good company. Do you remember? Twitter has a good company. Yeah, it was cool. It has an API, but they had only the website back then and everything. All the apps were made by third parties. So there's a bunch of.
04:29:07.880 - 04:29:47.932, Speaker A: Do you remember Tweety, Tweetdeck? All those were independent startups just built upon the API. And that drove innovation. And the best example is this, you know that pull to refresh was born in a Twitter app called Tweety back then, and it was against the rules, against Apple rules. They had to fight to put that. And now we take it from granted, now it's built within the APIs of the operating system on your phone, either Android or iPhone. But this thing was a new thing, was widely discussed in the design field. Was widely discussed in the design field.
04:29:47.932 - 04:30:19.534, Speaker A: Is it good? Is it bad? Because before pulled refresh, you had to add a button on top to refresh the feed. Like it was like a circle with you would refresh the feed like on email or whatever feed you had. You had a button and some guy, why don't I do refresh? This is a new pattern. This is a new thing. And I'm sure that within web three, we will come up with new patterns that will become a norm in a way, because we are dealing with emerging technology, new ways of interacting with code, with the experiences. So we need to be open to do this. This will not pass any user testing at this point.
04:30:19.534 - 04:30:45.812, Speaker A: And the users would say, oh, this doesn't feel natural. This is not my way of doing so. We need to be ready to new patterns emerging. Another thing that normally I refer as an example, it's the car. Users don't know what that is, blockchain underneath it. It's kind of statement that I don't agree fully. So they don't need to know everything about blockchain, but they need to know a little bit about blockchain.
04:30:45.812 - 04:31:37.684, Speaker A: In the car analogy, it's the same thing. We all know what cars is, we all know that's a motor under the hood. But I'm guessing a lot of us don't know how the work, how the engine really works. Like, what pieces are there, what blocks does it compose, the motor? But we all drive. We knew what the wheel is, we know what the brake break is. So it's kind of the analogy that I do relate to users that they need to know something in order to know what they are doing, the risks involved, probably they don't need to know on detail which block it is, which signature, whatever thing is happening. So the analogy here for the card is kind of something that I always bring up to understand that there's a middle ground and you need to educate the users at some point, and we need to find, what is that middle ground? Yeah, the next one, it's like, it's probably because of the meme thing that's going on.
04:31:37.684 - 04:32:14.012, Speaker A: It's kind of too much. But I'm tired of being funny, I'm tired of jokes. I'm tired of user interfaces. That doesn't bring trust. There's a bunch of apps out there that they don't, they don't portray that trust that you need for the users to be able to exchange funds, do whatever they need to do. So let's stop doing this once and for all. And we as designers have probably a better job to do this because we need to step up our game and start doing things more credible.
04:32:14.012 - 04:32:56.542, Speaker A: So we have a job to do here. Yeah, another one. This is probably for devs. As a designer, it's really hard to navigate the space. So probably this might be one of the reasons that we don't have the user experience that we might expect at some point. Look at this. If I want to understand what's going on, if I want to incorporate some new thing within my products, how can I find what's going on, what's happening, what's going to be shipped, what's going to next upgrade? How can I not, a technical driven guy, more user centric design, centric can navigate this kind of thing.
04:32:56.542 - 04:33:25.700, Speaker A: This is a good example. This is the way it is. It's really hard to do community driven approach at the same time, but probably needs to have we as designers have fault here as well. So we need to understand better what's happening. So the example, we need to communicate more in the core devs with more user centric research approach. So we need to have more of that. The other one is kind of, this is like a personal peeve, probably a personal thing.
04:33:25.700 - 04:34:10.922, Speaker A: It's like we've heard sometimes, like, my mother would not use this. This is too complex. But why should your mother use this? Probably this is for your kid. Probably we are targeting the wrong generation. So we are building the new frontier, new technology that will be adopted by the youngsters, not the elders. So we need to understand them, we need to understand what is the TikTok generation, how do they use the products, how do they engage with the data, how do they perceive what's happening? There's a lot of things that goes on, and probably under this generation, the last one will be the one that will drive adoption in the end. So whenever I hear, oh, my mother will not use, this is too complex, probably she is on the very end of the long tail.
04:34:10.922 - 04:34:53.828, Speaker A: Probably the first adoption will be the kids. So we need to think the interfaces, we need to think the products for the kids, for the youngsters, for the one that is 1420, something around that. And we need to understand them, that they grew up in the centralized company environment where Spotify is their music, where probably they never bought a book or rarely read a book, because they don't own books, they don't own things, and we want to give them ownership of stuff, of being ownership. So there's kind of a way of mixing stuff that we need to understand how to talk to them. So this is one of the things that probably need to think while thinking products. The other one, it's like the jargon. This is something that we at the team.org
04:34:53.828 - 04:35:33.631, Speaker A: always talk about, like the learning perspective. How can we demystify some of the jargon? We need to be careful at some point, but we need to understand that users will not understand what is this like, try to explain what is a dao to someone that isn't outside. It's really hard to understand. So there's a bunch of tricks, like analogies, like I did with the car using icons, and we need to be careful. That's why those two icons need to be careful about the skimorphic. Do you remember the schematic back in the apple, the beginning? So the relationship between, like, I have kind of a thing with a wallet, the naming wallet, a wallet that is not a wallet. Probably just to store your key.
04:35:33.631 - 04:35:59.924, Speaker A: Not quite a wallet. So the name wallet by itself, it's not the best. It's the best we came up with. I understand that, but probably not the best. Probably it's more close to a key than to a wallet. So as the designers, we can step up a little bit and be more sure that all the metaphors that we use need to be the right ones. But it's important to demystify these words, understand how to explain them to someone that comes from the outside.
04:35:59.924 - 04:36:58.914, Speaker A: The other one, it's more on the find users when they are. So we are in Switzerland, we are within ourselves, we talk a lot with ourselves, we are within a bubble and we need to step up the bubble a lot more. Go to other geographies, go to other countries, understand the needs because in the end they will be the drive for the adoption. So understand who are in the end those geographies, those needs, like third world countries, other problems. Understand what problems are we trying to solve with web three specifically and not just going to, because it's fun, it's tech, it's hard and go on like that. So the nine one, it's probably most for designers at this point, which is the design culture we drive. We evaluate a lot of the things from web one, web two, and probably prior to that.
04:36:58.914 - 04:37:29.153, Speaker A: And we need to stop a little bit to think that shipping products within web three, it's different. Thinking about the users, it's different. We need to understand those differences and incorporate it in our way of working. And probably something that I've been advocating even more. It's open source design, something that you don't talk, you have open source code and the design still is in closed doors, still is developed by a few. You might use Figma, might ask for feedback, but probably should share more the pain points. Share what's happening.
04:37:29.153 - 04:38:05.144, Speaker A: Like if you're building your wallets, probably share your Figma file at some point with the community, try to get a feedback, try, try to put that on the GitHub repo. Why not close to the code? Like if you want to inspect the code, why not inspect all the screens, all the layouts, all the flows? Like who's using what? That's important as well. So why don't we do more of this? It will help bootstrap, probably the conversation. We'll help drive adoption, we'll help new products emerge. Let's do this. Has a community, has an open community. Why don't just code, just open source design as well? Open up the process like there's nothing wrong with it.
04:38:05.144 - 04:38:33.616, Speaker A: So in the end, I'm almost finishing. Yeah. Design has the power to humanize and enhance the impact of new technologies. So this is something that I want to resonate in all of you. This is probably the motto of this talk, like, let's use design to empower and bootstrap the technology and make it available to everyone. So in the end, my own thing, it's, yeah, it's, yes, design will be the last frontier. I'm not sure.
04:38:33.616 - 04:38:56.404, Speaker A: If we are there yet. But design will be the last frontier to mass adoption. And this is kind of what I wanted to bring to you guys. Thank you so much. Thank you very much. Nuno from the Ethereum foundation. Any questions? Already some hands up.
04:38:56.404 - 04:39:08.012, Speaker A: So let's start there. Yeah. Thanks a million. I mean, for the people in the audience, if you could. Can you hear me? Yeah. Great. Thanks for the awesome talk.
04:39:08.012 - 04:39:32.231, Speaker A: It was really fun. Can you give me an example of a well known app that did really well and not ethereum.org and then one that did really bad? Can I not do that? Yeah. Now, because there's a lot of errors in, like, these little apps. It's really hard. But I don't want to pinpoint just one app saying, oh, this is bad, this is good. I think it's not the place to be.
04:39:32.231 - 04:39:50.852, Speaker A: I don't want to, like, talk shit about a specific experience here. I want to just keep it open, keep it open minded to everything. We all know some apps have a really bad user experience. Something is happening. Sometimes it's related to the code, and it's not the design fault. The designer is doing the best. Like, it happens a lot.
04:39:50.852 - 04:40:11.524, Speaker A: But I don't really like to pinpoint specific products. Like, oh, this is bad, this is good. I think this is not the place to do it. Great. In what sense? Sorry, let me hear. Because, I mean, we hear you, but probably the people up there don't. Yeah, maybe just a good practice.
04:40:11.524 - 04:40:35.922, Speaker A: I don't know how the, I don't know even the renaming of one button helps really, for the apps I do every conversation that I have out there. I think design is growing. Even here. I was talking yesterday with someone. It's talking about, we get up design. We think about design. I think everyone that is building some sort of interface, whatever that is, thinks about how it's used.
04:40:35.922 - 04:40:56.770, Speaker A: But again, they first think about the product. So how can I make the tokenomics? How can I. I want to do this. And then the UI. And we need to change a little bit. That practice probably get a designer in the room to begin with, to think about what you're doing. Even if it is hard for designer, and I speak for myself, a lot of my colleagues don't want to be there.
04:40:56.770 - 04:41:21.560, Speaker A: Like some of these talks that we've just seen too technical. I think we as designers need to be here. And the other way around goes like, you guys need to be close to designers as well. Change ideas because having a creative mind within your small room, thinking about the product, thinking about the core tokenomics of it or whatever. It's the flow of the user. I think this will be a good product. Let's build something like this.
04:41:21.560 - 04:41:43.130, Speaker A: Okay. But let me get a designer here first and start thinking about that. I think it will improve the flow if it helps. Okay. Thanks for the talk. Really interesting. I'm the lead designer at Oregon, so really feeling your sayings here also about the open source thing.
04:41:43.130 - 04:42:21.670, Speaker A: So one big question I have. How many designers are you at Ethereum? Sorry? How many designers are you at Ethereum Foundation? A few. Yeah. So in my team, we are two of us, there are a few more doing more communications and PSE has a lot of them. So we do have a lot of designers on the research field and they do amazing work. Go the previous talk from my colleague from the PSC, go to their website and check all the projects that they are working on and all of them have a designer in it. So it's something that is growing and they are doing an amazing job on the research side.
04:42:21.670 - 04:42:52.120, Speaker A: Yeah, thanks. I mean, my side here is a little bit. There is a big discrepancy between designers and developers, as you mentioned, the know how, transformation and. Yeah, also the process to get to a product or a protocol, even like decisions in protocols are often like front run before you even think about the experience itself. Let's say also the Netspec documentation. Right. Where do you trust information is coming from? Yeah.
04:42:52.120 - 04:43:38.504, Speaker A: And I really think like, that's a big topic. We need to. But again, that's why going back to the first slide, that's why, that's why I'm doing these talks in these events, because it's just opening the door, like putting in your mind, probably you're a core researcher, at some point you're just mathematical geek that does stuff that, I don't know, probably. And probably you should think about design. Just talk with the designer at some point, just get somewhere, like how useful it is. How can you help me thinking about at least communicating what I'm doing and understand how can it be used? That's what PSE does within EF. But I know that a lot of other companies are building ux teams right now, so it's growing.
04:43:38.504 - 04:44:06.494, Speaker A: But even so, we need to talk more about this. That's probably the purpose of being here. We need to talk more about the user and not the technology that much, even though it's important. Thank you very much for the talk. My question is about the role of security in the current design journey. I guess blockchain apps and all that stuff. For example, obviously it was very cool how Twitter did the whole pull down refresh thing.
04:44:06.494 - 04:44:53.956, Speaker A: But when we were talking about our crypto apps, we're also talking about people owning their keys and a wrong button could drain their wallet, so to speak. So are we really at a point where we should be thinking about user experience and usability and all that stuff, or is the technology not there yet from the security point of view, you know, say smart account abstraction, whatever, all that type of stuff? Yeah, it's a great question. Security, like I said in the beginning, where design can help, it's educating insecurity. We've never designed for security. Almost never. The reason to do that, and one good example is that we did a shitty job in web two. So the user password thing that we are used to it, it's really bad.
04:44:53.956 - 04:45:29.424, Speaker A: So there's a bunch of scams and hacks and things going on in the web two as well, and probably don't think of. We just think about web three because it requires funds, it has value attached to it. But how many big companies have been under like, hacking and being like security itself is a problem for the whole scope, not just for this, but for this specifically. Design can help. And we should have a design thread, a specific design thread to help understand where is up until when. The user needs to know where's the risk. Up until when? A key it's portrayed has a key.
04:45:29.424 - 04:45:51.384, Speaker A: Up until when? A counter abstraction can help. In which cases. How can we show? What key can we show? What's the flow like? Even the spinning and keeping the screen that you say, this is the twelve key, store it. That's daunting. Like, woof. You're scaring the user right in front of them. Might not the best one, but it's the best one that you have right now.
04:45:51.384 - 04:46:09.934, Speaker A: So we are going. We're going to be better with time. But design can help. So please get a designer in the room as fast as possible. Like hire designers, be with them. I don't know, I'm just advocating for them, probably for my own species. Species.
04:46:09.934 - 04:46:35.946, Speaker A: So work with them. They will improve the flow for sure. Amazing. Thank you very much, Nuno. A round of applause once more to Nuno from Ethereum foundation. So, next up, before the coffee break, we will now hear about what is cyberpunk, about the cyberpunk values from back then and how much is left there of them today. Next up is Constanza Kahlo.
04:46:35.946 - 04:47:07.118, Speaker A: She is actually joined, she has joined the fight against the Internet censorship in 2020. And she has never looked back. That's her claim. So next on stage is Constanza Gallo from swarm speaking. And the title is how swarm makes crypto cyberpunk again. So right after, we'll have the coffee break. The floor is yours, constanze, if you're ready.
04:47:07.118 - 04:49:19.370, Speaker A: If not, we just do the handover and then we'll take it. I promise. We'll fix this tech hiccup after the coffee break. Probably even the adapters want to have a coffee, but we'll really fix it. We can't get more techies than five at one place to fix this issue. So it so while we still wait, I do a bit of teaser on what's happening after the coffee break. So the coffee break and networking will be approximately 30 minutes.
04:49:19.370 - 04:50:20.250, Speaker A: So we see you back after this speech and the coffee break at 330. And we'll hear from 03:30 p.m. About anoma and Ethereum's intent machine from Adrian Brink. So this will be the next up after the coffee break, but for now, I think we are all ready to go. I like it. It's very cyberpunk, so it's good. Can you hear me? Yeah.
04:50:20.250 - 04:50:59.084, Speaker A: Okay. So, hi, everyone. My name is Costanza, and I will be talking about how swarm makes Ethereum cyberpunk again. Before I start, some background about me. I'm a core member at the Swarm network, a decentralized storage and communication system. In December 2023, when Vitalik published make Ethereum Cyberpunk again, I was at the most cyberpunk event, if you know it, 37 C three. And I was there with an amazing group of cyberpunk women.
04:50:59.084 - 04:51:48.566, Speaker A: So at 02:00 a.m. Still at the conference venue, me and my girlfriend start reading the blog post, and we didn't bite an eye at the fact that make Ethereum cyberpunk again means that Ethereum is not cyberpunk anymore. Vitalik said what we all knew in our heart between a memecoin or an open bar at a side event. Crypto allows this cyberpunk ethos. We need to find it again. So today I will explore those three questions. What is cyberpunk? Why is Ethereum losing its cyberpunk ethos? And how can we make Ethereum cyberpunk again? So let me ask you beforehand.
04:51:48.566 - 04:52:26.504, Speaker A: How many of you have read the cyberpunk manifesto by Eric Youth? Raise your hands. Don't be shy. Cool. And how many of you identify as cyberpunk? That's better. What if I tell you that this is also cyberpunk? That is a picture of me in 1993, right when the cyberpunk manifesto got published. This is because I identify as cyberpunk since I was a child. You see, my father was a satirical cartoonist and a political activist.
04:52:26.504 - 04:52:54.634, Speaker A: And that means two things. First of all, his phone, our landline, was under surveillance so many times. It was, like, back in the nineties, early two thousands. So it was very easy to spot. And so just because they were monitoring him, they were also monitoring me. In Italy, privacy is a political matter. It is not a human rights matter.
04:52:54.634 - 04:53:43.754, Speaker A: So the debate is on the line of, you need privacy. That's because you're a criminal. That's a criminal. So since I didn't have privacy, privacy in my own communication with my own father, I realized early on that privacy has to be by default, otherwise it can be taken away. And the second thing I realized is that freedom of speech is very important. This is because, as a satirical cartoonist, it was the subject of chancellorship. So many times it was threatened, and it was infuriating, because how can someone else decide if he can publish a cartoon like the most innocent thing ever? Funny story is that whenever they wanted to transfer him, they would sign the police to every news agent in the country.
04:53:43.754 - 04:54:19.644, Speaker A: But by the time that they will get there, the newspapers got sold out. So that was a big win for him. And also, in real life, proof that distributed system works. So where am I getting with that? Six year old Costanza was cyberpunk. Children are cyberpunk. This is because they understand basic human rights. And if they can do that, it's because privacy and freedom are so basic that even children can understand them.
04:54:19.644 - 04:54:55.050, Speaker A: And it is us, the grown ups, that forgot about it. And technology should come to protect what should be a human rights. So what is cyberpunk? Privacy is cyberpunk. Chancellorship resistance is cyberpunk. Users in control of the data. Is cyberpunk breaking from centralized players? We can make and break the rules. A technology for everyone so that everyone can have digital freedoms.
04:54:55.050 - 04:55:24.404, Speaker A: Is cyberpunk. Open source and no barriers to entries? Is cyberpunk a borderless technology available to everyone? Is cyberpunk a technology that is unstoppable is cyberpunk. You can stop me talking. You can stop me coding. So a technology that doesn't rely on the whim of someone is cyberpunk. Cyberpunk. This is what it's supposed to be like.
04:55:24.404 - 04:56:00.184, Speaker A: It is not sexy. It is not getting rich fast. Cyberpunk is staying true to our core values. So the initial version of crypto is something that six year old cyberpunk Costanza would have loved. A free and open society. And this free and open society had three key unstoppable, privacy preserving and permissionless. That was the initial premise of ethereum and of Ethereum's only trinity.
04:56:00.184 - 04:56:57.460, Speaker A: Ethereum as the word cpu, whisper as the communication layer and swarm as the storage layer. And that was for a web three that valid privacy in the world of Eric Yutz, defender privacy with cryptography, anonymous mail forwarding system, digital signatures, and electronic money, it's not about the technology, it's about what you can do with the technology to make her happy. So look around the crypto projects. How many of those projects actually embed this value? Not as centralized. Some DeFi projects rely on less than optimal infrastructure. Some projects transfer IP addresses in some countries in order to comply with regulators. Some projects don't implement optimal cryptography.
04:56:57.460 - 04:57:48.524, Speaker A: Some projects are closed source. That goes against all the principles of open source privacy, ownership, transfership, assistance that defined cyberpunk ethos and a world that will make her happy is a place where you have privacy and you have freedom, and indeed you have secure communication. Extreme privacy by default, decentralized, censorship resistant data and unstoppable computing. Those were the building blocks for the world to come. Now, ten years after Ethereum started, we are still not there. But that's ok, because revolutions don't happen overnight. It takes time, missteps, bulls and bears to push through and make the dreams come true.
04:57:48.524 - 04:58:36.398, Speaker A: And we have gone a long way since the initial cyberpunk vision of Ethereum, and we are just at the last mile. We are not only anymore just a financial ecosystem. We're in a full stack replacement for centralized techs. We're even building things that centralized tech doesn't have, and we need to build our ecosystem with that in mind to make the cyberpunk vision come true. So Vitalik said that today we have the tools we need and most of the tools we will ever have to build applications that are cyberpunk and user friendly. And so we should go out and do it. And my childhood dream came true because swarm is one of those tools.
04:58:36.398 - 04:59:17.396, Speaker A: So we should go out and do it. So how can swarm make Ethereum cyberpunk again? To answer those questions, we'll see a high level overview of what swarm is, and we will see how it is the missing piece of crypto, how there is no web three without worm. There is no cyberpunk without worm. What is worm? Swarm is a decentralized communication and storage system. There is a few key elements that swarm used to make web three. Cyberpunk. First of all, vnodes swarm is a peer to peer network.
04:59:17.396 - 05:00:04.914, Speaker A: There is no central node controlling the entire network, so each one of us can run their own nodes. When you join the node, the network, by default, your nodes get assigned an address that is randomly generated. There are four types of nodes. Depending on what you want to build. I would advise to go with, obviously, the full node that allows you to have full participation in the network and to also enjoy the incentives. The second thing is chunks. So, in swarm, when you upload a content from a file to a website, the content is split into chunks, and those chunks are split across the networks.
05:00:04.914 - 05:00:42.354, Speaker A: Two important things to note. Each chunks is addressable on the network via an ash, and each chunk of data is distributed to more than one node in a redundant way by default. Also, when you upload a file, you can also decide to encrypt it. Finally, cadmium routing. So the nodes communicate with each other using the Kadimir routing. This is how it works. Alice wants to send a message, but she's not connected to Dave.
05:00:42.354 - 05:01:16.874, Speaker A: She doesn't know Dave, so she doesn't know how, but she is connected to Bob. So she asks Bob. Now, Bob doesn't know Dave either, so. But he knows Carol. So Bob asks Carol, and Carol finally knows Dave. So, in this way, Alice communicates to Dave and to everyone else in the network. And by following this connectivity pattern, it ensures that not Dave, not anyone else knows that the request comes from Alice.
05:01:16.874 - 05:02:17.914, Speaker A: And also, Alice doesn't know who is storing her data. So, in other words, this communication strategy has the benefit of anonymity for both the senders as well as the receivers. And this gives anonymity at the network level and plausible deniability. Okay, but how does this make stanza happy? Or how does this make worm the missing piece to make Ethereum cyberpunk again? Thanks to chunks, nodes and cadmium routing, nodes don't know what they're storing, and this gives them plausible deniability. So, this means that node operators cannot be held accountable for the content that they're storing. So there is no middleman censorship. So, what does it mean? You can't prevent people from essence to the content.
05:02:17.914 - 05:03:00.064, Speaker A: You can't deplatform people, and you have privacy by default. But I'm actually gonna one up my statement. It is not just privacy. By default, this communication strategy can implement zero leaks communication, meaning that no one, and I mean no one, can intercept it. So that will make Kostanza free to communicate with her friends about her elementary school dramas without anyone listening to her. It also means no deplatforming. By default, it is translucent, persistent.
05:03:00.064 - 05:03:43.552, Speaker A: That means that no central power can decide to silence you, to stop you, to block your applications, or can prevent people in some countries from accessing your applications. So that's it. This is the current missing piece in the webtoon space and what we need to implement in order to make the tedium ecosystem cyberpunk again. Thank you. Thank you very, very much. Any questions from the audience? Good. Okay, so I think everybody's pretty much ready for the coffee break.
05:03:43.552 - 05:04:04.994, Speaker A: You can catch our great presenter also in the coffee break. Thanks very much for this section. After the break, 330. I'm waiting for you back. We will have Adrian Brink from anoma speaking about Ethereum's intent machine for 20 minutes. So looking forward to have you back and now enjoy the well deserved coffee break. Thank you very much also for the tech.
05:04:04.994 - 05:24:19.274, Speaker A: It. It. It. It. It. It. It.
05:24:19.274 - 05:41:59.718, Speaker A: It. It it it it it. If my mic is working. So welcome back, everybody, after the coffee break. I hope you had a good chat. So the afternoon session is starting right now, and the first on stage, we'll have Adrian Brink from Anoma who will be speaking to you about Ethereum's intune machine. Super interesting.
05:41:59.718 - 05:42:50.416, Speaker A: And I think he has his mic, he's bringing all his luggage, and the floor is yours. Good, Adrian, perfect. Thank you very much. I'm actually very happy to be here. It's the first or one of the first times that even though I'm based in Switzerland for the last couple of years, that I'm actually giving a talk at a local event here, which is quite nice. So, yeah, welcome, everyone. Thank you very much for coming today.
05:42:50.416 - 05:43:34.172, Speaker A: I am just going to very briefly talk about anoma, Ethereum's intent machine. And really, this is a talk about what is the next level of abstraction that we're clearly going to be heading towards. What are intents? How do they work? How do you build abstractions on top of existing infrastructure? With this. Let's start with a quick recap on what is a VM or what is a virtual machine? A virtual machine, it has an instruction set as a program counter, different layers of memory, and importantly, it runs programs sequentially. This is sort of every existing system, really. It's a VM. When you think of, for example, Ethereum, Ethereum is a virtual machine or it has a virtual machine.
05:43:34.172 - 05:44:14.464, Speaker A: And so the predominant example in use right now is the Ethereum virtual machine. But you can also think of something like the Solana Vm or the Neo Vm. These are all virtual machines, and this is the predominant model. Or this is the sort of past bitcoin. This is the only model that exists currently in order to give programmability to developers and end users so quickly. What is an IAM or an intent machine? It takes a batch of intents, it computes possible valid state transitions, selects one of them according to some possible to some criterions, and then updates a state system. Importantly, an IAM is an abstraction on top of a Vm.
05:44:14.464 - 05:45:03.048, Speaker A: So for example, in the case of anoma is the anoma resource machine is an intent machine, that is an abstraction on top of the ethereum virtual machine. It allows you to do more things than just execute transactions against the virtual machine. It allows users to describe things as intense as partial state transitions. Where I would like to go from state a to b, but I don't yet have the inverse, so I'm not yet settleable on chain. When you think of this in terms of very simple limit order. Example one example here is I want to trade ETH for bitcoin, for example, ETH for USDc, I guess, but I don't yet have the other leg of the trade. This is like ETH for USDC is not something I can currently settle on ethereum or in any virtual machine.
05:45:03.048 - 05:45:46.120, Speaker A: It is something that I need to have counterparty discovery done to, as well as distributed solving. And this is what the anomal resource machine implements. This is what an intent machine implements. And a lot of anomaly is how do we build this infrastructure to give developers and users this new intent abstraction, which is really what most people have when they interact with these systems? And how do we allow this kind of new infrastructure to exist on top of ethereum? So a normal is an interface, and this is very important. It is not an intermediary. And I will talk a little bit about distinctions here, but I think a lot of people tend to build intermediaries, not interfaces. But intermediaries are actors in a network.
05:45:46.120 - 05:46:22.354, Speaker A: Really think of them as they are people you can specifically interact with, for example, blockchains. They are mostly privileged. In almost all cases, actors or intermediaries are privileged. So they have some ability to extract rent, they have some by charging fees, for example. They have some ability to impose extra security constraints on you. For example, most bridges currently in use, or what people would consider bridges, are not really bridges. They are just intermediaries that forward data on your behalf, but they, for one, charge for it, and two, they add extra complexity into the security model.
05:46:22.354 - 05:46:58.934, Speaker A: Um, so yeah, for example, in ethereum, many bridges really are just multisigs. Um, and really here, these are intermediaries. And this can also be, even if you have a bridge that sort of tries to be a chain, these are still intermediaries. These are fundamental things that are add to sort of the complexity stack that add to the security stack. Um, and actually a very good real life example is banks. Banks are fundamentally intermediaries that extract, rent or that charge for the services they offer, and that you must consider your trust model. So what is the other side of this though? Well, we have interfaces.
05:46:58.934 - 05:47:18.906, Speaker A: Interfaces are just protocols. They are a way to represent data, a way to represent compute or even storage semantics of an underlying machine. They are simply code. They are freely copied. Anyone can deploy them to different environments. They are just interfaces. Here a very good real life example is TCP Ip.
05:47:18.906 - 05:47:59.510, Speaker A: TCP IP is just interface. By using TCP IP doesn't mean you must all connect to the same oracle server or oracle database that does the routing for you. If that was the case, TCP IP would have never worked because no one would have wanted to connect to the single central server run by oracle in order to facilitate network traffic. So TCP IP is a very good example of an action interface in the real world. And the way anoma is structured is anoma is a declarative protocol, or anomaly, is a protocol for declarative intents, imperative ordering, compute and storage semantics of underlying machines. It is just an interface. You can take this to whatever specific system you want.
05:47:59.510 - 05:48:34.792, Speaker A: It is just code, it is freely copied. This is really to say, there is no anoma chain which you must interact with. There is a nomadic, it's an open source protocol. If you don't like the specific deployment models that currently exist, you can take it and deploy your own version of the enormous protocol effectively. And this is very important because I think a lot of the reason why the Internet actually ended up working is because we had common standards that people could build abstractions that people could build against. And really here, a normal is an interface, not an intermediary. Yeah, interface is not intermediaries.
05:48:34.792 - 05:49:26.372, Speaker A: Whenever you interact with the system you should think, are you interacting with an interface? Are you just interacting with free open source code? Or are you actually interacting with intermediaries that sort of you have to consider in your security stack? Yeah. So anoma is a universal intent machine for ethereum. And when I say intents, a lot of people come up to me, well, and they use just limit orders and, well, limit orders are like, yes, that's true. Limit orders are very specific kind of intents. They are very much a hard coded kind of intent, where I want to trade a for b at some price. With anoma as a universal intent machine, intents are just code. They are whatever you can describe and execute in code, they can be.
05:49:26.372 - 05:50:09.544, Speaker A: I want to trade a for b. If the weather is nice in Paris, and if the weather is bad in Paris, I want to sell everything, right? They can also be 5 hours, want to get together and contribute to a gitcoin funding round. This is really intents are just arbitrary. They are just code that is executed. One of the nice things for intents as well is intents can be free, because intents aren't actually posted on chain until they execute it. So this means that I can stream a new intent from my phone every half a second. And only the thing that actually gets soft when multiple intents are combined into a single transactions, does one of the intents get actually executed on chain.
05:50:09.544 - 05:51:04.634, Speaker A: And maybe if you come from sort of the shared sequencing world, an intent machine with a consensus engine, which in the case something we're working on, it's called Typhon or chimera chains. If you're familiar with heterogeneous, novel heterogeneous paxos, Typhon will be very familiar to you. It's sort of an extension of what's possible with PBFT intents in this model, given Typhon actually generalize shared sequencing and as a result, intents generalized rollups. When you think of what a roll up really is, a roll up is intent to go from a to b that is not executable yet on chain, because otherwise it pay the same compute cost. So I find another guy that wants to go from b to c and c to D and so on. And then a roll up sequencer sort of takes all these things together, collapses the entire state update into one single thing. So we immediately jump from a to d, and then this gets posted somewhere.
05:51:04.634 - 05:51:26.014, Speaker A: Really. Like when you think of intents, intents generalize. Like close to 90% of all the compute currently happening on every system in existence. Really. With the one caveat. If you just want to use bitcoin to do a transfer to someone else, transfers are not intense. That's like if you just want to go to a store and buy milk for bitcoin or for ETH, that's actually a transaction.
05:51:26.014 - 05:52:11.924, Speaker A: You can immediately execute this on chain. The very specific reason that the counterpart discovery and solving is done by you while standing physically in a store. This is not something where I want to figure out who else can sell me milk. As soon as you do not know where to find the milk, you have an intent again. Yeah. So what does this mean with an intent? Machine builders can write dapps in terms of intents rather than transactions, rather than thinking, well, every one of my users will post something on chain builders can start thinking, well, how do I allow users to actually write or submit intents? How do I structure the solving of this computer around this? And so it just allows you to do more things. You can always fall back to this more simple direct transaction model.
05:52:11.924 - 05:52:47.444, Speaker A: And here really, it's a universal standard for intent and application formats. It does not constrain what kind of intents can be expressed. It is intents are whatever you'd want them to be. They are just code. Plus some state an intent is effectively, I want to go from state a to state b, and here's a bunch of code, or a little bit of code actually, because a lot of the compute happens off chain rather than on chain. Here's a little bit of code in order to verify whether my sort of predicate is valid, or like, here's my predicate function. Yes, intents and depths written with anoma can be ordered and solved and settled on ethereum.
05:52:47.444 - 05:53:25.108, Speaker A: And this is a very important point. Anoma does not impose a settlement layer, it just imposes an intent framework, or, sorry, it provides a generic universal intent framework that allows people to say, well, maybe I want to be settled on, on a theory or main chain. Maybe I want to be settled somewhere else in the ecosystem. This is really just to allow this kind of abstraction where users can specify directly in the intent what kind of security model they care about. Yes. So intents and tabs written with anomaly can be ordered and solved and settled on ethereum or anywhere else. Really, a user can say, well, I'd like to be settled on optimism.
05:53:25.108 - 05:54:08.970, Speaker A: This depends on the user, right? Like users can get a freely pick what kind of security model they want their things to be settled in. Actually, where's my timer? Oh yeah, great. So what do intent centric dapps on ethereum actually look like? And maybe let's go through some examples here. Let's go first through why anoma and what kind of affordances do you get with this? You get permissionless intent infrastructure. You do not have to ask for permission to use this kind of intent infrastructure. A noma really is topology agnostic. Sort of the specific topology of how the networking stack, for example, is set up.
05:54:08.970 - 05:54:53.024, Speaker A: And who's going to connect to whom. This is again part of the specific deployment. And if you do not like a specific topology, you can deploy your own topology, or you can deploy your own system that has a slightly different topology. In that sense, really, intents are just, they're permissionless. You can pick whether you want to go to sort of the topology A or topology B, you get intent level composability. And this actually has two aspects. For one, you get intent level composability, which means I can, for example, if I want to trade against Dex A and someone else wants to trade against Dex B, all of a sudden these intents become composable rather than application specific.
05:54:53.024 - 05:55:37.336, Speaker A: So you sort of unfragment a bunch of liquidity where currently users have to very fundamentally pick where they want to be executed or who they want to trade against. With an intent. You can say things like, well, I actually don't care. I'm very happy to be settled on optimism, arbitrary monotherm, I don't care, just give me the quickest and cheapest thing. It can also mean that I actually don't care which amm this gets executed against. I just care about quickest, cheapest settlement. So rather than you get this kind of intent level composability across many different kinds of dapps, and you also get intent machine composability, which effectively means a user can now treat a network of roll ups as a single intent machine, rather than many different roll ups.
05:55:37.336 - 05:56:44.488, Speaker A: Like when you think of, rather than picking the specific chain or roll up you want to interact with, you can rather interact with the intent machine and in code specify what kind of security models you care about. But this could also mean that, for example, I, as a user, I want to be settled on ethereum, and another guy wants to be settled on either optimism or ethereum, or optimum or ethereum. Now, these things become composable, and they become composable across the two dimensions of intents themselves. As well as intent machines, you also get information flow control. And what does this actually mean? Well, we currently live in a world where lots of state lives in a single big blob on chain, effectively, right? We have lots of shared global, mutable state, all living in the center of the network with intents. We actually sort of abstract the computer way, where a lot of this kind of state can start living on edge devices where I don't have to, we don't have to keep track of my balance on chain. I can rather publish a commitment to some balance that is sort of trusted using a ZK proof.
05:56:44.488 - 05:57:23.068, Speaker A: And then whenever I want to spend this balance, I can locally compose a proof that's shipped around and then settled somewhere. This is very important. Information flow control, I think, is sort of the single biggest thing which is going to unlock a bunch of people being able to say, well, I have a bunch of local, state I don't want to reveal to the rest of the world. Maybe I just want to reveal to the five people I'm connected to. Maybe I want to reveal to no one. Let me construct a local proof of my local data and then have the intent sort of ship this to the rest of the network so it still remains composable in the rest of the network. Yeah, and it allows you to have heterogeneous trust.
05:57:23.068 - 05:58:11.484, Speaker A: Um, it allows both users as well as developers to sort of pick the specific trust model that they care about. Um, and sort of one sort of nice example that I tend to use is, um, phones are a great example of this, of sort of the entire, um, cellular stack. It's an interface, not an intermediary. It allows me to take my phone from Switzerland, fly to South Korea, fly to the US, and my phone still works. I don't have to sort of reconfigure my phone, I don't have to buy a new phone. This is kind of what we mean here by heterogeneous trust. It allows you as a user to use the applications on your phone to roam between different security models or different kind of application deployments across many different chains.
05:58:11.484 - 05:58:53.592, Speaker A: And I think this is sort of the most powerful thing, actually, because I think fundamentally we're going to be heading into this world of a heterogeneous trust model where not everyone is going to want the same global security model. Many different people want different security models. It's very hard to sort of build a universal security model for 7 billion people on the planet. And if we do not fix this sort of at the abstraction level, using intents, people will have to fundamentally pick. And then roaming between these different deployments or different security models is going to be very, very difficult for most people. Yes. So what kind of novel Dapps can you actually build here on ethereum that aren't possible to build right now? So these are just some examples.
05:58:53.592 - 05:59:58.974, Speaker A: And at the next hackathon, feel free to explore a bunch of these things. I think they'd be very cool because for one, they're not financial, they're just interesting, as in like, it's not yet another defi thing, so public signal. It's effectively a rather than supply side driven Kickstarter, where sort of people supply a bunch of products and maybe they get funding. It's rather the inverse, where it's an demand driven thing where many different users can say, well, I'd like to pay for, I'd like to get this kind of thing or this kind of service, and they can make credible commitments so they can publish the intent that yes, if there's another thousand people, all these intents are combinable and then end up funding the specific thing that those intents wanted, right? So this is a way to invert rather from a supply side. Many projects of many things that actually aren't needed get proposed on the supply side. Rather we move away, move towards a demand side thing where the public can signal what they actually want, and then maybe someone picks it up and builds it. This is maybe also important to understand here.
05:59:58.974 - 06:00:31.820, Speaker A: Intents do not guarantee settlement, right? Like if you have an intent that no one wants to work on or that no one wants to interact with, you will not get settled. Like you can have an intent that says sell me bitcoin for a dollar. No one is going to like fill this, right? This is sort of very important to understand. Intents are partial compute. And it's not necessarily the case that all compute is solvable. In this case, it could be that I'd like to get a rare rain flower from the Amazon, or rare flower from the Amazon. Maybe this flower doesn't exist anymore.
06:00:31.820 - 06:01:09.410, Speaker A: Some intents may fundamentally be not solvable. Another interesting idea, which I really like is actually scale free money. It's the idea that everyone issues their own monies. It's like I have effectively my own monies. I can use it to pay people within my social network based on actual trust metrics and intents make this fungible across many different people where I can pay someone else in the audience, if they trust me, they can decide to accept this. They can then spend this onwards using their own tokens. And rather than having to rely on a single issue of a specific currency, many different people can issue their own currencies.
06:01:09.410 - 06:02:27.306, Speaker A: And so if we can build an ecosystem where the actual sort of currency starts representing the actual sort of trust graph and economic activity happening, rather than there being an abstract currency concept that is independent of the actual specific topologies of an economy. Another example is multi chat. This is effectively private encrypted slack or discord, where many different interfaces can exist on a completely permissionless protocol where intents just represent messages, um, that are authored in ZK, for example, that are encrypted against specific public keys, um, where different interfaces can exist to represent different, um, sort of different user behaviors. Um, where in the end you can still sort of get a canonical sort of chain of messages, because once in a while you can post an actual state route that reflects all the messages that were sort of sent and delivered. Um, and yeah, you also have this idea of a promise graph, which is the ability for, which is actually something we're using internally. It allows you to structure teams not around the teams themselves, but rather it allows teams to configure themselves around the actual work being done. It's like if multiple people need to work together even though they're not in the same team.
06:02:27.306 - 06:03:05.874, Speaker A: So the promise graph system allows you to very cleanly represent that even though people are in different teams, they can still sort of work on the same graph like structure towards a common goal. Yes. If you like any of this, take a picture of this. There's a bunch of chatting going on with regards to what kind of new applications are actually possible outside of what everyone is currently doing in Defi. Yes, maybe as a quick TLDR, we are going to move away from or not away. This is actually the wrong way to think about it. We're moving from virtual machines to intent machines.
06:03:05.874 - 06:03:51.834, Speaker A: This is not to say that intent machines replace virtual machines. No, they're just fundamentally a new abstraction built on top of them. You should care about interfaces and be careful when you use intermediaries. What does a universal intent machine mean for Ethereum? Well, it gives us intent centric dapps, it gives us a standard for intents, and it gives us the ability to settle on Ethereum. These are the kind of affordances. And I spoke a lot about intent level composability, because actually, I think intent level composability and information flow control are two of the biggest things, because we need information flow control for the real world to adopt any of this tech. And we want to have more composability because we are currently just fracturing or fragmenting all liquidity, not only between specific dapps, but also across the ecosystem.
06:03:51.834 - 06:04:25.064, Speaker A: Yeah, and then I spoke with some ideas for novel dapps on Ethereum. So, yeah, join the discussion. This is the link to the post that Chris wrote on ETH research a couple of days ago that really goes into a lot of detail on Noma is the universal intent machine for Ethereum. So feel free to check it out and. Yeah, thank you very much. Thank you very much, Arun. We have time for one question if anyone wants to ask or if not yet, I think you can catch Adrian also outside.
06:04:25.064 - 06:04:53.156, Speaker A: So thanks very much. Super interesting. My favorite part is the scale free money, which you also mentioned. So it's a great one. Thank you very much. And next up on stage we have Rostislav. He is the CTO of asymmetrics and he actually founded the Kiev, Ukraine Ethereum community and he's a constant speaker on various Ethereum conferences in Denver, Porto, et cetera, in Prague.
06:04:53.156 - 06:05:13.784, Speaker A: I welcome on stage and he will be bringing you a bit about and speaking to you about bridging traditional finance and blockchain. The floor is yours, Rostislav. You've got 20 minutes. Okay, we go for a headset. Here we go. Okay. Does it work? No.
06:05:13.784 - 06:05:37.604, Speaker A: Okay. Okay. Hello everyone. Okay, 1 second. Okay, thank you. Yeah. So, hello everyone, my name is Rostislav, I'm CTo of the startup called Asymmetrics protocol.
06:05:37.604 - 06:06:45.656, Speaker A: We will take, we will talk about it a bit later, but yeah, thanks for the warm introduction. I will talk a bit about the bridging traditional finance into the real world on chain, on the blockchain. So, as for now, Webster industry faces traditional finance in the form of tokenization of assets, RVA, central banks and digital currencies, cross border payments, decentralized finance integration, of course, and smart contracts in insurance. So what are the benefits and why are traditional finance go on chain? First of all, it's increased transparency so people can see and check the money flow. They can understand where is yield coming from. And it allows to be transparent with your investors, users, retail users who use your solution. Of course, improved efficiency and speed.
06:06:45.656 - 06:08:14.494, Speaker A: So you don't need to spend a lot of time on different infrastructure. You need to just, you just can build your application on top of the blockchain in smart contracts. And that's enough improved accessibility and inclusion so any person in the world can easily join your decentralized application. Built on top of blockchain, of course, it's enhanced liquidity, it's 24 markets, so people can trade, people can do anything they want on chain in any time period of time. So also one of the most important things is, I believe, increased leverage and capital efficiency. So imagine that you have a startup which tokenize real estate, right? And you have for example, NFTs which represents part of the apartments in New York, and you, you can buy it and you will hold the NFT which represents the part of the apartment. But what can you do next? You can also take a loan for this NFT and your capital will not be locked for this apartment for forever, how it works in traditional market and then you can use your liquidity in other places as well.
06:08:14.494 - 06:08:57.192, Speaker A: What are the challenges right now traditional finance coming on the blockchain? First of all, the biggest issue right now in the market is regulatory and compliance issues. Of course. Yeah. So it's unclear regulations. So for example, right now there is no clear path how to really tokenize the apartments or any kind of real estate in the world. There is no way, like there is no standard and usual and clear path do it. Some startups doing it in different countries via different laws, but like general scheme, how to do it, general process.
06:08:57.192 - 06:09:50.788, Speaker A: We don't see right now technical challenges as well. So interoperability, scalability, data privacy, we're still working on the scalability issues on the blockchain. We still have a lot of issues and, you know, the Ethereum roadmap and all of these things. And also one of the most complicated issues is to merge the real world data with the blockchain data, because we have oracles as well, of course, but they don't cover everything. And still there is a huge gap in terms of how blockchain can consume the real world data and be rely on it and trust it. So there is still a huge gap. Security concerns and of course market dynamics, volatility.
06:09:50.788 - 06:10:40.466, Speaker A: Of course, everyone knows that crypto is super volatile and it damaged the reputation of the whole industry, unfortunately. But still we see more and more traditional finance use, use cases coming on chain. As an example, the most recent one is a blackRock, in collaboration with securitize launches its first tokenized fund biddle on the Ethereum network. Defi Makerdao bought another 700 million us treasuries. But it was the information from the summer last year. I don't know if it's changed or not, but the thing is that even DeFi goes in traditional markets and merge on chain defy with the traditional markets. That's cool.
06:10:40.466 - 06:11:18.420, Speaker A: Decentralized insurance, of course, nexus, mu, shell, covered in total historically $4.6 billion. Right now. Active cover amount is 62 million. And they paid $18 million in like claims. And you also can think about it, because in traditional insurance, you know that you like, you face a lot of problems with claims. Of course you can insure anything you want, but in the end of the day, insurance company will do everything to not pay your money.
06:11:18.420 - 06:12:09.316, Speaker A: Yeah, actual money, to not release the claim. Why? Because it's their money, it's their profits. So yeah, to pay you your claim means they will lose the money. In Webster, it works a bit different. So you have just decentralized protocol built on the smart contracts with predefined rules, predefined processes, and there is no way for protocol to decline your claim if it's alleged. So basically decentralized insurance, I think super undervalued industry and we will see a lot more use cases in future whenever we solve the problem with Oracles as well with merging the real data into blockchain. Also one of the use cases actually why I'm here is premium bonds.
06:12:09.316 - 06:13:18.250, Speaker A: Of course, it's a fun way to save with a chance to win tax free prizes each specified interval of time. So they are coming originally from UK, we will talk about them a bit later, I think the next slide, so. And also of course real assets tokenization, I know some examples, but I didn't put any because, you know, all of them are not super huge, just some startups trying to do the thing, trying to actually recognize the real estate, real assets, but still there is no clear path to do it due to regulation. So asymmetrics use case, it's simply premium bonds and chain. Inspiration for the asymmetrics protocol was taken from the financial instrument called premium bonds in UK. It's super simple instrument in UK they have right now 22, sorry, 100 billion in assets and it's used by 22 million of people. It's a proven success story and proof of concept.
06:13:18.250 - 06:14:34.602, Speaker A: Yeah. So actually the idea is to allow people to save funds and like to attract people for saving funds and actually in a fun way and not pay taxes for the earnings. What is the problems with the traditional premium bonds? Why we decided to go in this and put it on chain? So it's difficult accessibility, for example, for me, I don't know how to participate in premium bonds in UK. If to compare with the unchained thing on chain protocol, you easily can connect your wallet and deposit your ether and you are in. Of course, it's Yale accrual and distribution transparency. Yeah, it's introduced place for the manipulation. I don't say that someone manipulates from premium bonds in UK, but still, you know, when you can see, when you can verify all the money flows on chain, when you can see all the smart contracts, when you can see all the logic and so on, it's more, at least for me, it's more like better to use, of course, limited features.
06:14:34.602 - 06:15:15.470, Speaker A: There is not a lot of things you can do with traditional premium bonds because you have a law, because you have a lot of regulations and you can't play with people's money and so on. But in smart contracts, you have much more possibilities to try some new things, to add some new features. Of course we will talk about it a bit more. Your funds in control of someone else. So basically, you know, not your key, not your wallet, you're not your funds. So in Web three, it's super easy. If you hold your key, you are only the owner of your funds.
06:15:15.470 - 06:16:10.350, Speaker A: Of course you have a risk of hacks and so on, but still, yeah, it's for me, it's more convenient to store funds via the key in web three. So how it works, it's super simple concept actually, people. Let's say 100 users deposit one ether each into a symmetric smart contract, resulting in total of 100 e's in the pool. The 100 e's generate an additional, let's say five er yield during the week. Then we just distribute this five es between several winners. Depends on the size of the pool and the size of the reward. Someone will get 0% of rewards, but he will not lose the body of his deposit.
06:16:10.350 - 06:16:30.374, Speaker A: And someone will get a huge return. Yeah. This is the diagram how it works. Yes. So you can see that people can deposit their ether, let's say stake teaser or restake. Teaser can be any LRT protocol. Right now we integrated with either Phi and Kilpdao, except Lida.
06:16:30.374 - 06:16:59.704, Speaker A: Yeah, one week later. So we have weekly draws right now, one week later, we just distribute for three, five winners, our rewards in the pool. So why symmetrics? If to compare with a traditional liquid or liquid restaking or liquid staking. Yeah. So if you want to receive the guaranteed yield, it's not about asymmetrics. If you expect an APR greater than 5%. Yes.
06:16:59.704 - 06:17:44.330, Speaker A: The ability to withdraw funds at any time in boss and excitement from the process. It depends on the person and on the expectations. So how it works in practice, a bit more into details. Users deposit their stake teaser tokens or ether tokens to the asymmetrics protocol. Then the contract gives you PST as a kind of LP token. The cool thing with the smart contracts and on chain protocols like this, that you can then create more capital efficient use cases for the users. So for example, users get past, but still user can withdraw ether anytime.
06:17:44.330 - 06:18:46.364, Speaker A: And that means that then your PST actually equals to one ether. And then it means that you can use it in some landing protocols and then user. That means that user can sit in your protocol waiting for the draws every week and also reuse his capital in different places because he can use his PhD and log them in some lending protocols. We have already some kind of pre commitment of integration with one of the lending protocols. Yeah, next step. So the next step is actually, is staking rewards accumulated in, in the protocol. Not only rewards from the staking, but in case of restaking protocol like userfi, when we integrated with them, we made the deal that in our pool, users will get two x points of either five.
06:18:46.364 - 06:19:38.316, Speaker A: And that's cool, because users were just earning points to x more than if you just hold ether on your wallet. And also, of course, whenever Eigen layer goes live and starts paying restaking rewards pool with ether and any other allergy protocols, you'll generate not only staking reverse, but also restaking Yelp is distributed to the user. So, yeah, whenever. So we have weekly draws right now, but all of them are configurable. And basically when one week passes, then our after task on openzeppelin defender trigger some transactions in our smart contracts and distribute the prizes to the winners. How we choose the winner. How the winner receives the rewards.
06:19:38.316 - 06:20:08.644, Speaker A: They don't need to claim it, they don't need to do anything. The rewards just come into their wallets, because we distribute them ourselves via simple transaction. So how we choose the winner, basically we use Chainlink, verifiable random function. We just do a request and then wait for the answer. And then we distribute the prices. How to withdraw your initial deposit? It's super easy. You just need to call withdraw function.
06:20:08.644 - 06:20:59.134, Speaker A: Yeah, so our progress and roadmap, we had, so our product life for one year, approximately a bit less. We launched last year, we had $25 million peak tvl right now it's not the case. I can explain why, because right now on the market, we see a lot of like now it's bull market. And we see that in Pendle, for example, users can gain 80% of yield for their ether. Of course, it doesn't make sense to go to something like asymmetrics, because it just doesn't attract users right now in the market when you can just double your ease in a year. Right? So it doesn't make sense. But still, we had 25 million of dollars.
06:20:59.134 - 06:21:25.074, Speaker A: Tvl right now I think it's 3.5 million. Still not zero even on this bull market. Also, this number is not correct. So now it's $750,000. So I think it's also cool that we distributed such amount of rewards. Yeah, we actually integrate.
06:21:25.074 - 06:22:36.240, Speaker A: We also implemented some cool features like minipools. If you have not a lot of ether on your wallet, and you still want to participate in the pool, but you think the chances that you will allow you can join the mini pool with others and then whenever you win, whenever your pool wins, you actually get the proportion of your stake amount in this mini pool, which is also cool because users can play with the chances of win and the amount of rewards they can get. The latest news that we integrated with is our five with Kelp Dao. Of course, right now we are live only on Ethereum mainnet, but of course we are planning to also launch on different layer two. Because for us it's super easy and super fast. It will cost like five to launch on different layer two solutions and the protocol, safe, sustainable. There is no need for, I mean 24 hours monitoring.
06:22:36.240 - 06:22:55.684, Speaker A: So we just build it and that's it. So it's working itself. Yeah, that's probably, that's it. That's my contacts, if you're interested in contact, so just let me know. Thanks. Thank you very much. Put your hands together for Rostislav.
06:22:55.684 - 06:23:52.894, Speaker A: Any questions to Rosseslav on the topic or to asymmetrics? One more thing I can say if you. I mean, yeah, you've got 30 seconds, just go ahead. So, yes, I actually also have a community in Ukraine. We are running it more than two years and we are doing meetups, workshops, and we do some cool educational events as well for our people in Ukraine. In Kyiv this year we do first time in history. ETH Kyiv this summer 21st, 23 June. If someone wants to join as a sponsor, speaker or create workshop, your free to connect and contact me in Twitter or you can come in person, I will be here still.
06:23:52.894 - 06:24:14.140, Speaker A: So thank you. Great. Thank you very much. So, last chance to ask maybe a question, if we have one. Doesn't seem to be the case yet. So you can find Rossislav also, besides the coffee outside, we'll have like a very little break, I would say two, three minutes. So we keep the schedule.
06:24:14.140 - 06:24:42.448, Speaker A: Somebody's interested in the next speech, which will be don't go anywhere. It's super interesting because it's about the swiss DlT low. It's very actual. And there is a lot about why Switzerland is the place to go if it's about blockchain. So stick around. We are starting, let's say in three minutes with the intro, and I'll be handing over then to the CEO of actin Ariat, Nikola himself. So two, three minutes.
06:24:42.448 - 06:29:17.778, Speaker A: Maybe it's even a time to grab a very fast coffee, but just a very fast one if you wish. Sorry, we need to keep the swiss timing. Okay, we can't rush ahead. So we do start a little bit earlier, just two minutes, because we want to spare a bit of time to the end, for the end for the question. So next up, we will have a great presentation by Nicola Plen. He is the CEO of actionariat and he will be talking about the Swiss DLT low and its application. And very importantly, why are actually companies, loads of companies moving into Switzerland? It's actually certainty, legal certainty, that if you move in, there are rules around this tech, around digital assets, and this helps really to get in large companies moving their centrals, moving even their headquarters into Switzerland, even the teams.
06:29:17.778 - 06:29:44.030, Speaker A: A good example is here on my shirt, chronicle from the US. We just moved our headquarters here in February and it's not to market that, but it's a great example. This is actually the second largest total value secured Oracle protocol out there and we decided to move in here as well. So this is the reason, the Swiss DLT law. You'll hear now from Nicola. The floor is yours. Go ahead.
06:29:44.030 - 06:30:52.480, Speaker A: The CEO of Actin Ariat, welcome on stage. Thank you so much and thanks everyone for being here, despite the very nice weather that we are having today. My name is Nicola Plain, I'm the CEO of Okhotzenarjach and we use the swiss DLT law to tokenize equities and make them tradable. And I'll tell you a little something about that in the next couple of minutes. So how it all started, Lucius, one of our co founders, actually released an article, a comment in the Neue Zuricher Zeitung in the year 2016, a comment about how beneficial it would be for Switzerland as an economy if you would have a DLT Law that, as we just heard, would give you legal certainty to run your business. This article was followed by more comments and also academic contribution about this topic. But little did he know that just a couple of years later we would actually have a DLT law in Switzerland.
06:30:52.480 - 06:32:03.498, Speaker A: Of course, the whole legislation process was respected, went to the normal formal steps. Lucius was actually also one of the advisors to the parliament and federal council when it came to shaping the law. And then on 1 February 2021, the first part of the law was enforced, which allows us, for example, to issue shares on a blockchain as a token. And on 1 August, the second part about DLT trading systems was released and taken into force. And as you can see from this nice little graphic here on the bottom of the slide, there were no votes against in the Senate. So that's a huge success, even though probably not everyone knew what exactly they were voting for or against, but still, of course, great result. And now you may ask, what exactly what advantages do we have from having a DLT Law in Switzerland? And if we look at the application with equities, equities of non listed companies, especially, especially then, I think this picture says it all.
06:32:03.498 - 06:32:56.094, Speaker A: Basically nothing changed from before when you had the paper certificates, to now with a token. But of course, that's only on first sight. So let's have a deeper look here. So in the past, if you had a share of an unlisted company and you wanted to transfer it, that meant you needed to have a paper, not necessarily the share on paper, but a paper with a signature from the buyer and the seller, just to have it legally sound. And then you would be the new rightful owner of the chair if you have like a contract signed with the seller. But in order to have your shareholder rights, you would still need to reach out to the issuer, to the company and make sure that you would also be part of the OCch, of the share registry of the company. So it's a two step process, very manual.
06:32:56.094 - 06:33:44.998, Speaker A: You need to have a paper, you need to have signature on paper, and then you again need to reach out to the company. And now with the application of the swiss DLT law, this process can be made much more efficient. So first of all, transfer of a share token under swiss law is already a legally sound transfer of a share. So you don't need to have any contract, any buying, selling contract with signature on it, you just transfer the token. And this is a legally solid transfer of a share of a swiss company. And if you use our tools to do that, so you send it from a wallet to Octanar yacht wallet, where you can register yourself. You would automatically also be in the shareholder registry of that company.
06:33:44.998 - 06:34:45.230, Speaker A: So you would not only become the rightful owner, but you would also automatically get your shareholder rights because the entry in the shareholder registry of that company was automatically updated. So it's still a two step process, but these two steps can be merged into one, be automated with just the transfer of the token. So even if in first sight, these two graphics look exactly the same, actually there is a huge efficiency gain that we got from the swiss DLT law. Let's look a little bit into how blockchain and private equity, or how blockchain can be used in private equity to make things more efficient. What are the huge problems that we are having? There are mainly three problems that we detected. So it's a very exclusive thing. Usually the ticket sizes are quite high, so only high net worth individuals and institutional investors have access to these deals, to, to this asset class.
06:34:45.230 - 06:35:15.134, Speaker A: And if you're invested in Switzerland, you're stuck with the investment for seven and a half years on average, because there is no real secondary market. So that means you must be in it for the long run. If not, you should rather not invest in private equity today. And then before you can even invest, you need to negotiate a price again. Since there is no market, there is no market price. So the price is basically always negotiation between the buyer and the seller. So quite inefficient.
06:35:15.134 - 06:36:20.018, Speaker A: And with the use of blockchain technology, we think that we can solve all of these three problems. So first of all, by making the transfer of the shares, because they're in a token form, much more efficient, you could also lower the ticket sizes, which then makes it more accessible, less exclusive. Secondly, you can create small markets, for example, using AMM automated market maker smart contract. We will get to that in a minute and then create more liquidity, or make the assets more liquid and buy that also have more reliable prices. Because if you have an asset that is traded a bit, then it's not just a negotiation between two parties, but there are several parties in involved in the pricing mechanism. So let's have a look at how today in the traditional world, shares are traded. So if a share is listed on an exchange, like six or Nasdaq or wherever, you will have an order book.
06:36:20.018 - 06:37:01.930, Speaker A: And an order book works extremely well. It's very efficient. It allocates the assets to the one that is willing to pay the most. But you need a lot of trades, you need a lot of liquidity for these order books to work out. Because if you don't have that, you would have large bid, ask spreads and very little trading that takes place. So that's why we tried a different mechanism, a very blockchain native mechanism, if you want. So we were inspired by Uniswap with the liquidity pool approach, and we thought that may work out for shares as well.
06:37:01.930 - 06:38:04.662, Speaker A: In a bit different way though. So what you can do with our technology and based on the swiss DLT law, is as a company, you can of course, first of all, you tokenize part of your shares and then you can offer them in a liquidity pool Amm smart contract. And on the other side of the pool, you can have a swiss franc station, stablecoin, and define the price of the share. Of course, usually you start with selling your tokenized shares and by that you are raising funds. But as you sell shares, the pool of crypto gets filled up and you can decide to leave part of those cryptos in that Amm smart contract in order to finance buybacks. So now investors can not only buy shares from you, but they can also sell, sell them back to you to the extent that you have liquidity in your pool. And that's a very simple mechanism which leaves a lot of control also over the market to the issuer.
06:38:04.662 - 06:39:19.040, Speaker A: So we always say a first step, if you want to make the shares a little more liquid and have some price exploration mechanism, then this is a very good solution to start off with before you were big enough and you would have enough liquidity, so it's worth being traded on order book based exchange. So we did that, as I said. So we developed our own small automated market maker, smart contract that works of course a bit differently than the one from Uniswap. We call that the brokerbot, that's the front end to it. And obviously it allows you to go on a website of a Swiss SME or startup and buy the shares directly on the website, but also if the company allows to sell them back to the company, and you can do that using cryptocurrency, obviously, but also with simple wire transfers, bank transfers. The smart contract is of course only one, the broker bot smart contract. The AMM is of course only one of the smart contracts that we have and one of the tools.
06:39:19.040 - 06:40:13.204, Speaker A: So overall this is basically the front end where the investor can place the investment decision. Behind that there is this widget, and the company steers everything in the background with a corporate dashboard. So that's where they have all their settings, their shareholder registry, everything they need to manage their shareholders in the market. The user can access the brokerbot widget through the browser, or our own wallet with an in app browser currently. And of course the admins can access the corporate dashboard through the browser. Let's have a look how the smart contract ecosystem works. So we have of course a share contract that contains all the functions to deploy a token that can represent shares under the swiss DLT law, as we just learned.
06:40:13.204 - 06:41:26.604, Speaker A: Then there is a multi signature contract and the broker bot, the AMM smart contract, and this brokerbot smart contract is also connected to a payment hub. We have a simple ERC 20 smart contract that we use, but on top of that we are able to wrap them in other token smart contracts to add some functionalities. One functionality that is extremely important in the startup space is the draggable contract. So if you want to perform an exit and you have a few shareholders maybe you did even a crowdfunding at some point. You need to make sure that you can get rid of them if you want to sell the company, if you want to exit. That's why we wrapped the base token in a ERC 20 draggable contract. And the draggable contract allows you to, if the majority voted to sell the company, just take out the shares from the wallets of the investors and hand them over to the buyer and take the money and distribute it proportionally automatically to the sellers.
06:41:26.604 - 06:42:20.574, Speaker A: A very easy way to perform an exit, especially if you have quite a few shareholders in a shareholder registry. Of course, we also have a recovery mechanism, and as you can see, we built the smart contract in a very modular way. We don't try to make one smart contract with all the functionalities in it, but rather build it in a modular way. That's one thing that we are currently working on. The secondaries, we call it OTB instead of OTC. So over the blockchain secondaries, it's one thing that hopefully you will be able to do in the future is to place a sell intention on the website of a certain issuer. So you connect your wallet where you have your shares on with the widget on the issuer's website.
06:42:20.574 - 06:43:02.690, Speaker A: You place a sell intention. You just date how many shares you want to sell, at what price, and then other people can come and buy the shares from you. And the smart contract in the middle makes sure that one party receives the agreed amount of shares and the other party receives the agreed amount of currency. That's one thing we are working on. But overall there are four main use cases that we can cover based on this. With CLT law and the blockchain technology, it's efficient way of fundraising, as we just have seen, because the transfer of the shares is done in a very efficient manner with a transfer of a token. Digital governance.
06:43:02.690 - 06:44:25.054, Speaker A: So also things like digital GA or dividend distribution for example, can be facilitated and made more efficiently as well as employee participation and as we just have seen, secondaries with different approaches. Overall, we built a tool that you can use from the seed phase to an IPo phase, as I just mentioned, for employee participation, for financing rounds where we are adding more and more distribution channels. Some crypto wallets where you can buy the shares through in the future as well shareholder management, but also cost CDs with banks, which is very cool because we can build a bridge from tradfi to Defi or vice versa. So if you don't want to have the responsibility over your assets yourself, you can go back to the traditional world and hand them over to a bank and then secondary markets, as we said through the broker bot, but also some more traditional exchanges that are also building blockchain based stuff. Currently, to conclude, we have done this since three years. Now we have 52 tokenized companies. We have more than 48 million swiss francs in transaction volume, 26,000 users.
06:44:25.054 - 06:44:45.178, Speaker A: And this is the chart of the monthly transaction volume. Thank you so much for bearing with me and your interest. And, yeah, hope to see you soon. If you have more questions, please reach out to us. Thank you so much. Thank you very much, Nicola. It's amazing.
06:44:45.178 - 06:45:08.390, Speaker A: So this is how much you can do if certain and stable DLT law is being formed and voted for in your country. So it's amazing. This is how sophisticated it can get. Now it's time for questions. Oh, we have a good few ones. So could you just maybe start with the gentleman? It's good that we spared more time. We do have time for a lot of questions, like ten minutes if we need.
06:45:08.390 - 06:45:55.314, Speaker A: So go ahead. It's not turned on yet. One, two. Yeah, thanks for the presentation. Just have a question. So it looks like a great technical solution. And the question is, on the regulatory side, are you selling shares to the public? How are you addressing the typical regulatory requirements of having a product disclosure statement and to have also to trade shares for third parties? Do you have a broker dealer license, or do you issue a prospectus every time a client come online, or do you stay under the threshold? Usually our clients stay below the threshold of 8 million swiss francs a year.
06:45:55.314 - 06:46:49.786, Speaker A: There is one that surpassed that and is now preparing the prospectus. So what we do is, especially in the beginning, we make sure that all the laws are respected. What we did in the very beginning is we asked Finma, so the financial regulator in Switzerland, what they think about this mechanism with this amm that I just explained before. And since there is no financial intermediary involved and no one really commercially making the market, we received a non subordination confirmation from FInMA. So that means that even KyC, you don't necessarily have to do it. You, as an issuer, selling your tokenized shares directly to an investor, still, we have such a module, and we make sure, of course, that everyone stays within the legal boundaries. Also, in terms of prospectus that you also mentioned, does that answer your question? Yes.
06:46:49.786 - 06:47:16.974, Speaker A: Thank you. But as a broker dealer, you allowing other people to trade shares or to trade shares for other people. So with the first mechanism, where you always sell them back to the company, that's no broker dealer license required with the second mechanisms. We are just in talks now. Or we just approached FiNMa to see if we can also get a non support coordination for that. So it remains interesting. We will see how it turns out.
06:47:16.974 - 06:47:28.046, Speaker A: Thank you. We have a couple of other questions further up. Could you put up your hands? How many of you. Approx. Would have a question? There's one up there. One up there. Nice.
06:47:28.046 - 06:47:56.964, Speaker A: Good. We have a plan. Very, very interesting talk. So if I understand correctly, shares could be represented literally by ERC 20 tokens? Yeah, the shares are regular. ERC 20 tokens, more or less regular. So what happens in the case when there is some kind of flow in contract and the tokens get hacked? Is it like potentially non revoltable on the blockchain? But then does it mean like the attacker actually controls the. I didn't understand acoustically.
06:47:56.964 - 06:48:39.010, Speaker A: Could you. Okay, yeah, I'll try again. So, smart contracts sometimes have flaws which can lead to hacks which could transfer the tokens to some attacking party. So what would happen then? Do they keep the ownership of the company, the attacker? Or is there a way to legally revert it, but not revert it on blockchain? Yes. So there is actually a way to circumvent bad effects of something like that legally. So what you could do is basically you could declare all the existing tokens invalid and reissue them. You could also drag them away with this drag along wrapper that I explained before.
06:48:39.010 - 06:49:18.812, Speaker A: So you could drag them out of all of the investors wallets and send them to a burn address later. Or you could just declare them invalid and reissue them. Those are measures that you would typically only do in very extreme events. So actually that happened once where one investor downloaded a fake metamask and inserted a seed phrase. And then of course the assets got stolen and were immediately dropped back to the company through the amm. So the company had to stop the trading activities. And then what we did, basically we used the drag along mechanism to take away all the shares.
06:49:18.812 - 06:49:38.772, Speaker A: And since they anyways wanted to switch from optimism, they deployed them. Or we deployed them on optimism before to Ethereum Mainnet. We just took them away and then reissued them on Ethereum Mainnet. Okay, thanks. Very welcome. We have time. Yeah, for one or Max? Two more.
06:49:38.772 - 06:50:52.572, Speaker A: There was one up there, the gentleman. Amazing. Thank you. Did I just miss it or did you not talk about a module that you could add to your solution concerning the new register for beneficial owners in Switzerland? The registration of the beneficial owner, you mean with the new law that is probably coming up. It's not probably, it's certainly coming. Yes, we also commented to that and what we would hope for is that you could delegate the notification of the beneficial owner to a third party because in that case if you use our tool set and our shareholder registry, we could make sure that in such cases, first of all the investors would need to register and go through some registration KYC process. And then secondly also that we, in an automated way, hopefully through an API or something like that, sent these data to the central registrar so it's still open.
06:50:52.572 - 06:51:37.624, Speaker A: I think how this law will be shaped in some details and that's at least what we stated in our comment. Hope for that this responsibility can be delegated to a third party. Does that answer your question? Yeah. I recommend you contact the guys running easygolf at the state secretary for economy because they are just implementing that registration. We just took part in different name lawsongs for foreign and handed in a comment. But you would suggest we reach out through easygov as well. Martin Godel thanks for the hint.
06:51:37.624 - 06:52:01.060, Speaker A: Amazing. Let's have, I think here in the front we have the gentleman. Sorry I make you walk up and down. I'm just standing here. It's a great delight to see you, Nicola. We met last time when you just started Axion Yargat and it's a huge success. So congratulations.
06:52:01.060 - 06:52:14.804, Speaker A: First of all. Thank you so much. My question here is about dividends. Is it just like trading shares like buy, sell or. The investors through your platform are also entitled for dividends. Sorry, I didn't get the last part. Dividends.
06:52:14.804 - 06:53:00.066, Speaker A: Dividends, yeah. Could they just trade, buy and sell shares? Or they could also, you can also receive dividends. So as an issuer you can in a quite automated way distribute them in the form of stable coins, for example. So that's also a functionality that we offer or a use case that we can cover. So did you automate the tax as well? Like the 35% tax on the dividends when they're issued or not? So we cannot send it in an automated way to the tax authorities of course. But we account for that definitely. Also in a tax report that you can download if you use our wallet app, you will also see the withholding taxes, for example, if dividends were distributed.
06:53:00.066 - 06:53:14.546, Speaker A: So we account for that, but we cannot send it automatically to the tax authorities yet. Maybe in the future. Thank you. Thank you so much. Amazing. So I have a 32nd last question because we have no time for it. Sorry.
06:53:14.546 - 06:53:54.728, Speaker A: So Finma, those of you not being swiss, Finma is the swiss regulator and I believe that Nicola is one who could really give just a 30 seconds answer on how is collaborating and speaking to Finma. We know how it is speaking and collaborating with Sec. We hear it out with Gary or whoever it is. How does that relate to Finmar? How does Actsynariat talk to Finma? I think there are probably other people that have more experience with that. What we did, we just exchanged a couple of love letters and so far that's it. A great experience. That did not work with Gary, I believe.
06:53:54.728 - 06:54:33.324, Speaker A: Thanks a million. Put your hands together to Nicola from acts and Ariad. Thanks very much. So next up we will have someone speaking on stage. He's called Christoph Gogol and he is a PhD candidate of actually the University of Zurich. So it's his home turf. And he's not just being a great researcher here at the university, but he's also building up a very wide footprint when it comes to layer twos and defi here in Switzerland and knowledge.
06:54:33.324 - 06:55:04.630, Speaker A: So today he's going to be speaking for you about digital asset and central bank digital currency exchange using the layer two blockchain. It's super interesting. Christoph loves to tackle topics which are super interesting and really looking towards the future. So Chris, it's the home turf, your home university. The floor is yours, go ahead. Thank you Ben, for such a great introduction. I'm very happy to be here.
06:55:04.630 - 06:56:19.694, Speaker A: As Ben mentioned, I am a PhD candidate in computer science at the blockchain center and specializing in my research on intersection of layer two blockchains, roll ups and decentralized finance. And today I'm going to show you how those two words actually can come together for our benefits. I mean, if you are not persuaded by the previous talk from Nikola, why token is is great. I will give you some more arguments. You can see behind my back, actually, what was happening when it comes to tokenization of us treasury bills last year, June last year was known as a crypto winter when the TVL in DeFi was at best flat with relatively low trade trading volume. But there was one asset class that was performing quite well and these were those tokenized us treasury bills. I mean, one of the reason was back then they were paying five or more percent, which is far more than you can or you could make from staking.
06:56:19.694 - 06:57:18.418, Speaker A: And what would be actually very cool if those assets could be put inside DeFi protocols like AavE to enable some leverage. It is today not straightforward. Some protocols are experimenting with it, but we hope it will come soon. There are the major benefits why the companies are like I mean, Aksenariat and others decide to go for tokenization, it's because of the very fast settlement on the blockchain, which is happening within seconds compared to the days that it lasts in the traditional financial industry. Also, the costs are relatively low, especially when you are using layer two blockchains. And then there is also the issue of trust. That's maybe a little philosophical question.
06:57:18.418 - 06:58:18.834, Speaker A: If we trust more regulations or if we trust more cryptography, I believe that in the future, this is where we are going. There will be no need to choose. There will be systems that will be based on those two pillars. But as I mentioned to you, the nice thing about decentralized finance is that we could simply think about using those smart contracts behind decentralized finance to further boost possibilities of those tokenized real world assets. So there are plenty of applications of decentralized finance. I'm not going to talk about all of them today and how they could be used for tokenization, but only focus on one particular use case, which are decentralized exchanges. And those decentralized exchanges, they function like uniswap or curve.
06:58:18.834 - 06:59:12.194, Speaker A: They have one magical trick, which is called automated market makers. And simply those automated market makers, they decide to whom and for how much tokens sell or buy some another tokens. Like in international finance, you typically have order books, you have some components that are doing market making. They are coming, they are putting some orders on that order book and the traders are interacting with that. Putting such order book on a decentralized finance on the blockchain would be too expensive. And for that reason, though, automated market makers were invented. But one of the things before actually we start using those automated market maker is the question about interoperability.
06:59:12.194 - 07:00:22.390, Speaker A: Because as you can see on a chart behind me, a lot of tokenization projects actually happening on a very different, very different blockchain. This is just a snapshot about one particular class, which is a tokenized debt. So it's not representing the whole class of real world assets. I mean, the interesting thing is that most of tokenization is happening on the Ethereum compatible chains. But still, if we want to have in the future a very, very liquid and efficient market, we need to think how to bridge those tokens together to have one ideal blockchain, taking care of that and bridging. And then there's actually another question that we actually, we at the university ask ourselves and focus in our research. Will it be really cheaper in the future to buy, for example, a bond, or maybe to exchange euro into a swiss franc using the blockchain than it is today using the traditional financial system.
07:00:22.390 - 07:01:11.174, Speaker A: So we just put aside all of those ideological aspects of the blockchain and then simply we are trying to calculate what is cheaper. Because I mean, I believe that in the future the real blockchain adoption will come from that increased efficiency. So we were actually not the first one that look at those topics. The interesting thing is that pioneers of applications of smart contracts from DeFi for central bank digital currencies are central banks. And they already running a lot of pilot projects and experiments. I just maybe mentioned the two. One is Project Mariana, the other is Project Agora.
07:01:11.174 - 07:02:44.534, Speaker A: In Project Agora, simply central banks, there are like seven together with bank for international settlement in Basel. They are trying to bring all of their tokenized assets on one blockchain and they are experimenting with bridges. The project just started. And in the project Mariana, simply what central banks did, they did a fork of curve on the ETF, on the Ethereum testnet, and they were experimenting with using it to exchange three test cbdcs, one representing digital euro, one representing digital swiss franc and one singaporean dollar. And actually, the interesting thing is, it turned out that from the legal point of view, but also from the point of view, all of their processes, it is possible, it is possible and it will meet all of the requirements that the traditional finance has to use those smart contract and blockchain to move the whole FX market on the blockchain and on the Defi smart contracts. And this is a huge market because FX market alone, even not touching that tokenization, is processing 7 trillion of dollars daily. So you can imagine that what the boost it would be to that traditional defi if those 7 trillion trading volume would be moved there.
07:02:44.534 - 07:03:49.442, Speaker A: But looking at that project, that actually proved that it is possible. We simply at universities start asking more questions about which blockchain to use, which imm to use and how to parameterize the. And this is what I'm going to show you in the second part of our presentation. This is actually when it starts to get interesting, because the layer two and layer three blockchains are stepping in. So I mean, as we are at Zurich, I will not be explaining to you what is the roll up, but I heard even during the talks in the corridor that some people questioning the sense of existence of layer threes on top of the roll ups. And this is actually what I'm presenting to you as a very good use case, which is showing that we really need layer threes and layer fours and five on top of those layer twos. Because layer twos and the roll ups, they offer a very low fees, especially after the koon upgrade and introduction of the blobs.
07:03:49.442 - 07:04:55.822, Speaker A: I mean, it went down on almost to $0.01 for many roll ups, but it's still far too much if you're thinking about moving the whole financial system and our daily operations there. Yeah, we need to go with those gas fees even further. And this is where those layered trees are becoming useful, because according to the research, gas fees on each layer are around 50 times cheaper comparing to the previous layer. So if today layer twos and roll amps are offering gas fees 50 times cheaper than Ethereum mainnet, then the layer threes can offer 250 times cheaper gas fees. That, of course is reading that increased scalability is leading to the challenges of capital fragmentation between those different layer trees. And simply what we did in our experiment.
07:04:55.822 - 07:05:35.414, Speaker A: We designed such decentralized exchange that is operating on layer two and layer three blockchains. Here you can see how that decentralized exchange is actually working. Maybe I start from the bottom. At the very bottom there is a public layer one blockchain, for example, ethereum. Or maybe in the future it will be bitcoin. And that layer is simply a settlement layer. This is a layer where in the future for those tokenized assets, or cbdcs, will be just using data storage, storage.
07:05:35.414 - 07:06:40.284, Speaker A: But then what we're going to happen on top of that, there will be a layer two or a roll up that is responsible for integration of the data from another blockchains or another layer tools. And on top of that you have different layer trees that are operating decentralized finance protocols in, let's say, traditional computer science, which is not related to crypto, it's quite common. And you have a computer program which is having different layers, like a database layer, data integration, user interface, and so on, an application layer. And simply weave the more complex applications for the blockchain. We are going to see more blockchain layers also. Each blockchain layer specializing in different applications. And maybe the important thing is that in our simulation, this layer two, this roll up, is a private roll up because sometimes it's being called validium.
07:06:40.284 - 07:07:42.894, Speaker A: So this is like a permissionless, this is like a permission blockchain which you can have on top of a public blockchain. This is quite a new and interesting concept. And even though that a permissioned roll up is on the public blockchain, like Ethereum, still all of their transactions are encrypted by the sequencer. And here there are only validity proofs stored in the underlying layer one chain. So I mean, thanks to that approach, we can combine the legal requirements that are coming from the central banks or traditional finance with all of the best things that are coming from the decentralized finance and those smart contracts. But then you, I mean, that was a beautiful design, but will it really work in. The reality is that capital will be fragmented between different layer three blockchains, each operating different DeFi protocols and emms.
07:07:42.894 - 07:08:34.162, Speaker A: We simply run a simulation and we look at the effects market. We look at those three currencies that were chosen by the central banks, euro three strengths and Singapore yen and dollar, and simply calculated how much it would cost to exchange those three currencies using the blockchain and using automated market makers. There are some benefits coming from that. Maybe such a future FX market will be open 25. There will be a very low gas fees. All transactions will be settled automatically. But the cost of doing such swaps will be, will change depending on the effects rate.
07:08:34.162 - 07:09:36.148, Speaker A: This is maybe not to nice property of automated market makers, which is called a price impact or a slippage. So typically like in it and computer science, we are fixing one problem, but we are creating another problem also. In our simulation, we use the, we simply convert our solution, which is running on the three layer trees with one dex, which is a fork of a curve, running only on one blockchain, for example on Ethereum. And that blockchain is not having the capital fragmentation. And here you can see the results of that simulation. So, I mean, for the very small transactions, when you are converting, for example, five euro into three strengths, then the system which is operating on layer two blockchains is simply far more cheaper than system running on the layer one chain. It's a similar thing.
07:09:36.148 - 07:10:13.912, Speaker A: Actually. It's happening for the largest transactions that are above 1 million. However, for the medium sized transactions, around maybe 10,000 being converted to another currencies, according to our simulation, let's say the results were very similar for both systems. You can see the breakdown of those fees here. Maybe it's important to know that when you are using the blockchain for. I mean, that should also apply. It's not only for tokenized assets and cbdcs, but for every token also.
07:10:13.912 - 07:10:53.660, Speaker A: Yeah, meme coins. When you are using the uniswap or curve, you have different. Your fee is coming from a different elements. This is of course gas fee which is paid to the Ethereum or roll up. But there is also a so called swap fee or lp fee, which is going to the liquidity provider to the automated market maker. And there is that slippage and price impact, which is that inherent property of the, of the automated market makers. And we simply break down all of those fees for the Dex which is running on layer one and on the layer two s.
07:10:53.660 - 07:12:09.534, Speaker A: And you can, you can see especially that the gas fees are much, much lower on the layer two s and also the slippage, actually it's much lower for the largest and yeah, for the largest transactions. And then you can think why there is such a weird property that such a system is actually outperforming the smallest and the largest transaction. And the reason is there is no perfect automated market maker yet. I mean, all of the automated market makers that are there, there are good, in some cases, like Uniswap v three is good to trade token pairs where the volatility is not too big, but you need to rebalance the pool very often and pay gas fees for that. Curve. V two is good for trading stable coins back to the same coin and to the same target and so on. But when you build a system which is actually using one amm for one type of the tokens, another amm for another pool of the tokens, then you can achieve a very good, very good result.
07:12:09.534 - 07:12:55.494, Speaker A: And I mean, this is important because you can see that when you are running a dex on those l two s and l three s, then actually the majority of the cost is coming from the slippage here in the green. This is actually the part of the fee which is going to the liquidity provider. Gas fees on l one, almost no on l two. But the slippage is actually very big. And the slippage is coming from the parameterization of those automated market makers and their choice. What actually we are thinking right now at the university is how to apply the artificial intelligence and deep learning to minimize that steepage cost. Because this is actually also very important.
07:12:55.494 - 07:13:37.426, Speaker A: There is, and there will be actually different Amm for a different tokenized assets. So we are going to use different ammo to trade tokenized equities, different Amm with a different parameterization for tokenized equities, bonds and so on. And maybe the last thing is we also organizing a site event to the Ethereum Zurich, which is going to take place on Monday afternoon. Also the University of Zurich, but not at this campus in the city center. And you are very welcome to join. We are going to have a lot of swiss banks. We are going to have the founder of Curve, also some epcs.
07:13:37.426 - 07:13:59.714, Speaker A: So it will be a few hours talking only about Defi and then. Thank you. Thank you very much, Christoph. Super interesting questions from the audience. Let's head straight into that. Everybody stunned? Pretty much. I see.
07:13:59.714 - 07:14:24.554, Speaker A: Super interesting. Oh, here we got one. Yes. Thank you, Christoph, for the presentation. Very interesting. What is your view on, you know, there are layer one, layer two, layer three, there are these sequences between. Is there not a risk that this sequence can be compromised and then nothing will work? Or what is your view on.
07:14:24.554 - 07:15:13.284, Speaker A: On the security side, on the whole thing? Because there are a lot of smart contracts involved in different layers. So, what is your view on this? Yes, that's actually a very good question about the sequencers. So I don't think there is security risk coming from, especially that. The nice thing about those roll ups is this is already a tested technology, because there are public roll ups, like, albeit room CK sync, that are already there, and we know it's working. However, what will come from layer two and layer three will be delayed in finality, because you will have to wait before. Until each layer will settle, and that might create some risks that needs to be researched. Thank you.
07:15:13.284 - 07:15:39.644, Speaker A: Any further questions? Okay, so, there may be just one word from my side, really. Christoph has an amazing substack where you can subscribe. He's crazy. Like, publishing every, literally every day a new article. I don't know, where's your private life or anything. You read this story. It's really super interesting.
07:15:39.644 - 07:16:12.174, Speaker A: Like, this debt is not just the shadow and repeating what is out there. He's really challenging new stuff. So, well done, and thanks very much for the speech today. And put your hands together once again for Chris. Thanks very much. And we do have like two, three minutes, which we'll need to wait just in order to keep the rhythm, which is assigned with the swiss clock. So we will start in two minutes with the next presentation.
07:16:12.174 - 07:16:52.582, Speaker A: It will be super interesting, by the way. Furthermore, exploring cbdcs, stablecoins and more after the ad. Yep. We just wanna have to keep the time. Yeah, yeah, yeah, sure. Yes, yeah, yeah. I think I don't need.
07:16:52.582 - 07:17:05.834, Speaker A: What's 20 minutes? I think I don't need 20 minutes. I mean, look, the. As long as the next speaker is here, I don't mind, like, the good thing, you know who's speaking after you. No. Okay, so, because I saw your. I know. It's like, that's Kunkle.
07:17:05.834 - 07:17:15.538, Speaker A: He's make a Dao co founder. So when you speak about Dai, you could, like. Also. I mean. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So he is speaking about. And actually, also he's a dive co founder.
07:17:15.538 - 07:18:29.754, Speaker A: Yeah. He's from chronicles. Okay. And I mean, I read yours and if this is, he is. So he's rather looking into the direction of how the other UA's are pretty much into hedging the DeFi usage. Yeah, crossroads. You're actually a researcher as well here at the university, right? Yeah, I just, yeah, I finished my.
07:18:29.754 - 07:19:10.814, Speaker A: Theoretically finished. Okay, just, just because when. Great, good. Okay, good. Make sense. This is how I also. Okay, how about we start? Yeah, you can turn.
07:19:10.814 - 07:19:57.350, Speaker A: So welcome everyone. We have two more speeches today, both of them super interesting and one a bit by accident, interconnected probably with the next one. So pay attention. It's a series of two, I would say. So next up we'll have a speech about and a talk about stablecoins. Stablecoins relevant in today's blockchain economy, which we have. And we'll be discussing if that current stage and the current structure is suitable, is sustainable and actually how cbdcs entering the new game will actually change the landscape.
07:19:57.350 - 07:20:35.384, Speaker A: So on stage, I will be welcoming Matthias Hafner. He is the director of center of Crypto Economics here in Switzerland and he also conducted his PhD here at the University of Zurich. So it's pretty much also his home turf. So welcome on stage. Mathias, the stage is yours, go ahead. Thank you very much for this nice introduction and it's a pleasure to be here and talk about stablecoins, cbdcs and real world assets. So my name is Mathias and as I said from the center for Crypto Economics, which is a part of swiss economics.
07:20:35.384 - 07:21:40.972, Speaker A: So how I'm going to structure this talk. So first to give you a brief motivation, then I give you a little bit of an introduction of today's and tomorrow's payment methods. Basically these are stablecoins, cbdcs, and we discussed later as well, tokenized real world assets. Then I will basically bring that together and discuss a little bit the interactions between those different asset types and also give some outlook for further, like beyond tomorrow, basically. Okay, let's start with the motivation. So what's the motivation? Well, we have seen an immense growth on the one hand of stable coins, which have been here now for several years and have been grown to about 100 billion in value dollar. Then what we also have, but as you can see here on the right, basically what we also have, there have also been crashes of stablecoins.
07:21:40.972 - 07:22:15.568, Speaker A: So maybe discussing a little bit how secure are they, how stable they are. So there are a lot of good discussions about that as well. Then next, after stablecoins, we have cbdcs. We had a lot of talks. I think also previous year about the cbdcs, they are expected to be launched. Somehow they cover something similar than stablecoins. So how does that relate together? And recently, as we also heard today, is the topic of tokenization of real world assets.
07:22:15.568 - 07:23:16.806, Speaker A: I think we had to talk previously about tokenized shares of SMEs such as oxynary, but we also have, or not bot. And also in addition, a huge market of tokenized treasury builds. And as you see here on the right, practically the same picture as seen before, basically a huge increase in TVL of them. And recently, like one week ago, Blackrock, one of the, or the biggest, or one of the biggest financial players just announced a tokenized fund. Basically this institutional digital liquidity fund. So we also see traditional players coming into this sector. So from that perspective, basically I want to first discuss a little bit about payments, about what are stablecoins, then come to look at how they relate to cbdcs and to real world assets.
07:23:16.806 - 07:24:09.354, Speaker A: And in the end conclude with what might the future hold for payments. So before we talk about that, let's talk a little bit about why to pay and hold cash at the beginning. Portfolio theory. Basically, portfolio theory tells us that if you want to invest your wealth, then you have to diversify. This theory basically says that there is a market portfolio and you cannot, basically there is no better option than the market portfolio in terms of return and risk. So you cannot outperform the market portfolio in the long run, having a better return risk ratio. So this is basically this m, what you see here.
07:24:09.354 - 07:25:06.194, Speaker A: So the D and C, these are single assets, they have a worse risk return ratio, basically. However, what you can do is you can combine this market portfolio with a risk free asset. What you see here at the bottom, bottom, rf and using the market portfolio and the risk free asset, you can basically, or anyone can basically allocate his wealth to his risk preferences. So if somebody wants to take more risk, he can leverage and go to the point b with high risk and more return, or go to a with low risk and low return. Or if somebody is very risk averse, he can also allocate all his funds to the risk free asset. RF so basically this is assumed to have no risk. Now let's introduce cash.
07:25:06.194 - 07:25:43.162, Speaker A: Cash is also risk free, but the risk free asset gives some return. Cash does not give return. So why to hide cash? Because this difference is basically cost of holding cash, difference between risk free asset and cash. So you have these opportunity costs basically. So what are the reasons for cash? Well, on the one hand, liquidity costs. Cash is the most liquid asset you have. You can trade it everywhere.
07:25:43.162 - 07:26:13.198, Speaker A: Also enforced by law, there are different reasons. You can exchange it everywhere. It's used as a medium of exchange, so it's very liquid, which is the risk free asset, is less liquid most often. And another reason is transaction costs. Basically, the need to basically rebalance your portfolio. So you invested, you have made a decision, you risk return assignment. Basically you invested in the portfolio.
07:26:13.198 - 07:26:57.294, Speaker A: Now we want to buy something. What would happen? You would need to sell part of your portfolio a. Send the cash to the person B. B, who receives it has to again increase the optimal portfolio b, because you always have transaction costs. Maybe it's better to have a reserve of cash instead of always exchange or always changing your portfolio at each time point, you do some transactions or buy goods. So basically, due to liquidity and transaction cost considerations, people hold a cash reserve. Okay, so the next we go to the stable coins.
07:26:57.294 - 07:27:36.242, Speaker A: Stablecoins, they can be used as a means of a payment, like cash. So what are stablecoins? First, that's very important. So, stablecoins, they track the price of another asset using different collateral sources and different collateral management techniques. So they represent something else. And for having value, they need some collateral, they need something in their basket behind it, such that they can do that. There are different ways to do it. As I've shown you here, they have different advantages and disadvantages.
07:27:36.242 - 07:28:13.260, Speaker A: I think the most important here is that there needs to be a collateral. There are more decentralized techniques, like Dai and synthetix. They are more secure against bank grants. They come at a cost, for a higher, they need a higher collateralization. They need over collateralization. So the value of their collateral is higher than the value of the combined stablecoins, so to say. So you see, and also, what's very important here, there are many, many different types.
07:28:13.260 - 07:28:42.972, Speaker A: Many, many different stable coins in the world. So what is really important here, here is the second point I mentioned the first point already. They represent something else, they're not the original. The second point, basically that stablecoins are flexible assets that can be built by anyone. So there is competition among stablecoins. So we have a lot of stablecoin types. The one who is most demanded will win the race.
07:28:42.972 - 07:29:22.404, Speaker A: Basically they have. So also there are different types. So maybe it's not one stablecoin that winterizes, but multiple stablecoins that win the race, because they have different characteristics. As I said, for example, dai is very secure in that sense, maybe, and is decentralized. Maybe there are other people who want that in comparison to maybe tether or other stablecoins that have other advantages. And what is also important to consider, that stablecoins can be quickly adjusted. Basically that stablecoins can respond to changes in the competitive landscapes.
07:29:22.404 - 07:30:20.052, Speaker A: So let's have a look at the tether example. I use tether here because it's the most easy to explain, but it's similar arguments holds also for dai or tarot or synthetix. So what you have, basically, as I said, you have like the collateral that is used to give the stable coin the value. In this example we have like ten USD or this is like tetherworks. Just the numbers are not real. It's just examples we have like for example, the collateral that used is used to mint 100 stable coins is $10 in a bank account and $90 in government bonds, basically. So this ratio is more or less basically that's how they invest the collateral, basically.
07:30:20.052 - 07:31:24.748, Speaker A: So they do not hold everything. Tether doesn't hold everything in cash or in bank account, but cash or deposit money as well, but also in risk free assets. So these treasury bills that are shown here, this is basically the risk free asset that tether invests the money it receives. Because these 100 stablecoins that are minted are provided to the users who can then either conduct transactions or also invest, conduct transactions to exchange against other assets or buy goods and services. So they receive the stable coins, but they provide the cash, which is then invested by tether, basically, as I said. So what's interesting here is to see that basically when we've shown before the opportunity costs, inclusive risk, they go to the users. Basically the users, they pay in cash, but they don't get anything in return for that.
07:31:24.748 - 07:31:54.828, Speaker A: On the other hand, the interest payments from these treasury bills, because this risk free ask us customer interest, they go to tether. And that's basically what we also see. Like Tether reported a record breaking t 2.85 million profits last quarter. So tether made huge profits because interest rates increased. So it could gain a lot from the treasury bills and it kept it in for himself, basically. So it's not added to the collateral.
07:31:54.828 - 07:32:30.256, Speaker A: That's very important, or most of it. So now let's introduce the CBDCs. So the CBDCs are kind of similar. What we also have here is collateral. So usually central banks, they also have a collateral for their money that they issue so often. That is also treasury bills. We have gold, we have foreign currencies, we have bank claims.
07:32:30.256 - 07:32:52.944, Speaker A: So they give money to banks. So you know that maybe also, and basically these are claims. So they also have some sort of collateral. And on the other hand, banks then have cash. Very simplified, it's a little bit more complex, but have cash. And CBDCs is just a new form. So that is added to that right side.
07:32:52.944 - 07:33:24.354, Speaker A: Again, what happens is CBDCs. So the CBDCs are then distributed to either banks or users, depending a little bit on the form of the CBDCs. If we look at here, how is this is distributed? On the one hand you have just opportunity cost. This is inflation that many people claim about. So this is on the user side. The profits are usually held in reserve. Some are also paid out like in Switzerland.
07:33:24.354 - 07:34:12.458, Speaker A: The cantons get some of the profits, but most of it is basically hold in reserve. Okay, now look, now look, let's add the stable coins to the equation. And as you can see, or what is important here is now that basically the collateral of the stablecoins is somehow interconnected to the central bank. So the stablecoins represent basically the money from the central bank. That means anything that goes to the users must come somehow from the central bank in the beginning. So it's a way longer journey the red line than the green line. So there are way more risks associated with a stablecoin than with a CBDC.
07:34:12.458 - 07:34:55.806, Speaker A: And that's simply the case because the stablecoin just represents basically cash. Whereas the CBDC is more or less cash, digital cash. So important to note here, CBDCs are basically the original, the stablecoins are the copy. However, there are some advantages of stablecoins. I'm not going to tell you that stablecoins are going to diminish because CBDCs are very standardized assets and credit by central banks. So that means we have no competition, at least within a currency. There is maybe between currency competition, but let's keep it aside.
07:34:55.806 - 07:35:33.128, Speaker A: Within a currency. For the US dollar, if US would issue a CBDC, there would not be a second CBDC. So there is no competition amongst you. So it takes longer to adopt to changes in the competitive environment. And secondly, because it's issued by an institution, it takes much longer to react to outside to the environment. So as you can see, we have stable coins for many years. CBDCs, we are thinking about it, or governments are thinking about to launch cbdcs.
07:35:33.128 - 07:36:34.120, Speaker A: But there is not yet a stablecoin CBDC that there are pilots, but not as a mass product launched yet. So these are two distinct things basically, but have some main goals, namely payments. So let's talk a little bit about other payments forms so what we've seen since then, because the drawback of the current stablecoins, or basically, for example tether, is that they also have this negative effect of the opportunity costs. So they don't provide a return when you hold them. And with the increasing inflation, a new form of payment tokens arised. So these are for example flat coins, or they are so called flat coins. So their value is basically packed not to the US dollar or to another currency.
07:36:34.120 - 07:37:07.950, Speaker A: Their value is packed to the cost of living. So in the sense of when the living costs rise, their value will also increase. So there are two examples. The largest examples I know is fracs price index. So how they do it is basically the treasury. So who manages the collateral, invests it and is able with the returns of these investments, is able to basically increase the value of the, of the stable coin or of the flat coin. Then there are other examples.
07:37:07.950 - 07:37:56.052, Speaker A: So frax is more like dai or not dai, sorry, it's more like tether in the sense of that it's centrally managed, but it's still on the blockchain. So. Yeah, but then the other example is nuon, which is more like Dai. And this is basically decentralized and decentralized managed using exogenous assets. And here how it works. So these kind of stable coins, they work like that, that individuals can create these stable coins, but they have to provide the collateral and manage it. And if they do not manage the collateral and the collateral value decreases, they will be liquidated.
07:37:56.052 - 07:38:32.464, Speaker A: It's like a penalty for them. So they have an incentive to ensure that their collateral is sufficiently large. And they do it basically by enforcing or creating incentives to increase the collateral for the individuals. And if people do not follow this rule, then they will be liquidated. So both these, just to mention these flat coins, they exist, but they don't have. They are not used very, very much by the community yet. I don't know what the future looks like.
07:38:32.464 - 07:39:20.254, Speaker A: Then. What we also have is tokenized deposits, basically that are deposits. So they represent traditional bank deposits on a blockchain. So this is basically. So there are different systems that just go to the second system, which I think is more practical. What they do is they use the deposits as a collateral and then create stablecoins from that. The benefit from this system is basically that you can use the old, this can apply to the old system so that people can trade with this stablecoin, but the settlement is still made by the banks.
07:39:20.254 - 07:40:18.024, Speaker A: Here the fault is using cbdcs in the future. In this case also the users they receive some return on their deposits, so they don't lose value basically, or have this or less these costs of holding cash because they receive interest on their deposits. Maybe the interest is too low, but that's another question. So let's move on to tokenized real world assets. And I will bring here the example of a set for this Blackrock example of this fund that has recently been launched and attracted, I think, about more than 2300 million in the first days. So it's very successful launch and how it works. You see, it works very similar than tether.
07:40:18.024 - 07:40:49.564, Speaker A: On the one hand, we have the collateral, which is now tokenized. So the collateral also includes cash in bank account and risk free assets like treasury bills. There are also other instruments there. I'm not going to mention it's not complete, but for simplicity. And what you get then is a fraction of this tokenized asset. So in that sense, 100 biddle, they call it biddle. This is their token.
07:40:49.564 - 07:41:27.100, Speaker A: And one biddle is also worth exactly $1. So it's also kind of a stable coin. But now what here is interesting, we still have the opportunity costs on this $1, but interesting. And what's the difference between tether is basically that the interest payments, they are going now to the users because it's tokenized. Basically the collateral is tokenized and not. So it's clear that the interest payments also goes to the users. So it was a very nice move from Blackrock, because in the end, this is kind of a stable coin that pays out a dividend or an interest.
07:41:27.100 - 07:42:28.010, Speaker A: The question is whether they, or a little bit difficult is with a $1 whether that works or not. But as you can see here, they made a step forward and provided interests to the users. So which gives them an advantage against CBDCs, because CBDCs will never or not in the close future will give you any interest. It's worth noting that it's only open, as far as I know, to institutionals up to now, but there might be in the future also, or flat coins, deposit coins, something similar that gives rewards or interests to users. And yeah, this token, this build token, as I said, it's kind of closed form. It's on Ethereum, but you can only send it to pre approved investors. So basically it's in that sense closed.
07:42:28.010 - 07:43:22.330, Speaker A: So you need to be a preapproved investor to be able to redeem it. Okay, then, as I already talked to you a little bit about interactions, more on that. So basically we have the CBDCs. One note just to the real world assets, a stable coin in the end is also a real world asset. Because if you tokenize a dollar then, and just have the dollar as a collateral, then this is basically the same. This is a tokenized real world asset, but depends on what you tokenize and how, and whether the payments are also, or the interest also flow to one who holds the token. So we see basically there are multiple interactions.
07:43:22.330 - 07:44:35.374, Speaker A: So we see that tangible assets, or real world assets, they require stablecoins for payments of dividends and coupons. So there must be some interactions between these real world assets and stablecoins and CBDCs. Then what we also have is that, as I said previously, that stablecoins and CBDCs in Portugal, centralized stablecoins and CBDCs are in some competition with each other. And lastly, also that the tokenization of tangible assets increases the liquidity and decreases the need for cash. So if it's easier to trade with tokenized asset, with, for example, a treasury bill, then maybe I don't need to just convert it first to cash. Maybe I just can use the tokenized assets to conduct trades. So how's the future of stablecoins in a tokenized world look like? My personal view on it? So I assume the CBD will come because they're also in competition between the countries.
07:44:35.374 - 07:46:00.804, Speaker A: They might be not on public blockchains, but there certain derivatives of it. Also stablecoins, like then the stable coins, they will remain, particularly because they can innovate and innovation will lead to new forms. I assume that these new forms will provide some interest, basically to the users, to compensate for the opportunity costs. And as I said before, we might see risk free real world assets, such as treasury bills, to be used as means of payments. What beyond? So this is maybe something in ten years, we can look at five to ten years. What is beyond? What if the technology can increase liquidity and decrease transaction costs even more? Why to pay with cash at all? As I discussed before, why do we need some kind of cash if we can use the risk free asset? Maybe even more if we look at the example of the portfolio in the beginning. Why do you have to first convert, basically convert my portfolio a, or part of my portfolio a to cash.
07:46:00.804 - 07:47:00.674, Speaker A: And then the other person has to convert the cash he received back to the portfolio. Maybe in the future, in the far future, we will see some automatic conversions, so that we basically just allocate our wealth to our optimal portfolio. And when we buy something goods on the market, it basically will automatically conduct a payment and reallocate the assets so that the trade is then in the portfolio of balance. So we don't need this intermediary reform, but this is some kind of very far future, I think what is the point here is that I assume that the direct transfer of assets, real world assets, will become more important in the future also as means of a payment. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. That was it.
07:47:00.674 - 07:47:25.536, Speaker A: Thank you very much. Matthias Hafner, once again, put your hands together, please. We do not have the time, sadly, for the questions, which is no problem. Matthias will be also outside, if you like. And we are straightaway hopping on to the next. But the last panel, which is pretty much rhymes with the one which we heard. Now, next up on stage, we will have Niklas Kunkel.
07:47:25.536 - 07:47:59.174, Speaker A: He actually, we have been hearing about die. Okay. And Dai is actually the decentralized stablecoin of Ethereum. And I mean, Niklas is member of the founding team of Makerdao, who actually created that, and he co developed the first oracle on Ethereum. So next up, you'll hear about Rwas and if they are really the answer for the Defi boom and bust cycle, which we are experiencing. Next up, Nicholas on stage from chronic collabs. Thank you.
07:47:59.174 - 07:53:58.818, Speaker A: It's there must fundament it. So order. Can I know how do you make it? What's it come? Meanwhile, thanks for the patience. We're getting sorted a bit tech, but it's getting sorted. So you get the best experience with the slides. I mean, I can give the presentation without slides. Yeah, I mean, one you can start.
07:53:58.818 - 07:56:48.174, Speaker A: I mean, is there hope? Cool. Okay, let's get started. So I want to talk to you all about today. Is, are real world assets the answer to the defi kind of boom bust cycle? And what do I mean by that? Typically, what you see in DeFi is that revenue is generated from typically yield, and that is highly correlated with the volume that's being traded or the volume that's being borrowed. And so when we see kind of this ebb and flow of like, activity in Defi from the bull market to the bear market, we see this like, very, very volatile kind of graph of like, revenue generation, right? And this is a problem that I think young companies face, like, in many industries, but part of the maturation process is to start smoothing out that revenue so you have continuity of operations, because the last thing you want to do is hire 50 people, 100 people in the bull market, just to then have to let everybody go at the end and have this huge brain drain. So how do we get there? I kind of think real world assets are a significant piece to the puzzle here. And so I would like to take some time to tell you why I think that is and how you can kind of go about doing that yourselves.
07:56:48.174 - 07:57:17.386, Speaker A: So quick. Chill. About us, we're chronicle. We are an oracle protocol that spun out of Makerdao. Fun fact at Maker. We actually created the first oracle on Ethereum, live on Mainnet in May of 2017. And the reason we built this oracle was because at the time, there was no existing oracle solution.
07:57:17.386 - 07:57:51.210, Speaker A: So when we were trying to build Dai, we had to, like, before we could even start building Dai, we had to build out all of these other primary primitives first. So, you know, Maker created the first oracles on Ethereum. We created the first Dex on Ethereum. We created the first, like, solidity debugger. We actually just spent, like, the first 18 months not even actually working, like, writing a single line of dicode and just, like, building up, like, the infrastructure that we needed. And so oracles were a big piece of that. So.
07:57:51.210 - 07:58:37.322, Speaker A: So I want to talk about Maker a little bit. And so, to kind of get you guys up to speed, right? What does Makerdao do? Maker is a stablecoin protocol, right? We have a stablecoin called Dai. It's backed. It was originally backed by just Ethereum. Then a few years later, we added the ability to use multiple collateral types. Right? So you could start using all kinds of lido, staked ETH, or wrapped bitcoin, or even link tokens, whatever it is. But about two years ago, Maker took a pretty significant step and started using off chain collateral.
07:58:37.322 - 07:59:23.674, Speaker A: So assets that were not crypto native. And so here you can kind of see all this data on Makerburn.com. But what essentially this is, is showing, like, all of the revenue that makerdao makes from crypto collateral, right? And so you can see up here, right, there's, like, different types of vaults that have different loan to value ratios and different interest rates. And you can see on this column on the. On the far right, how many millions of dollars makers is making from that. So this screenshot is a little bit old. I think it's now up to, like, 200 million thereabouts.
07:59:23.674 - 08:00:41.614, Speaker A: And now let's take a look at the real world asset revenue. And so what do I mean when I say a real world asset? Because I feel like this is kind of like a meme that's thrown out. And, like, what is the tangible, actual asset that we're talking about here? Due to the increase of rates by central banks, treasury bills became extremely lucrative over the past couple of years, with most central banks having around between four, five and 6% rates. And from an investment point of view, this is essentially a risk free return, and maybe not as much as a potential equity return, but it's good enough for the safety that it provides. And so this was like the catalyst for RWAs taking off and really finding product market fit, because when markets are bullish, people want to lever up, and that generates a ton of, like, borrowing activity. But when markets are bearish, nobody wants leverage. When number goes down, there's barely any, like, borrowing activity.
08:00:41.614 - 08:01:35.544, Speaker A: The consistency of treasury bill revenue here is very, very significant. Right? So you can see here at the top right, we have monetales, Clydesdale, Block Tower, Andromeda, and Coinbase custody. Those are all essentially vehicles for holding short dated us treasury bills with kind of like rolling maturities. Like every month. There's even another one on here, HV Bank. HV bank is a smaller bank in east coast of the US that writes mortgage loans, and essentially maker is underwriting those mortgage loans. And we have a deal with the bank where the bank has to hold on to at least 50% of the exposure to that mortgage so they don't have moral hazard of just writing bad loans.
08:01:35.544 - 08:02:43.040, Speaker A: There's a couple ones on here, but I don't want to go into this too much, but there's essentially a plethora of opportunities here, all the way up and down the risk curve, from the safest thing, like treasury bills, all the way up to, to municipal bonds, corporate credit, structured products, whatever it is, and higher risk, higher yield. Lower risk, lower yield. So this is a graph of kind of like the distribution of the sources of revenue that Makerdao has had since its launch. In the blue here, this is revenue from crypto backed loans. And so you can see up until around like halfway through 2022, 100% of makers revenue came from these crypto backed loans. And then you see in the white, sorry, in the yellow, a little bit colorblind, you see in the yellow category marked public credit. And this is essentially the.
08:02:43.040 - 08:03:43.634, Speaker A: The predominantly the treasury bill revenue that maker is seeing. Right. And so maker has managed to, in around 18 months, really diversify its revenue stream, that it's not so dependent on this, like, boom bust nature of like, cyclical nature that we have in Defi. And so for those of you working in Defi, like here, or like, you know, innovating new things, I would encourage you to explore these opportunities, because even though it may sound more comfortable and easier to stick to crypto native, you're really leaving a lot of opportunity on the table by not exploring these other options, but with anything. It's not a free lunch. Right. Rwas add an enormous amount of complexity.
08:03:43.634 - 08:04:17.372, Speaker A: And so I think the way to sum it up is RWas are not crypto native. When you have a token on chain, you can immediately get the supply. You know who the holder is. Right. You know exactly how much they have. You can even query the price in a decentralized way. On chain, rwas don't have this because typically what you have on chain is not the RWA itself.
08:04:17.372 - 08:05:12.608, Speaker A: It's a representation of the RWA. And so this leads to a lot of problems when you're integrating an RWA that you don't really have with crypto, crypto native collateral. Because essentially, the way to think about the RWA token is it's a dummy token. It's just like an entry on your ledger. And so you require a lot of context and a lot of data, like metadata that corresponds to this RWA that you don't really need in that crypto native context. And so while the metadata for an RWA is going to be very unique to the type of that real world asset, I want to quickly touch on a non exhaustive list of, like, some of the factors and categories of data that you may want to consider. Right.
08:05:12.608 - 08:06:18.362, Speaker A: And so, for example, let's start with custody. So when you have a real world asset, it will be custodied in some kind of institution, right. And there are kind of various risk factors here, but typically, you want some kind of bank or some kind of trust that is the custodian of the asset. Right. And it's important, right. That you have some mechanism to determine and assert in real time, you know, how much of those assets are actually sitting there in custody, because, remember, what you have on chain is just a dummy token. And so that dummy token could be completely worthless if there's not sufficient amount of assets in custody, or it could be one to one, but you need to have real time data kind of asserting what's actually there in the real world.
08:06:18.362 - 08:07:27.342, Speaker A: So we have a mirror image representation of that on the crypto side. Let's talk about liquidity. I think in crypto, we get really wrapped up in, oh, this is the price of the asset. And I think a gentleman from chain security yesterday was talking about Oracle as Defi, I think, summed it up really well that we shouldn't think about price as, like, a static number. We should think about price in the context of how many tokens y can I get if I sell x amount of tokens on the market? And so it is a price with the context of liquidity, because you can have a very high price with very low liquidity. And if you were to sell 100,000, 500,000, a million dollars into that market, you will have a drastically different price impact depending on the liquidity. And so with real world assets, some of them are extremely liquid, right.
08:07:27.342 - 08:07:52.912, Speaker A: You know, I mentioned treasury bills earlier. Treasury bills are one of the most liquid markets in the world, but others are extremely illiquid. Right? They may not even be publicly traded. They may only trade in, like, dark pool. Some of them are never traded. They're just held until maturity. It's not as simple as just, oh, here is the price of this RWA.
08:07:52.912 - 08:08:27.144, Speaker A: Let's bring that on chain. And now people can borrow against that RWA. The liquidity and the discounted pricing as a factor or function of liquidity is extremely important. Counterparty risk. Right. Let's kind of talk about, like, how rwas are structured. And while it's a very young market at the moment, and where there's very little standardization of how you legally actually structure one of these.
08:08:27.144 - 08:09:38.944, Speaker A: I want to delve into one example using maker to kind of give you a sense of, like, what are the different actors involved here and how do they all interact? So in the maker kind of structure, what you typically have is you have a trust, and the beneficiary of that trust is the maker protocol itself. And essentially, this trust, in its bylaws, essentially can only execute instructions that are given to it by maker governance. So maker governance has to do a vote, and the trust can only do anything if maker gives it instructions. Next to the trust, you will have some kind of broker, because someone has to go and purchase and sell these securities. Next to the broker, you'll have a custodian, because the broker then needs to put those assets in custody on behalf of the trust. The trust can own the assets, but it can't custody them themselves. And then even next to the custodian, you may want to have an auditor.
08:09:38.944 - 08:11:09.692, Speaker A: And so an auditor checking that the assets that the custodian has in custody are actually custody there and are actually what they claim to have in custody. And so when you're thinking of, like, this data, you have to think about, well, how am I going to get that data? And I think it's a trap to say, like, oh, well, like, I'll just go to the custodian and I'll just check what's in custody? Or, oh, I'll just go to the broker and ask them, like, what did you buy and sell? Or, oh, I'll just go to the trust and be like, hey, trustee, what instructions did you give to, like, you know, for people to do right? Or even the auditor? And the problem here is that each of these actors have moral hazard. They have moral hazard in the sense that if maker stops providing credit, then they stop making money. So there is an incentive for them to fib or stretch the truth or lie, if you will. And so the only way that you can really start to build up confidence on chain in a snapshot of what the state of the real world is, is by starting to have composability of all of these different counterparties. Right. And so what do I mean by that? Well, it would mean you don't just trust the custodian.
08:11:09.692 - 08:11:45.070, Speaker A: You don't just trust the trustee. You don't just trust the broker. You don't just trust the auditorium. You only trust them when they all have symmetry. And so what I mean by symmetry is, well, maker governance, right? Sends money to the trust and gives them instructions, hey, buy 50 million of short dated us treasuries, the trust will acknowledge that they received those instructions, that they sent the money to the broker, and that they relayed those instructions to the broker, and then they will attest, they will sign with their key. Right. You know, this is what's going in.
08:11:45.070 - 08:11:59.862, Speaker A: This is what's going out. You do the same thing with the broker. The broker says, I received these instructions and this amount of money from the trust. This is what we did. We bought XYZ. We bought, you know, Xyz two, we bought Xyz three. We have this amount.
08:11:59.862 - 08:12:43.844, Speaker A: This is the nav, this is the yield, this is the duration, right? And then we sent it to the custodian. And so you do this for every actor. In, out, in, out, in, out. And so only when you have complete symmetry of all this information can you say with high confidence, okay, it's highly likely that they're not all colluding together. And so you can say with a fairly high degree of confidence, yes, like the protocol can lend against this at this rate, because this is what's happening in the real world. And so the last thing I want to talk about is yield. A lot of these real world assets are yield bearing.
08:12:43.844 - 08:13:53.254, Speaker A: That's why a DeFi protocol would want to extend credit to a real world asset. It wants to make money. So if maker now loans half a billion dollars to some entity to buy t bills? Well, it's because Makerdao wants to make t bill yield. But from the protocol perspective, the protocol has no idea how much yield it's generating on particular real world asset number one, on particular real world asset number two, on particular real world asset number three. So the protocol is kind of like blind, right? And this kind of goes into the discrepancy between crypto native and non crypto native, where in a crypto native sense, the protocol has complete omnipotence over, okay, what is the yield, what is the price, what is the liquidity? And in an RWA context, it doesn't have that. And so yield is an incredibly important part. And so let me describe to you a context in which an oracle could delivering all this data, what kind of utility it provides, provides to your protocol.
08:13:53.254 - 08:14:58.974, Speaker A: So let's assume that maker has 200 million in RWA number, 1300 million in RWA number two, and 400 million in RWA number three. The protocol wants to optimize the yield it's generating. Well, using oracles, it now has the insight into knowing that, oh, well, it's generating 3% on number one, you know, 4% on number two, two, and only 1% on number three. And so the protocol can now, in an automated fashion, right, reallocate credit from the, you know, RWA number three that it has $400 million in, automatically send those instruct, sign those instructions and send them to the trust to execute the appropriate sales, receive the money, and then reallocate that to, you know, the other RWA bucket that's higher yielding. Right. So the protocol can now effectively automate its management of credit and optimize yield. You can talk about jurisdictional exposure management.
08:14:58.974 - 08:15:51.196, Speaker A: Maybe the protocol doesn't want to have all of its eggs in one basket and it wants a diversity of exposure between the US and Singapore and London and Hong Kong, Dubai. Right. And it can notice, oh, well, right now we have 35% exposed to the US. We want to get that down to around 22% and do this automated rebalancing in this manner. There could be other factors. So in Makerdao, the dipeg is stabilized or the hard peg is reinforced by a swap facility called the peg stability module, or PSM for short. And all it essentially is, is a smart contract that has a bunch of USDC or other stablecoins in it.
08:15:51.196 - 08:16:49.500, Speaker A: That smart contract will let you redeem dai one for one. So if you give it a dai, it could give you a USDC, or if you give it a USDC, it will give you a DAi. And this is why what reinforces Dai's hard peg. But when that liquidity starts to run low, right, when you don't have 500 million of liquidity in the PSM anymore, when you only have 50 million, the dipeg is under threat because as soon as that contract runs out of stable coins, well, now no one can redeem a dai for a dollar stablecoin anymore. And so the problem you're going to have is that now the die peg can like drift below a dollar, because in the previous scenario, if the die peg ever drifted below a dollar, let's say it goes to $0.98, you could just buy a die for $0.98, go to the swap facility, get one USDC out in exchange for your die, and sell your USDC for a dollar.
08:16:49.500 - 08:17:58.026, Speaker A: And you just made a two cent arbitrage. And so the liquidity level in this contract, right, is an extremely important factor for stabilizing the dipeg and making sure that investors have confidence that that peg is going to hold. And so what you can do with this automation is say, well, the protocol sees that liquidity is going low. Great, let's automatically recall 200 million of liquidity from an RWA in order to replenish that liquidity in that peg stability module contract. But which RWA is it going to pull from? Right. Oh, well, the one that's generating the lowest yield or the one that has the lowest discount to par because there's a duration mismatch in terms of liquidity, or the one that's in a jurisdiction that currently the protocol has too much exposure in. Right.
08:17:58.026 - 08:18:56.534, Speaker A: And so I know that this has kind of been like very specific to maker, but I also think that maker is kind of like a pioneer in this sense. And so I think it's not just going to be maker doing this. I think it's going to be maker kind of trailblazing that these are the opportunities. And this is like how you can actually scale your revenue and diversify your revenue streams using these RWA integrations and serving as example for the rest of Defi, kind of innovating further. And I hope what you take away from this talk is that one rwas are extremely important. They're not going to go away. I think we can argue about whether RWA is an appropriate term or if we should just use the normal finance word, which is securitization.
08:18:56.534 - 08:19:59.994, Speaker A: But I also hope you take away, right, that there are complexities that come with integrating these rwas that you don't have with crypto native assets, and that they're extremely important that you handle them in an appropriate, risk managed way. And third, that oracles are an instrumental piece of making this whole system work because they are essentially the glue that binds the real traditional finance world to the DeFi world. And it's only going to be in conjunction of everyone working together from the defi space to the oracle space to the traditional finance space, that we as an industry are kind of going to take this next step in our maturity. So thank you very much. That's it for me today. If you're interested in Chronicle, you can follow us on Twitter chronicle labs. We also have an active discord chat, dot chroniclelabs.org.
08:19:59.994 - 08:20:48.474, Speaker A: And if you just want to play around with our protocol, we have an amazing dashboard that I highly encourage you to check out@chroniclelabs.org. Dashboard thank you very much. Thanks. Thanks, Nick. Given your last presenter, we have the chance to, despite running a bit over with the tech problems, it's not on you at all. Does anybody have questions to chronicle to the, what has been said by Nick? Here we go. I think it's not switched on yet.
08:20:48.474 - 08:21:23.900, Speaker A: How about now? All right, well, thanks a lot for the presentation. Very insightful. Real estate has been perhaps the first real world asset that has been tokenized. But the issue in the past was that it wasn't liquid. And you mentioned that during the talk. So how do you think we can make it happen this time and whether oracles can play a role there? What's your take? So, I mean, I think you touched on something very important. Right.
08:21:23.900 - 08:21:52.210, Speaker A: Real estate liquidity is a primary concern because you can't just go sell a house immediately. Right. So it's quite risky from, like, credit perspective. Right. There's also complexities of, you know, how does a protocol evaluate any single kind of mortgage? But I think there's already a solution for this. Right. Which is reits.
08:21:52.210 - 08:22:41.440, Speaker A: Right. Which is essentially indexes of real estate. Right. While there is some distribution of different properties of the mortgages in AREIT, you can say that overall they have the following profile, and you can map that credit profile accordingly. So I don't think that there's any reason why DeFi can't extend credit to get real estate exposure. I think it would probably be another way to diversify revenue because between crypto and t bills, you're not completely diversified. It works extremely well right now because monetary policy rates are high.
08:22:41.440 - 08:23:14.244, Speaker A: But imagine a scenario where you're in a recession and rates go to zero. Right. The Fed is central banks are trying to fight the recession they lower rates to zero. Well, now, neither your treasury bills are generating revenue, nor are you getting crypto loan revenue, because nobody wants leverage to go long in a recession, right. And so real estate could be a really great asset, right, that could generate returns. Right, in that type of environment. Right? Or maybe it's commodities, right.
08:23:14.244 - 08:23:45.410, Speaker A: I don't really see, like blockers to doing any of this. I don't think it's a technology problem. I think it's like a coordination problem where you just need to get all the right people working together to make this happen. Right. Because as we see, like in the art in the t bill scenario, right. This is not just maker doing it by themselves, right? It's maker with, you know, using custodian, with using an auditor, you know, with using a broker. Broker like block tower, right.
08:23:45.410 - 08:24:46.250, Speaker A: There's a lot of different actors here, and there's a lot of complexity, and it requires like a village to execute on one of these opportunities. So I think it's just going to expand, expand, expand, expand. And I think that as the size of DeFi grows and as it becomes a more prominent part of not just magnitude of credit in DeFi, but when the magnitude of credit in DeFi becomes a significant part relative to the global availability of credit, that's going to be a big driver of this kind of fusion or interoperability between traditional finance and decentralized finance. I'm of the opinion that eventually everything will get tokenized. Everything that can be tokenized will be tokenized on the traditional asset side. Thanks very much. Any further questions, potentially up there.
08:24:46.250 - 08:25:39.238, Speaker A: Let me jump up there, man. That's my best print. That's a lot of stuff. Hello. Is it fair to say that you act similar to a hedge fund? When prices go up, you capture the profits, and when prices go down, the stablecoin deepaks. Let's see, does like maker specifically? I don't think so, because, so here there are two types of credit in maker. So when you interact with the maker protocol, when you go lock up an ETH, right, we can't touch your ETH.
08:25:39.238 - 08:26:48.590, Speaker A: We can't do anything with it. It's like actually an escrow, and only you can get it back when you repay the loan, or the protocol can seize it when the loan becomes under collateralized. So we can't re hypothecate user collateral. But maker can extend credit in additional areas and essentially do say, okay, we extend this unsecured credit line to purchase assets that then collateralize the initial DAI credit line that was extended and so that is the protocols prerogative to manage. And I think a good example of this is like what we saw in the past week with Athena, right? Athena is doing something quite innovative, which is basically saying people in a bull market will pay stupidly high funding rates to go long as much as like 50, 60%. And to people who are not used to trading perpetuals, that sounds too good to be true. It sounds insane.
08:26:48.590 - 08:27:34.408, Speaker A: I think the comparison is like, oh, terra Luna was 20% and this is 50%. So this must be crazy risky. No, like, it's just a function of bull markets will always have people willing to pay 50% funding rates to get leverage, right. Because there seems to be this asymmetric upside, right, if the market is trending up even when you're paying those funding rates. So I think it's completely right for maker to extend credit, right. To be able to essentially follow that, what's called like a cash carry trade. And essentially what maker is doing is they're saying, hey, look, we're going to cede dai liquidity, or, you know, as a credit line into morpho and Athena stakers.
08:27:34.408 - 08:28:40.246, Speaker A: So essentially, people holding the Athena stablecoin who are staking it can then use that staked Athena as collateral for borrowing dai. And since the stakers of Athena are making, you know, 40, 50, 60%, I don't know what the exact number is right now. That means that they are willing to pay extremely high borrow rates for DAi to leverage up on that yield, right? So if you can get, you know, two x leverage, and you are making, you know, 40%, great, now you're making 80%. How much, you know, off that extra 40% that you're making, are you willing to pay to borrow Dai to get that leverage in the first place? Well, the answer seems to be like, basically all of it. People will be willing to pay 30% rates on borrowing DAi in order to generate 40% rates on the funding carry trade. I think exposure management is extremely relevant in this context. Right.
08:28:40.246 - 08:29:39.598, Speaker A: Which is why maker extended, right, 1st, 100 million. And then ultimately, after getting more assurances from the Athena side of the tranching of kind of insurance, establishing that 600 million was a viable position to have, even with complete risk of loss. 600 million sounds like a very big number. But in the context of the total dye supply and total collateralization of the protocol, given the insurance buffer that maker has of, like, I think, 75 million, given the insurance buffer that Athena has of, I forget what the exact number is, but it's also in the low tens of millions, I think somewhere below 50 million. And then looking at well, how much revenue is being generated off of this. Well off of a 600 million credit line makers generating 200 million. Right.
08:29:39.598 - 08:30:05.744, Speaker A: So even with complete risk of loss, like Maker's not going to go insolvent. Right. Covering this position. And there's no loss of like user funds if the position blows up. So I think it's quite maligned as being like risk irresponsible. But I really don't see it that way. If you actually look at what the risk teams like chaos labs and, and block Analytica have said.
08:30:05.744 - 08:30:37.344, Speaker A: There's actually an exmaker guy works at Steakhouse now called Sebastian on Twitter. He has a great report of the financial model that was used to arrive at the exact amount of credit extended. Great. If there is one more. Ok, but let's take it, try to take it short. But I mean, I think there's a lot to unpack here. You go ahead.
08:30:37.344 - 08:31:11.088, Speaker A: Thank you. So touching on the discrepancy of yields in the, in a bull market versus in a bear market. Let's say the scenario that you touched on before is the case where we have a recession and rates are cut, which would mean that rates or yields from t bills and stuff are also low. Absolutely. How would it then counteract the cyclicality in DeFi when you. So I think it's the onboarding of additional types of assets. Right.
08:31:11.088 - 08:31:25.162, Speaker A: So you can. Right. There's alternative asset classes. Right. Like we touched on with this gentleman talking about real estate, commodities, even within the credit markets. Right. You can step out on the yield curve.
08:31:25.162 - 08:31:54.854, Speaker A: Right. And take up more risky sides of things. Right. So for example, instead of treasury bills. Right. Corporate credit in a recession still has fairly high yields because even though the funding for credit is cheap, the ultimate risk of corporate credit in a recession is higher. So there's still kind of credit available as you go out on the risk curve.
08:31:54.854 - 08:32:16.182, Speaker A: I think it's just at that point it becomes a question of just kind of exposure management. Right. That you don't go like to Degen. Right. Like you can go from, instead of treasury bills to municipal bonds or from municipal bonds to corporate credit or from corporate credit to more exotic kind of structured products. Right. But the idea is.
08:32:16.182 - 08:32:42.556, Speaker A: Right. That you're not over allocated to any particular one. Okay. Thank you. Okay. So with that, I think we stopped grilling you, Nick, and thanks very much for being available and thanks for everybody staying so long. And put your hands together to Nicholas from Chronicle once more and also for the tech team solving the issues and we're wishing you a nice evening.
08:32:42.556 - 08:32:54.464, Speaker A: And tomorrow I'll not be around. I'm Benedek. Thanks very much for having us today and see you in the evening. Couple of side events ongoing. Some crazy ones, some more moderate ones. See you tomorrow at the conference. Whoever is coming.
08:32:54.464 - 08:33:08.364, Speaker A: Thanks very much. Have a nice evening. Thank you. It.
