00:00:00.170 - 00:00:46.810, Speaker A: We think one of the most interesting pieces that falls out of this now is you're not only creating a synthetic dollar out of those two things, netting off by putting up the staked ETH collateral and hedging on the other side, you've actually got two forms of crypto native yield that are now being tokenized into a single instrument. You've got the staked ETH returns, which obviously is fueling a lot of the economy that you see within DeFi. Now you've actually got an entirely new source of yield, and it's enormous, which is the basis within the futures market on centralized exchanges. And on average, that market is paying usually 8% from longs to shorts. So the size of that cash flow from just being on the short side of the derivative market within centralized exchanges is actually larger than the staked ETH yield that you see coming out of places like Lido. Staked ETH.
00:00:48.830 - 00:01:40.620, Speaker B: Hey everyone, welcome to the Edge podcast. I'm Defi dad here with nomadic from four RC. Today's show Spotlights Athena, which aims to offer a stable, value accruing scalable, USD denominated instrument they refer to as the Internet bond Athena. The protocol takes decentralized collateral, currently in the form of Steth by Lido, combined with a short ETH futures position of the same notional to create a synthetic digital dollar position with an embedded yield. The embedded yield is sourced from staked ETH returns, alongside the funding earned from being short ETH futures. In this episode, we'll discuss the enormous opportunity to build this asset on Ethereum, and, if it works as designed, how it will enable anyone with an Internet connection to access a permissionless dollar denominated savings instrument that is censorship resistant. But before we do, just a quick word from our sponsors who make the edge podcast possible.
00:01:40.620 - 00:02:19.510, Speaker B: For most of us, our crypto journey started with Metamask, and now with Metamask portfolio, we can do so much more. Metamask portfolio puts you in control. Use the dashboard to see all your assets and balances across your wallets in one place. The buy feature allows us to buy crypto assets effortlessly with fiat options such as PayPal or credit card. The swap feature allows us to swap any tokens anytime by finding a selection of available rates. The bridge feature allows us to bridge between networks, including Ethereum, L ones and L two s, based on the best price and fastest delivery time. And with the stake feature, anyone in a few clicks can stake ETH and earn rewards.
00:02:19.510 - 00:02:37.338, Speaker B: Do more in web three your way with a safe, simple and convenient tool that's all in one place. Track and manage your web three everything at Metamask IO portfolio Mike, before we get back to the show, can you explain what is liquid restaking?
00:02:37.514 - 00:03:20.538, Speaker C: Everybody at this point is familiar with liquid staking. It lets you take your staked ETH mint, a liquid staking token, and then use that token in defi. Well, the hottest thing in staking right now is restaking. It's the ability to reuse your staked ETH to provide Ethereum's trust layer to other services that want to benefit from it, services like data availability layers, oracle networks, other blockchains, and beyond. The benefit of restaking is that you get to earn additional staking rewards on top of your normal staking rewards. Well, currently, if you want to restake your ETH, your only option is to lock up your ETH. The reason that's a problem is because you can't use your restaked ETH.
00:03:20.538 - 00:03:46.626, Speaker C: In DeFi, we are launching ETH, the Etherfi liquid restaking token, because with liquid restaking, users get the benefit of staking rewards restaking rewards, and they get to collect loyalty points for Etherfi and Eigen layer through this token. So it's the easiest way to get exposure to two up and coming early protocols, and on top of that, get all the benefits of staking and restaking.
00:03:46.738 - 00:03:52.440, Speaker B: To learn more about ETH, liquid staking and liquid restaking, go to ether five.
00:03:54.490 - 00:04:36.050, Speaker D: It all started so simply with cryptokitties and maker on Ethereum, but quickly became complex with more applications and many chains. Today, everyone agrees UX issues are the biggest blocker standing in the way of crypto adoption. Introducing avocado multichain UX. Redesigned from the ground up. The first wallet to abstract networks, accounts and gas. One gas tank to pay transaction fees on all chains in USDC and native access to instadap's powerful custom defi strategies. Avocado one wallet to rule all chains.
00:04:36.490 - 00:05:09.118, Speaker B: Let'S introduce the CEO and founder of Athena Labs, Guy Young. Prior to Athena, Guy spent nearly a decade working in the traditional finance industry across investment banking, hedge funds and private equity firms, and most recently as the head of principal investments at a $50 billion investment fund. At that fund, he led the firm's expansion into australian markets and oversaw strategic investments across banking, specialty finance, insurance, fintech and more. On that note, Guy, welcome to the Edge podcast. How are you doing?
00:05:09.204 - 00:05:10.894, Speaker A: Good, thanks guys. Thanks for having me on.
00:05:10.932 - 00:05:29.858, Speaker B: Guy, why don't we start with a little bit more about your background. I know you have some very grassroots background in terms of DFI. So we'd love to just talk a bit more about what got you into crypto and DFI and what got you to start working on the idea behind Athena.
00:05:29.954 - 00:06:27.462, Speaker A: Yeah, it was actually back in 2019, I had a friend who's a DFI founder, and he introduced me straight to DFI. My first exploration into crypto wasn't actually just buying BTC and E on a centralized exchange in 2017, like most people. It was actually just straight into synthetics, make a dow, those type of protocols before D by summer actually kicked off. And, yeah, it was basically just doing that on the side of my day job while working at a hedge fund, as you mentioned at the beginning. And that was all the way through until 2022, when Luna collapsed. And really, the inspiration behind what we're doing at Athena came about through a blog post that Arthur came out with just after Luna had collapsed. And in that piece, he sort of outlined how he thought about a scalable crypto native stablecoin that could sort of grow and actually provide the space and alternative which was untethered from the fiat banking system.
00:06:27.462 - 00:07:18.898, Speaker A: I think one key piece about what he was outlining in his piece, and I think it's something that we can obviously jump into in terms of just think about what that actually means to be decentralized, was that actually you're not trying to create something that is perfectly decentralized. I think it's a word that we sort of throw around quite a bit with really broad definitions and never really being clear about what we actually mean with that term. He more narrowly sort of defined that as we needed to remove collateral from within the banking system into our own ecosystem. And that doesn't necessarily mean you have everything that's totally run within DFI. I really look at the stablecoin landscape and see only one solution, which I think is purely decentralized, and I think that's to liquidate. And we sort of look at that. I think the market cap is around $200 million at the moment, versus $80 billion for tether.
00:07:18.898 - 00:07:34.938, Speaker A: And I think the market has sort of spoken that, yes, there might be important qualities to having something that is purely decentralized, but there's actually a really interesting middle ground between that type of trade off and pure centralization like tether, where we think there's a very interesting market opportunity to go and capture.
00:07:35.034 - 00:08:16.390, Speaker B: You started to talk through, I think, the importance of the buzword decentralization, and I think for us, it means censorship, resistance. So we've started to cover ground there about what's important. It's a trait that's very important to users, but liquidity is probably more important than anything, I think, to the average user. So maybe we could start to talk through the landscape of other stablecoin designs that will inform us as to why you're building Athena, or if you prefer it, love to talk through the stablecoin trilemma.
00:08:16.470 - 00:09:07.654, Speaker A: Yeah, I think we can sort of COVID both, I guess, in the same response. I think the landscape you can sort of categorize, I think, in four different buckets at the moment. So you've got one, which is just the purely centralized stablecoins, like USDT and USDC, they clearly have a bit of the market that they dominate now. And I sort of struggle to see any new competitors are coming in there and actually capturing share from them. They're obviously just incumbents who had a head start against everyone else have grown that network effect that you described with liquidity. And actually it allows them to capture most of the yield that they generate to themselves because of those network effects that they've accrued through liquidity. I think that that leads in quite nicely to something that looks a bit more similar, but I guess different in terms of its economics, which is the new crop of RWA type stablecoins.
00:09:07.654 - 00:10:22.706, Speaker A: So the basic idea here is that whether bonds sitting within an SB or a bank, and you start to share some of that yield with users within Defi. I think these are interesting products for users. It's fundamentally a very useful thing, right, that people all over the world can get access to what I think is one of the most important savings instruments on earth, which is basically just hold your money and dollars and get a yield. It's a very basic product, but it's actually one of the most important products, I think, for people who live on the fringes of the financial system, outside of the US. I think my concern around RWAS, and specifically why I personally am not spending my time building within that space, is sort of threefold. First one is a around the regulation, which is, I think it's quite easy to agree between ourselves that it's probably one of the most sensitive financial assets on earth, like the US treasury, and taking that and putting it in permissionless systems, I think you can get away with it at some scale and size. But beyond a certain point, I think someone does look at that and sort of question whether it's okay with the US government that basically anyone all over the world can access our yield from a curve call, basically.
00:10:22.706 - 00:11:31.426, Speaker A: So I think that there's sort of two paths of these RWA stablecoins go down. One is either like fully regulated, fully KYC'd, and it can't actually be used permissionlessly through DeFi, or you're going to find others who sort of push the boundary there, I think, and start to export it fully through DeFi, which is personally something which I think you can get away with at a smaller scale. But I sort of have question marks around how large those things can grow without causing issues. I think the other piece around RWAs is just thinking about from the issuer's perspective, how much are you making as a protocol and how much can you actually extract from that? So if you think about what the process is there of bringing bonds on chain, it is by definition delivering beta, right? You're taking the most commoditized asset on earth and delivering it through a DFI. And the question is, how much can you extract as a protocol from providing that product? Right. What you've seen with a lot of these protocols which are delivering RWAS on chain is that they can only really extract around 20 basis points off that five and a half percent yield at the moment. And so the scale that you need to be operating to make that, like, a viable, call it, venture back sort of outcome is absolutely enormous.
00:11:31.426 - 00:12:27.718, Speaker A: You need to be, like north of $20 billion in size for any amount of fees to make sense for that type of product. And I think my question is more, is it going to be your startup which is bringing in RWA on chain, which is going to get to $20 billion in size? Or is it going to be someone like Franklin Templeton, who's got the distribution, they've got the brand, and they're there doing the same thing on chain right now. So, yeah, I think the views on RWAS is, I think these are useful products for consumers. I just have questions around the regulation and how much the actual protocols themselves can actually extract from delivering that product. And I think the other bucket is CDP designs, which you've seen in different flavors through time. Originally, Makerdao was sort of the most well known and largest of those. So you're over collateralizing the stablecoin with ETH or other crypto assets, and then you're borrowing against that to bring the stablecoin into existence.
00:12:27.718 - 00:12:56.974, Speaker A: I think it's something that you touched on in the beginning, which is that's an inherently unscalable model, because it's sort of tied to the demand for leverage on the asset that you're providing within that system. And so I think makers obviously grown to a reasonable size, but it's just a pretty tough market to be competing on, where I think there's quite a few protocols providing the same sort of product at the moment. And I think you do hit natural ceilings of scale when you're trying to deliver that as a staple. Quiet.
00:12:57.022 - 00:13:55.414, Speaker B: I think for a while, the liquidity model, and any sort of fork of that too, was rightfully receiving a lot of praise. During the bear market, we were seeing all the different stablecoin designs collapse. But, man, as someone who is an advocate of liquidity and have used it a lot myself, I was even caught off guard by all the redemptions that happen. So crypto seems to always find a way to test every vector that is out there to bring a protocol to its knees, and liquidity will be fine, liquidity v one will survive it. They have already, I'd say. But yeah, that was sort of another wake up call to a market condition that I don't think folks quite expected. So I think, actually, the takeaway from all of this is there are trade offs to whatever design.
00:13:55.414 - 00:14:23.230, Speaker B: And I do think that scalability is a really important quality that we're all seeking out in this next bull run. Anyways, this kind of leads, I guess, into what you're building with Athena and why you're choosing the protocol design that you've chosen. So maybe we could start to talk a bit more about that, or introduce Athena and how it actually works.
00:14:23.380 - 00:15:30.138, Speaker A: Yeah, sure. So, at a very basic level, what we're doing is taking staked ETH collateral and using that as the spot leg of a transaction to take out a hedge on the other side that can be using perpetual futures or dated futures as well. And the basic idea here is that if you're delta hedging the collateral, you only need to put in $1 to create $1 synthetic dollar on the other side. I think what's particularly interesting about what you can do now with staked Ethereum, which was uniquely enabled by Chappella at the beginning of this year, is that you actually have a positive yield now to the spot leg of that transaction. So the original idea that this was based on was from that Arthur Hayes piece that I described, where bitcoin was on one side of that transaction and obviously had no yield. We think one of the most interesting pieces that falls out of this now is you're not only creating a synthetic dollar out of those two things, netting off by putting up the staked ETH collateral and hedging on the other side you've actually got two forms of crypto native yield that are now being tokenized into a single instrument. You've got the staked ETH returns, which obviously is fueling a lot of the economy that you see within DeFi.
00:15:30.138 - 00:16:24.870, Speaker A: Now you've actually got an entirely new source of yield, and it's enormous, which is the basis within the futures market on centralized exchanges. So just to give you some perspective on the size of that market and the size of that yield, the derivative market now for BTC and ETH is just over $20 billion. And on average, that market is paying usually 8% from longs to shorts. So the size of that cash flow from just being on the short side of the derivative market with centralized exchanges is actually larger than the staked ETH yield that you see coming out of places like Lido staked ETH. And if you really think about how much has been built on chain and the economy that exists around just that one single source of yield that's living on chain, we think it's quite interesting to be able to import that new enormous and scalable form of cash flow on chain and then start to bring new products that you can build upon of that within defi as well.
00:16:24.940 - 00:17:02.770, Speaker E: Guy, I want to talk about something I read in one of your blogs. I can't remember which one it was, but it was this idea of recent developments in off exchange secured custody accounts. So I guess it's some way of tapping into centralized exchange liquidity, but not actually having the funds custodied on the exchange. This is something new to me, and I think it's kind of a critical point in how you stay, I guess, somewhat decentralized while still tapping into this exchange liquidity. So if you can break this down for us, that'd be great.
00:17:02.840 - 00:17:43.466, Speaker A: Yeah, sure thing. So, as you pointed out, it's been a pretty recent development since FTX, and it was actually, FTX was sort of the inspiration for why we felt like this was a necessary thing to actually pursue within the product design itself. So, as you guys will know, outside of crypto, this is absolutely the norm, which is separating custody, execution, and settlement into different functions. That is how traditional market structures work. And actually having all of those things together within crypto is an anomaly rather than what should be considered normal. And so what we've seen since FTX is custodians, which just provide custody solutions. So these are not exchanges.
00:17:43.466 - 00:18:53.638, Speaker A: It's guys like institutional grade custodians, like copper fireblocks, those type of entities where you can hold the assets within the custodian. You have a tripartite agreement between the client, the custodian, and the exchange, and you can hold the assets there outside of the centralized surface of exchanges and use them as collateral to take our positions on the exchanges. What that unlocks, as you say, is, we think, a really interesting middle ground between DeFI and CFI, where, yes, it's absolutely not perfectly decentralized. You are putting trust into these institutions that are going to be custodying your assets in a correct way. But what that doesn't look for us is actually the transparency, which is what we wanted to actually preserve within the design, which is you can see the collateral there, you can make sure it's not being rehypothecated for other uses, like you saw with FTX. And you know that the credit exposure that you have to exchanges has been reduced massively because the assets are sitting outside of the exchange and within the custodian. So for us, that was a huge piece, which is if an exchange goes down on the other side, you have that collateral which you can give back to the user, and you can provide the transparency that we sort of want to see within on chain stablecoins itself.
00:18:53.638 - 00:20:09.870, Speaker A: So, yeah, that was a pretty huge for us to think about, providing that connective issue between DeFI and CFI. And yeah, I just want to be open and honest with anyone who's listening and the users that you are putting your trust assumption that these custodians will be doing their job to look after your assets. But what I would say is that we can talk about perfectly trustless execution within DeFi, but fundamentally, you are putting your trust in someone when you're putting your money in a smart contract. Because I think even me, as someone here who's trying to develop an application itself, I'm not checking absolutely every line of code down to the compiler level within every single contract that you interact with, there's some base level of trust that you're putting in the team, the auditors, the backer of that team, and yes, you can actually go in and check things. I think if we look at the history of Defi in the last three years, there's been more than $7 billion of lost assets within smart contract hats. And most of the custodians that you're sort of dealing with here very rarely lose any money for their users. So I think just from like, an empirical perspective, looking back on time, if you said, where is it safer to have your money, an institutional grade custodian or a smart contract, the answer is a custodian.
00:20:09.870 - 00:20:26.842, Speaker A: And so, yes, I think it sort of goes back to that pragmatic point that you're making, which is you do put your trust into something, but I think we look at the data and say it's a pretty reasonable place to put your trust versus a centralized exchange, which we thought was an interesting middle wrap.
00:20:26.926 - 00:21:10.834, Speaker E: Yeah, and I think what you just walked us through is a very pragmatic approach, and it's something like we're seeing industry veterans kind of land on as well. With Kane doing Infinex, we talked a little bit about blast just in the opening, but I almost want you to kind of walk through what you just described and then frame it with what we're seeing. With Blast, we're seeing that I think it's up to like 500 million in TVL, and we don't really know who's fully behind it, who's on the multi sig. It's like a one way bridge at this point. It's a smart contract. I don't even know if there's a test net for the l two up and running. Maybe kind of frame your approach with what you're seeing in blast right now.
00:21:10.952 - 00:22:04.786, Speaker A: Yeah, it definitely doesn't look anything like blast. So we're not holding users assets just within a multi sig with anonymous signers on each of those keys. Fundamentally what we sort of put forward to users within our documentation, and it made clear there is that when assets come through the smart contract within Athena, they're being redirected to transparent wallets which exist with the custodians. I think the key piece here is that you've got to think about what is the nature and the job of a custodian, which is they live and exist to actually look after people's assets. They are not there as an exchange to go and trade and provide all of these other services where you have some sort of incentive to do something wrong. It is literally their business model to look after people's assets. And so I think that that is something that looks fundamentally different here, where if you're putting your trust into just a multi sig with anonymous developers or with exchanges, there is an incentive for them to do something which isn't correct.
00:22:04.786 - 00:22:13.126, Speaker A: But I think with custodians it just looks slightly different because that really is core to their business model in terms of the value proposition that they're providing to actually exist as a business.
00:22:13.228 - 00:22:49.006, Speaker B: One thing you said there that I got to say I was totally ignorant to is this. Fireblocks off chain solution. So just to clarify, I'm assuming this is designed, again, for institutional grade clients in crypto, but they can hold their collateral with someone, like fireblocks, and then they're able to, let's say, borrow on something like a centralized exchange. Can you just catch me up on that really quickly? And then that will help lead into what's going on under the hood with Athena.
00:22:49.118 - 00:23:14.890, Speaker A: Yeah, that's exactly right. So you have a custodian who's sitting in the middle, and then you can think of it as two other parties. You have the client that could be a hedge fund, an institution, or just a protocol like ourselves, and then the exchange, who's sitting on the other side. And the idea here is that the custodian sitting there as a trusted third party between the two people who are interacting and obviously exchanging value. And there's obviously a set parameters and rules around what can be happening within that wallet. I. E.
00:23:14.890 - 00:24:02.410, Speaker A: Collateral can't just move out at our own discretion if it needs to be sitting there and margining another position. And the whole idea here is that an exchange can get comfortable with it. They can look through to that wallet and the custodian and understand what are the rules of this wallet and what can happen and what can't. And that sort of gives them the ability to allow you to take our positions on the other side on their exchange then. Yeah, I guess getting to your question around what's actually happening here for users and how do they interact. So when they come to the front end for Athena, we've actually tried to abstract away all of the complexity that I've just described there with staked ETH, all of the hedging, everything in the background. It actually looks exactly like a uniswap transaction where you're basically just swapping from a stablecoin into USDe.
00:24:02.410 - 00:24:46.630, Speaker A: When that happens, there's going to be small imbalances that are created within the amm pools on chain. So the price of USDE might go up from $1 to 1.1 cents. And then you have market makers in the background who are then picking up that asset and doing an arbitrage against our contract. And the way that the contract has been defined is basically saying, if you bring us one dollars of USDE, we can give you $1 of steeth, and then the exact same in reverse. And so what that means is that if the price of USDE is trading above $1, they have an incentive to bring steeth into the protocol mint one USDE, and then arbitrage it back into the pool. And that's how new steeth is entering our system.
00:24:46.630 - 00:25:30.258, Speaker A: Once the steeth enters our system, coming through market makers, it's basically just being sent to one of those custodial solutions that I described. And an automated API call was sent to the exchange to hedge out the collateral with one x I E, no leverage on the short side. And once we get a confirmation that that edge has been executed, we can issue the dollar back to the user. Malcolm Maker on the other side. So really I appreciate that was a pretty complex explanation for what was going on, because there is quite a bit of complexity sort of sitting in the background. But really what we try to do is simplify that for the users. So they're just viewing it as a swap that's occurring within an amm, and then you're pushing all of that complexity into the background.
00:25:30.258 - 00:26:09.826, Speaker A: And then a second order piece of what I've just described there is, we think, actually making slightly more secure contracts. Because when it's only market makers who can do that interaction with the arbitrage contract, it means that you can't have malicious actors who are coming in there and doing something which can sort of drain funds on the other side. It's known counterparties to us who have KYC to that kind of stuff. Very similar to the way that you see circle with mint and redeem. It's only sort of approved parties who can be on the other side there. So really it was sort of a twofold decision to improve Ux for users on the other side. And then we hope improve security as well by just minimizing the surface area for potential issues.
00:26:09.928 - 00:27:27.574, Speaker B: I've got just a number of more simple questions for you that I'm thinking through as a future user of this. So I'm going to come to this future UI, which we're absolutely going to have you back on the podcast and walk through this once it goes live. And let's pretend that I have steeth or Steph, however, folks pronounce it by Lido and I'm now minting, or I want some USDE, this stable coin with an embedded yield. Is there any sort of limitation that I might anticipate? Like, let's assume you guys come out of the gates and you're really popular and folks are minting a lot of this. And let's even assume that at this point, the funding rate on some of the exchanges you're using is more negative. We would want it to be positive so that the delta neutral position is paying out the shorts which we're assuming there's a short position opened in this. So anyways, I'm trying to get to the fact, is there potentially a limitation, like when I go to mint USDe, or maybe just explain what I would be considering as a user.
00:27:27.574 - 00:27:31.818, Speaker B: I'm looking at the dashboard and I'm going, oh, well, it doesn't make sense for me to mint it right now.
00:27:31.904 - 00:28:32.186, Speaker A: Yeah, no, I think the two pieces that you picked up there are definitely the two to focus in on. So I'd characterize the first one as being liquidity and the second one just being the interest rate that's associated with the product itself. So on liquidity, I think one thing that people forget, or just don't have the knowledge is that actually perp markets are significantly more deep than spot markets. So when you're coming in and you're saying, I want to hedge x amount of steeth, just to give you a sense of the size that you can execute on perps finance alone, and this is not with every other exchange that's in the market, you can execute an $80 million shawls within like 1% slippage at that size to hedge out on the other side. And so actually, the ability and capacity for this product to take in significant flows is actually significantly higher than you see on chain in terms of the size of slippage that can actually come through. And that's just as a result of etchels being a much deeper and more liquid market off chain. But that doesn't mean that it sort of stops users.
00:28:32.186 - 00:29:41.218, Speaker A: All we're doing is passing on that slippage to users in the same way that you'll come to uniswap transaction and see slippage there, we're passing on the execution costs to users. So if you want to come in at that size, there's just a price to doing it, and you can do that. I think the second one you're pointing out is definitely like a risk that we should chat about. It's funny because it's something that people focus in on a lot, but it's not actually the risk that I personally feel that concerned around. But yeah, I think the piece that you're getting to is historically it has paid around 8% per year to short these contracts, but you do get periods where that yield goes negative. So I think if you look back at 2022, which is obviously a great test case to sort of say when the whole space is blowing up, every ten figure entity is getting liquidated and people getting thrown in jail, how bad did the funding actually get and when you sort of look back during that year, it was actually around 0% for the entire year. And when you add on the staked death yields, in addition to that, it actually gives you a great margin of safety to be covering for those periods.
00:29:41.218 - 00:30:23.474, Speaker A: So if you look at, just like the day count, number of how many days were negative, in addition to the staked ETH yield, it's less than 15% of the days are negative. And so really you can think about this. Negative funding is something that we're not actually afraid of. It's really like quite core to the design, which is if the funding is negative, it means that the supply of USDe is too large and it needs to get smaller. And that means that we need to close shorts, which allows the funding rate to mean revert on the other side. And so we sort of view this as an external interest rate to the system, which actually helps to calibrate how big and small the stablecoin should be. And you should not be stepping in front of, like, market forces, which are determining that.
00:30:23.474 - 00:31:05.202, Speaker A: And if the funding rate goes negative, fine, users are going to step out of the product, they're going to redeem, and the supply is going to shrink. And in doing so, that sort of allows the funding rate to go back to more normalized levels. So I'm just of the view you never really want to be stepping in front of market forces and trying to control things in that way, because it's just going to lead to bigger breakages further down the road. And so, yeah, I think we have reasonable coverage with the staked ETH yields. Looking back at the data that we saw in 2022. And then we're also going to have an insurance fund that sits behind the stablecoin itself, which is therefore, even if it gets worse in 2022, there's a pool of cash that's there to cover for that risk as well.
00:31:05.256 - 00:31:22.870, Speaker E: I'm just amazed that the funding rate in 2022 was zero. That is like the worst year ever, and that's as bad as it got. I do feel like that is a pretty good test case for kind of like apocalyptic scenarios for you.
00:31:22.940 - 00:31:54.022, Speaker B: Yeah, good point, guy. Can you remind us what collaterals then will be accepted? Is it just steeth or Steph, or would someone ever deposit stable coins? I know that you mentioned you will likely accept some other liquid staked ETH in the future beyond Lido's step, but when you open the gates, what is possible to deposit as collateral?
00:31:54.106 - 00:32:37.518, Speaker A: Yeah, so at the moment, it is just Lido staked ETH and then exchange native versions. So you guys obviously know that Coinbase have a pretty big stake. Product binance mantle are coming out with another one, which is obviously connected to bybit. So all of the exchanges are sort of doing their own form of liquid staking, and they're obviously comfortable with that as collateral. And then Lido staked is the only one at the moment which they sort of fully accept. I think it's just two points to sort of point out here is one, we are fully supportive of trying to diversify the stake as much as we can. We're sort of just trying to be here as a neutral infrastructure provider that provides really a product which just uses this as collateral that comes in.
00:32:37.518 - 00:33:07.666, Speaker A: We're not really here to pick like winners and losers. We're just actually just trying to provide a product for our users on the other side, which is as safe and secure as possible. And what that requires is basically liquidity. So I do hope that some of these other LSTs do get to the stage where they're liquid enough that other exchanges can accept them, and we'd obviously love to support them in sort of getting to that point. But like, where we stand at the moment, it is basically just exchange native staked ETH and then Lido's version as well. Yeah.
00:33:07.708 - 00:33:22.506, Speaker B: Is there any other criteria to qualify for becoming collateral as of today, or do you envision this to be like the future work of the DAO that I'll imagine will be there behind Athena for us?
00:33:22.528 - 00:34:05.478, Speaker A: There's a huge platform dependence around what other venues actually allow us to do. Right. So one thing that I do think we'll start to see as a trend this year is actually defi venues allowing more interesting and exotic forms of collateral within perp Dexs. So synthetics are going to be opening up for wrapped staked ETH as an asset that you can use as a margining instrument there. I think we're going to start seeing yield bearing stablecoins as assets that can be used on perpetual dexes as well. And there's no reason that some of these other perp dexes can enable rocket pool ETH, whatever form of liquid staking that you want over there. Naturally, these are just venues which operate at smaller size and can take a bit more risk, I think, than like, the slower moving, centralized exchanges.
00:34:05.478 - 00:34:15.006, Speaker A: So that is something that I think could definitely develop over the next twelve to sort of 24 months within DFI. And I think that's where the innovation is probably going to be.
00:34:15.108 - 00:34:23.210, Speaker B: Guy, what will the interest rate be for those that are early users of Athena.
00:34:23.290 - 00:35:19.326, Speaker A: Yeah, so obviously not guaranteeing any yields, just looking back at where it's actually performed this year, and just speaking factually about where it's been. So we've had Lido staked ETH returns at roughly 4%, and then this year it's been tracking at around 8% to take out the shorts. So you add those two things together, you've got a 12% unlevered yield on dollars, which is obviously quite interesting when you compare it to RWAs or even some of the CDP protocols. Really, it's quite important here to just point out, if you think about all of those other buckets of stablecoin type designs, really they only have one source of economics coming through. It's either you're grabbing a yield from staked ETH, or it's from RWAs on one side. And really bringing in that basis from the centralized markets is like an enormous stream of cash flow, which is like adding to those economics. So it's been twelve roughly for this year since the ETF news came out in the last couple of weeks, the basis for shorting expanded massively.
00:35:19.326 - 00:36:10.178, Speaker A: So it moved up to 30% market wide for a couple of weeks and is sort of average now in high teens. So if you look back on the data, when things were properly bullish in 2021, it averaged around 22% for the whole of 2021 without staked ETH yield. So there is sort of like a non ridiculous scenario here where this could be an organic 20 ish percent yield on the instrument, but that's obviously hugely dependent on market conditions that are sitting outside of our control. So it's all a completely variable rate that is obviously hugely dependent on demand for leverage within the perp markets off chain. If you look at some of the D five venues, they actually paid much higher funding than the CFI. So synthetics has been averaging around 17 18% this year. To be short again, when the ETF news came out, that was like, well north of 30.
00:36:10.178 - 00:37:37.066, Speaker A: It's just difficult to get that at scale. So the CPI stuff, you can get billions in there at those type of levels that I was describing, DFI, it's sort of like, I'd say high eight figures, low nine figures that you can actually be capturing that type of yield. The point that you raised around the fixed rate is actually super interesting, which is if you're using a perpetual to take up the hedge, that's obviously a floating rate cost of financing on that side. But there are dated futures which are very similar to the futures that you see within tradfi, which is saying, I'm going to look out at the June contract in 2024, and I actually lock in the return for taking that hedge during that period of time. So this is like part of the product roadmap that we have, which is putting up staked ETH as collateral and actually taking out a dated feature on the other side, which allows you to lock in a six, eight, whatever it is, fixed rate sort of return on the other side, which we think becomes a really interesting instrument to start using in DFI. Because if you think about the use and proliferation of RWAs and yield bearing stablecoins within DeFi now, it does give me quite a bit concern, like how important applications are so dependent on that sort of extremely centralized risk vector. And for us, we think it's quite interesting to start introducing a crypto native yield in a crypto native instrument, that you can start to put in the rest of DeFi as a backing asset behind other stablecoins, as a reserve asset on money markets and different places.
00:37:37.066 - 00:37:49.138, Speaker A: So that, to me, is actually what is exciting about Athena. It's less about the synthetic dollar. It's actually like, what can you do with this? We're calling it an Internet bond that you can bring into DFI and start to compose and doing really interesting things.
00:37:49.224 - 00:38:33.118, Speaker E: Guy, I couldn't help but hear a pretty big number in there. When you were talking, it was 22%. And granted, that was in 2021, obviously bull market conditions, but we are hopefully heading into the bull. Maybe we're pre bull. Was there any strategic thinking in kind of launching Athena in this environment, or has this been somewhat luck that this has just come together in this pre bull environment? I have to imagine thinking through kind of what those shorting APRs could be giving you in a bullish environment is super interesting. And that 22% that you called out wasn't even with that extra lido yield on top. So, yeah.
00:38:33.118 - 00:38:50.040, Speaker E: Was this at all by design to launch in this market? Because I feel like that would be an incredible flywheel for generating early TVL and interest in the protocol if you have those bullish tailwinds behind you, kind of kicking off the project.
00:38:50.810 - 00:39:45.126, Speaker A: Yeah, I wish I had the foresight to sort of say I was planning that far ahead, but my only view when I was coming in to build this was just sort of looking back at really the guys that did the best in the last cycle in terms of what they built. And if you look back at it was guys who are sort of like grand grinding in 2019 2018 synthetics Uniswap compound RV. They were actually building the product before things got frothied, and then things got great for them after that. And so I think as sort of a builder, you actually always have to operate like anticyclically, which is you actually spend the most time and do the most hard work when everyone else is, like, touching grass. And so for us, it's just try and get as much done as you possibly can right now. And then I think the cointelegraph, like intern maybe saved us a bit with the pump that they sort of manufactured. But I do agree it's probably lining up in a pretty reasonable way for us.
00:39:45.126 - 00:40:14.274, Speaker A: And I think the one thing that could be quite interesting further down the road as well, is if you think you're at sort of the top of the rate cycle in the real world, and the rates start to go for five, four to three on RwAs, that's really when this product shines even more, because that yield goes directionally in the opposite way. So things, I think, look quite interesting for us now, but are going to be the most interesting when rates start to turn and the competitive hurdle rate that you're trying to clear starts to go down as well.
00:40:14.392 - 00:40:45.334, Speaker B: Guy, let's fast forward to when you all launch. And I've now minted some USDe. What do I do as a user to capture yield or to benefit the protocol? Am I going to just hold that USDe? Potentially. We talked about liquidity earlier and folks would deposit into something like a stability pool. So kind of walk me through what are some of the options that you might envision for us as USDE holders?
00:40:45.462 - 00:41:32.182, Speaker A: Yeah, so it looks very similar to DAi and SDI, where you have the stable itself and then a stake in contract, which is accruing yield in the token itself. And so I think a couple of interesting pieces there. Well, firstly, you can go stake within that contract, and that's where you actually accrue the interest that I've just described. And then I think there's two interesting ideas that I think will be pretty big themes this year. The first is like, actually putting together two yield bearing forms of collateral within liquidity pools. So you're starting to see like SDI and SFAC starting to be used in more interesting ways within the Amms. And if you're pairing that up with our Internet bond on the other side, you've got like two uncorrelated forms of yield that have totally different sort of risk profiles, and they're sitting there within the liquidity pool.
00:41:32.182 - 00:42:35.438, Speaker A: Like earning different forms of yield. So that is quite interesting. And then I think the one that I'm most excited about is thinking about post leverage returns on the asset as well. So if you have seen some of the carry trades that have been going on within DFI, where you put up an asset that has, call it like 5% yield, like an S DI, and if you have an ability to borrow dollars from the rest of DFI at 3%, there's obviously, like, an interesting way to be looping that up to get an interesting post leverage return. Now you start to question if the borrow dollar rate in DFI is at like three or four, or even close to the RWA rates at like 5%, but you're yielding twelve to 15. That's like napalm for this thing to grow, because it'll be a bit like what you saw with dgenbox, I think, in 2021 with Abracadabra and Spell, where the post leverage returns become quite interesting. And obviously, there were problems with that team and the assets that were going in there, but I actually think the idea had decent product of it, and we're going to see some interesting experimentation around that going forward this year.
00:42:35.438 - 00:42:45.714, Speaker A: So, yeah, I think it's really just thinking about how do different forms of yield bearing collage will come together and what can you do with pretty low forms of leverage to actually make that look even more interesting?
00:42:45.912 - 00:43:04.962, Speaker B: Guy, let's assume then I'm holding USDe, and now market conditions have changed. What would prompt me to redeem that for my collateral? And then maybe kind of walk us through what might we consider before we redeem our USDe for collateral?
00:43:05.106 - 00:43:35.302, Speaker A: Yeah, it's honestly as easy as just swapping into the kerpool. So when you do that, swap into the kerpool in the same way as when you came in, that's going to slowly imbalance the price, and then market makers are going to come redeem from our protocol. So again, we want to make that as easy for users. So it's like a seamless experience for them to get in and out. And as I said, if the funding rate is negative, we actually want users to be stepping out of the product. So there's nothing we're sort of doing there to control that. So, yeah, it's basically just swapping out of the stablecoin into the kerpools.
00:43:35.386 - 00:43:49.330, Speaker E: Guy, I saw that the first decentralized perp integration that you'll be using is synthetics V three. Just curious, what about synthetics stood out to you and why you're picking it as your first decentralized integration.
00:43:49.410 - 00:44:41.378, Speaker A: Yeah, I think for us, it was primarily around, actually just the flexibility to use staked ethers collateral. So when we had a chat to a few of the perp dexes, they were the most open to this idea and actually accommodated to think about where we were actually deploying first. So we're going to be on ETH layer one to start. I think one of the issues that you see with perp Dexs in general is that they're all on their own little islands, like isolated OS. So you've got Dydx doing their app chain on Cosmos, you've got GMX sitting on arbitram. They're all sort of, like, spread across different places, which, from an engineering perspective, becomes quite difficult for us to be executing cross chain sitting within Ethel one. And so for us, it was really a question of a flexibility around the collateral that we could put down, b, the proximity to Ethel one that we could actually be accessing synthetics.
00:44:41.378 - 00:45:45.910, Speaker A: But then I think if you take a deeper look at sort of the way that they've designed both their order book and the way that execution is calculated there, and actually the funding rate, it's extremely elegant, I think, from my perspective. So they have an oracle in the way that they're defining the depth within synthetics. So it references binance with a weighting factor, which sort of implies that you can actually get pretty large size into synthetics with minimal market impact, and much like higher than you would sort of expect based on the open interest sitting on the exchange. And then the way that they're calculating the funding rates was quite favorable for a protocol like Athena to come in to provide that short side of liquidity. So if I gave just one example with GMX, I love GMX as a platform myself, and are huge fans about what they're doing. They just had this concept within V one, which was the borrow rate, so it wasn't as clean around the funding rate as you would see within centralized exchanges. And the fees weren't quite as competitive as what you saw on sexes.
00:45:45.910 - 00:46:38.614, Speaker A: And so for us, there's always this reference point, right, of, can you beat the execution, all the funding that you're seeing on sexes? And if the answer is no, it's quite difficult for us to take users money and actually lose money within DFI on a relative basis. And so for us, I do think that DFI eventually does catch up. And I think some of the improvements that you've seen with GMXV two are absolutely in the direction where that makes a lot more sense for us. I think really the key unlock for us on chain is actually going to be a perp aggregation layer that allows you to access liquidity on perp Dexes cross chain in a single venue. I've seen a couple of interesting products which are trying to achieve that, and I think it's actually a huge unlock for Defi perhaps, which is being able to tap different sources of liquidity from a single venue on one chain. And that will be an unlock for us to be able to basically provide that liquidity across the different venues.
00:46:38.742 - 00:47:04.018, Speaker E: Yeah, agreed. I'm excited about that kind of herps aggregator future myself. Guy, we just have a couple more questions here. I'm curious if there's any future token plans with Athena, and kind of just your general thoughts on what a design might look like if there is a token. I'm actually totally not even sure, but would love any kind of commentary on that.
00:47:04.104 - 00:47:52.020, Speaker A: Yeah, I think it's within the plans. We don't really have like a set deadline or something that we're definitely set on, but the way we sort of think about the token potentially capturing value is protocol is obviously generating a pretty interesting interest rate. And if you think about if the interest rate in the rest of the market is at 5% or whatever it is with RWAs, if you're producing something that's north of ten, that actually gives you quite a lot of scope to be able to capture value back into the protocol itself. There are really like three different avenues that you could potentially use that cash flow. So the first one is capitalizing the insurance fund that I described earlier. So you want to make sure that the product itself is safe and scalable and secure for users. And so actually capturing some of that cash and the good times into the insurance fund sort of allows you to weather more of the bad times further on down the road.
00:47:52.020 - 00:48:54.162, Speaker A: The other piece is just think about business development. So really, if the distribution roadmap and plan focuses quite heavily on actually integrating with centralized exchanges on their order books, we look at what tether did. And really I think they achieved like the holy grail within stablecoins, which is that they're actually used as money on exchanges and actually used to transact rather than just sitting within liquidity pools. And that's a big difference between tether and everyone else. And so for us, we sort of look at it and think exchanges are earning 0% when they're enabling tether within their platforms. Do you want to actually pay some of that yield to distribution partners to actually push your product. And I think that we sort of look at a lot of the on chain stablecoins who've created interesting products that live on chain, but have never really thought about how do you really push the distribution harder to hundreds of millions of users that are sitting outside of DFI, rather than just like the 10,000 of us who are sitting here within DFI itself? And then the third is like, obviously that cash, if you feel like it's not needed to go into an insurance fund or to push distribution, can obviously be there and captured by the token.
00:48:54.162 - 00:49:07.858, Speaker A: So really we see the role of the token as being quite integral to deciding, do you want to make it more safe and secure, do you want to push growth, or do you want to capture, like, value straight back to yourself? And I think that's sort of the three different levers you can think about in the context of the token.
00:49:07.954 - 00:49:40.002, Speaker B: This is a great place for us to wrap up, I think. I want to remind our listeners first that they can learn about Athena at Athena Phi. You can check our show notes for website links. You'll want to follow Athena underscore labs on Twitter. That's the official core team behind Athena. You can find Guy, we'll put his screen name here, it's leptocurtic. I'll spell it all out there, and you can find that in the show notes.
00:49:40.002 - 00:50:00.218, Speaker B: And then guy would love to give you the final word then on. Most importantly, when can we expect the earliest version of this to be live on Ethereum main net for folks to start to test out and use, and then anything else you can share that's coming in the next like six to twelve months.
00:50:00.304 - 00:51:11.634, Speaker A: Yeah, sure. So we're in a bit of an awkward phase now where we are actually technically live on Ethereum right now, but sort of just filling out the contracts and the curve pools with internal capital so that we can make sure it's a safe, secure for users to come in when it's ready. So we're just in the process now of using the production contract to build out some of the liquidity to get it ready for users to come in. We're vaguely expecting like a timeline around January to be fully opened up for the public to come in. And at that point in time we will have generated a bit of TVL and liquidity on chain to just make that whole sort of process that I described earlier of users entering through the curve pools a bit more seamless and easy for them. And then, yeah, we sort of plan to come out with a pretty strong and aggressive go to market in that January period. And we're just super excited to bring a product that we actually think is fundamentally useful and sort of needed within the space, which is a crypto native dollar that is actually sitting outside the banking system and providing two forms of different and interesting yield that we think builders can go and be quite creative around the different types of products that you can build upon it.
00:51:11.634 - 00:51:15.874, Speaker A: So, yeah, super excited to bring it to the public and can't wait to get it out there.
00:51:15.912 - 00:51:36.246, Speaker B: Yeah, can't wait to see it in the wild. So please come back and join us in the future once you're fully alive. And we'd love to actually walk through the app so that folks can understand all the different options they have there. Anyways, thanks again and can't wait to talk to you in the future.
00:51:36.428 - 00:51:38.198, Speaker A: Yeah, appreciate you guys. Thank you.
00:51:38.284 - 00:51:50.890, Speaker B: Thanks everyone for tuning in. If you are talented founder or developer, please consider reaching out to our team at Fourthrevolution Capital. And for future episodes of the Edge podcast, please check out our link tree at edge pod.
