00:00:01.520 - 00:00:25.394, Speaker A: All right, peoples, this is. Surprise. I didn't know. So I'm gonna try and connect the computer. I know, that's a shame. Right, right, right. Okay, how do I.
00:00:25.394 - 00:01:07.622, Speaker A: Hold on? You guys can, like, talk still while I'm figuring this out, is everyone enjoying the lunch? Castle food is always tastier than non castle food. That is absolutely true. There's something about the location makes it extra delish. Okay, so I'm gonna try and plug in here. I'm talking about getting paid in daos. Oh, no, it's just the HDMI. Do we have an adapter for USB C? He's got me.
00:01:07.622 - 00:01:46.620, Speaker A: He's got me. He's got me. It's got me. Everything tastes better in a castle, especially HDMI tastes better. Okay, so I'm talking about getting paid in daos, and kind of one of the reasons this is important is where I believe Daos are going and I have to do all this identifying my keyboard stuff. No. Okay, so it's sort of open it up.
00:01:46.620 - 00:02:36.814, Speaker A: Like, where are daos going? I think we've all talked about daos for many years. We think about them. They seem pretty cool. Maybe they seem like that sort of social layer, stuff that isn't as interesting as the smart contract layer, because, of course, technology is always a little bit somehow firmer and more tangible. But what we look forward in the next 16 to 24 months, what you start to see is daos are actually becoming very mature. I think during the 2021 cycle, I think the vibes Daos sort of dominated the narrative around what decentralized autonomous organizations were, and that probably burnt out a lot of folks about their importance or their meaning and what they could bring. But if you start to look at it now and you sort of project into the future, what we see is that daos are actually starting to capture the entire ethereum ecosystem.
00:02:36.814 - 00:03:18.286, Speaker A: And capture is kind of a funny term to use here because, of course, it's like capture by the community, which is kind of the goal in the first place. So in some degrees, you could say we are looking at a successful outcome. But if you don't fully believe that, it just takes a little bit of thinking on what the future starts to look like. Right? We know things like Lido, which has like, 30% of, like, the supply locked up in it, is a dow. We know that the new staking services that compete with that are going to be decentralized and be daos. The roll ups, which are also going to pool a vast amount of ETH in their bridge smart contracts, are daos and being decentralized. The sequencers, they're working on decentralizing sequencers.
00:03:18.286 - 00:03:40.028, Speaker A: So these are going to be daos. We already have data availability layers, which are daos. So you actually start to look forward and see that all the core infrastructure of web3 is actually becoming decentralized. So it's actually going to be owned by these decentralized autonomous organizations. But there are a lot of questions around this. I'm from Tally. We build Dao Tooling.
00:03:40.028 - 00:04:38.278, Speaker A: We're a private company. We're looking to build a business on top of supporting daos. But when we look out across the ecosystem, you also have to think, well, how do these organizations function? And of course there are people inside of them who do voting and they say, yes, we vote for this, let's pass this, or yes, we decided to do this, let's pass that. But at scale, these folks need to get paid, right? Because at scale, these are actually the people who are making the decisions to run these organizations. And many of these organizations are also VC backed. We are at this point in the future where a lot of Ethereum's infrastructure going forward is actually VC backed infrastructure. So we're looking at all the stack being decentralized, all of it having some sort of relationship to investment, VC backing that powers it and all of it that's going to require really active participants to do successful, healthy organization and operations of this.
00:04:38.278 - 00:05:36.910, Speaker A: And you're going to need a lot of great tooling. So this conversation really is about getting daos paid specifically around service providers like ourselves Tally, who also look to try and build a business in the ecosystem, but also the people who make stuff work, right? The delegates who are getting stuff done. So I don't know if you've fully bought in yet in the sort of like future of what this sort of like daoification starts to look like. But I'll give you a few numbers from Tally and the DaO control protocol. Revenue today already is in the hundreds of millions of dollars per year. And the TVL of these DAO protocols is over 30 billion. Right? And the leading protocols in the ecosystem are already daos, right? So if you start to think about what the next bull run looks like and what the future looks like, you can start to imagine, okay, let's just ten x that number, which is probably pretty conservative, right? So now we're looking at 300 billion, many, many billions of dollars in revenue.
00:05:36.910 - 00:06:11.024, Speaker A: And that's a very conservative estimate. So you start to see how large these ecosystems are going to be and when you look at the L two s in particular. Their entire stack is going to be controlled by daos. Right? The L two itself, the data availability layer, the staking, the restaking, the bridges, the ZK coprocessor stuff, the app layer, the Defi layer, all of it is run by daos or will be run by daos very soon. And there's delegates. Now, you may or may not be, certainly I'm from tally, so I'm very close to the problem. But there's delegates.
00:06:11.024 - 00:06:47.080, Speaker A: These are people who participate in the daos and they are professionalizing. So you have organizations that are saying, hey, what my contribution to the Ethereum ecosystem is going to be is I'm going to be a professional delegate. So I'm going to offer my services on decision making inside organizations and to make a business. They're going to make these decisions across organizations. So if you look at something like arbitrum, you have professional delegates that exist at the DeFi layer, the app layer, but they're also the same delegates on the L two layer. They're also participating in the staking layer. They're also going to be participating in the data availability layer.
00:06:47.080 - 00:07:53.698, Speaker A: They're also going to be participating in the executive power, in the Security Council layer. So you start to see that actually smart contracts aren't going to be the only decider. They're going to be large group of individuals, have a lot of social influence on how things are run and organized. And to put the fear of God in you a little bit, going forward, you can start to see how folks may move into these organizations, specifically with their own business interests in mind, right? You can imagine someone like a visa or Mastercard acquiring a large stake in staked ETH or acquiring large stakes in things like data availability. That's actually probably a good thing, right? Because they are not going to want to build on top of infrastructure without knowing that they have some sort of like political involvement in it, right? But to mitigate that a bit, we do need to have non corporate actors who are participating. Maybe they are kind of companies on their own, but maybe participating as a service of being good participants in these ecosystems. So sometimes people like to talk about governance minimization, and that's a very interesting topic.
00:07:53.698 - 00:08:17.784, Speaker A: Of course, it's kind of antithetical to my business, so I think it's terrible. No, I'm just kidding. There's a lot of value to it. But daos do need protocols, do need to be daos, right? Because they need the credible neutrality, the decentralization, and the competitive advantages of being a DAO. We see this today. Arbitrum is the largest l two by far. I think it's larger in terms of TVL than all the other l two s put together.
00:08:17.784 - 00:08:45.494, Speaker A: And their DAO is truly decentralized. The members of this organization have total control over the arbitrum protocol. They can elect sequencers, they can elect data availability. They can do anything they want. And it's kind of the wild west there. But it's interesting because you have all these people coming together to try and coordinate, mostly out of self interest, and then the market aligns. What sort of self interest means in the end of the day, because they want to both be successful, make themselves more successful.
00:08:45.494 - 00:09:16.288, Speaker A: There's a lot of fighting, there's a lot of conflict, but there's a lot of resolution. There's a lot of agreement. There's a lot of getting stuff done in this ecosystem. So there's a little bit of shilling on tally. We're like a market leading tool. Daos have moved over $250 million on tally. This is mostly during the bear market, which is really interesting number, because you would think that in the past ten months, daos have been dead, but actually every quarter, essentially, in the past ten months, they've been spending more and more money.
00:09:16.288 - 00:09:53.964, Speaker A: These are things like liquidity incentives, paying service providers to audit the protocol, doing things like raising money or creating grants programs. These communities are actually really active now, and we expect to see them get more and more active as, basically new infrastructure types are created and people feel that the power they have is very relevant. Okay, so I already talked about this a little bit. Daos power, all layers of the stack. Maybe visually, this is a nice way to look at it. You can kind of imagine this whole stack being an l two. Okay, I guess I'm not out of battery or.
00:09:53.964 - 00:10:09.568, Speaker A: Oh, yeah, we have a job. Okay, well, you know, it comes up, and then you keep watching the movie, and you think you don't have to plug it in. Just. Yeah, you got, like, another couple minutes. We'll see how far I get. Right. So this is to my point earlier.
00:10:09.568 - 00:10:25.924, Speaker A: Imagine this is an l two at the bottom. You have the staking protocols. I don't think it's me, though. My screen's still on. What? Yeah, but my screen's still on. Oh, you think that. Okay, if somebody can plug me in while I'm talking, that'd be great.
00:10:25.924 - 00:10:56.344, Speaker A: So if you think about this, this is an l two itself. So you have the base, as I mentioned, staking protocols, sequencer data availability, then the roll up bridges interrupt the coprocessor stuff, oracles, financial, blah blah blah, applayer. The whole roll up itself is a Dao. All their participants are in daos, and it's daos all the way down. So daos are getting serious stuff done. That's sort of like background as to, oh, no, unlike the other charger. Damn.
00:10:56.344 - 00:11:56.016, Speaker A: So daos are getting serious stuff done. But so maybe the core of my talk here is really like, who's creating all the proposals? Who's working to pass proposals, who's planning the community calls, who's organizing the community, right? Who's getting this stuff done? And it's really delegates, right? For the most part, it's these people who are participating in the protocol. But as we kind of like to joke about at tally is they're kind of like unpaid internships, right? There's plenty of daos out there that you can join and everyone's like, come participate, be a member, go work for free. Some of these daos are extraordinary valuable. These are multibillion dollar organizations with some of the largest venture capital organizations behind them. And the people who do the work don't even get paid. So you have this really funny dynamic, which could turn nasty, because there's a lot of ways to extract value from an organization, and if you're going to work on it, seriously, you're going to do that.
00:11:56.016 - 00:12:33.502, Speaker A: But just participating in DaO, like passing things, voting on stuff that's not paid, right. And things do need to get paid, right. Delegates power the DAO ecosystem, but they're not paid. And people are experimenting with different ways to pay delegates. You know, things like retroactive public goods funding, grants, these type of things. I've written in the past about how these aren't enough, these aren't sustainable. If you think about retroactive public goods funding, I like to do a joke that if only you could give your landlord some retroactive public goods funding, if only you could go to the grocery store and pay with retroactive public goods funding, that would be really great.
00:12:33.502 - 00:12:56.658, Speaker A: But most people can't. And I like to give a little bit of story on how it's important to think about fairness in these organizations, because remember again, they're VC backed. Most of them, not all of them. Most of them are VC backed. Most of them are worth billions of dollars. Most of the individuals who hold a lot of tokens actually don't vote for legal reasons. They're afraid of working and being held legally liable.
00:12:56.658 - 00:13:36.358, Speaker A: So people with sort of like the least to gain tend to be doing maybe the most work at times. And an example that I like to give is about how in college, banks would recruit students. Like when I went to school, banks would recruit freshmen to go out and sign up new freshmen to credit cards, right? So they'd say, hey, whoever signs up the most number of new users to credit cards gets some sort of reward. At the time, it was like a cell phone. You got like a free cell phone for signing up the most number of kids. So they would get like 100 students to go out and sign up students to credit cards. But only the person that sold up the most would actually, like, win a prize.
00:13:36.358 - 00:14:47.072, Speaker A: And sometimes I liken that to like some of the base models of like, public good funding or retroactive public goods funding, right? Where you have these models where it's like you're getting paid on impact, but actually what the organization is getting is really a multiplier on their investment, right? And it's a little bit exploitative if it's not done correctly, if it's not done thoughtful, right? We want professional delegates managing the future of Ethereum, right? We want people who have time to research and to look into how this operates, to figure out the best decisions to make here. And that requires, unfortunately, people who eat food and live in houses and have mortgages and drive cars that require petrol and they need to get paid. You know what, I would like a little bit more of that. These people need to get paid, right? So we've started an experiment here. This is just the first of many, and this is called proposal rewards. That's very difficult to calculate impact. I think when you talk to folks who are working on retroactive public good funding, you're talking about grants, you're talking follow on grants, you're talking about investment accelerators, it's very hard to measure impact.
00:14:47.072 - 00:15:45.106, Speaker A: I don't have the answer on how to measure impact. I wish I did. We'll keep working on it. But it's very difficult to measure impact, especially because once you set out the rules, I think if any of you participate in organizations that experiment with ways of funding, the commons ways of getting things done, you'll notice that whenever you publish the rules of how to participate, immediately, people game them, right? So you're kind of in this weird set where you're trying to find a better way to get people compensated for their hard work, but every time you try harder, they just try harder to scam you on it. So it creates this kind of unhealthy dynamic that has to be figured out so how do we deal with this problem? To be honest, I don't really fully know the answer here. Some people love to talk about AI, that we're going to use AI to quantify the value of everything. Of course, you can imagine that that's a little bit scary too, when you really take it at scale, right? Like, oh, the humans couldn't figure out how to, like, pay each other fairly well.
00:15:45.106 - 00:16:27.762, Speaker A: Trust the machines to figure it out. It's a little bit, you know, long term scary. So what we're experimenting with at Tally right now is proposal rewards, which is kind of social layer idea, but basically when you create a proposal and pass it, the only thing at the moment that seems really, truly Sybil resistant is getting stuff done. It's difficult to measure impact, especially when you have, like, maybe a small council of people who decide that. But you do know these daos are spending, you know, a quarter billion dollars just in the past. Well, and that's just on tally, right? Like, maybe I'll wind it back for a second on the governor ecosystem, which is a specific type of smart contract DaO framework that we support. Daos have spent 250 million through tally, but in total they spent maybe close to 600 million.
00:16:27.762 - 00:17:21.344, Speaker A: Right? So there's a lot, a lot, a lot of money going through this ecosystem, right? You can't really fake that number. You can't fake the amount of ETH being moved. You can't fake the amount of USD being moved. That's a very difficult number to gain. So we think, okay, what if we just take our proposal successfully passed as a starting point of, like, what's valuable? Did you at least get consensus from all these people in the organization? And if that's true, maybe what we can do is we can kind of come up with a tip based system where we say, hey, everyone who passes a proposal gets some reward and they get to split it with whomever they think deserves it. And this is pretty social level, so it might not actually be attractive to any of you because there's no smart contracts really required here. But the idea is, in public, you have to nominate yourself to get paid, and you have to nominate other individuals in the ecosystem to get paid.
00:17:21.344 - 00:18:11.510, Speaker A: And this can be people who read the smart contracts for you, right? Like, what we see in a lot of ecosystems is delegates make some sort of new proposal, and they say, hey, we want to change the staking rewards to x. And then they send it to someone who's more technical and go, yo, Brodette, would you please check this out? Does this look good, right? And that person's doing something better with their life and they stop doing whatever that is and they check it over and they're like, yeah, it looks good. I'm glad to have added value for free to your billion dollar organization. Rock out, right? So in that sort of circumstance, you give people the opportunity, try and build a social norm of, okay, that person should get paid, this person should get paid. This person held, the community calls, this person's been running the discord. This person's been the one dealing with the really obnoxious people in the organization on the social level. And while it's not a perfect solution, this is definitely just an experiment.
00:18:11.510 - 00:18:47.868, Speaker A: We've already gotten great feedback about what works about it and what doesn't work about it. It's important to start trying because something that we don't talk so much. One of the other reasons why these individuals are so important for organizations is when we build the smart contract layer. We build with the assumption that we are in an adversarial environment, that all the users who use our system are dangerous inherently. We assume they are evil and trying to break our systems. What's really interesting once you go to the social layer, however, is it's the opposite. We assume everybody in the discord is a chill dude, a chill doodad hanging out here for the vibes, being helpful.
00:18:47.868 - 00:19:33.974, Speaker A: Right. But the truth of the matter is the person who calls the transaction on the executable that rugs your protocol is also in the discord. Right? So we're not building social structures that are actually resilient to the same sort of attacks that the smart contract layer is. So the smart contract layer may here be like safe from being rugged in some sense, or like hacked, but actually on the social level, there's no protection for that, right? So that's a little bit of like aside here. But it's sort of talking about the social level is really important to secure. And if we can create like, habits within the social layer of paying people out for their hard work, you also create a habit of being fair and compensation. Because if you help out with this proposal and getting it passed, and I don't cut you in on the proposal rewards, I actually have to do it in front of the whole room.
00:19:33.974 - 00:20:12.640, Speaker A: Right, because the Daos are open, right. I have to, in public, cheat people out of their hard work. And that's not very socially sustainable because then the next time a proposal comes up, people are like, yeah, but that guy, you know, he's not, he's not a good dude, we don't want to participate. It's a little bit of an encouragement to start experimenting on the social smart contract side, like, how do we interact with one another in an organization? And it's also the opportunity to help dao tools get paid. I mentioned once before, building a business, I would like to get paid at some point. I got a mortgage, we got cars, like stuff like that. How do we get dao tools paid? You know, in the past year, a lot of dao tools went away.
00:20:12.640 - 00:20:52.870, Speaker A: They didn't make it. A big part is how do they get paid? Right? If everyone in the organization could construct, call data by hand, and verify the transaction before it was sent, well, that would be absolutely fantastic. But we don't live in that world. We actually need a lot of tooling to help make consensus. Somebody's got to be paying for the Google Docs, and it shouldn't be the core team or the foundation, because the separation between the decentralization and who launched the token really doesn't feel very far if the core team or the foundation is paying for all these things, right? So we need tooling to make this process better. We need service providers who are going to come and audit the trend, audit the proposal, executable code before it goes live. You want somebody to have another look.
00:20:52.870 - 00:21:59.110, Speaker A: Maybe like two or three months ago, Gitcoin had a little bit of a snafu where they created a working proposal where they're going to fund their quarterly budget. And no one checked that the destination for the $400,000 was not the token contract address itself. Right? So the proposal goes live, everybody votes on it, and boom, they burn all the money, right? And that's a perfect example of, would you have paid $399,000 to ensure that you didn't burn $400,000? Maybe, maybe. But you need tooling for this, right? And tooling also needs to be compensated. So we need to create social norms for paying for the software, for the tools, for the services that make these organizations work. Because when we think about them scaling in the next couple of years to tens of billions, hundreds of billions, maybe controlling trillions of dollars in value, you start to realize that we can't be doing this with, like, Google sheets discord notion. Doc slack Telegram right? Because one day somebody's going to say, hey, it's an emergency, and I'm on one of the Aave Guardian councils, and Stani calls me in the middle of the night and just like, yo, we got a problem.
00:21:59.110 - 00:22:18.506, Speaker A: Can you cop in the discord? Not in the discord or the telegram. Let's start signing things to fix stuff that's not going to work at scale. Right. So we need better tools for that. So this is just an experiment. Proposal rewards all this words and talking was basically to tell you that simple thing. We want to start helping people pay one another, and it's early.
00:22:18.506 - 00:22:36.964, Speaker A: There's a lot of design space to improve. We do think that there's ways to improve retroactive public goods funding, there's ways to improve grants, there's ways to improve just paying people, creating norms in the ecosystem for that. And I'd love to talk to you about it. So hit me up. I'm here all day, and that was my dream world presentation.
