00:00:00.240 - 00:00:15.238, Speaker A: Hello, everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Daily Way refuel, where you got the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, and this is the 28 June 2024. All right, everyone, let's get into it. So, apologies for the little switch around, guys. I did say that I was going to do an episode yesterday, but not today. But I switched that around.
00:00:15.238 - 00:00:44.510, Speaker A: Missed yesterday's episode, but doing one today. And of course, you guys know that going forward, starting next week, the cadence for these episodes will be Monday, Wednesday and Friday instead of every weekday or almost every weekday. You guys know, I missed quite a few episodes from time to time there. But yeah, as I said, like it all, the new cadence will start next week. But let's jump into the news from the last 48 hours. So there was some big kind of regulatory news, I guess, or regulatory adjacent news over the last 24 hours. In particular.
00:00:44.510 - 00:01:24.750, Speaker A: One of these was that Coinbase has sued the SEC and the FDIC over foia or freedom of information requests and. And says that federal regulators are trying to cut out crypto. Now, of course, this is just continuing the trend of crypto companies suing the SEC themselves being sued by the SEC. Right. We originally had consensus, kind of receive a wells notice over the, I guess, a bunch of different things, which actually turns out that they're still waiting on a lawsuit from the SEC for. So the SEC pulled out with regards to classifying ETH 2.0 as a security or something like that, or some other case that would potentially bring against consensus.
00:01:24.750 - 00:02:12.986, Speaker A: But I think that they pulled out of that and obviously it was because they also approved the ETH ETF. So it kind of would be insane for them to try to classify it as a security if they just approved the ETF's are the spot ETF's and had approved the futures ETF's as well. So there is still, I believe, going to be, or potentially going to be a lawsuit against consensus over, I believe, metamask and some other things like they staking products. But of course, consensus sued the SEC first over this in order to kind of get ahead of the pack here. And that's what Coinbase has done now by suing the SEC as well. So it says here, Coinbase, which retained a consultant firm history associates, took aim at the SSE and FDIC in lawsuits filed in the US District Court for the District of Columbia on Thursday. The crypto exchange accused federal financial regulators of trying to cut off the crypto industry from the banking sector in the complaints.
00:02:12.986 - 00:02:37.158, Speaker A: And this is kind of that. I guess, like Choke .2.0 thing that people have been going on about. I've been hesitant to really, like, buy into this thing. Like, I haven't seen any real concrete, hard evidence that there's been a concerted effort from whoever to cut crypto out of the banking system. And I don't even think it would be a conspiracy or some kind of, I guess, like shadowy cabal thing that's going on here. I think naturally, banks find crypto to be competitive with them.
00:02:37.158 - 00:03:05.014, Speaker A: So banks don't have incentive to platform crypto companies, right. Because for them, it's like, well, if we platform crypto companies, we're basically allowing crypto to grow, which is cutting into our bottom line or cutting into our, cutting into our, into our business. So let's not do this. So we'll see what, what comes out of this lawsuit. We'll see essentially what gets obtained by Coinbase here. I'm curious to see if there actually is or was a concerted effort against crypto as this choke. .2.0
00:03:05.014 - 00:03:29.002, Speaker A: but as it stands today, there's just a lot of circumstantial evidence. I want to see concrete stuff here. I'm not one to jump to conclusions. I don't like jumping to conclusions and I don't like speculating on things. I like seeing evidence. And you guys know that I always try and stick to the facts, the truth, the evidence, as much as possible. I try to minimize speculation on these things, and I'm glad that Coinbase is possibly going to get us these facts and evidence without us having to speculate much further from here.
00:03:29.002 - 00:04:23.496, Speaker A: So that was that one on the regulatory side. But there was also something that I guess wasn't directly crypto related, but pretty cool to see. So the Supreme Court ruled in a 63 vote that when the SEC seeks penalties for fraud, a defendant is entitled to a jury trial in federal court as opposed to being subjected to the agency's, quote, unquote, in house legal proceedings. And Eleanor here expanded on this, saying, you know, what does this actually mean? Well, this move essentially hamstrings all federal agencies, not just the SEC, by burdening them with having to try their cases in federal court. The Supreme Court ruled that the SEC's use of in house judicial processes to bring charges are unconstitutional. So this is a huge deal because, as you guys know, for a long time now, the SEC loves to sue various different crypto companies or various different, I guess, like crypto entities and say, especially if they've done a token. Well, mainly if they've done a token and say, okay, well, you've done a token.
00:04:23.496 - 00:04:54.256, Speaker A: We think it's an illegal securities offering. And we've decided in house that you are required to pay such and such amounts. And then that's what we call like a settlement. Right. Which basically, my mind, protection money to the SEC to get the ACC to leave you alone. Now, from my understanding, the Supreme Court has ruled that this is unconstitutional and that these cases actually have to be tried in a federal court of law. They can't just be done by some in house legal proceedings that the SEC has, where obviously 99% of the time the SEC lawyers are going to side with the SEC.
00:04:54.256 - 00:05:12.492, Speaker A: Right. They're not going to give a fair trial. It's going to, it's basically like a kangaroo court. Right. So this is huge. And as Eleanor says here, it's not just the SEC that is hamstrung now. It is other federal agencies or all federal agencies, including, you know, the DOJ, for example, including the CFTC and others out there.
00:05:12.492 - 00:05:47.088, Speaker A: So really big win, I think, overall, not just for crypto, but for any, I guess, any of these kind of mafia behavior that's been going on in the US recently, which has been great to see generally there. So as I said, guys, like with the last few months, even though you have a really hostile political party in power right now, hostile towards crypto within the Democrats. Right. Even though that's the, that's the case, when you actually look at what's been happening, the, the hostility hasn't actually prevented anything. Right. Everyone was going on about, oh, the Democrats are so hostile towards crypto, which means, you know, Gary Ganzler is hostile. The ETH aren't going to get approved because of that.
00:05:47.088 - 00:06:08.472, Speaker A: But then the ETH got approved. Right. And then also even further back than that, Grayscale won their case against the SEC. Ripple won their case against the SEC. Coinbase won. Not one, but like, got a lot of the stuff that the SEC wanted to go after them for dismissed. And the main thing was the, the wallet stuff, basically saying that a coin based wallet is not something is not, it's not a custodial wallet.
00:06:08.472 - 00:06:28.940, Speaker A: It's not custodial. So it has no relevance to the SEC's jurisdiction. Yeah. So the SEC has just kept racking up losses. And I think that the establishment, if you want to call it that, has kept racking up losses against crypto, even though they've been super anti crypto. It hasn't mattered. And the rule of law has seemingly sided with crypto on most of the cases here, which has been great to see.
00:06:28.940 - 00:07:09.224, Speaker A: And as I said, this new ruling today is even big, is an even bigger deal because of the fact that it basically puts the, I guess, I don't know if you call it power, but basically puts the impotence back on the SEC to say, okay, well, you can't do illegal in house proceedings anymore. You have to go through the courts where the SEC has been losing it. And they don't obviously want to be in the courts because they know that they're, that they're losing there. So they'd rather do stuff in house. Well, apparently, if I'm understanding this correctly, that is no longer going to be the case here. So just absolutely massive news here and continues the trend of crypto continuing to win in the political sphere, even in the face of a really strong anti crypto administration. I can't even imagine what it would look like in a pro crypto administration.
00:07:09.224 - 00:07:45.230, Speaker A: You know, if you believe that if Trump was to win the presidency, the Republicans were to win, they would be pro crypto and that actually follow through with their promises, then, you know, I don't even know, like, what it would look like. I mean, not only is he's crypto winning in the courts, then it has a pro crypto kind of, I guess, political sphere to lean into as well. That would be cool to see. But as I said, I don't, as I've said plenty of times before, I don't think it really matters who is president or who has power. I think what matters is the courts. What matters is the rule of law. And that's on the side of crypto and historically has been on the side of crypto, especially over the last twelve months, which has been great to see.
00:07:45.230 - 00:08:18.452, Speaker A: All right, so moving on to some eth tech related stuff. So reth 1.0 has officially been released. So after almost two years of development and a successful audit by Sigma prime, which, funny enough, is the company that builds the lighthouse consensus layer client for Ethereum, the rest team is finally releasing 1.0, the first prod ready release of their blazing fast Ethereum execution client. So I haven't tried this myself yet, but if you are brave enough and you want to run this for your staking setup or your solo staking or home staking set up, then you can. But you can also run it as just a full node.
00:08:18.452 - 00:09:10.280, Speaker A: You don't have to attach validators to it. You can just run it as a normal full node, which I plan to do now, as you guys know by now, Reth is built in rust and Reth is, I believe, one of the fastest, if not the fastest execution layer clients currently in production on a theorem. I know Nevermind has made a lot of great strides in making sure that they can speed up their, their full, no client here, but REt basically was built from, I don't know if it was built from the ground up, but there was a lot of modifications and changes made in order to focus on speed, in order to focus on efficiency and focus on performance, rather than focusing on, you know, on other things. Well, obviously still respecting security because you have to respect security when you're in your core client here. But I'm very, very happy to see that this is finally live, has a production ready client for everyone to play around with. Now, of course, I'm not going to be running my validators off this client. No, I wouldn't say anytime soon.
00:09:10.280 - 00:09:44.226, Speaker A: But like for now, because obviously I want to make sure that I'm not going to, I don't think I'd get slashed, but like that I'm not going to go offline and then not have bugs where I have to like Resync the database or, you know, things that kind of make it so that I miss block proposals. Like, I'm always very, very sensitive to that. I don't want to miss block proposals because that's where the money is. Obviously, attesting gets you rewards as well, and being part of sync committees and all that. But proposing blocks is usually where the money is and usually where the ETH is. So I want to make sure I'm online as much as possible so I don't miss, miss blocks here. But I do think I'm going to spin up a ret full node on some of the hardware that I have lying around.
00:09:44.226 - 00:10:10.056, Speaker A: I have so much hardware lying around, guys like, as you guys know, my setup is pretty, pretty involved. I have a bunch of different things going on. You have my rocker pool nodes, have my archive node, I have my solo validators. I have my validators for my self managed super fund, which is my retirement account. And I have a bunch of raspberry PI's lying around that I like to run stuff on as well. So I'm going to try and run ret on some existing, maybe more powerful hardware and then work my way down from there. I'd love to see if I can get this running on a raspberry PI.
00:10:10.056 - 00:10:33.820, Speaker A: I don't know if I can. Maybe I can't. And then on a rock five b as well, which is a bit more powerful than a raspberry PI there. But as I said, it is now production ready, so you can go check this out for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. And if you're brave enough, you can even run your validators on this. But as I said, personally, I will just be trying to run a full node without validators attached to it, and then it's just easy to attach validators to it later if you so choose.
00:10:33.820 - 00:11:22.326, Speaker A: All right, speaking of validators, soy spoke here, shared a new report that was put together by mempirates Naman and chain bound. So they basically work within the chain bound ecosystem here. So essentially what this is, is that it shows the geographical distribution of ethereum validators. So we have had in the past, I guess, like maps like this for node operators. So the geographical distribution of node operators. But of course we, it's very hard to get geographical distribution of the actual validators themselves because the node operators and validators can be located in different parts of the world here, whereas this focuses on just the geographical distribution of validators themselves, which is, I think, a first. I don't think we've had this before, and this is quite a detailed report here of how they were actually able to achieve this, the methodology used, so on and so forth.
00:11:22.326 - 00:11:54.296, Speaker A: So you can go give the report a read for yourself. But what I do want to focus on is the map itself. You know, as we can see in the map, it's no surprise where validators are located. Both east and west coast, us strong, strong, I guess, like concentration within Europe generally. I guess like Western Europe mostly here and then spotty, I guess, in Asia generally. And then in Australia, we do have a little bit of a green cloud there, but obviously not as prevalent in other places. Now, of course, from this map, you can also see where we need to do more work to get validators in these places.
00:11:54.296 - 00:12:53.166, Speaker A: So South America, Africa, the Middle East, India, China, Russia, I guess, like they're the main places where we would like to see more a theorem validators, right? Because it's all well and good to have geographic distribution as we have it today, but we definitely want to see the more distribution, right? We definitely want to see more blue dots as well, because it's not just the, it's not just like the cloud, the colored clouds here, it's also the blue dots, because as you can see, there are no identified blue dots in most of Africa. Like in South Africa, you have two blue dots here, but most of Africa and the Middle east, there's just no blue dots. And then you can actually go over to Russia and there's, there's no blue dots either from what I can see. Maybe towards the south, there on the border, but. Yeah, and in South America, it's spotty in general, but there is some going on there, especially in Argentina that's been, you know, there's been a lot of people in Argentina that's been big crypto supporters. But generally I think that it's vastly under, I guess, represented in Africa and the Middle east. You can see that.
00:12:53.166 - 00:13:25.966, Speaker A: Yeah. And now I'm not going to get into the geopolitical reasons of why this is the case. You can imagine why this is the case, right? Such as the fact that on, on average, people in these countries are poorer, right? Which means that their first priority isn't to run an ethereum validator or full node, because running an ethereum validator is very costly here. So if anything, I think this map shows generally kind of wealth levels in the world, right? Because if you're running a validator, you need to either have 32 ETH or you need to be part of a DVT set. And the minimum of that is 3.2, ethan. Or you need to be, you need to be part of the rock, I guess, protocol.
00:13:25.966 - 00:13:59.570, Speaker A: That's eight ETH plus I think 2.48 or something worth of RPL, right? So the barrier to entry of being a validator is much higher than a full node, because not only do you need the hardware, which is cheap, relatively cheap, but you need the eth collateral as well. And you don't just need 32, I mean you don't need 32 eth, but you need, I mean, at minimum I would say 3.28, the DVT squad, squad staking there, which is incredibly new, by the way. So there's not many of those live right now, but 3.2 ETH is over is lot of money, guys. Like the total net worth of a person in a lot of these countries doesn't even get close to 3.28.
00:13:59.570 - 00:14:26.722, Speaker A: That's their whole net worth, right? So I think if anything, this just shows wealth distribution across the planet. I mean it makes sense as well, right? But at the same time, that shouldn't be a blocker for us. There shouldn't be something that's stopping us. I would love to see us bring that barrier to entry down and let people run validators in these, in these parts of the world if they want to, and if it's possible for them to do that. But but at the end of the day, this goes beyond crypto. This, as I said, is more to do with wealth distribution generally. And that's what's going to be the main blocker here.
00:14:26.722 - 00:14:58.958, Speaker A: I mean, it's the same thing for full nodes too, guys. Like, even if you only need to spend $500 to run a full node right on top of your Internet connection too, don't get me wrong, but he's still going to price out probably, I don't know, half the world at least, right? Half the world's population at least, because of the fact that they just simply can't afford it. And we shouldn't, as I said, we should lower the barrier to entry as much as possible. But there is a flaw here. There is a wealth floor here, and that's not something that crypto can do much about. Crypto, in my opinion. I've held this opinion for a very long time, is not going to solve wealth inequality.
00:14:58.958 - 00:15:31.130, Speaker A: It is definitely going to, at least if we, if we build it right, is definitely going to help with giving more opportunities to people around the world to get involved with a financial system and give more financial opportunities that way. But it is not going to solve wealth inequality generally, right? Like, it's definitely not. I think that it may even exacerbate it, to be honest. And I think wealth inequality generally is a much broader topic than just crypto. It's something that needs to be focused on, obviously. Bye nation states themselves and the governments themselves and humanitarian efforts and all that sorts of stuff there. But yeah, it's still cool to have this map.
00:15:31.130 - 00:16:10.636, Speaker A: But as I said, it definitely seems like it is. I mean, just based on the facts and circumstances, it is a wealth distribution map more than it is showing where people would like to run Ethereum validators. So yeah, that's, that's kind of my take on that. But anyway, you can go read the full report for yourself. I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, speaking of running Ethereum nodes and validators, the Ethereum on arm account has tweeted out that they have managed to do a fresh sync of geth and nimbus on a rock, five B 16 gb ram using only two physical cores. And this was something proposed by Nick Dodson here about what the minimum hardware requirements to run an Ethereum full node are.
00:16:10.636 - 00:16:33.548, Speaker A: Well, I think we have the minimum requirements from, from the Ethereum on arm account here. So as I said, they're only using two physical cores on the rock, five B 16 gig ram board here, and it syncs. Sync time was one day, 17 hours. Database size, 1.1 terabytes. And the hardware was, as I just mentioned, that board limited to only two physical cores. So they disabled six cores out of the eight.
00:16:33.548 - 00:16:57.284, Speaker A: And the SSD was a WD green SN 352 terabyte. I believe that's one of the cheaper SSD's out there. I know that the. The green sed SSD's are usually quite cheap. I'm actually just going to look up the price here so I can tell you guys how cheap this actually is. I don't know what it's gonna be like in us dollars, but this is a two terabyte drive in australian dollars. Let me convert this in us dollars.
00:16:57.284 - 00:17:16.796, Speaker A: This is a $125. You probably find it cheaper than that, but yeah, about $125 for the SSD and then the ROK five B board as well. Just running two physical cores out of the eight here. So. Yeah, great to see this, great to see that. We've gotten some real results of something sinking here. And I think get maybe is a heavier sync than some of the other client, maybe.
00:17:16.796 - 00:17:49.438, Speaker A: Maybe some of the other execution layer clients out there. So maybe you could get this down even further. And the sync time wasn't too long. One day, 17 hours, is actually quite short. So, yeah, just once again, speaking to how easy it is to run an Ethereum full node on low powered hardware, doesn't really say anything about validators, because this is just a full node here, like an execution layer client, a consensus layer client. Validators, obviously a different, different game. They're light on hardware, very heavy on capital, because you need that 30 tweet or I guess, like, as I explained before, less than that, but still very, very heavy capital requirements here.
00:17:49.438 - 00:18:13.904, Speaker A: But, yeah, anyway, I just wanted to hide that for you guys because I thought it was pretty cool. All right, so an announcement out of mega ETH today. So for those of you who don't know, mega ETH is an l two being built on top of Ethereum. What they're trying to do is juice the evm, like, basically what Monads doing as an l one, but as an l two here. And they announced today their $20 million seed round. This is obviously a very big seed round. Should disclose.
00:18:13.904 - 00:18:40.444, Speaker A: I mean, you probably guessed it by now. I am an investor in mega eth. I decided to go in as an angel investor. So what they're trying to do is basically get to 100,000 tps with millisecond latency as an l two. Essentially, I guess what you could say they're doing is, as I said, like, they're bringing what Monad's trying to do as an l one to an l two. Right. But I guess it's also the solana approach of scaling execution, of being able to do as much DP's as possible with as low latency as possible.
00:18:40.444 - 00:19:06.026, Speaker A: As I've always said, I felt like this was always better to be done in l two. There's an as an l one. There's just so many benefits to having it done as an l two here. And as I've said plenty of times in the past as well, the most exciting thing about l two s, for me is not necessarily, I guess, like the. The scalability, because that's table stakes, but doing scalability in unique and novel ways, using things other than the EVM. I mean, they are using the EVM, but the thing is, is that I. This is, like, not normal EVM.
00:19:06.026 - 00:19:34.806, Speaker A: They're juicing this, the EVM, up to 100,000 tps and beyond, and not the only team doing it. There are a bunch of teams out there that are doing this today, and it's going to be curious to see what this looks like. Because at the end of the day, I don't think the hardest part is building out the technology. The hardest part is building out an ecosystem, as is evidenced by the fact that, like, if we go to l two B and look at the top l two s right now, you know, it's arbitrary. One and base, they're the top two. Right? And that's because they've built out a really strong ecosystem. It's not because of the tech.
00:19:34.806 - 00:20:03.498, Speaker A: Like, no one would argue that arbitram one and base have the best tech or the fastest tech, or the quote unquote, like most performant tech, right? They're essentially just pretty. I mean, they're the evms that have been juiced a bit more because they're l two s and they're not on l one. But still, they're not anything kind of like, crazy, like 100,000 tps or anything like that, but they are successful because they've been managed to build an ecosystem around them. So that's always going to be the uphill battle for l two s. And I mean, l one s. Generally, it's the same battle. Building an ecosystem, that's what's very hard.
00:20:03.498 - 00:20:46.356, Speaker A: So, as I said, like the tech, the scalability, it's kind of table stake stuff here. I'm glad to see the innovations happening that's why I'm invested in them, because I love seeing this stuff built out and I love being part of this stuff. But at the end of the day, for every l two and l one team, generally it's all about growing the ecosystem. So I'm curious to see what, what mega eth does here to grow their ecosystem out, because that's basically do or die for the l two s at this point in time. All right, moving on. So fluent has announced that they have launched their first Devnet for their blended execution network. So essentially what they're trying to do here is create a system where you can basically do execution in both the AVM and in Wasm as well.
00:20:46.356 - 00:21:24.980, Speaker A: So you can say here, the fluent public devnet is now permissionlessly available. Developers can now build applications with logic written in both rust and EVM based languages like solidity or Viper. In practice, blended execution enables unique use cases, such as building a decentralized exchange in rust that uses ERC 20 tokens, enhancing a social feed with rust algorithms, playing with generative art or game libraries. And developers can go check this out for themselves. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. Should disclose here I'm advisor to fluent. But again, this falls into what I was saying before about wanting to see more innovation happening at the l two level on the tech side of things, you know, doing stuff that's non EVM, pushing the EVM to its limit, all that sorts of stuff.
00:21:24.980 - 00:22:10.062, Speaker A: There. Again, I fall back to saying that it's, it definitely is still about growing the ecosystem, and that's what fluent's trying to do here. They're trying to tap into a different and distinct ecosystem that isn't that, you know, that is EVM, that is solidity developers, but that you can bring other developers in that may not want to work with EVM or may not care about working with solidity. And they can write their programs in rust, and they can do this blended execution where essentially they can write a program in rust and have it execute as part of the fluent and evm system here, which is very, very cool. And I think this is the future. I think arbitrary has obviously been doing this with stylus, or something similar to this with stylus. But this is definitely the future of blockchains generally, is allowing developers to build in whatever language they want, for whatever vm they want, and then just execute it all together.
00:22:10.062 - 00:22:40.730, Speaker A: So the end user gets the best experience possible with obviously the cheapest fees possible, and no need to worry about essentially learning a brand new language just to get started. Like, we have to lower the barriers to entry across the board for users, but also for developers. And that's exactly what teams like fluent are doing. So you can go check this out for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, last up here, another big announcement out of Coinbase with regards to bringing people on chain and enabling mass adoption. And this is enabling actual mass adoption.
00:22:40.730 - 00:23:11.060, Speaker A: Like people who say that mass adoption is enabled by getting washed up celebrities on chain to issue their own scam coins and dump on their community. That's not adoption. That's literally just scamming people and grifting people. I guess that's actually one thing that's really annoying me lately is people calling that adoption. Anyone who's saying that that is adoption is, is ridiculously, I guess, like I'm delusional. I, that's probably the word I would use. What actual adoption is, is giving products and experiences to people that they haven't had before and doing it in a way that they're not getting scammed.
00:23:11.060 - 00:23:52.974, Speaker A: Like, I don't understand why this isn't a controversial thing, but apparently it is because crypto Twitter is really stupid most of the time. But enough of my ranting. What is Coinbase done? Well, they've teamed up with stripe to bring bases faster, cheaper financial infrastructure to millions of businesses around the world. How are they doing this? Well, essentially, stripe is adding USDC on base to their crypto payouts product to enable stripe platforms to make faster, cheaper money transfers to over 150 countries. And Stripe is adding USDC on base to their fear to crypto on ramp to enable customers in the US to convert fiat to crypto faster than ever. You remember a few months ago I said that I wanted Coinbase to go all in on getting USDC adopted on base? They're doing that, and they're doing that in really big ways. Stripe is a massive company, guys.
00:23:52.974 - 00:24:35.916, Speaker A: It is powering so much of e commerce online and now that base is integrated into it with super low or free transactions with using USDC to move money around the world, to do e commerce, to pay each other, and to just do it in such a, I guess, like on chain native way is really, really cool to see. This is, as I said, what enables mass adoption, what enables actual adoption. This is what people want. Or at least this is what people will get actual benefits out of and people will get actual value out of. People won't just get scammed and grifted on, they'll have a nice experience that's uniquely enabled by on chain products. So I'm really happy that Coinbase is doing this and again conveys firing on all cylinders here. They have the whole pipeline, they know what they're trying to do.
00:24:35.916 - 00:25:10.720, Speaker A: They're scaling up base, it's at, it's an l two on a theorem. So they get to tap into the ethereum ecosystem. They don't have a token yet, which actually I think helps them for now. I do think eventually base will have a token. Like that's something that I don't know the timing around, but I do think it will happen. But I think right now it's really, I guess, critical for them not to do a token because they're building out their ecosystem in a really natural way. I mean as I showed before on l two B and you can see here, Albatrum has a token, right? But a lot of that token isn't being used to incentivize usage and their arbitrary one has grown a lot since the token was airdropped.
00:25:10.720 - 00:25:41.426, Speaker A: Base doesn't have a token and has grown a lot just naturally. Obviously there are other things on the chain that act as incentives, like meme coins and stuff like that, but base itself doesn't have a token and they've been able to grow to number two even though all these other l two s have tokens. I mean op main, that is number three here. But you know, they had a token that's the same as arbitram one, though they already did their token and they've been growing nicely. Blast has a token that they've used as incentives, like pretty heavily. They haven't been shy about that. Linnea has had a token that they've used as incentives or they don't have a token yet.
00:25:41.426 - 00:26:06.038, Speaker A: Sorry. I believe they, they obviously are farming people here or getting people to farm for the token. ZK sync same thing here. Mantle I think very similar. But I think that they're not like the others where they've got their token already and they've been able to grow their ecosystem out. Scroll doesn't have a token yet. Stocknet like if you actually look at the, you know, measure of TVL and activity here, it's incredibly impressive what base has been able to do without a token and being able to grow without a token.
00:26:06.038 - 00:26:47.318, Speaker A: And I mean Albatron one, I attribute most of its growth to it, not its token either. Like just growing out the ecosystem here and coinbase, adding more integrations and partnership like this and going all in on USDC, which I believe, I mean stable coins is the biggest product in crypto. This is a very smart move from them. So I'm very glad to see them doing this because, as I said, I think a few months ago, like, they need to do this because they've got huge competition within tether. And obviously tether is incredibly popular on Tron. But now that Coinbase has base and now that they have, I mean, for the foreseeable future, it's still going to be centralized. They have control over base in terms of being able to scale it up really fast, being able to offer, you know, low, low, really low gas fees or even like free gas on things like USDC transfers here.
00:26:47.318 - 00:27:10.436, Speaker A: And then they've got the brand name in order to partner with other titans of the, of, I guess, the financial industry, like stripe. This is what gets us the next billion users on chain. This is what brings actual mass adoption in and sustainable adoption as well. Not the scams, not the grips on the celeb coins. That's all bullshit. That's all distractions, that's all short term noise. This is the long term sustainable stuff that I love seeing crypto companies do.
00:27:10.436 - 00:27:25.592, Speaker A: And I hope to see more of this, not just from Coinbase, but from other crypto companies out there. But yeah, I think on that note, that's going to be it for today, guys. So, yeah, thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet. Give it up. Thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all on Monday.
00:27:25.592 - 00:27:26.040, Speaker A: Thanks, everyone.
