00:00:00.170 - 00:00:39.906, Speaker A: I think it's pretty hard to argue with the fact that the larger you get as an application, the larger the incentives are to own more of the stack or control all of your economics. And they're aware that if an app basically starts taking up, you know, represents the majority of value being created or the majority of fees on Solana, the incentives to then move to their own chain are very hockey. If I'm with Solana developer, how do I think about keeping these apps, even the most successful ones, in the network, despite these incentives? And I think that this is getting towards that sort of idea of how do we keep them on Solana, but give them more ownership.
00:00:40.018 - 00:01:19.574, Speaker B: All right, everyone, we will be back to the program in just a moment, but before we do, I want to share something that blockworks has been cooking up for these last couple of months. March of this coming year in London, Blockworks is hosting Das London, the largest institutionally focused conference in all of crypto, Goldman, JPMorgan, zero 72, all in one room. So you can know what the big money is doing. So click the link at the bottom of this episode, it'll take you right over to the homepage and use Bell 20 for 20% off. And I will see you in sunny London town in March. Episode of Bell Curve before we jump in, quick disclaimer. The views expressed by my co host today are their personal views, and they do not represent the views of any organization with which the co hosts are associated with.
00:01:19.574 - 00:01:38.902, Speaker B: Nothing in the episode is construed or relied upon as financial, technical, tax, legal, or other advice. You know the deal. Now let's jump into the episode. All right, everyone, welcome back to another episode of Bell Curve. Today you got me and Miles holding down the fort. Holding down the old fort. Miles.
00:01:39.046 - 00:01:41.260, Speaker A: Good to be back. Good to be back.
00:01:42.430 - 00:01:50.042, Speaker B: Yeah, this is a good week. We got to hang out a little bit in person this week in New York. Yeah, it's been lovely.
00:01:50.106 - 00:02:03.700, Speaker A: Great to be here. Yeah, I've been coming quite a bit. This is where all the action is. And, yeah, we had fun at a little Solana meetup earlier this to. Yeah, good to be here.
00:02:04.150 - 00:02:32.700, Speaker B: That was great. Yeah, we'll talk a little bit about that. Blockworks hosted a little Solana research hang in our office, so we had some of the folks from ellipsis, Jito, Marginfi. Yeah, it was a really good hang. Talked a lot about fees on Solana and the fee know a lot of which is not working particularly well right now. And I think fees are actually kind of the hottest topic within the Solana community. A lot of very interesting ideas about how to fix the fee market, and we'll get into some of those later.
00:02:32.700 - 00:03:28.814, Speaker B: I think what I wanted to chat with you about, because it's something that you and I talk about a good amount off air, is data availability. It feels like that's going to be an enormous or data publishing as it's about to get rebranded as we move into the new year. It feels like this is incredibly important one, because if this bull market ends up coming back, there's going to be a bunch of activity that flows especially onto Ethereum today. And the largest cost for roll ups on Ethereum, it's completely variable as well, is da. So right now, basically the dominant solution is for roll ups to pay data availability to Ethereum. And there's know in recent months, a whole bunch of new solutions have cropped up, including Eigenda, which is the first sort of in house use case for Eigen layer restaking. There's celestia, there's Polygon avail.
00:03:28.814 - 00:04:25.330, Speaker B: Espresso has its own data availability solution. I want to emphasize that there's a bunch of different DA solutions out there, even with some kind know like near is being used or it's being sort of touted or experimented with as a DA solution for Ethereum, even Solana, I think Rome, there's a startup which basically uses Solana for ETH roll up da. So there's a bunch of different flavors of think, you know, to not boil the ocean. You and I are going to focus on what is probably the leading two solutions today, and the ones that you and I maybe know the best, which is Celestia and Eigenda. That's not to say there aren't other flavors and solutions out there, but maybe just for the purpose of comparing, contrasting in a hopefully useful and somewhat nuanced way, those are the two that we're going to focus on. Miles, maybe, can I call on you here to just give her a view of what is data availability, why is it so critical, and where does it sit in sort of the cost structure for roll ups today?
00:04:25.480 - 00:05:46.038, Speaker A: Yeah, absolutely. So we definitely are entering the period of the DA wars. And it's funny because it is such a, I would say, not super sexy topic on the surface, but it is going to, I think, be critically important for scaling really a roll up centric future, which is where we're going with everything. Right? So maybe, first of all, why is da important? And why are people building all these alt da solutions? And so just as a quick refresher data from roll ups needs to be published somewhere where everybody can see it, and then they can dispute the data if need be. And if the data is withheld by a sequencer, bad things can happen, right? Funds can be stolen. In the case of optimistic roll ups, at the very least, you basically cannot continue the state of the roll up, right? So if the sequencer were to drop out and the DI wasn't published anywhere, nobody could continue the roll up. So this is a critical function of all roll ups, and it's about 90% of the transaction costs for today's roll ups that use ethereum for DA and settlement is attributed to these DA costs.
00:05:46.038 - 00:07:05.490, Speaker A: Right? So why do we care about DA and why are all these solutions coming out? It's because I think right now with roll ups, this tried and true roll up that uses ethereum for settlement and DA, you get ten x cheaper fees. But with the solutions like Celestia, you go from ten x to 100 x cheaper fees. And this is really important because if we are going to have this proliferation of roll ups, these alta solutions, at least today, are necessary to make them, I guess, viable economically. Most roll ups, if you're just a new upstart and you want to have your own execution environment and it's going to take a long time to attract a lot of volume and users, you're not going to be profitable. And so I think that that has really stymied the growth of roll ups today. It's why we have a lot of these large roll up hubs, but very few, I'd say, roll up app chains. So I think the combination of RASp providers that kind of abstract away the complexities of building and alt dA solutions that make these roll ups economically viable is really what's going to kind of kick off this proliferation of roll ups.
00:07:05.490 - 00:07:10.614, Speaker A: So maybe just the pause there, that's kind of why everybody is talking about.
00:07:10.652 - 00:07:54.990, Speaker B: This, because it's still a large bottleneck. There is an enormous amount of emphasis on TPS, but really ultimately, if you're still for a roll up, basically what we've done with roll ups is we've moved execution off of ETh main chain primarily. So we put it off in this own little segmented, cordoned off block space. And we've borrowed the security through this clever arrangement of roll ups. But ultimately that allows them to sort of batch transactions and post down to the l one, which is much more efficient. You also have a larger, more centralized sequencer, which is just better for sort of compute cost and throughput. But if you're still using Ethereum as the data availability solution, then you haven't really solved much because that bottleneck still exists.
00:07:54.990 - 00:08:42.286, Speaker B: The roll ups are going to have to pay a bunch to ETH validators for DA, and all of those costs are going to get passed back on to the user. So there are a couple of solutions here. There's an ETH native solution, which is 4844 protodank sharding, where we're going to get basically a differentiated sort of subsidized form of resource in the form of blobs, which is a different resource than gas on Ethel one. Eventually we're going to get full dank sharding, which should make those costs even cheaper. But in the meantime, the market is providing alternative solutions, which are these alternative DA layers. And I do think it's worth talking about some of the businesses that are cropping up here to support those integrations and making it even easier. So today, Conduit just announced, which is a roll up as a service provider for the op stack, they just announced that they're partnering with Celestia.
00:08:42.286 - 00:09:15.662, Speaker B: So you can imagine the friction of starting your own app chain to your previous point a year and a half ago, where you basically had to do everything yourself, you're still paying data availability costs, etH validators. But now with conduit, you get a one click, you can very easily spin up essentially your own roll up app chain, and then if it integrates seamlessly with Celestia, you can pay cheap data availability. You know, to your point, I think the frictions of launching your own chain is getting drastically lowered, even in real time.
00:09:15.716 - 00:09:56.090, Speaker A: Yeah, it is. I was reading that conduit thread, and just for fun, I clicked on the link to actually go deploy your own roll up. And it's shockingly easy. It's like actually a couple of clicks and then there's an option. It says, do you want to use Ethereum? This gives you ten x cheaper fees. Or do you want to use Celestia? This gives you 100 x cheaper fees. So if I'm putting myself in the shoes of the next hundred roll up developers that are going to come in as soon as this bull market comes back, right? And I have those two options, and it says I could either have ten x or 100 x, I'm probably going to choose the 100 x.
00:09:56.090 - 00:10:46.442, Speaker A: And I think that today Celestia has a head start they've been building. They are kind of the pioneers of modular blockchains in the first place. And really this concept of data availability, or data publishing. And so they've got a lot of integrations already with the large frameworks, but you can see a future where a developer comes in and he's got kind of an array of options for DA solutions, and it's just a matter of time. And so, yeah, maybe we can start getting into putting ourselves in the shoes of this developer. What are the sort of decisions and trade offs in selecting these? If you now have five different options that all, say 100 x cheaper fees, which one are you going to choose? Yes.
00:10:46.496 - 00:11:14.434, Speaker B: All right, let's get into it. And again, we're going to use the focus on the two examples of eigenda and Celestia. So, Miles, could you just kind of walk us through, just mechanically, what do these two different solutions look like today? And maybe if you could explain the sort of distinction in between Das data availability sampling, which is sort of pioneered on celestia, and then da scaling, which Eigen da takes advantage of.
00:11:14.552 - 00:12:15.480, Speaker A: Yeah, absolutely. So maybe, I think a lot of it does come down to those two concepts. And the truth, or at least what I've kind of observed, is that it's very hard to optimize for both. You can either optimize for da scaling or da sampling. And what that actually means is with da scaling, this is saying, okay, we want basically all this data to be available somewhere, but we want to keep the requirements of the node operators of this network very low. So we don't want every single node operator to have to download all of the data. And the way we're going to do this is basically if we have, let's say 100 roll ups and they all have data, and we have say ten validators, instead of just having, I guess, validator one, download data from roll ups one through ten, validator two, download roll ups from eleven through 20.
00:12:15.480 - 00:13:21.854, Speaker A: We're going to mix and match all this data together in a complex configuration using something called eraser coding. And that will allow basically anybody to recover the full data set, if only, say, 10% of these validators are running. So that is da scaling. That's to say, okay, how do we basically optimize for scaling the consensus bandwidth or scaling the bandwidth of this network by not making every single validator download all the data. Now, da sampling, this does not optimize for, I would say, like bandwidth scaling. This optimizes for basically everybody who is not a full node validator can verify that the data was published or not, even though they are not downloading all of the data. So with DA sampling, you're going to say okay, we're going to have a very heavy validator set.
00:13:21.854 - 00:14:24.590, Speaker A: Every validator is going to download all of the data. And we can do this because we have optimized a separate chain, celestia, to specialize in just making this as scalable as possible. It's still pretty heavy for these full node validators. But if you are a roll up, a celestia native roll up, and the benefit of this is really that even if every single validator is lying to you, you will be able to find out through sampling this data. And so what that actually means is that all of the data is downloaded by the validators, but then it is eraser coded on the way out to another sort of network of light nodes. They call it this halo network. Right? And through Da sampling, this halo network of light nodes can basically prove that the data is being withheld, even if 100% of the validators were colluding.
00:14:24.590 - 00:15:06.318, Speaker A: And you could not do this if you were optimizing for Da scaling, because each of the validators does not actually hold all of the data. And so it's really optimizing for, okay, do I want everybody in the world who is not a full node validator to be able to prove that the data is there or not on chain? Or do I want basically to scale the number of the bandwidth that can go through this network? And maybe I have some sort of trade offs around the fact that it'd be very hard to kind of recover this data if 100% of the nodes were malicious. Yeah.
00:15:06.404 - 00:15:45.658, Speaker B: All right, that was a really helpful explanation. I want to caveat to the audience now. This is where you and I are going to leave sort of these formal definitions and maybe wade into slightly more speculative waters and just try to guess. Really, we're getting into pretty deep technical stuff here. I'd guess there's probably 50 people in the world that deeply understand the engineering sort of coding level implications of this. But I think it's important to poke at the implications of these two different constructions. So where my mind goes is, okay, what are the differences, really in between these solutions, if I'm a roll up framework or if I have an app chain? And the first thing that sort of comes to mind is cost.
00:15:45.658 - 00:16:22.722, Speaker B: So how competitive can eigen, da versus Celestia beyond cost? And then what are the security guarantees? Is there really a difference, a meaningful difference in between on the eigenda solution? Okay, all of the validators, basically, they're getting little pieces of the data that you could very easily reconstruct versus in the celeste example, fewer beefier full nodes, but ultimately it's being erasure coded when it's being sent out to all these different light nodes. Is there a meaningful security trade off there? I'm not actually 100% sure. And then which one is the market going to care about? More cost versus security guarantees?
00:16:22.866 - 00:17:02.686, Speaker A: Yeah, exactly. I think the cost side is still very tbd. Only celestia is in production, and I think it's fair to assume that eigenda will be able to match. I think it's the sort of cost improvements. And then. So maybe let's just say we'll wait and see between all these solutions if there actually is meaningfully different cost improvements. But it could be the difference between fractions of pennies on transaction fees that I feel like may not actually really move the needle.
00:17:02.686 - 00:18:00.818, Speaker A: At the end of the day, I could be totally wrong, but I feel like cost is going to be kind of uniform in terms of, they will all be orders of magnitude better than the status quo in terms of cost. So then it really comes down to security. Right. And I think this really depends on if you've already decided what kind of roll up you want to launch, because I think there is sort of like one sort of comparison that we can make between these two DA solutions for ETH settlement roll ups. So these are roll ups that have their roll up contracts live on ETh L1, but they're posting data somewhere else versus I would say, like Celestia native or eigenda native roll ups, those that are basically just posting data to DA but not using another chain for settlement contracts.
00:18:00.914 - 00:18:23.918, Speaker B: Yeah, I thought you were bringing up an interesting point there. Actually, I was going to bring up the diagram of. I think this is a critical point to bring up what actually here kind of lead in there, and then I might just jump in and I want to define for the audience the difference between a smart contract roll up on ETH versus a sovereign roll up. I feel like that's a critical point to.
00:18:24.004 - 00:18:38.130, Speaker A: Yeah, okay, so between these two solutions, I think, again, it's very different, very important to differentiate between settlement and, say, sovereign roll ups. Go ahead.
00:18:38.280 - 00:19:20.574, Speaker B: I actually think that's a really critical point to dive in on and just to level set with the audience. I'm sure people have probably heard this sort of generic difference of, okay, on Eth, you have smart contract roll ups, and there are even different flavors of smart contract roll up based roll ups, et cetera. And then Celestia has been sort of famous for pushing this idea of the sovereign roll up and I think it's just actually, Celestia has a great just blog post on this. It's very simple, very short. They have pictures which as we all know is great. And I thought it would be helpful to actually just walk folks through the difference. So if you're following along via screen here, there's a very helpful sort of visualization of what a smart contract roll up on eth looks like.
00:19:20.574 - 00:20:00.110, Speaker B: So you see the four functions of a blockchain, execution, settlement, consensus and data availability. And you can see in the Ethereum land of a smart contract roll up, you're outsourcing execution to smart contract roll up, but Ethereum still does settlement consensus and Da. Now, again, in the context of what we're talking about here is we're basically talking about unbundling one additional thing with alternative data availability, alt solutions. So in this future that you and I are discussing here that feels imminent, it's not Ethereum that you'd be outsourcing or doing that. Ethereum nodes that we'd be doing da, it would be eigenda or Celestia. Right. So that's maybe one way that this could play out.
00:20:00.110 - 00:20:51.798, Speaker B: I think it's important to understand what a sovereign roll up is and how that's different from a smart contract roll up, because I think that throws a little bit of a wrench in how you're thinking about it. So in a sovereign roll up, and again, it's very helpful to look at the pictures here if you can. But what a sovereign roll up actually does is it does execution, but it also does settlement. And what you're outsourcing is consensus and DA to data availability layer. And what this affords you just immediately, first of all, there's a difference in cost structure in between sovereign roll ups and smart contract roll ups. But one of the other things that this affords you as an advantage is settlement. One of the downsides of the smart contract roll ups on Ethereum is that ultimately all the transactions that get executed up on the roll up layer are going to have to settle down to Ethereum.
00:20:51.798 - 00:21:49.774, Speaker B: And Ethereum proposers are still ultimately responsible for the ordering. They're still the single source of truth, so to speak. And the most direct implications that this has for roll ups is some lack of sovereignty over your fork choice rule. So for instance, in the case that there was ever some exploit on any of the ETH roll ups, today you could do a hard fork, but where you have control over is assets that are issued on the smart contract roll up chain. But anything that's been bridged over to ETH, you don't have control over, which makes it much less safe for you if you're a holder of an ETH bridged asset. Ultimately, on a sovereign roll up, because you have multiple different nodes that are all responsible for settlement, you can do a hard fork. And the sort of assurances that you have in terms of if there ever were to be a hard fork, it's just much safer on a sovereign roll up.
00:21:49.892 - 00:22:30.700, Speaker A: Exactly. But at the same time, you still are relying on another layer for consensus and data availability. Right. And the beauty of the sovereign roll up that uses Celestia is that even if 99% of the validators that you're relying on for data publishing and consensus are being malicious, you will be able to know, and then you control your own destiny. Right. And you can hard fork and recover the state of the roll up back to where the data stopped being published. You cannot do that with an ETh settlement roll up.
00:22:30.700 - 00:23:15.098, Speaker A: That is the big trade off here. I think that that also points to some of the trade offs around eigenda and Celestia. Right. Because if you're an ETH settlement roll up and Celestia is lying to you, basically, you can't really fork anyways. Right. Some of the benefits of what you get when you're a celestia native roll up in terms of. I think it really kind of replicates the sovereignty of, say, a cosmos, l one with a fraction of the overhead cost.
00:23:15.098 - 00:23:51.990, Speaker A: You don't quite get all of those benefits. If you're an ETh settlement roll up using Celestia, it's still 100 x cheaper. Right. And it's great for fees, but you're not basically taking full advantage of the reason that Celestia is a blockchain that downloads all of the data and has this amazing da sampling network full of light nodes. You get a lot of those benefits. But your choice of being in each settlement roll up, you're inherently kind of optimizing or choosing not to have that level of sovereignty.
00:23:52.410 - 00:24:20.606, Speaker B: Yeah. Now, I think what some folks would say is, well, hold on a second. There are companies out there. Sovereign Labs is working on how to do sovereign roll ups on Ethereum. This is where I get a little confused. I know there's a technical solution here, but just from a high level where my brain sort of gets turned into a pretzel and breaks is okay. I sort of understand that you could theoretically use any da solution that you want.
00:24:20.606 - 00:24:23.186, Speaker B: It doesn't have to be celestia. That's not the only way that you.
00:24:23.208 - 00:25:01.554, Speaker A: Can have something like, you can use any l one. Right. It's just. Should you. Is that l one good for this function? I think Celestia with the roll kit team has proved that you can have bitcoin roll ups, or at least bitcoin sovereign roll ups, roll ups opposed to bitcoin. Is that going to give you the most performant roll up possible? No, but it is like a demonstration of the fact that with this sort of modular framework, you can use any sort of base layer. Celestia is the base layer that is like in line with the app chain thesis.
00:25:01.554 - 00:25:35.522, Speaker A: It is optimized to do one thing. Right, and it's doing that one thing at the very bottom of the stack, whereas other cosmos chains are optimized to do one thing but at the app layer. Right. Yeah, I think that's kind of a big part of this, is I think there's a lot of back and forth between the two teams right now, specifically talking about the trade offs for ETH settlement roll ups. And I think that it's kind of getting a bit confusing.
00:25:35.586 - 00:25:59.614, Speaker B: I think so, too. I think you nailed it. Okay. People sometimes sort of get a little bit distracted about, is it technically possible to do this? Yeah, it may be technically possible to do that. Is it feasible and is it realistic? Is the much more pertinent high signal question to ask? And I don't know. I don't have direct access to the costs, which I ultimately think is going to be. There's some element of this as well.
00:25:59.614 - 00:27:15.942, Speaker B: Is like, is Da going to be commoditized to front run a little conversation that you and I had that'll be coming out in January? Is there wagu sort of da, or is it just kind of good enough to attain the security guarantees they want? That's something that the market is going to ultimately have to prove out. But then there's a sort of squishier social layer and reason for choosing your da solution, where I think, not to speak for you as well, but I'm not a huge fan of this ETH alignment sort of meme, but for the time being, I feel like it's still relatively powerful. So maybe Eigenda has a bit of a leg up there because, hey, you're not explicitly outsourcing your da or using node validators for DA, but probably what's most likely going to happen is that e stakers are going to opt into, through restaking, running this da sort of solution. So it still kind of feels eth aligned. And maybe that's what a lot of EtH roll ups do. And whereas for Celestia, I think how I was thinking about it was initially sort of being very competitive with Eigenda on sort of stealing roll ups, so to speak, competing for the same pool of ETH roll ups and getting them to outsource to Celestia versus Eigenda. And to be clear, I think that's probably what's going to happen in the next like six, nine months or so.
00:27:15.942 - 00:27:59.446, Speaker B: And they'll compete and Celestia will get some and Eigenda will get some. But I think what started to excite me recently about Celestia is I think Celestia's success will be determined by convincing the market and showcasing to the market that there is an alternative and in some ways superior construction of how roll ups can happen. And from the perspective of a new entrepreneur that's building a roll up framework or an app chain or something like that, I think the hearts and minds battle to win here is I'd rather build a sovereign roll up on Celestia as opposed to a smart contract roll up on Ethereum. I feel like that's the critical thing, to win.
00:27:59.628 - 00:28:56.022, Speaker A: I think that's the long game, I think. But the reality is that today most roll ups are ETH settlement roll ups. So that's where the competition is going to really, in the near term, I think, heat up the most. And then later, I think with sovereign Labs and once RAS providers or the frameworks themselves providing RAs services really launch, we'll begin to see the sovereign roll up as more of a viable option. But I think just to go back maybe to Eigenda and why it's positioning itself like how it's positioning itself, it is even more specialized than Celestia. It's saying we're not just specializing to be a DA layer, we are specializing to be a DA layer to ETH settlement roll ups only. Eigenda actually doesn't make a lot of sense to use if you're not an ETH settlement roll up.
00:28:56.022 - 00:29:36.374, Speaker A: I could be wrong, but that's my sense. But I think they've said, okay, here's where most of the market is today. Let's build a solution that's even more specialized. And guess what? These roll ups already have an ordering service in terms of living on Ethereum l one. That's where the settlement contracts are. So we actually don't need Eigenda to be its own chain with ordering and data publishing, we can just have this be a network of nodes that basically give data attestations. And because this is where the ETH alignment thing comes in, maybe where to start here.
00:29:36.374 - 00:31:22.278, Speaker A: Okay, so first of all, ETh alignment, because we are going to basically have these nodes also be Ethereum validators, and because we're optimizing for Da scaling, and because we want a very large network of these eigenda validators, and because the eigenda validators are already running full nodes of Ethereum, we need to make this as light as possible. And so we're only going to send portions of the data to these node operators, and then they're basically going to attest to it through a protocol called proof of custody, and they're going to basically send serve data back to Ethereum. And once it hits Ethereum, that is the ordering, right? So it's saying, okay, if we just want to serve EtH settlement roll ups, what is the optimal design? And that's where eigenda is going with this. Now, the sort of other meta piece of ETH alignment here is that, let's be honest, if these DA solutions take off, that is the majority of l two fees that would be going to l one, validators going to other networks, right? And so you and I have talked about this before. The less bullish case for Ethereum is that they outsource so many of these costs elsewhere that roll ups only are using ETh for settlement. And that's 10% of the fees that they pay today. So how do we continue to reward, I guess, the network that is securing our whole roll up anyways? We might as well pay, if we're going to pay a network of nodes for DA, it might as well be the same Ethereum validators that are securing our chain in the first place.
00:31:22.278 - 00:31:29.014, Speaker A: So that's like kind of the other piece of this where they're kind of pitching the alignment side.
00:31:29.132 - 00:32:07.090, Speaker B: It's a very interesting question, and I internally flip flop about this quite a bit, and I think we're just going to have to see how this ultimately ends up playing out. But I think people really talk past each other on fees. This is going to sort of intersect with fees and fee markets. But generally there are two camps on Twitter that say fees are good. It shows that people are using the block space. There's demand for block space, which I agree with. Where I don't really agree is that people have started to contort Ethereum into a PNL and say this is eth revenue.
00:32:07.090 - 00:32:49.490, Speaker B: I don't agree with that. I view ETH as a commodity. Then there's this concept of like, where is a network in its lifecycle? Should you be at the value capture stage now because it makes it more expensive for devs as opposed to in the beginning? Should you be trying to lower fees and just attract new developers and users? And ultimately the original purpose of fees. Fees are a gating mechanism or a rate limiting mechanism. It's against civil attacks, right, DOS attacks. That's the whole purpose of ETH or fees in general. And there's probably some concept of a parabola here of where your optimal fees are.
00:32:49.490 - 00:33:39.250, Speaker B: So if your fees are weight, like to use a really hyperbolic example, if your fees are probably Salana's fees today are too low, right? One cents, you're not pricing your resources appropriately, and eventually you're going to overload the network. If fees were a million dollar gas per transaction, that'd be way too much. You're actually losing a bunch of transactions. There's kind of the concept of dead weight loss. There's some appropriate amount of fees and fees up good and low fees good are probably not the right way of. It's an optimization problem and it's somewhere in the middle, I think. Another thing that I'm curious about as well, because I think it has direct implications for which da solution ultimately ends up taking off is like, what is the market structure going to look like for l two s? So, something you and I have talked about quite a bit as well, but I was listening to the van Eck.
00:33:39.250 - 00:34:01.946, Speaker B: Matthew, I'm blank. Matthew Siegel, I believe over at Van Eck Research, did an episode on Bankless where he was predicting the consolidation of l two s this coming year. And I was thinking to myself, I'm really torn on that because, and he pointed to crypto exchanges and an analog. And yes, right now crypto exchanges are consolidating. But how long did that process take?
00:34:01.968 - 00:34:02.262, Speaker A: Miles.
00:34:02.326 - 00:34:43.858, Speaker B: Took years and years to do so. I could see a continued fragmentation at the l two layer, but what might catalyze a change there, and more of a focus on interoperability is the UX. The more L2s that you add, where there's meaningful, like a Dap that only exists on this l two and not on that l two. I think even if you extrapolate that out to 30 L2s that have meaningful Dapps on it, you have significantly degraded the Ux of a user of Ethereum. And they are going to have to prioritize that. Otherwise, chains like Salana are going to ultimately end up succeeding. And this is where I think Celestia has an advantage as well, because they're a cosmos chain.
00:34:43.858 - 00:35:15.234, Speaker B: And not only do you have IBC over there, but there's also just more of a cultural focus on interoperability. The idea of Cosmos is starting out as a network of connected app chains. And honestly, I think it's probably already at the breaking point. Even if you didn't add any additional L2s, the fragmentation just makes the UX shitty. Even if the bridges are great, it still sucks to have to bridge between these things. I don't know. So I think that might actually hasten and catalyze a change.
00:35:15.234 - 00:35:24.754, Speaker B: And then that has implications for, for instance, Eigen Da's decision to focus only on eth. L two s. I don't know. I think another important question to ask.
00:35:24.952 - 00:36:23.922, Speaker A: I think they're both not betting on the consolidation of l two s. I think if l two s, at least on Ethereum, consolidate into a couple of major hubs, then these DA solutions don't really have businesses, in my opinion, because it's just the number of customers are extremely low. And those roll ups can probably be profitable on their own, if that's the case, without having to use these LDA solutions. So I think the LDA solutions are the precondition for there to be this huge web of roll ups. And then, yeah, we deal with the interoperability problems, or we just deal with a lot of improve the onboarding experiences so that you don't necessarily need to be bridging across. Maybe you're using privy to spin up new wallet for an app chain that you just want to try out. Right? And then if you really like it, you can bridge some assets over later from your main wallet.
00:36:23.922 - 00:37:10.500, Speaker A: So anyways, I think that's definitely a part of this, but I think it's slightly separate. And I think you are right in that the proliferation of roll ups is probably a little bit like the UX is going to be probably a little bit better in the celestial world just because cosmos has been kind of preparing for this and they have IBC and a lot of things. Although this week people tried to buy some bad kids and seemed like nobody had a good experience in cosmos anyway. So there's like a long way to go, even with the ecosystem that's been preparing for this future since inception. Right.
00:37:11.610 - 00:37:20.780, Speaker B: It's a really good point. I think I texted you and I was like, dude, I was a little bit ahead of the curve, but I'm trying to buy a bad kid. I literally can't figure out how to do this.
00:37:21.230 - 00:37:22.460, Speaker A: Made me so.
00:37:24.270 - 00:38:03.542, Speaker B: Well, but. But it actually doesn't feel like it's that wild. It feels like a solvable problem, at least in cosmos. And where I was actually getting hung up specifically is in know, usually your experience with, if you have a phantom or metamask or something like that and you connect to a dex, it will just see your account balances and you can trade. Where I was getting hung up from the Kepler UX experience is you can log on to something like cosmos and it'll see your Kepler wallet. But because there are actually multiple different chains, it doesn't just pick up your account balance. You actually have to deposit into osmosis, which is just.
00:38:03.542 - 00:38:22.726, Speaker B: Look, is that wickedly complicated? No. Was it confusing for me as a crypto native? Yeah, it was actually confusing for me. It just added a little bit of friction. And when you're in a bull market, those frictions are actually critically important. This is when all the users come in, right? The meta is going to change. It's already changing. No one really spends on marketing.
00:38:22.726 - 00:38:53.238, Speaker B: Everyone builds product during bear markets. That is going to change. This is when all of your users are going to come in in the next. Like, you're going to grab as many of them as you possibly can, you're going to try to hold onto them through the bear market, and then you're going to repeat it. And UX is going to be a big thing. And for both Cosmos and Celestia and Ethereum, not picking on any of these ecosystems, we are going to have to figure out interoperability. Because I already think for as many changes there are on Cosmos and Ethereum, let's say we get no additional new ones.
00:38:53.238 - 00:39:08.090, Speaker B: It's already broken. Like, bridging sucks. You should only have to do that when you're moving between big trust zones or too. There needs to be better interop. I view it as a massive impediment.
00:39:09.390 - 00:39:58.220, Speaker A: Yeah, a couple of things there. So I think there are some UX tricks that will be coming in on the cosmos side. I think next month's SDK upgrade, you'll have fee abstraction, so you can pay gas fees in any token. You don't need a new token for every chain you are active on. And there'll be lots of kind of one click tricks. So even though these assets are held on different chains, if you say, I want to trade on osmosis, it's going to abstract away that hop that got you in the background. So these are the things that you don't really even learn until a bull market comes back and new users come in who haven't used it and you're like, oh yeah, shit, we should figure that out.
00:39:58.220 - 00:40:01.626, Speaker A: And then I think just props to.
00:40:01.648 - 00:40:25.774, Speaker B: Skip, by the way, who's just going so far out of their way to help with this. Sam Hart did this great Twitter post a couple of days ago. Hey, if anyone's using Cosmos and there's something on the like, I will help build this. So props to skip on just dedicating scarce company resources to just doing good things for the ecosystem. Those guys are the real heroes.
00:40:25.822 - 00:41:34.362, Speaker A: Yeah, they are the book grow the pie for cosmos. And then I would just say two more things on the interop that I think give me hope is one this sort of intense or market maker based bridges where the complexity and the risk, so maybe like the settlement time and all of that complexity is pushed on to the market maker and the user gets basically their order filled on the destination chain immediately or destination roll up immediately. We have projects like across are kind of spearheading this, but I think there's a lot more coming. And then the other piece is all of these storage and state proof providers I think are going to help a lot. Right? So let's say you have an app on Starknet, and let's say it's a lending and borrowing app on Starknet. If I want to use this app, I actually may not even have to move my assets from eth l one. So this app is going to say, give me a storage proof to show what your account balance is on l one.
00:41:34.362 - 00:42:09.126, Speaker A: Okay. Based off of that, you can borrow off of that collateral without actually having to bridge these things. So I think that technology is going to take a little while to get really, I would say, implemented into a lot of dapps. But between that and then with bridges moving towards pushing the shitty wait times, the settlement risk to market makers who are going to front you your liquidity, we're coalescing on some models that actually, I think are going to begin to solve these things, but they may not be ready in time for this bull market.
00:42:09.308 - 00:42:24.806, Speaker B: I think that's the pertinent question, which is I'm not sitting here saying this is an unsolvable problem, it's 100% a solvable problem, but it has implications. How quickly you solve this problem has implications for how your chain is going to do in this coming ecosystem.
00:42:24.918 - 00:42:41.466, Speaker A: I totally agree. Maybe for that reason, there is like a consolidation of activity around these big hubs for the foreseeable mid, near term, near to midterm. But yeah, maybe back to wrap up on the alt da solutions.
00:42:41.578 - 00:43:10.294, Speaker B: Yeah, I know. Basically, I can't remember. I heard this so long ago, but this was a Kathy wood thing where innovation actually comes from radical decreases in cost. And she used the example of the human genome. So, remember there was that whole project a couple of years ago. I should go back and look at it, but it cost. It might have even been.
00:43:10.294 - 00:43:44.654, Speaker B: I don't want to say something stupid, but I can't really remember it, but definitely in the millions, potentially high sort of nine figure bill. It was this whole human genome sequencing project. It took years before they finally sequenced a human genome. And then if you fast forward about ten years, you can do that and pay like $300. Then the amount of things that you can do with build businesses around on that. Now that it's economical, you just sort of get this explosion in innovation, and at the same time that everyone is starting to fade. The app chain thesis, et cetera.
00:43:44.654 - 00:44:07.114, Speaker B: We're about to get a massive unlock in costs and explosion in economics for roll up frameworks. And I don't know. Look, you and I have been talking about this for so long. There's so many things you can do when you have complete sovereignty and ownership over your block space that it's just much more difficult when you're building on general block space.
00:44:07.232 - 00:45:06.302, Speaker A: Let's talk about the status quo today of app chains is either you can basically be an ETH settlement roll up app chain, which is prohibitively expensive, apart from the most successful dapps, or you can be a cosmos chain, which requires you to basically be an expert at the chain level as well as the app level and everything in between. And there's just not a lot of teams that can do that. Where we're moving the future is we have those two options still, but now we have two new options. We have ETH settlement roll ups that use Altea solutions. So now you can do as easy a couple clicks with conduit and also have an economically viable roll up if your app gets some decent amount of usage. Or you can be a sovereign roll up on Celestia, which I think gives you pretty much as close as possible to the full sovereignty and all the benefits you'd get with a cosmos chain without having to deal with the overhead. Right.
00:45:06.302 - 00:45:36.950, Speaker A: And so now we've got, I would say, like, cheaper and almost equally good version of a Cosmos chain, and we have a hundred x cheaper version of ETH settlement roll up, and so that just opens up the market. This model is now viable for so many new applications when today, they're just not viable or like teams don't know how to build a whole chain.
00:45:37.450 - 00:46:28.440, Speaker B: Yeah. And you know what? Actually, one even additional stop on this. I feel like of all of the little metaphors and things that you and I have talked about in the last year on the show, I think this kind of sovereignty ownership over your block space spectrum is going to ultimately probably come down as maybe the most useful way to think about different applications today. And again, sort of to use the. If you have all the way over here, like total composability atomicity between different. Atomic composability between different dapps adapt on ETh L1 and then a full stack app chain over here, there are so many different flavors in between, and there's a spectrum of trade offs which is now being, I think, meaningfully explored. So maybe on, maybe a sovereign app chain would be one step to the right.
00:46:28.440 - 00:47:30.326, Speaker B: If you're following along of a full stack app chain, then maybe there's something like a law of chains, your op stack, law of chains type thing over here. Another interesting new rung, I think, that just got added to that, actually, is this very interesting debate around fees in Solana. So this sort of came out of this research discussion that we're both at this week. And one of the things that was frankly very interesting is the current implementation of local fee markets on Solana leaves a lot to be desired. I think basically the incentive still exists to spam, because priority fees, this mind tuition about priority fees, they basically work like they do in Ethereum, where they're deterministic and the validators, or the block builders, realistically today, will just line up transactions in terms of how they get paid the most. And if you pay more, you can be added at the top of this block. But Solana has multiple different cores and the priority fee isn't as deterministic.
00:47:30.326 - 00:48:20.586, Speaker B: So the incentive actually still exists to kind of. They've helped it a little bit, but they haven't totally fixed it. And there's another issue. I mean, really, the spam problem still exists in Solana and they're considering. There's a very interesting proposal out there, actually, which is, I think, over a year old, but is starting to regain steam. And it is SIMD and this is program rebatable account write fees pro fees. Yeah, we're going to have to work on the branding a little bit about this particular proposal, but the reason it's kind of interesting is it's generated an enormous amount of attention and maybe controversy isn't the right word.
00:48:20.586 - 00:49:17.902, Speaker B: But people really have strong feelings about this and line up on both sides, which is exactly how people felt about 1559 as well. I'm not saying this is 1559 or in that same ballpark, but again, one of the problems with the way that fee markets work on Salana today is that you can just basically lock any account and you're not charged to do that. So if you are a DAP developer, someone can basically either spammers or even competitors can basically just lock your account for no charge. You can't protect against this, et cetera. What this is doing is it's introducing a fee that the owner of Solana accounts can charge. And what you can do for your organic users, you can just immediately rebate that fee back so you wouldn't even really notice it from a UX perspective. As a user, you have to pay a fee to write lock to this specific account.
00:49:17.902 - 00:50:06.380, Speaker B: Your action ends up happening, and then the DaP can rebate that fee. On the other hand, though, what they can do, the critical thing about this proposal is that if a transaction fails, you still owe that amount. So if you're a spammer and you're just right locking a whole bunch of different accounts and these transactions are failing, suddenly you're getting charged this fee, and the DAP can just decide not to rebate you. And that's pretty powerful. And what it is, is it's sort of miles a form of sovereignty here, right, for those cosmos folks that are listening, it's sovereignty over a small partition of general block space, which is the accounts that you own and have created as a Dapp developer. So, pretty interesting. There's an enormous amount of discussion around fees and the Solana ecosystem at the current.
00:50:07.150 - 00:51:14.862, Speaker A: So maybe just to contextualize this, I don't know if you agree with this, but I think it's pretty hard to argue with the fact that the larger you get as an application, the larger the incentives are to own more of the stack or control all of your economics. Right, right. And I think Solana is not know. They're aware of this fact, and they're aware that if an app basically starts taking know represents the majority of value being created or the majority of fees on Solana, the incentives to then move to their own chain are very high. Right. And so if I'm a Solana developer, how do I think about keeping these apps, even the most successful ones, in the network, despite these incentives? And I think that this is getting towards that sort of idea of how do we keep them on Solana? But give them more. And it seems like maybe this is my pretty non technical read on it, but it's kind of giving more ownership to the devs over their contracts and their applications.
00:51:14.862 - 00:51:47.966, Speaker A: Right. They actually now can customize control of very critical economics versus. This would never happen on Ethereum. Right. Ethereum. It's like we want to basically keep all the economics of the base layer completely separate and unaware of what's happening at the app level. And I think this is Solana saying, okay, in a couple of years, once we have big dapps, how do we stop them from going to cosmos or going to launch their own, even a Solana roll up.
00:51:47.966 - 00:52:00.580, Speaker A: Right. How do we keep them all here? Because that actually our whole value prop is having everything in one place. Right? And I think this is getting towards that. But I don't know. Did you have the same read?
00:52:01.590 - 00:52:27.734, Speaker B: I do have the same read. I'll tell you. I think there's one more angle that's worthwhile exploring. Here is the history of updates to fee markets across crypto and actually several other sort of related branches of research and development. Like MeV. There is a through line. The through line is, first of all, these sorts of things are always contentious because there is a redistribution of value across multiple stakeholders.
00:52:27.734 - 00:53:29.630, Speaker B: And always the push is away from the proposer, it's always away from the validators. And that is, I think, the generally unsaid thing about, at least in the Ethereum ecosystem, when you talk to people that are deep in the MEV ecosystem. Well, yeah, there's one stakeholder here who's getting paid way too much, and it's the proposer. And we basically did an entire season with Dan Robinson on how at the app layer of Ethereum, people are dead set before there's even a distribution of value between swappers and lps in a Dex. We're trying to reduce the MEV leakage that's going to proposers today. And that is another through line of this Solana proposal, because right now, a lot of those fees are just going to a proposer where this actually allows a little bit more autonomy and frankly, value capture for DAP developers, like sovereignty over their accounts. So I think that's another through line, which is basically a lot of folks in crypto.
00:53:29.630 - 00:53:45.894, Speaker B: It's kind of like marketing, right? You think you're paying too much, but you don't know exactly how much. And it's actually really critical. So in the beginning, just overpay the proposers and the validators of your ecosystem. But eventually, that's like the very first stakeholder that you look to redistribute some value.
00:53:46.012 - 00:54:47.090, Speaker A: Yeah, we had an aggregation period to the proposer. Now it's being completely disaggregated in a lot of ways. Right. Either order flow auctions, doing more and more compute off chain, we have now pushing shadow events off chain we have, I would say lots of ways that, I guess this values, or at least people are trying to make this value flow back to the applications themselves. And I think Ethereum is kind of working around some sort of baseline constraints that everybody understands, whereas Solana's got a little bit more of more flexible design space. I think it's notable that this proposal is co authored right by the mango markets. You know, you don't see any eips that are being proposed by Dapps over on Ethereum.
00:54:47.090 - 00:55:30.994, Speaker A: Right. I think if Uniswap were to submit an EIP that says, hey, this would really help us, people would probably not react so positively. Where I think it's pretty interesting that I think, first of all, Solana, Dapps and the builders themselves are very aware of what's happening at the chain level and incorporating all of these dynamics into their applications, that feels a little bit more like cosmos almost, right. And they actually have influence in some of these decisions over core roadmap items. I think that's bullish. That's good. There should be more interfacing between the platforms and the apps.
00:55:30.994 - 00:55:34.390, Speaker A: Right? I agree. It's a platform for apps.
00:55:35.370 - 00:56:15.010, Speaker B: I'm with you, Miles. I'm with you. Although I would say I do think this actually happens in Ethereum as well. I don't think it's as explicit, but my sense is that not to pick, but Uniswap or Aave or whatever, I think there's some plenty of lobbying that goes on with Eips as like, if you talk to a lot of the ETH DAP developers, they will know exactly when updates to Ethereum are coming, not just because it's relevant, because they've been involved in it as that. That's the cool sort of moment in time thing about Solana today. First of all, everyone loves to root for an underdog. They're younger in their existence, right? They're not as mature as a chain.
00:56:15.010 - 00:56:50.174, Speaker B: One of the advantages that they have is they can move a little bit faster, they can be slightly less concerned about breaking things, just like Ethereum was in its early days. Right now, Ethereum kind of seems like this older, more ossified sort of chain, and there are advantages of that and eventually Solana is probably going to be like that too. But at this particular moment in time, there's just a lot more change, rapid change happening in that ecosystem. So it's a lot of fun. But I will say the value of an older ossified chain probably more secure as well. So I would say pros and cons to each one of these things, we don't need to be.
00:56:50.292 - 00:57:42.458, Speaker A: I agree. It's like Ethereum is doing kind of incumbent things, right? But on the flip side of that, it's the Lindy that I think for especially financial applications, there is no kind of substitute for trust. So yeah, I agree. It'll be interesting to see how it plays out. And when we kind of keep going back from like right now, it's all about cost and interoperability problems, which sort of ecosystem already has that solved, like Solana. But then I think we'll probably over index towards these big general purpose platforms and then we'll come back to the app chain thesis once there are new viable models that have been battle tested. So I think it'll just kind of go back and forth for a little while and then we'll find some equilibrium.
00:57:42.554 - 00:58:12.390, Speaker B: All right, everyone, we will be back to the program in just a moment. But before we do, I want to share something that blockworks has been cooking up for these last couple of months. March of this coming year in London, blockworks is hosting Das London, the largest institutionally focused conference in all of crypto. We are gathering 1200 of the world's largest asset managers. So think tradfi, macro funds, crypto native funds, big allocators and financial institutions. So banks, payment processors, et cetera, all in one spot. It's very rare to get the likes of Goldman, JPMorgan, zero, 72, whatever, all in one room.
00:58:12.390 - 00:58:33.242, Speaker B: So you can know what the big money is doing. We're diving into the themes that they care about. So we're talking about the intersection of macro and crypto, where we are in the cycle, real world assets. So everything from stablecoins to onchain treasuries to tokenized assets, it's going to be a blast. But the other reason you really want to go is London, baby. Center of the world at one point. You got pub culture, you got fish and chips, great beer, it's going to be a blast.
00:58:33.242 - 00:59:01.674, Speaker B: So because you're such great listeners to bell curve, there's a code, Bell 20 that's going to get you 20% off. So click the link at the bottom of this episode, it'll take you right over to the homepage, you'll see all of our speakers and use Bell 20 for 20% off. Ticket prices are going up soon. Make sure you go use that code. I will see you in sunny London town in March. I would also say Jason had this funny interaction with someone who was involved in the building of the Internet in the. Jason was describing this battle of modular versus monolithic today.
00:59:01.674 - 00:59:46.550, Speaker B: He's like, that's so funny. That literally happened in the Internet. Pulls up this diagram of the seven layers of the Internet, and there was this whole battle about, this is a fully modular or fully integrated stack versus one that's entirely modular. Have people started talking about hybrid yet? Whereas instead of fully, entirely integrated, or totally modular, you actually have certain parts that are like, it was a seven layer stack for the Internet. And maybe these two or these three layers, there's kind of a winning bundle across different layers in the stack. And obviously, analogies are, by sort of definition, are imperfect, but that feels intuitively like what's going to happen here as well. There are going to be different flavors of what plays out, and being a totally modular maxi versus a totally integrated maxi.
00:59:46.550 - 00:59:49.990, Speaker B: Big world, lots of room to grow, I would say.
00:59:50.140 - 01:00:26.766, Speaker A: I think that's. I loved that analogy. And maybe just going back to Eigenda and Celestia, that plays in here, right, because eigenda is just da publishing. Celestia is da publishing and consensus. Right? So that could be considered a hybrid. And it's being a hybrid because combining those two things allows it to serve a really unique value, to, say, sovereign roll ups that now have superpowers. But if you didn't combine those two things, maybe that's better for ETH settlement roll ups that don't have those superpowers.
01:00:26.766 - 01:01:05.440, Speaker A: Or maybe they're the same. Maybe just to wrap up on that, I think it's super emergent. I don't think the product trade offs are going to really come through to most developers for a long time. I think brand is going to be extremely important in messaging. Think, you know, Celestia obviously has a big head start in terms of the fact that they have integrations with all the big frameworks, but Eigenda is definitely pushing the ETH alignment. And the fact that, hey, you guys are already using ethereum for ordering. You can just use something even more modular in us.
01:01:05.440 - 01:01:11.060, Speaker A: And so, yeah, we'll see how it plays out, but I think it will be interesting.
01:01:11.510 - 01:02:06.750, Speaker B: I agree. Now, one more thing to cover here, and we're departing a little bit from the crypto nativity, but just we're nearing year end and we should actually do a predictions episode. I've got a couple of things that I've been thinking about, I know putting on the spot. But one thing that's as we're nearing the close of the year here, so moving a little bit out into the world of more macro, we had a really important, probably the most important FOMC of the year that happened yesterday. So Wednesday FOMC is when Chair Powell at the Federal Reserve will say, hey, this is basically, we're raising rates, we're leaving them unchanged or we're lowering them. He left them unchanged, but he did show a dot plot, which is an aggregation of how other folks at the federal reserve see interest rates playing out over the course of the next year. And they were basically pricing in three cuts.
01:02:06.750 - 01:02:38.554, Speaker B: So the dot plot and what the market ends up pricing in are two different things. The dot plot has been wrong in the past, but it was a very dovish sort of conference. And it just strikes me going into this new year that a lot of stuff that was headwinds. Here's why it sucks so much when a bear market, you can feel it coming on. There's no light at the end of the tunnel, miles, everything is going against you at the same time. So you have the macro regime, you have rates going against you, which sucks. You've got this psychological, okay, it's historically played out in four year increments.
01:02:38.554 - 01:03:14.300, Speaker B: I know it's going to be at least two years of absolute crap. There was that you had the regulatory stuff that was moving against us simultaneously in the US. It was just everything was going against you, but now I don't know. So first of all, you're moving back into a positive sort of bullish regime for assets, liquidity, all that type of thing that we know crypto does super well in. You've got a potential bitcoin, ETF and within 30 days. And then also the having in April, which has historically been really positive, you've got a positive regulatory environment here. So courts have pushed back on a lot of what's been going on with the SEC.
01:03:14.300 - 01:03:38.162, Speaker B: I don't know, baby. We got headwinds. Turning into tailwinds is how I'm feeling going into this next year and all of this cool stuff that the infra has come a long way. So I'll be honest, I've been less active on chain during bear markets. I've been much more active recently. And it is a much better experience than I remember in a really relatively short period of time. So I don't know.
01:03:38.162 - 01:03:42.130, Speaker B: I'm just super optimistic and excited going into this year is how I feel.
01:03:42.280 - 01:04:24.918, Speaker A: I agree. I don't closely track these macro developments. I basically rely on you for that. But it did feel a little weird when crypto felt like we are back, but there were really no tons of news about rates coming back and the rest of the non crypto market coming back. So it's more like it's less certain in terms of whether or not a bull market is back when it's just crypto ripping. So maybe this is the start of other things or maybe crypto just front runs. A lot of these announcements are like general sentiment.
01:04:24.918 - 01:04:25.780, Speaker A: I don't know.
01:04:26.710 - 01:04:54.890, Speaker B: I think it does. I think crypto front runs expectations around liquidity. I think it's actually become a pretty decent indicator for that. I think it's why it did so poorly so fast back in 2021 when they did their pivot. And that's why I think it's doing well now. I think probably the economy looks like it's. I don't even know if the economy is picking up, but there's a more bullish environment for asset prices, especially risk assets.
01:04:55.710 - 01:05:05.150, Speaker A: Even bad kids went up. We're in great shape. Cosmos can have an expensive NFT. This is great.
01:05:05.300 - 01:05:12.640, Speaker B: Let's go, baby. We love the bad kids. Dude, you have a great bad kid. I didn't even realize how. You've got a very exclusive good one.
01:05:13.010 - 01:05:14.926, Speaker A: I will reveal my bad kid.
01:05:15.108 - 01:05:23.170, Speaker B: You got to make that the profile picture. That's a little flex you got in early. You got a bad kid from a while ago. That's going to open you up. You're going to get some airdrops.
01:05:23.750 - 01:05:27.330, Speaker A: I can't abandon my Casey Affleck PFP.
01:05:27.830 - 01:05:41.018, Speaker B: I love that. I think it's so funny. Wait, didn't you were at Cosmoverse or something a little while ago and they put that the organizer just assumed that was you.
01:05:41.184 - 01:05:57.870, Speaker A: Yeah, exactly. I was, like, speaking at Cosmoverse and there's just a huge picture of Casey Affleck wearing a Dunkin donut or like Bruins hat in the background, like smokiest thing or something like that. And. Yeah, that was funny. Yeah, all my friends got a kick out of that one.
01:05:58.020 - 01:06:06.814, Speaker B: Yeah. White Boston guy. This checks out. This is exactly what I was picturing, basically. This feels exactly right. So funny. Yeah.
01:06:06.932 - 01:06:08.302, Speaker A: Anyways, it's good stuff.
01:06:08.356 - 01:06:16.214, Speaker B: All right, partner. Yeah, we are. Yeah. Well, knock on wood, but yeah. All right, partner. This is a fun one.
01:06:16.252 - 01:06:18.450, Speaker A: Have a great. See you, man. Yeah. Cheers.
