00:00:00.090 - 00:00:37.426, Speaker A: You. Thanks for tuning in to this week's news. Recap coinbase reports a major net loss the largest US crypto exchange coinbase released its second quarter earnings report and revealed a net loss of $1.1 billion. Even though the loss was higher than expected, analysts had estimated it would be $546,000,000. CFO Alicia loss explained that much of it was caused by noncash impairments, meaning the Crypto on Coinbase's balance sheet. Due to accounting rules, its value was measured at the lowest point reached in the quarter.
00:00:37.426 - 00:01:14.478, Speaker A: Excluding those noncash impairments, our net loss would have been $647,000,000, she said. In the earnings call, Coinbase named three reasons for the 30% decline in trading volume against the last quarter. First, US retail customers were less active. Second, a large amount of volume took place at offshore exchanges. Lastly, Coinbase had no exposure to the trading volumes related to the collapses or bankruptcies of Luna. Three aeros capital celsius and Voyager. Despite being in the red, the Coinbase team seems confident that the situation will be reversed.
00:01:14.478 - 00:01:51.950, Speaker A: Down markets are not as bad as they seem. Down markets are builders'markets. If we continue to focus on building the right products and services, we will emerge stronger than before, the company said in the shareholder letter. Coinbase, highlighting its strong financial position, believes it has ample liquidity to fund its business through a prolonged stressed market environment. Shares of Coinbase dropped 5% after the release of the report. However, only a day after that, the Consumer Price Index report came out to save the day. The market reaction to the inflation numbers spurred Coin to rise as much as 7.37%
00:01:51.950 - 00:02:47.586, Speaker A: on Wednesday. Ethereum is closer to the Merge than ever Ethereum testnet Gorely was successfully integrated with the beacon chain. This means that it switched from a proof of work to proof of stake consensus mechanism, and it marks another huge milestone for the merge. Ethereum has essentially passed the final test before the merge, as Gorely was the last testnet that needed to switch to proof of stake. Over the past few months, Ethereum developers had also successfully integrated other testnets like Sepolia and Robston into the beacon chain. With the Gorely merge test done, Ethereum should perform the full merge on main net next month, likely on September 15 or 16th, according to a call among Ethereum developers. After the favorable outcome of the Goreli merge, lido, an Ethereum Staking platform, saw its token LDO jump 18%.
00:02:47.586 - 00:03:35.380, Speaker A: LDO is trading at around $2.70 and has a market cap of $800 million when and if the merge occurs. Some analysts, such as Kevin Zhou of Galwa Capital, are weighing the possibility of an Ethereum proof of work fork. Some exchanges, including Poloniex, BitMEX and MEXC, have confirmed they would list an Ethereum proof of work token. However, Circle, the company behind Stablecoin USDC, announced it will solely support the Ethereum proof of stake chain post merge. In addition, Binance claimed it would be supporting the merge, but did not rule out supporting an ETH proof of work Coin. In case of newly forked tokens, we will evaluate and consider support for distribution and withdrawal, the exchange said.
00:03:35.380 - 00:04:07.734, Speaker A: Inflation goes under and markets soar July's CPI came in lower than expected, causing crypto prices to rocket. Analysts were estimating 8.7% inflation year over year and 0.2% monthly inflation, but the National Bureau of Statistics reported 8.5% and 0%, respectively. The reaction of the market was positive for all assets, including cryptocurrencies. BTC and ETH, the two largest cryptos by market cap, increased more than 7% and 12%, respectively.
00:04:07.734 - 00:04:51.850, Speaker A: In addition, the total crypto market capitalization expanded by $100 billion, going from 1.1 trillion to 1.2 trillion. This was positive for the markets because it signals to the Federal Reserve that the economy is cooling down, making it unnecessary to raise interest rates. When interest rates are lower, money is cheaper and there is more capital to allocate into risk on assets like cryptocurrencies. However, there is no consensus among investors on whether inflation has peaked or whether the Fed will slow down quantitative tightening. Bloomberg columnist Mohamed Al Arian said the Fed has had a couple of really good data reports which suggest to them that they can continue doing what they're doing because the underlying strength of the economy is still significant.
00:04:51.850 - 00:05:43.340, Speaker A: Still, there are others who are more positive. With CPI confirmed to have peaked, Fed Pivot is next. Additionally, for ETH, Gorley merge is later tonight and mainnet date will be set tomorrow. The stage is set for a move to roughly two K region by end of week, wrote Hal Press, founder of Northrock Digital. BlackRock offers direct Bitcoin exposure Investment Manager BlackRock launched a private trust that will be focused solely on bitcoin. The trust will be offered to institutional clients in the United States and is the first product provided by BlackRock that gives direct exposure to bitcoin. Despite the steep downturn in the digital asset market, we are still seeing substantial interest from some institutional clients in how to efficiently and cost effectively access these assets using our technology and product capabilities, wrote the company on its website.
00:05:43.340 - 00:06:22.550, Speaker A: Last week, Coinbase announced a partnership with BlackRock to offer crypto investments to its institutional clients. Through coinbase prime. BlackRock is the world's largest asset manager, with $10 trillion in assets under management. These two moves show the company's interest in the sector and also hint that institutions may finally be coming. Could MakerDAO dump its USDC? Maker Cofounder Rune Christensen proposed that MakerDAO sell its USDC reserves, which would cause the stablecoin Dai to de Peg from the US. Dollar. He floated this idea on the Dao's Discord Channel due to the sanctions imposed by the US treasury on tornado cash.
00:06:22.550 - 00:07:01.650, Speaker A: The sanctions prompted Circle to freeze USTC in the Blacklisted wallets. The sanctions are a lot more serious than I first thought, he said. At the moment, Dai is backed 60% by USDC, according to Dystats.com. If the Dow decided to abandon USDC, it is most likely that Dai will lose its peg with the dollar. The idea received harsh criticisms from industry leaders. Ethereum creator Vitalik, Buterin considers it a risky and terrible idea as he worries about the systemic risks that a major drawdown in ETH prices could cause. Robert Leshner, founder of Compound Finance, was not keen on the proposition either.
00:07:01.650 - 00:08:16.358, Speaker A: Converting Dai into a price elastic asset will ruin it full stop, he tweeted. Progressive senators ask OCC to rescind rules allowing banks to engage with crypto A group of Democratic senators, including Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders, wrote an open letter to the Office of the Controller of the Currency requesting more restrictions on banks engaging with crypto. In light of recent turmoil in the crypto market, we are concerned that the OCC's actions on crypto may have exposed the banking system to unnecessary risk and ask that you withdraw existing interpretive letters that have permitted banks to engage in certain crypto related activities. The senators pointed out that in light of the Terra Luna collapse and the bankruptcies of Celsius and Voyager, it is clear that stronger protections are necessary to mitigate crypto's risks to the financial system and consumers. In other regulation news, the securities and Exchange Commission and Commodities Futures Trading Commission made a joint proposal to require hedge funds to disclose cryptocurrency exposure. This will help protect investors and maintain fair, orderly and efficient markets, said SEC Chairman Gary Gensler. On a related note, the United Nations development arm also warned developing countries against crypto.
00:08:16.358 - 00:09:10.554, Speaker A: It recommended introducing regulations on crypto usage due to the risks of tax collection, monetary policy and financial stability. DFI Protocol Curve gets hacked Curve, a decentralized exchange for stablecoins, suffered an attack worth more than $500,000. The exploit was quite simple the domain name service DNS, which basically translate a domain like unchainedpodcast.com to an IP address, got hijacked. The hacker's strategy was to modify the IP address translated by the DNS for Curve phi. Within an hour, Curve announced that it had been able to revert the issue and recommended users revoke all contracts approved on Curve in the previous hours. After establishing that no one is safe from front end attacks, the Curve team suggested that moving to Ethereum name service, the crypto equivalent of DNS, might be a good solution to this problem.
00:09:10.554 - 00:10:11.982, Speaker A: Time for fun Bits It's been a while since we've heard from Dave Portnoy, who might be known to the world as the founder of Barstool Sports but is known to the crypto community as Paper hands Portnoy for buying $1 million worth of bitcoin at a price of $11,500, but then selling just weeks later. He's back in the news now because he is being sued over Safe Moon. Also, someone came to his door announcing that he was suing him, and that part isn't necessarily funny. Portnoy bought $40,000 of Safe Moon last year, calling it his favorite shitcoin, but now it's down almost 90%, and he's getting sued by people who accuse him of pumping the coin. He tweeted, I'm only guy who loses all his money in safe moon and gets sued for it, he added. All right, well, thanks for tuning into this episode. Don't miss Unchained's daily newsletter of the biggest news in crypto every weekday morning.
00:10:11.982 - 00:10:25.140, Speaker A: Visit unchainedpodcast.com to subscribe. Unchained is produced by me, Laura Shin with help from Anthony Yoon, Matt Pilchard, Juan Ivanovich Pam Majimdar Shashank and CLK transcription thanks for listening. It.
