00:00:07.530 - 00:00:40.438, Speaker A: Hi there. I'm just going to show you how Privy works real quick. So Privy is one library to onboard all of your users, regardless of how they're coming in, whether they are coming in with social accounts, email, SMS, external wallets. We help you connect a user and get back a user object that is uniform across your entire user base. And the point is to make user management much simpler for you. For users who have multiple wallets and who may want to connect other Identifiers to their accounts, a user is more than just a wallet. And we help you basically build better products this way.
00:00:40.438 - 00:01:12.626, Speaker A: So here I'm going to show you really quickly how it works. You can completely customize these user flows to have them correspond to the user journey that you want. But in this case, maybe I'm going to have a user sign in with MetaMask, my user connects their account, and from here we take care of sign in of Ethereum. We have an account. The user object here has the associated wallet. And you can use that connector to trigger transactions and do. And from here, obviously, you can connect other wallets as well.
00:01:12.626 - 00:01:49.822, Speaker A: So maybe my user has a MetaMask and a phantom account. Maybe they have multiple MetaMask accounts, doesn't really matter. Across the entire experience, you can use the same underlying user account system to connect these multiple accounts and then to very quickly again trigger transactions across maybe say, MetaMask as well as phantom. So the story doesn't end here. Obviously, a user object may be much richer. Maybe down the line your user wants to connect an email as well, or a phone number or any of these social accounts. We make that super easy.
00:01:49.822 - 00:02:28.006, Speaker A: So here I'm going to connect my phone number to my underlying account. I get a one time password to basically verify my ownership of the phone number. Here it is. I am going to just type it in. And from here I now have an account that has a phone number associated to it, as well as two wallets. And obviously I can sign out and I can sign back in with the phone and get access to the same underlying account. And privy basically takes care of this across device types, mobile and desktop and across different environments.
00:02:28.006 - 00:03:05.670, Speaker A: So if I were to sign in on a new, say, chrome tab that doesn't have the connectors locked in here, you would be able to reconnect your wallets and get access to your full account once more. But everything works as it should. My user's here, maybe he or she's going to connect a Google account as well. And you can basically have this modular user account system that you compose over time as your user goes deeper and deeper into the experience as you do this. And here I'm logging in with Google as you do this behind the scenes. Here we go. Privy actually gives you complete user account system.
00:03:05.670 - 00:03:53.874, Speaker A: So you actually are able to see which users are coming in, what Identifiers they have, and again help manage this across your entire user base. Obviously, wallet security is completely independent from this and your access to your user's MetaMask or phantom is completely dependent on the user themselves. So you're not changing anything there. With regards to the custody model, the last thing maybe I'll show is the ability for the user to create an embedded wallet behind the scenes. So these wallets can be created anytime. A lot of our customers have them created on login. But let's say I decide to go to a new environment in which maybe I don't have my MetaMask and my Phantom, I would be able to come in, in this case with my Google account, which I just signed up on this profile, and from there signatures with my embedded wallet.
00:03:53.874 - 00:04:06.134, Speaker A: So for users who don't already have wallets, this makes getting onboarded to web3 much much simpler. So here I've selected my embedded wallet. I can sign messages with it. Here you go. That is a quick run through of how privy works.
