00:00:00.440 - 00:00:33.015, Speaker A: You know, VCs are paid to be bullish, so they can always find a reason or a sector to be excited and there is legitimate excitement around. You know, two people I met are obsessed with ZK tls. A couple other people I met are obsessed with this new wave of deep in robotics types idea type of ideas. And so there's like, if you, if you hang out with a vc, they'll tell you some things they're excited about because that's kind of their job. But I think there were lots of depressing conversations as well. And in particular one theme is that Web3 offers a brand new petri dish.
00:00:33.055 - 00:00:34.847, Speaker B: Our job is to buy great tech at great prices.
00:00:34.911 - 00:00:37.407, Speaker C: AI is also libertarian, right Enable a.
00:00:37.431 - 00:00:39.279, Speaker B: Use case that people haven't been able to do today.
00:00:39.327 - 00:00:40.903, Speaker A: The next hundreds of millions of players.
00:00:40.999 - 00:01:11.505, Speaker B: They will come to the market through mobile. My personal reason why I could be bullish in the next 12 months is blockcrunch is not a licensed financial advisor and is purely for informational and entertainment purposes only. All opinions are personal and the show may discuss assets that the host or guests have positions in or may be actively buying or selling. All investments carry risk, so consult with a financial professional before making any investment decisions. Hey everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the blockcrunch Roundtable. I'm your host Jason Choi.
00:01:11.505 - 00:01:47.175, Speaker B: I'm the founder of Tangent, where we make founder Driven Venture bets and Thesis Driven Liquid bets. I'm joined once again by my co host Sanat from Dragonfly Capital to talk about what we saw last week in the largest conference in all of crypto, which is token 2049. Both of us attended the event, both of us hosted some events there. We got to meet up with a lot of you guys, a lot of listeners of the podcast, as well as our portfolio companies, and we're really excited to dive into some of the things that we noticed. So just to kick us off, Sanat, what were your overall vibes of this token 2049 compared to some of the previous ones that you've been to?
00:01:47.475 - 00:02:47.775, Speaker A: I think they were probably better than last year. But Token is always tricky because I feel like Token attracts everyone like it attracts the smartest Solana and Ethereum researchers who are doing crazy ZK stuff. It attracts all the venture capitalists from Asia and from the US and then it also attracts meme coin traders. There's a guy who's pitching me a Web3 resort as I'm on my way to a Flashbots TV event. It's kind of like a comical it's a comical mix of things. I think generally people were excited by the recent upswing in price and we did have kind of the rate cut during Token, which I think helped. But I do feel like there's a general vibe that this industry feels a little directionless and there's a lack of very like one thing I feel like is you have a lot of conversations with people and everyone in this industry in some ways financially incentivized, but people have very short term outlooks like across the board.
00:02:47.775 - 00:02:58.447, Speaker A: There's very few people who are willing to take outside of I think a handful of VCs that are very few people I met who are excited about the industry on 10 year horizons. And that's kind of one thing I struggle with.
00:02:58.511 - 00:03:38.845, Speaker B: Yeah, I think I kind of got that sense as well. I think if some of the token 2049s were kind of either euphoric or fear depending on when they happened relative to what is happening in the market, I think this one is mostly described by apathetic. Right. Most of the people I talked to were kind of just like, yeah, you know, the space kind of shrinking, not a lot of new use cases, all the infrastuffs been kind of overdone. And a lot of the people who did very well financially in the past two years I suspect are traders who are mostly thriving in a chop type of price environment which tend to not be people who are long term investors. Right. Because you don't need to really understand what you're trading or investing in to be doing very well.
00:03:38.845 - 00:04:15.343, Speaker B: So a lot of the conversations happen to be around price. It could be also, you know, a function of the, of the events that I find myself in. But then there was a very distinct shift in vibes from token 2049, the main event, versus something like Breakpoint, which was a lot more kind of, well, Solana focused first of all, because it is a Solana event, but also very application focused. So the first half of the week I kind of looked at all the stuff happening around me. I saw the KOL Awards event. I don't know if you saw that I wanted to sell everything. And then when I went to Breakpoint I really wanted to just max long everything.
00:04:15.343 - 00:04:19.631, Speaker B: So it was a very binary type of week. Did you go to Breakpoint as well?
00:04:19.743 - 00:04:32.047, Speaker A: I didn't actually make it to either of the conferences, but I did. Oh well, actually the conference I did make it to was the Network State one on Sunday. But I did have a lot of conversations with Solana people and attended some Solana side events, what would you say.
00:04:32.071 - 00:04:39.345, Speaker B: Was the most represented like ecosystem? Like where are all the builders building on Solana?
00:04:39.925 - 00:04:56.589, Speaker A: I think it was like undeniable that, particularly if you think of Solana. If you think of Ethereum as inclusive of everything, including the L2s, then maybe there's a bit of a balance. But the momentum and hype around Solana last week was unparalleled, I think.
00:04:56.677 - 00:05:23.857, Speaker B: Before I get started, I'm grateful for aptos for sponsoring the show and letting us continue to make this free content for all. So here's Jerome from aptos to tell us a little bit more. In addition to crypto native use cases, Aptos has seen many Web2 major Enterprise Integrated Network when other ecosystems have struggled to do this, such as MasterCard, South Korea's largest retail conglomerate, Lot group and one of South Korea's largest telecom providers, SK Telecom. So can you tell us why Aptos is the preferred network for so many of these Web2 conglomerates?
00:05:23.961 - 00:06:07.055, Speaker C: So Aptos is a blockchain for the people, built and iterated on by the people. It is completely decentralized, scalable, secure and Open to everyone, Web2 players and their audiences included. So what we focus on is on expanding the builder ecosystem. While some ecosystems attract only web3natives, we believe a thriving ecosystem needs both experienced web3natives and emerging enthusiasts to help grow the pie beyond 20,000 or so devs that Web3 has today. To do this the right way, there's two things that the Applause foundation has focused on so one is to make the experience building on Atlas as familiar as possible to the existing smart contract environments. Chainlink and Flipsight are examples of this. We also have dev friendly tools such as Guest Profiler, which helps you understand the guest usage of aptos transactions.
00:06:07.055 - 00:06:46.157, Speaker C: Number two, it has to make the experience of building smart contracts as foolproof as possible. That's where MOOV comes in. So move on aptos. Not only is aptos fast, secure and reliable and cost efficient, but innovative use of the MOVE programming language is key. Move on aptos makes it as easy to to build secure scalable applications that exists in web 2. Safeguards are built in at a blockchain level, so developers only need to worry about creating the best possible experiences that will resonate with their users. With moof, devs can build lasting dapps on laptops without worrying about scalability, security and upgradability because those qualities are built in at the programming language at runtime level.
00:06:46.221 - 00:07:22.157, Speaker B: Thanks Jerome. Now back to the episode. Yeah, I think we should definitely touch on that because obviously in Solana Breakpoint they came out with a pretty big update which was well telegraphed ahead of the event. But this is an update called Fire Dancer, so it's not fully live yet, but they launched Frankendancer, which is a combination of Fire Dancer and their existing client. So they're able to run this new client, this completely refactored code base with 100 validator nodes on mainnet already. And I think during their test environment, they were able to run a million TPS as well for Fire Dancer. And this was, I think, a long time coming.
00:07:22.157 - 00:07:47.747, Speaker B: I remember talking to the Solana team. They mentioned they just kind of worked with the jump infrastructure team to build out this entire ambitious project. And yeah, that seemed to have sparked a lot of excitement, at least amongst the builder crowd for Solana. How much of do you think the building kind of the apps being built on Solana was because people saw these types of developments happening? Or was it just, you know, because there's already quite a lot of users in Solana?
00:07:47.931 - 00:08:22.323, Speaker A: I think it's both. I think one thing I can totally credit Solana for is that they have a clearer vision of what they're building for. And it is just like this decentralized nasdaq. They clearly have come to parity, I think in some sense on showing a lot of research and development expertise. So I think that vibe has shifted very dramatically, but it's also where all the activity is. And so I think broadly, as a developer, you want to bet on momentum. You want to be in a place where you kind of have tailwinds and not headwinds.
00:08:22.323 - 00:08:59.201, Speaker A: And it feels like it's hard to like, it feels overdetermined, but it feels like Solana has a ton of tailwinds right now from investors, from new funds, from the team shipping very well technologically. The foundation is obviously very, very well capitalized. They don't actually give out a lot of grants. I saw some FUD about that this week. But the foundation is extraordinarily well capitalized, given they have a lot of balance sheet on their soul. It feels like a little bit of a talent black hole. And one of the ways I always like to think about the best startups or the best growth companies are resource black holes.
00:08:59.201 - 00:09:08.813, Speaker A: They just attract capital, talent and the best people around them in this virtuous cycle. And it feels like Solana is just has that going for it right now.
00:09:08.869 - 00:09:26.469, Speaker B: Yeah. And actually see the grants thing as incredibly bullish. Right. The fact that they don't have to dangle money in front of builders just to get all of them. And this is slightly kind of tangential, but there's an app called Unlonely, which was one of the streaming apps that I think you showed me, actually. So I think they were quite popular on Twitter a while ago. I don't know how they're doing now.
00:09:26.469 - 00:10:27.623, Speaker B: But the founder of Unlonely just tweeted yesterday that, hey, he's going to leave Base, which was the de facto social fi chain with Forecaster being built on there, but he's going to leave Base to Solana. And the reasons he cited is basically he felt that the culture in Base, not just the team, but, you know, the users there, are kind of, I guess not, not ivory tower, but a little bit high brow and maybe they kind of crinkle their nose at more speculative use cases where in Solana they kind of fully embraced everything, you know, meme coins, pumped up funds. Solana as well. So it's very interesting for me to see people talk about the culture of different chains because I suspect that most people in crypto are probably just, you know, if they are users of apps they use, they just doesn't. They don't really care where the app sits as long as it's performant. So it's strange for me to hear that, hey, EVM people don't like this type of app, or Solana people seems to be more welcoming. Is that something you kind of see as well? Because I'm not sure I fully agree with that.
00:10:27.719 - 00:11:31.475, Speaker A: There are platforms that feel pretty tech agnostic and in their own way, maybe the optimism. Mainnet feels pretty tech agnostic and you can build anything there. But I'd say actually I'd contrast this with Blast and I've always had a ton of respect for Pac man because instead of when he launched into a sea of pretty boring L2s, you know, scroll, Linear Metis had all kind of launched around then. And he actually, instead of saying, okay, I'm just going to spend as much money as it takes to get Uniswap and Aave on here and look very similar to what optimism and Arbitrum look like. I'm going to get a set of founders who are very focused on speculatively and gambly apps and show them a lot of loyalty and instead and make sure that they build specifically on this chain. And so you look at apps like Thruster and Fantasy Top and they do feel like in this magical way they belong on Blast and they don't quite belong on Scroll. I can kind of feel the Vibe, the vibes being different.
00:11:31.475 - 00:12:13.907, Speaker A: So I do think this matters a little bit. I think if you generalize to EVM and Solana, like I think Solana is doing a good job of having room for everything ranging from deep end to defi to a whole bunch of meme coin stuff. And I think across the EVM ecosystem you can find a home that works for you given how many there are. But I do think now that kind of tech differentiation is only one way that L1s and L2s differentiate. They do kind of have a curation of an app ecosystem that that strategy can feel distinct between the few different L1s and L2s and in a different way. Like whatever your thoughts may be about a vape to earn project, doesn't it feel like it belongs on Vera chain?
00:12:14.091 - 00:12:48.795, Speaker B: Yeah, that's true. I think you're right in that the keyword is curation. Right. And this event was very interesting to me. This whole token 2049 is interesting because most of the perception that I have from the projects is either from talking to founders that come through our venture pipeline or just looking at sentiment indicators or social media. And that perception of projects is very different. When you talk to people who are just starting to build projects on these new chains, their feedback on what's popular and what's not or what's supportive is very different sometimes from what crypto Twitter perceives to be the quality chains.
00:12:48.795 - 00:13:33.551, Speaker B: And I think it really comes down to two things in terms of how do you create that culture that feels welcoming to app developers. One is curation. Like, what are the first applications that you as a new chain incubate or work closely with? And then number two is support. So one great thing that I heard about Solana from devs, this event is also four months before the beginning of Breakpoint. Solana foundation was already reaching out to every single project for guys like Drift and so on. Just to ask, hey, what are you guys announcing in the next four months? What exactly are the features? When are you going to announce it? And they work with them on five minute keynotes because they know that, hey, nobody's going to listen to an hour of someone shilling their own product. It's five minute keynotes and then instantaneously shared across social media.
00:13:33.551 - 00:14:12.549, Speaker B: And within like 12 hours, not even 24 hours. Within 12 hours, all the YouTube videos are uploaded. So it's very evident even from the outside that they have a machine incredibly well built. They're still in kind of wartime mode to make their app builders first class citizens. Versus, you know, for some of the other chains, you really don't hear that type of coordinated support. And I heard some pretty negative feedback about some pretty big ecosystems. I don't want to, you know, put them on blast here, but some of the EVM ecosystems, some of the L2s, I think their kind of organization was just not there and they simply didn't provide the support that application developers need.
00:14:12.549 - 00:15:35.081, Speaker B: So it's interesting because right after the event we managed to interview Kyle Samani, who is managing partner at Multicoin, one of the largest investors and holders of Solana. And he was basically I asked him, okay, what do you think needs to happen with L2? As someone who is just extremely anti L2, what needs to happen for Ethereum to overtake Solana? And he had one answer which was, I think the Ethereum foundation needs to flip to wartime mode, right? They're now basically a peace time foundation. They need to really go aggressive in supporting application builders. You know, their main figurehead shouldn't be in public talking about how Defi is, you know, is bad, or at least giving that perception, which is the perception that some people have. Just one final note there, I think Kane Warwick, the founder of Infinex and founder of Synthetix, one of the first trading applications on Ethereum, he recently did an interview where he mentioned that he feels like Vitalik is almost like abandoning Defi or at least giving the impression that he is anti Defi. So in fairness, I think when Vitalik issued his critique of Defi, I think a few weeks back on Twitter, it was very fair, right? He was basically critiquing that the yields in Defi are not very sustainable, even if it's not token incentivized. The lending yield is coming from people levering up borrowing money to long more tokens.
00:15:35.081 - 00:16:26.549, Speaker B: That's a very circular kind of Auroboros type of logic. That shouldn't work. And I think that's a fair critique, right? We do need to see more sustainable sources of yield. And I think there are some projects that are working on this, for instance, like bringing Treasuries on chain and so on. But at the same time, I think he gave the impression that the people who seeded the entire Ethereum community or the ecosystem, which are the Defi folks, weren't supported by the figurehead. So I think that in general, just to wrap things up here, I think the sense I get is that developers are a little bit tired of feeling not being supported and they're kind of looking at the cool kids over at Solana and seeing while they're doing all these things and they're kind of envious and some of them are even moving over. Maybe that's a bit of a generalization, but curious if that's the main takeaway you have from this whole event as well.
00:16:26.677 - 00:17:19.164, Speaker A: In some ways, yes. I mean, look, I think it's interesting how just how unpopular Ethereum is right now. Like, I was in a room with six people and we were all pretty drunk on Saturday night. And at 4am I asked the question, if you had to hold something for 20 years, like lock it in a box for 20 years, would you rather own Ethereum or Solana? And every single one of them said Solana. I felt like I had to take the east side after all six of them said Solana because I asked the question. I think this is true, but I do think you have to shine where your strengths are. And in some sense, Ethereum is a much more decentralized organic ecosystem and it has kind of created room for people like the founders of Mega Eth and people like the founders of Blast and people like the founders of Zksync to kind of create their own environments.
00:17:19.164 - 00:18:08.105, Speaker A: And I think it's tricky for me to believe that the response is to become more like Solana. I think in some sense Ethereum should continue to focus on stuff that makes Ethereum special. Yeah, I'm not saying, like, ignore all L1. Like, I actually do like that there's some energy around fixing Ethereum's L1 problems. And I like that Vitalik seems to be taking a more active role. But I do think, in some sense, I also think, like, this is a pretty nebulous thought, but in some sense, as your asset gets bigger and bigger, you become more of a religion and less of kind of an application layer platform. And in that sense, I think Vitalik has to play a role more akin to that of the Pope, while the Solana founders still get to be like Startup foundry.
00:18:08.105 - 00:18:22.977, Speaker A: So I do think it's a tricky balance. I'm not saying, like one is preferred over the other. And at this point, I think Ethereum has a lot of challenges to face from Solana. So I'm not delusional, but I do think the scale of the problem can be a little different given the way the Ethereum ecosystem has developed.
00:18:23.041 - 00:19:24.131, Speaker B: Yeah, you know, I think Ethereum just needs a mert. So for listeners who are not aware, so MERT is the founder of Helios, one of the rpc, main RPC providers in Solana, and He has been one of the most vocal supporters of Solana, constantly talking about applications, whereas totally has been pretty uniform since day one, which is talking about the tech and kind of nerd sniping a lot of really, really smart people. So I think that kind of barbell approach, focusing both on the very deep tech and infra level and talking a lot about the apps and making the ecosystem feels like okay. No matter whether you are a kind of cryptographer or working on low level infrastuff, or you're an application builder building meme coins, you'll be supported by the vocal kind of spokespeople of this space. I think that's quite important. I think right now Ethereum does feel very kind of high brow ish in that they're constantly looking for new use cases that are sustainable, which is exactly what we need. But at the same time I think a lot of the defi things that, that, that really seeded liquidity and interest in the space.
00:19:24.131 - 00:20:21.745, Speaker B: Maybe long term they don't make very sustainable businesses, but I do think that they also want to feel like they're supported in the journeys to become more sustainable. So yeah, so there's a lot of interesting thoughts around Solana versus ETH here, but I think the general conclusion that I had from Breakpoint was that I feel like this whole monolithic versus modular thing, we're probably arriving at the end game on that, like the last inning of that. Beyond this, we're probably reaching the asymptotic limits of what we can push in terms of scalability because we'll be constrained by physics. So my contrarian take is actually after seeing what's possible with Fire Dancer, I think it's very difficult for new layer ones to compete with Solana in the long term, especially if you're just launching soon because of the leanness. Right. If you remember the first year of Solana, there's so much downtime, there's so much, so many bugs. I don't think any other chain can avoid having that.
00:20:21.745 - 00:21:03.045, Speaker B: So the longer it takes for new L1s to launch to want to compete with Solana under monolithic field, the harder it is for them. So I do think the next thing that could rival Solana would probably be an L2, just because I don't think we've really pushed the limits on the L2 front yet. And the value prop of having Ethereum as the ultimate settlement layer that's technically more secure than Solana, I think that hasn't been fully explored yet. Which kind of brings us back to Mega Eth as well, but not to show our own backs too much. I do want to talk a little bit about the meme coin situation. Did you notice the meme coin crowd at Token, the KOL Awards? What are your general thoughts on that?
00:21:04.345 - 00:21:51.413, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, it's fascinating. I think there are a bunch of meme coin traders and they in some ways seem to be having more fun than everyone else, if I'm being honest. So I'll grant them that. The one thing I do want to say about the meme coin and gambling situation in general is that I actually one thing, there's a fair amount of Cope and Ivory Tar kind of thinking around this stuff where everyone is like, oh, this is temporary. Oh, this is stupid. This is not what we should be focusing on. And the truth is that I just keep coming back to the fact that in the last year Photon, which is like Bloomberg Terminal for meme coins, made $100 million, pump fund made $100 million and the telegram bots collectively have made over 200 million, with bonk bot making 70 million.
00:21:51.413 - 00:22:18.969, Speaker A: And I think these people want to have fun. Crypto does provide a great avenue for speculation. And the one thing I will say is that this industry right now feels like there's a little bit of a talent vacuum. And in particular it's hard to attract young, energetic founders just out of college. Like a lot of the kind of industry veterans are obviously building infrastructure and those people have spent time in the industry. And I'll give Alliance Dao a lot of credit for the next thing I'm going to say. But you do.
00:22:18.969 - 00:22:51.155, Speaker A: I very regularly now have calls with a group of young, energetic, very ambitious founders who are building, whether it's a pump fun competitor, whether it's a way to bring kind of new apps on chain, whether it's a way to kind of create new distribution mechanisms for meme coins, whether it's on chain hybrid off chain casinos, whether it's kind of gambling on esports streams. And I think people who don't pay attention to this class of user and this class of founder are going to feel pain.
00:22:51.275 - 00:23:31.907, Speaker B: Yeah, I actually agree with this because I don't know if you saw the Eggy Azalea party. So Eggy is a celebrity, a rapper who issued a meme coin called Mother. I think this is a few months back. And she also had a debate with Ansem, who is a crypto Twitter influencer, I believe on Meme Coins Token, I couldn't make that debate, but she did a massive party afterwards which became very divisive on Twitter. So for those of you watching on YouTube, I'm just pulling up Iggy's Twitter feed, just completely full of mother shills and I think, photos from the party as well. So a lot of folks were basically saying, this is not representative of crypto. This is.
00:23:31.907 - 00:24:07.423, Speaker B: I think they had, like, a party at a strip club. And then other folks were just saying, yeah, this is. This is what crypto is, right? This is culture. This is people doing what they want. So I myself, you know, I didn't go to the party, but I do think that the fact that NFTs came along and people had a stab at social fi and the meme coins had a massive takeoff, I think these are all aspects of the same thing, Basically. There seems to be a unique niche for crypto, for the intersection between culture and gambling. There's a speculative element to all of these and a cultural element to all of these.
00:24:07.423 - 00:24:18.159, Speaker B: So we're actually making an investment in this vertical that will announce pretty soon as well, that I'm quite excited to kind of share. Did you make your way to the Mother Mother party?
00:24:18.287 - 00:24:55.245, Speaker A: No, I'm never cool enough to be invited to these things. I was told very often that I should make it to Marquee to see diplomacy. I also had a very close friend who does a lot of the best events in crypto, and she said Jason Derulo was, like, frantically texting her, saying, hey, can you find someone to pay me 100k to get into some event? Like I said, it's a comical part of the industry, and I don't think I'll ever belong at one of these parties. But for me, I just keep looking at the fact that the people at that party are the people paying $100 billion to trade on photon, and I'm excited about the founders who are building for that class of activity.
00:24:55.545 - 00:25:11.521, Speaker B: Yeah, it's pretty nuts. I think some of these parties cost. I heard Shuffle, the online crypto gambling website, paid like, half a million dollars to throw a party. I think some. Some folks on our team went, I'm just not made for clubs. So I just skipped out on that. Yeah.
00:25:11.521 - 00:25:36.809, Speaker B: But, okay, so that's all on meme coins. I think Mother was the highlight. It showed up in the price as well. For those of you guys who are trading this, you know, at home, it's pretty interesting to see a lot of the meme coin traders in person. I think it's a completely different crowd than the crowd you see at Breakpoint, and even the crowd you see at some of the other events. Speaking of different crowds, let's talk about VCs. So you and I co hosted an event together.
00:25:36.809 - 00:25:53.335, Speaker B: So Tangent and Dragonfly, we got to catch up with a lot of our portcos and some of the other VCs that we co invest with, maybe at times compete with as well. What is the general kind of takeaway from these conversations? Like are VCs doing well? What are they focused on? What are next things on the horizon?
00:25:53.635 - 00:26:31.705, Speaker A: VCs are paid to be bullish, so they can always find a reason or a sector to be excited. And there is legitimate excitement around. Two people I met are obsessed with ZK tls. A couple other people I met are obsessed with this new wave of deep in robotics types idea type of ideas. And so there's like, if you, if you hang out with a vc, they'll tell you some things they're excited about because that's kind of their job. But I think there were lots of depressing conversations as well. And in particular, one theme is that, you know, crypto venture funds that raised in 2021 raised very large funds when you raised in 2021, 2022.
00:26:31.705 - 00:27:23.895, Speaker A: And I have a. I'm friends with lots of young VCs and if you're kind of a young VC and you haven't quite made it to like general or managing partner yet, and your fund is raising another fund, and it's quite apparent that even the best funds are raising funds that are smaller or as big as their previous funds. You know, just to say the quiet part out loud, that's like probably a bad sign if you're trying to become partner. Like, the fund has to get bigger. More economics have to be generated for this industry to create room for more VCs. And so at a very personal career level, and this may not be so interesting to people, but I do think there's a lot of young VCs in this industry who feel like there's a lack of tailwinds in venture capital. Like if your fund is raising smallish funds, if you made a lot of investments in 2021 and 2022 that are not looking so great right now, it's a pretty painful part of the industry to be in.
00:27:23.895 - 00:27:42.531, Speaker A: And so I don't know lots of conversations with people who are like, okay, I enjoy my job and I enjoy backing crypto founders, but I'm not feeling like the macro climate for being a venture capitalist and seeing a lot of growth opportunities in this industry. And so those conversations were actually quite painful. And Interesting.
00:27:42.603 - 00:28:35.961, Speaker B: Yeah. I think from a purely financially financial returns perspective or from a kind of your personal financial returns perspective, probably doesn't seem like it's the best time to be a crypto VC for many. But I actually think crypto VC is probably the best funnel if you want to be a founder or builder in VCs. Sorry, in crypto, just because of the regulatory kind of uncertainty around being a founder. Right, Because I just heard when I was catching up with another founder that there was a pretty big on chain options exchange. I don't know if I should name them, but if you guys were around during defi summer, you probably know because there's not only so many, they were backed by a very big vc and the founders, basically because they're based in the US they were subpoenaed by the SEC and they had to settle with the sec. And basically the founders are not allowed as part of this deal to ever work in crypto again.
00:28:35.961 - 00:29:41.767, Speaker B: So like as a young and these guys were just fresh college graduates and they are treated like they are hardcore criminals, just banned from this entire industry before the career even begins. So as young people entering the industry, they see this, they see just how hostile, especially in the US regulators are against crypto and it's very scary for them to dedicate a career to this. Especially if you're a very sharp technical talent, you have other options where you can go into AI with all the prestige, probably better pay, without facing, you know, the risk of Gary Gensler kicking down your door and, you know, killing your career overnight. So for people who are still ideologically driven and they're still interested in crypto, I think VC is actually a good way for them to not face so much regulatory kind of risk and still get exposure to all these founders and learn about the space before they kind of pick their bets. So I still think it's actually a kind of safe stepping stone just because there's more clearer regulations around fund management, industry licensing. You know, a lot of funds are basically registered investment advisors. There's like basically a hundred years worth of history on, you know, what is the proper way to do business versus jumping straight to a founder.
00:29:41.767 - 00:30:03.715, Speaker B: So yeah, if you are out there listening, you're curious to explore the space, you're a little bit scared, especially if you're in the U.S. i think joining a VC fund is probably still one of the better things for you to do. And then I guess in terms of verticals, you mentioned that people are interested in ZK tls, so I'm pretty smooth Brained on this. Can you give us a short download on what exactly that means?
00:30:04.415 - 00:30:46.013, Speaker A: Yeah, ZK tls. It's actually a very cool idea where basically you can think of anything that your browser shows you or anything that the Internet tells you. And ZK TLS allows you to create a proof of it. And so I'll use a degen example that makes a lot of sense. Let's say you're running a perp decks and you want to give a special airdrop or special trading fee structure or some kind of special privilege to someone who has traded a million dollars on Binance in the last year. So right now, if you want to do this, it's actually pretty tricky. Obviously no one is going to share their Binance credentials with you and you can try and get them to screenshot or do some team viewer type thing, but obviously it's all like kind of sketchy.
00:30:46.013 - 00:31:23.461, Speaker A: And so ZK TLS basically lets you log into your Binance and then there's these ZK TLS tools that will attach to either your browser or your mobile phone. They'll see the data that Binance is sending you, which is to say Binance will generate a page for you saying, oh yeah, your volume over the past year was a million dollars. They'll create a proof of that. That proof is actually very cool. It's totally private and can't be linked back to the original user. And you can send that proof to the perp decks and the perp decks can be like, oh, cool, this person traded a million dollars on Binance in the last year. So I'm going to give them VIP privileges to join my perp decks.
00:31:23.461 - 00:31:58.429, Speaker A: And there's actually a whole universe of cool stuff you can do like this. The second example I'll talk about was this app that took off for a little bit last year called Kettle K E T L where there's this app called Blind that's used a lot in Silicon Valley, where you basically authenticate to the Blind app that you have a Twitter address or a Facebook email address such that you work at the company. And then it's like a, like people shit post all the time saying, ah, I make this much money at Facebook. My boss sucks. Do you think I could get more money at Meta? Twitter's product team really sucks. But I'm getting paid so much and I don't work at all. Do you think I should change my job? It's actually very funny.
00:31:58.429 - 00:33:01.327, Speaker A: Blind screenshots are very funny. But one problem with Blind is that they've had Their data leak, their database leaked more than twice. And so if you're a senior level executive at any of these companies, you wouldn't use blind because like it's just like asking to get yourself fired once you show up on that list. So Kettle did this cool thing where you could generate a ZK TLS proof of receiving an email at that email address, send it to Kettle, and then Kettle doesn't store like you can say, okay, I'm a founder of a Y Combinator company and they do a ZK TLS proof showing that you actually have access to book face or the Y Combinator acceptance email. You send that to Kettle. Kettle doesn't store anything about like you, they just say, okay, this person, they're a Y Combinator founder and you can kind of create a large anonymity set and they, they then use that to create a blind like experience where founders of YC can talk to each other anonymously. Anyway, I'll stop rambling, but I actually think ZK TLS is a pretty cool tech and it can be used in a super cool way to bring a bunch of off chain data online in a provable way.
00:33:01.327 - 00:33:13.455, Speaker A: So you can say, hey, anything from hey, I'm a Spotify user who listened to this song a thousand times to hey, I'm a okay, X user who trades more than 99% of other users, so you better make me feel special for coming to your perp decks.
00:33:13.495 - 00:33:45.659, Speaker B: Keto sounds really interesting. So it's kind of like Yik Yak but with verifiable background. So for people who don't remember, Yik Yak I think was back in 2016 was a massive social app that took off on college campuses, basically allows you to send out anonymous messages and you can view other people who posted anonymous messages within like a 2 kilometer radius. So it became very popular for like on campus gossip. So this is like Yik Yak but globally. And it's anonymous but with verified kind of background for people using kind of ZK TLS.
00:33:45.787 - 00:33:53.875, Speaker A: Yeah, the two categories were founder at Y Combinator and VC at 1 billion plus AUM fund. It was kind of funny actually.
00:33:53.995 - 00:33:57.811, Speaker B: How did it take off? Like, is this still around? I haven't seen people talk about it in a while.
00:33:57.883 - 00:34:07.707, Speaker A: Yeah, unfortunately I was obsessed with the idea, but I don't think it's doing very well. And I think the founder has actually pivoted to launching something else. So yeah, sometimes these experiments that sound cool don't work.
00:34:07.891 - 00:34:27.755, Speaker B: Yeah, well, speaking of this, I think social is probably one of the things that people are VCs are at least intellectually interested in during token 2049, it's something that came out a few times. One of the founding engineers at Yikiak is actually building a Web3 version of this on, on, on a chain which I'd love to share more soon.
00:34:28.415 - 00:34:30.895, Speaker A: I'm talking to him later today actually, funnily enough.
00:34:31.015 - 00:34:50.790, Speaker B: Oh yeah, nice. So, yeah, so you know which chain I'm talking about. A little bit of alpha there. So I think for, for verticals that VZ seems to be interested in. So one interesting thing is crypto AI is very, very divisive. I spoke to managers of, you know, pretty large funds, 200, $500 million funds. One of them told me, hey, this is our core focus right now.
00:34:50.790 - 00:35:16.555, Speaker B: We're going to pay up for all of These hundred to 300 million starting FDVs pre product. We're going to do it all. And the other basically told me, yeah, it's mostly vaporware. We're not going to do any of these. We might do if it's cheap enough or interesting enough, but, you know, I think they're going to do very poorly. Well, what are your general views or observations around crypto AI there? Because that seems to be top of mind for all the VCs.
00:35:17.495 - 00:35:53.645, Speaker A: I won't speak too much here. I think you probably have far more expertise in this than I do. It's a sector where we as a fund have spent some time and made a handful of investments. But I personally have struggled a lot. Like I 1 think the valuation premium is out of control and I just find that there's very little product market fit being evidenced in any of these places. And there's a handful of places where maybe it kind of makes sense, some form of censorship resistance. So I don't know how large the TAM for censorship resistant AI really is.
00:35:53.645 - 00:36:23.607, Speaker A: And one challenge I have with this industry is that I still have a handful of friends who are actually doing very well in Silicon Valley and part of the real AI world. And it feels like there's a real AI world, which is a large island over here, and there's the crypto X AI world, which is a small island over here. And almost nobody has even been able to build a boat, let alone a bridge that connects these two spaces. And I think that's probably not a great sign. But I also want to caveat that I'm not the person who spends a lot of time in this space, so I probably know less than everyone else.
00:36:23.671 - 00:36:58.611, Speaker B: No, I generally actually Agree. I think there's more vaporware. Well, I guess you can say that with every vertical there's more vapor than actual products. I'm very skeptical on a lot of the projects that are launching in crypto. It almost seems like solutionism, right? So for instance, like a lot of the agent stuff, it seems like the only immediate serviceable market is like on chain yield optimization, which isn't that big of a tam. There's a lot of the GPU clusters, which I think is mostly saturated for now. Like there's, there is some commercial value there, but it's very, very saturated now.
00:36:58.611 - 00:37:48.461, Speaker B: There's decentralized training and inference which presents its own set of problems in terms of performance versus web. Two alternatives. I think the biggest exciting one was Bittensor. They did an event and then subsequently they did an hour long presentation online which got a lot of people excited because they were showing that people are starting to use Bittensor's incentivized subnets to do more complex things like protein folding for instance. So just as a disclaimer, we do hold some tau tokens for Bittensor. I think it's still a pretty experimental ideas. I have multiple conversations with this, with different kind of researchers and I think there's still some questions about whether Bittensor is sustainable in the very long term, whether it's just incentivizing, you know, inference with tokens and you know, what's giving these tokens values beside a speculative premium.
00:37:48.461 - 00:38:29.393, Speaker B: But you can say that for basically a lot of deepen networks as well, which bootstrap supply side first before they figure out the demand side for both the product and the token. So yeah, I think it's still an open question here. It's very interesting for me to see how divisive it is. One thing that is less divisive is Deepin. I think in general the view that I got from VCs was that the only fresh interesting talent in crypto today is in Deepin. Because most of these folks are not cryptonatus, right? They're not like former Defi guys trying to start like a metaverse or whatnot. These are actually hardware guys who are coming into this space because crypto is solving an actual commercial need.
00:38:29.393 - 00:38:57.489, Speaker B: So the example that I kept bringing up during the conference was Geonet, which were investors in. They're actually top three in terms of revenue generated by a deepen network. So the first one probably everybody knows is helium. I think there's another a cache or one of the GPU networks and then it's Geonet. So Geo Net at times even makes more fees than helium. So you can check this out on Artemis or DPIN Ninja, which is created by our friends at ev3. So yeah, so they're creating a shit ton of fees.
00:38:57.489 - 00:39:52.859, Speaker B: So for those of you who don't know, basically geodnet is an RTK network. It's a real time kinematics, which is a on the ground network to refine the accuracy of your GPS network. So normal people like me and Sana, we probably don't need this for Google Maps, but apparently there's a massive industry of folks like farmers for instance, who need to do industrial farming, who need to plant seeds in extremely kind of accurate spots in the ground that can't just use GPS because GPS is way too inaccurate. So they have these on the ground nodes that increase the accuracy of GPS by 100x. And the founder, Mike Horton, he's been in this GPS navigation industry for like 20 years. And he tried to do this in web two by building a network of on the ground nodes to refine GPS accuracy for farmers, for drone manufacturers. But it didn't work because the government basically told him you need to get a license every time you install a node and you need to pay $100 million to set up this entire network.
00:39:52.859 - 00:40:27.675, Speaker B: And he was like, fuck all that noise, I'm going to make DPIN great again. And he sold these nodes to just mom and pop folks in crucial kind of rural areas. And people just install their nodes at home and provide the service and earn a fee. And these are like actual cash fees that are used to kind of buy back the token and burn. So I'm really excited by stories like that. Just because this is no longer vaporware, it's actually people solving commercial use cases now. The General perception from VCs however, is that a lot of its tokens that are live are extremely illiquid, so they can't even participate if they want to.
00:40:27.675 - 00:40:40.315, Speaker B: But that is an area that I feel like VCs are paying attention to more and more. So compared to any of the last events, did you kind of see that as well? Like, are people talking about Deepin more?
00:40:40.895 - 00:41:24.121, Speaker A: Yeah, they are. And I think like you said, a lot of people are focused on the illiquidity of the tokens and the finding founders who can generate demand side like actually sell whatever data or product you create out of here. And I've always kind of thought that was kind of what held back a lot of deep end startups. I'm just going to use this opportunity to Share one of the craziest ideas I heard last week that actually I think is super cool. Where one problem in robotics generally is that we have way less training data to train kind of large AI robotics models than we do, like text based models. And so we want to like, we actually don't have enough footage of simple things like people cooking. Like, we need millions and millions of hours of people cooking so that we can kind of start training robots accordingly.
00:41:24.121 - 00:42:07.561, Speaker A: And the most fun deep end idea I heard last week was like, okay, you build a camera, you pay a bunch of people in like countries like the Philippines and India, you say, hey, you buy this camera and you put it in your kitchen. It's super dystopian. You put it in your kitchen and we just track you cooking all day. And from that we kind of generate a ton of training data and we kind of pay you. And this is like a perfect deep end startup and we pay you for all the data you're generating and kind of use that to train AI models. And in some ways this is what Scale AI, a very successful Silicon Valley startup, did for labeling and training data. And so in general, apparently robotics really needs a lot more training data.
00:42:07.561 - 00:42:23.761, Speaker A: And I feel like there's a deeper opportunity in just paying people to give them, like pay people to give you video of them just doing things. This is the wildest startup idea I heard last week that I thought was definitely somewhat credible. And in the big if true category, though, it is a little dystopian.
00:42:23.913 - 00:42:32.645, Speaker B: Is it, Is this the one with. I don't know if they want us to share the name, but is this the one with a brain in like a robot's body for their logo?
00:42:33.065 - 00:42:40.881, Speaker A: I actually, the person who told me about it, like didn't name a specific startup. He said he's looking for someone building this, so maybe there's some matchmaking you can do.
00:42:40.953 - 00:43:13.257, Speaker B: Oh, okay. We can connect offline artists because I literally am looking into a project doing exactly this right now. Okay, so that's on the VC side. On the trader side. I don't know if you got to hang out with a lot of traders, but I was very fortunate in that I was invited to a drinks with some of the largest sex traders. So these are the folks who are swinging like $30 million positions on Binance. And these are a lot of the unknowns that I would not dox here, obviously, but these are the bigger kind of unknown accounts that are sharing the P and L and so whatnot.
00:43:13.257 - 00:44:14.483, Speaker B: And from that event, there's like a Dozen of them. And I think the general sentiment is that this was the hardest market by far for anybody to trade since like 2018. The P& L correlation for everybody is much lower than past cycles where you know, if, because every coin was up basically, unless you're really fucking up, you're making money this time you have even amongst the top like 1% of like Binance BYBIT leaderboards, there are folks who are having a great time and folks who are having a really bad time. And I think the reason why this was happening is because a lot of the things driving markets this time aren't just crypto native ideas. They're not just catalysts for specific coins, they're macro things which thousands and thousands of people around the world trade in the macro markets and have little edge on. So it's very difficult. So things like ETF flows, that's probably pretty crypto native, but things like probability of Trump winning the election, probability of a recession, the duration, magnitude, timing of the rate cuts, all of those have affected positioning for traders.
00:44:14.483 - 00:44:56.149, Speaker B: This produces a wide dispersion of outcomes throughout this past especially six months. So the sentiment also was that you can't dream. People who were holding coins for more than six months just lost money. And what this created was that cynicism, right? Everybody knows the next guy is going to sell. So people see this as a game of musical chairs instead of investing in the future. And you kind of saw that in price action as well, right? Over the past six months the, the kind of tops, local tops were price just started trending down more and more because a lot of these traders are trying to front run each other. So it felt like a, it's very strange vibe because everybody is so nice and so friendly, but you also know they are extremely PVP and just duking it out in the order books.
00:44:56.149 - 00:45:00.945, Speaker B: I don't know if you got a chance to catch up with some of the liquid funds, but how are they doing?
00:45:01.485 - 00:45:27.469, Speaker A: Sounds a lot like what you said. I think people who have made very kind of long term thesis driven bets have struggled a little bit with kind of just alts not doing so well. There's a large belief that bitcoin is in its own universe. One exception is anyone who bought Torn at any point in the last two years is having the time of their life. Outside of that I don't have a lot more to add honestly. I think you probably spend a lot more time with the sharpest traders in the space.
00:45:27.557 - 00:45:35.485, Speaker B: Yeah, let's jump over to the founder side then. I know you Want to talk about Hyper Liquid because it seems like there was a lot of interest there. So what's going on over there?
00:45:36.625 - 00:46:23.591, Speaker A: Just I've been so impressed. Like I what the one takeaway is that hyperliquid's big a ton of its users are very acolyte are total acolytes. Like I look at Hyperliquid and I really remember Andrew Kang's advice about investing in cults and hyperliquid does feel like a cult and it is very interesting that there's a class of traders who really, whether they're incentivized by points or not, help really make the claim that this is the answer to an on chain Binance and they've tried all the other perp dexes out. They just don't like DYDX or Drift for different reasons. And it's super impressive to me. Like people are throwing out token target predictions of 10 billion. There was a Hyper Liquid event last week which I feel like was one of the most exclusive events.
00:46:23.591 - 00:47:43.965, Speaker A: Like people who were invited felt very cool about themselves and I know three people who tried to get in and were kicked out at the door. In general there's a couple of takeaways from Hyperliquid that I think are super interesting. Obviously the team ships super hard and is very impressive. I think one thing that's interesting is that we always presume that an on chain binance would be like a perp tex on Solana or a perp text that's an L2. And in some ways we continually learn the lesson that people don't care as much as we think about decentralization and mostly care about good UI UX and kind of a regulatory arbitrage where in some sense hyperliquid currently runs on my understanding is three servers but it's KYC free and so it feels like a perp decks in that way. While they're super performant and people seem quite happy with that product, there's very few people who are like oh no no no, this I need to trade on like a perp decks on Solana so that like it's more decentralized and it's always kind of an uphill battle for founders who are in that category. The second thing that's interesting is just how much cope there is from VCs because hyperliquid kind of has taken no outside capital at all and I know so many VCs who are coping so hard and many VCs have tried to kind of invest in this platform in many different ways.
00:47:43.965 - 00:48:27.591, Speaker A: And it's interesting to see just like that. I think a lot of the community excitement actually comes from that. And in some sense I do think it's worth pointing out that Jupiter and hyperliquid are kind of these special. When the hyperliquid token comes out are kind of these special tokens that exist in their own universe where they release some amount of float, but the rest of the float just sits on kind of the organization's balance sheet. It can be burned, it can be used to incentivize users. But unlike all other tokens where there's kind of a team, there's a large cohort of team and investors who are vesting all the time. I think these tokens are just kind of have such different supply dynamics that the market is super, super hype about them.
00:48:27.591 - 00:48:53.085, Speaker A: I am, I think the next step is. I'm very curious to see what happens when the token comes out because in some sense every like perp Dexes feel like you're kind of playing a game of Whack a mole. Like initially it's gmx, then for six months it's synthetics. And then at some point Drift takes up some point DYDX starts winning and there's never been a clear winner. For right now it feels like Hyper Liquid is a clear winner. But I think post token launch is when we really see how much of that activity is sticky.
00:48:53.665 - 00:49:27.235, Speaker B: So it's interesting you bring this up because during token 2049 week, Multicoin also put out a blog post about Drift which is I was an angel investor in before Tangent and they are basically starting a perp decks on Solana. And I think the whole attack vector or the rebuttal that the multi Coin guys had against hyperliquid was the fact that it was run on three servers. Decentralization risk as a kind of Thanksgiving turkey situation where one day if the regulators decide to shut it down, then it's over. Do you think that's a credible critique? Are they fair on that assessment?
00:49:27.895 - 00:50:04.555, Speaker A: Yeah, I think it is. Mert said, look, as long as you're upfront about it, this is just a different product. This is like a weird quasi on chain, quasi off chain. And hyperliquid has a lot of plans to decentralize but I'm a little skeptical of those because decentralization for a perpetux will always come at the cost of performance. And so I think it's a valid critique. But it's also like, it feels a little bit like Cope because Hyper Liquid volume And users just keep growing and just keep growing and we're all sitting here like being unsure in a similar way. It's like VCs hated lots of VCs were like very ivory Tarbot telegram bots because the custody model wasn't quite perfect.
00:50:04.555 - 00:50:40.461, Speaker A: And instead we funded all these weird kind of custody, self custody wallet type things and meanwhile Telegram bots produce $200 million in revenue. And in fact telegram bots have found a way to kind of fix the custody problem using kind of these, kind of using these account abstraction wallets. So I'm curious to see how hyperliquid plays out. And there is definitely a big risk. It is centralized in a very meaningful way. But it's kind of that eternal struggle where what users want seemingly is a place where they can trade and they don't have to kyc and they don't want to think too much about what's happening on the back end.
00:50:40.533 - 00:51:07.155, Speaker B: Yeah, I think in general traders, the priority for traders really isn't how decentralized this is, how many notes is. I don't think they even look into that. Right. They just see okay, where can I not kyc especially for Americans. And that's the kind of you know, saying the quiet part out loud. But also trade with in an exchange with feature parity with FTX where I can, you know, market slam 10 bit BTC with no slippage. So I think on one side I can see where some of the VCs are coming from.
00:51:07.155 - 00:52:15.187, Speaker B: Maybe there is some sort of a moral argument to not fund things that are, you know, have very obvious attack vectors. But on the other side, it's also a founder bet, right? You're betting on whether the founder is able to decentralize and make it anti fragile over time. And from a purely commercial perspective, right. Assuming the thing doesn't get hacked or you know, exploited or attacked by regulators, it makes a lot of sense for you to create a performant product, attract the users first and then maybe slightly degrade the performance of this product to decentralize over time versus ship something that is just fundamentally degraded versus you know, your typical sex experience and then try to make it more performant by centralizing over time because then you will never get any users to begin with. So I think now the market is hyper liquids to lose, right? They own basically all of the dex liquidity for perps in defi right now. So it's up to them for how do they want to go about this road of decentralizing without sacrificing too much performance. So I think on that note I'd like to close this out with this photo here which is one of my favorite photos I saw during token 2049.
00:52:15.187 - 00:52:53.545, Speaker B: So for those of you who are listening at home and not watching on YouTube, basically there was a morning walk. Unfortunately I'm not a morning person so I didn't attend. But thank you Xu Yao for inviting but this is a morning walk with some of the folks that are extremely crucial I think to all of crypto. So you have here Jeff who is the founder of Hyperliquid, you have Kane, who one of the OGs in crypto, building Infinix now and built synthetics back in the day. Obviously the guy building Athena, the fastest growing stable coin, Vitalik himself. You have Stani from aave, Shreya from Mega Eth, and Taiki who's been doing a lot of great work on the education front. So yeah, I think we should celebrate people like this more in the space.
00:52:53.545 - 00:53:37.935, Speaker B: I think KOLs and influencers and Meme Coins have their space and I'm welcoming to everything that pushes usage for crypto, but I'm forever appreciative of the OGs like folks in this picture. So I just like to wrap it up with this photo here and thank you for tuning in to another episode of blockcrunch. Hey there Jason here, thanks for supporting another episode of the blockcrunch podcast. If you enjoyed this, please give us a five star rating on Spotify and Apple podcasts. And make sure you subscribe on YouTube so you can check out our founder interviews, our roundtable series on our venture thesis, as well as our On a Tangent sub series about our current market views. And as always, you can reach out to me on X at MrJason Choi and I'll make sure to read every comment related to this episode. So I'll see you next time.
