00:00:07.290 - 00:00:52.026, Speaker A: This is an interesting moment for us because we introduced pragma as an event this year, and you were with us with the very first pragma in April, and this is the last pragma of 2023. And we get to reflect not on just the future, but also the last eight months. And, and I'm excited to kind of have this conversation up. Last time we covered how we can make web3 better from the point of view of interesting protocols that need to be invented, interesting problems that need to be solved. But I think it's a good idea for us to actually zoom out and talk about how we actually think humanity can be made better with a lot of the new things that we're inventing. So we're going to kind of shape around a lot of these things. And I'll kind of, in a way, be on a lot of tangents and we'll kind of COVID all the topics that we think are interesting.
00:00:52.026 - 00:01:09.726, Speaker A: And Mike, at the first one to kind of start off with is a lot of, you may have heard of EAC, accelerationism, DAC, all these topics around just how do we actually take more risks. So I want to kind of start off by actually you having tell us about what is accelerationism.
00:01:09.918 - 00:02:16.498, Speaker B: Yeah, and by the way, super excited to be here. Love the Pragma series and all of everything that ethical does to help connect everybody and build great things in the future. So accelerationism came out as a response to some decelerationism that was being talked about in the effective altruist community. So the effective altruist community has been trying to create a structure where people around the world are thinking very rationally about how they spend their time and their effort and resources and try to maximize the utility and the improvements to humanity globally. And so there's a lot of tons of people around the world are thinking more carefully about what they do and what they do and so on to try and maximize the utility broadly. That's kind of where the effective part is about making sure that you're doing a good job at altruism, which is improving things for everybody. Now, among that, there's a whole branch of the EA community that has been very worried about AI risk.
00:02:16.498 - 00:03:29.758, Speaker B: And so there's some amount of decelerationism that comes from that in saying, hey, no, hold on, AI might actually be extremely risky, and we should be careful about deployment. That strand ended up giving rise to and connecting with many other communities much broader and different from EA that are broadly just afraid of technology or broadly think that technology doesn't have much to offer, or that broadly big tech or whatever is just making the world worse. And so there's like this broad meme about decelerationism happening in various different places. And so accelerationism came in as a big counter to that and saying, no, remember, science and technology greatly improve humanity. When you look back and think about all of the great improvements that we've had in the last few centuries, last few millennia, you can trace often back to some important understanding leaps. You can find the scientific improvements that gave us those benefits. You can think about the technologies that delivered those scientific improvements into some public goods or some infrastructure or some products that people ended up using.
00:03:29.758 - 00:05:00.860, Speaker B: So think of like aqueducts back in thousands of years ago, or like agriculture and irrigation systems, or public sanitation, or the printing press, or carts and the Internet. And now the Internet, telecommunications, all the way to the Internet. So accelerationism is saying, hey, no, hold on. There's an enormous amount of benefit that the world gets out of science and technology being deployed as fast as we can, and where this kind of fight emerged between kind of the people saying, hey, hold on, let's slow things down against people saying, let's accelerate things. Now, the nuanced thing here is that most EA's are actually accelerationists that want things to go faster, want the science and technology to go way faster, except for things that might cause massive amounts of harm, including things like making AI in an unsafe way. And this is where I think there's a recent post from Vitalik called DAC, which tries to thread the needle between these two landscapes that breaks down both. Why the accelerationist viewpoint of trying to improve science, trying to improve technology, trying to create better things as fast as we can, broadly, generally, tends to translate into broad improvements globally, and why doing that in a free, open, permissionless environment is just so good for the entire world and has repeatedly shown to just greatly improve human life.
00:05:00.860 - 00:05:52.400, Speaker B: However, this is where I think Fatali does a great job here, navigating. However, there's a part where you want to be differential, in which technologies you improve. So this is an ea idea of saying, let's build technologies that are risky carefully, and think about how they might be deployed. And along the way, think about other technologies that give you the safeguard or safety relative to that technology, and then think carefully about which things you prioritize. Think carefully about which technologies do you build first or which technologies you build in, what rate and who you give access to them, and so on. So Vitak has a great post that you can go and check out that kind of threads on the needle between these two landscapes. And that's what DAC is.
00:05:52.400 - 00:07:06.870, Speaker B: And there's a lot of good ideas there about thinking about defensibility, decentralization across a few different categories. So, for example, bio, you want to be able to use great innovations in bio to improve humanity, like cure diseases, solve all kinds of fundamental problems, think about longevity and so on. And at the same time, you want to be careful about creating vectors for massive harm where people are like engineering pandemics or things like that. So there's things like bio, there's things like communications infrastructure, there's things like economics and governance technologies, there's energy. So all of these areas, you want to both build great technology that can improve how the world works, and you want to try and diffuse it to everybody as fast as you can, because that creates an enormous amount of utility globally that improves people's lives. However, you want to make sure that you're doing so carefully and that you don't accidentally end up creating massive amounts of harm. And, yeah, that's kind of the summary of that landscape.
00:07:07.850 - 00:07:10.694, Speaker A: That's a better summary than Chad GPT did for me.
00:07:10.892 - 00:07:18.230, Speaker B: Good. I'm still not going to be replaced yet, hanging on from a cliffhanger.
00:07:18.830 - 00:07:37.598, Speaker A: So obviously, when people kind of talk about acceleration, they talk about bio as longitivity, like nuclear energy, and kind of a lot of the infrastructure improvements around kind of standard of living for people. Where does kind of crypto fit in, and how do we think about that, and what does that actually do from a technological standpoint for us?
00:07:37.684 - 00:08:52.194, Speaker B: Yeah, so I think crypto is an extremely important set of technologies that enable us to build a better infrastructure for economies and governments worldwide. And this starts in both the large scale, kind of rewrite how a country works economically, all the way to the small scale of how you transact with other people, how you support other people, or how groups organize their work and organize their systems. What I find extremely, extremely powerful about crypto and web3 is that we're working with software eating mechanism design, eating economics, and we're creating extremely powerful levers that can organize humans and organizations and even nation states at a massive scale. And so by deploying new kinds of infrastructures and new kinds of infrastructure, new kinds of incentive structures, new kinds of even simple smart contracts, you can rewrite and rewire how massive scale systems operate. And that's an enormous amount of potential, which I find super exciting.
00:08:52.322 - 00:08:56.114, Speaker A: What are kind of some examples of thinking about a better government or economic structure?
00:08:56.242 - 00:09:31.426, Speaker B: Yeah. So everything there's a lot of different kinds of things. I started with small and then go large. So in the small scale, you can think about people doing different micro lending. Like there's lots of different countries that do micro lending where people lend money to other people. You can do that in a much better, much faster way, lower friction using these kinds of systems. You can then think about how groups organize and run their own economic structures, whether that's like maintaining the finances of a community, maintaining the finances of a company, or maintaining the governance of a community or a company or something like that.
00:09:31.426 - 00:10:52.426, Speaker B: Think of DAos as fundamentally changing the way that governance structure works in an organization. You can think of larger and larger scales, like create broad support structures for larger and larger communities. So, for example, things like coming up with new economic models, for example, UbI, where you can have large communities, potentially pretty massive scales, create a distribution structure for wealth that ends up giving people access to a basic income. And you can think of that being put in place even by large scale global governments, where you can use crypto to build UBI systems. You can use crypto to build other kind of economic structures. So one thing that I'm particularly excited about is changing the nature of how capital works, being able to wire in perspectives about how that capital is getting used, and what it's going to think of things like the entire being able to use financial structures to improve our work in certain goals, like carbon credits, are a concrete example of making a financial instrument to try and reverse climate change and trying to make the world greener. You can do all kinds of.
00:10:52.426 - 00:11:23.894, Speaker B: And that took an enormous amount of work to develop and deploy. Like it was a huge international effort from many governments and many corporations and so on to try and boot up that system. In crypto, you can just write a few lines of code and build a thing like that and build a structure that works in that way. And so we have now seen, over the last few years, a proliferation of very different kinds of instruments, kind of like that. So, for example, renewable energy certificates or certificates of people planting trees or doing.
00:11:23.932 - 00:11:25.922, Speaker A: Other kinds of carbon carbon offsetting.
00:11:26.066 - 00:12:25.994, Speaker B: Yeah, doing useful, valuable public goods oriented work. And so you can use crypto to build very large scale systems that can do that kind of public goods valuable work. And I think that we really have these magical superpowers with crypto and blockchain to rewire how the entire world works. And it's just at your fingertips with some smart contracts. Remember how powerful some of these are. Think of bitcoin or even filecoin as just a couple of incentive structures that amass an enormous amount of resources, right? So in filecoin, there's one incentive structure that releases some currency for adding storage to the network, and that, on its own, brings an enormous amount of storage and assembles it from around the world. And so think of being able to do that kind of stuff, but for other sort of systems like carbon sequestration or renewable energy buildouts or all of that kind of stuff.
00:12:25.994 - 00:12:38.880, Speaker B: So you really think of this as kind of, you're a wizard with magical superpowers, and you have to do the right incantation to then cause this massive amount of impact that can scale into the world.
00:12:39.970 - 00:13:01.382, Speaker A: I'll add on to the bitcoin side of this, which is the incentive is you get to mine this thing by hashing this math function, and then suddenly you have these operations that are consuming more power than countries just to get this magic Internet money. And you never thought this would kind of make this hundreds of billions of dollars of an industry just because somebody said, this is how we think it should work.
00:13:01.436 - 00:13:53.302, Speaker B: One incentive structure, boom, that's scale, right? And so if you can create systems that are that straightforward and that simple and that scalable, you can move mountains. You can totally change the world. It's important to aim for good outcomes, right? So the bitcoin example also shows you that you can accidentally have bad consequences. Like the bitcoin proof of work function doesn't do anything useful, just wastes and dissipates energy, which that's not good at its best. You can maybe say it's like soaking up some excess energy from a grid, but in reality, it's just massive operations are just wasting energy, driving up the price for others and so on. So I think, consider it pretty harmful. Now, you can use that same incentive structure to produce extremely valuable things, right? So in Falcon, we think about it as like creating useful storage out of it.
00:13:53.302 - 00:14:23.700, Speaker B: In the refi space. You can think of imagine doing a block reward structure, but for carbon sequestration, right? Sequester as much possible carbon as possible and try to kick off this global race to do that. Now, the devil's in the details here of making sure that you're creating a good, verifiable structure, that the incentive structures are producing good outcomes. But that's kind of the level of power that you have at your fingertips with this magical Internet money and this magical coordination machine that we've all built.
00:14:24.550 - 00:15:26.854, Speaker A: And I think one of the more interesting things, it's one of those aha. Moments, especially as a developer, when you realize that you now have the same toolkit to start a country or a currency or an economic system that you didn't even realize was possible. We can literally emulate a corporation that behaves like 100,000 employee company with like 500 lines of code. We can fund real world things without having any real world tied to that capital or the governance of it and create these amazing outcomes just because we can now represent all of that as an economy that's just in code and that's effectively what we, I feel like, haven't fully realized that the full power of it, and it creates some really cool and incredible outcomes. So I do want to talk about some of that. Let's talk about how does that get leveraged to make research better in the world.
00:15:26.972 - 00:16:26.902, Speaker B: Yeah, so one of the things that I'm super excited about is accelerating the R and D pipeline to produce way better technology for the world and produce way more scientific discoveries by using these kinds of incentive structures. Right? So, as you saw in the early video, we're very inspired by the potential that we have as humans, and we reasoned that the amount of science and the amount of technology that we make is kind of like the leverage point there. And so what can we do to accelerate the R D pipeline with these magical superpowers? So I'll give a few examples of possible things. First off, you can think of funding structures for the different stages on the R D pipeline. So one of these pieces is like, there isn't a ton of. Well, first off, you can give funding to science. So first off, you can create grant structures to fund a lot of scientific work.
00:16:26.902 - 00:17:29.542, Speaker B: There's many fields that are underserved. There's many fields where the traditional grant structures are extremely hard to reach or people, scientists around the world that don't have good governments investing in scientific research, and it's very difficult for them to access capital from other countries. And so with crypto, you can create a scientific funding agency that's global, that really kind of gives you funding wherever you are, based on the merits of the work. So you can build like, an international scientific funding agency then. Second, you can think of the science translation part of, hey, suppose we have some good scientific discoveries. How do we make some technologies out of them? Usually this is what's known as the value of death, where most ideas go to die. Because there aren't good funding structures here, governments tend to not fund this stage, and this is way too early for VC to get in and invest here because it's extremely high risk and it tends to be negative financial ROI.
00:17:29.542 - 00:18:06.162, Speaker B: So vcs just cannot invest in this area. The usual thing that you hear is like, VCs can't invest in science projects, and this is sort of what they mean. And so this area is tragically underfunded. There's no good agencies out there that can fund this piece. We could build that crypto structure to do that, whether it's an agency deploying funding with public goods structures or using other kind of mechanisms and incentive fields. An example here is that you could go and restructure and reframe how IP works, which is usually the incentive field is supposed to be here. Or you can abandon that kind of incentive field and create a new one, like retrospective.
00:18:06.162 - 00:19:07.190, Speaker B: You can use retrospective funding rewards here to reward the work that ended up producing good, viable technologies that can be put into products. Then in the capital side of now, funding product development, like once you have good technologies that can be put into products, you could lean on the existing VC infrastructure, but that has all kinds of access problems and biases and so on. You could build a new kind of VC structure with crypto, with crypto native systems, and that is much more transparent, much more open, much more aligned to the goals and outcomes that the community wants to have. So you could have like a crypto powered VC infrastructure to support the development of startups and products in their scaling. And you can also do this without financial ROI. You can of course, have funding structures that are public goods oriented, that are about achieving those direct outcomes. There's a lot of groups and projects in the space thinking of these kinds of public goods, funding infrastructure for these kinds of projects to scale.
00:19:07.190 - 00:20:24.546, Speaker B: Gitcoin is a good example of doing this now at pretty large scale. Then if you kind of go a little bit deeper into the incentive structures, you can even create new sorts of instruments. So you can think of currency as a fundamentally really valuable innovation and really valuable technology that we discovered very early on and that ended up powering lots of infrastructure and lots of our commerce and society and civilization. You can come up with inventions of that caliber. And in the science field, there's a way of doing this with a thing called impact certificates, or hyperservice. So if you can kind of think about wrapping the credit of having built something into a certificate that you can sell that simple act of bottling the credit and creating a financial instrument that allows you to trade that and transfer that to other people, which is similar to currency, a currency bottles up utility of some actual physical object or some service, currency bottles that utility and allows it to be traded, you can do that same thing with the credit of having done something good and sell that into a market of willing buyers. And that gives you a fully, a retroactive and proactive funding system for scientific work at massive scale, which is super, super exciting, right? Like that kind of stuff can get.
00:20:24.568 - 00:20:38.490, Speaker A: Built maybe just to kind of have this sink in fully. What's like a crazy world scenario that you can think of in the next five to ten years of these R and D structures kind of just redefining or matching the scale of some existing programs.
00:20:38.910 - 00:21:21.720, Speaker B: So when you think about the R and D spend in the world, you can look at countries as being the biggest spenders in R and D. So tons of the technology that you have today traces its roots back to some scientific improvements that got funded by some governments globally. And when you look at the scale of the funding there, it's kind of in the order of tens of billions per country, at least the big countries. I think the US is spending somewhere in the order of like $60 to $80 billion every year on research. And this is like non defense oriented research. The defense oriented, that's per week. Yeah, exactly.
00:21:21.720 - 00:21:35.234, Speaker B: Much larger. And China is also very big there. There's lots of countries that deploy some amounts, but when you. $60 billion is not that much. If you can think of crypto networks.
00:21:35.282 - 00:21:37.414, Speaker A: What'S the market cap of bitcoin like?
00:21:37.452 - 00:22:09.666, Speaker B: I don't know, somewhere around 0.5 to trillion dollars. Yeah, like a trillion dollars, right. So 60 billion is like 6% of that. Now, if you had 6%. Sounds like a lot. But if bitcoin becomes ten x more valuable, or if ethereum becomes ten x more valuable, 100 x 1000 x more valuable, then suddenly that zero six becomes and it becomes a small amount relative to the emission rate of these currencies.
00:22:09.666 - 00:23:07.058, Speaker B: And so one idea that I find extremely fascinating and super compelling is that we could, with blockchains, if we allocate some amount of the token supply to go to funding broad public goods, including science, including R D, then you could have funding for science and technology development at the scale of nation states, starting with small countries, and then eventually getting to the scale of something like the US or China, and potentially exceeding it. So can you imagine how the world would be different if suddenly the crypto community was funding R d more than the US and China? That completely changes the world, and that's accessible to us. That's only within two or three, maybe four orders of magnitude of value increase. So if you look back, we've done more than that in the last ten years. So in the next ten years we could hit this. Right. And so I find that extremely, extremely compelling.
00:23:07.234 - 00:23:11.530, Speaker A: Now, is that after or before you buy the constitution through a dow?
00:23:12.190 - 00:23:15.210, Speaker B: Yeah, get in, losers. We're going to go fund science.
00:23:16.590 - 00:23:36.754, Speaker A: Well, I do want to also talk about non kind of science and R and d stuff. So one kind of common theme here for IPFs with p to PSP coin is a better incentive structure for computers and the Internet across the world. How do you think about the evolution of the Internet and what does, like a better Internet look like?
00:23:36.872 - 00:24:59.786, Speaker B: Yeah, and this is what got me into crypto in the first place, because I didn't kind of expect or predict that the R and d side was going to be able to be doable with crypto. When you think about the Internet, you have this amazing superpower machine. You think of the Internet as this huge nervous system that connects all of us and we access it through these magical rectangles that we get to look into and touch and so on and speak into, and soon enough think into. And these are this portal that you can get to access everybody else and organizations and countries and so on, and how that Internet works, what the properties of the connectivity actually are, like who is allowed to access the Internet, who is allowed to access the Internet, how much or where or, or whether or not you're allowed to access specific other people or specific other organizations. Those properties end up being the difference between having amazing superpowers or not. So the Internet today gives humans globally this massive leverage point over everything else in their lives. Most of what we do day to day is now routed by the Internet in some way.
00:24:59.786 - 00:25:29.794, Speaker B: Most of what we do is mediated through computers. And so the rules of the road, like how the system works, ends up impacting people at a massive, massive scale. And from my perspective, this is human rights level important. This is one of the most important things that the UN and humanity should be worried about, creating good protections for people globally to access this amazing resource and thereby access each other to be one of our top priorities.
00:25:29.922 - 00:25:38.346, Speaker A: Can you talk about what's not there right now? Why do you say that they need protections like what's not protected? Yes.
00:25:38.448 - 00:26:08.194, Speaker B: Imagine we've seen some acute cases where suddenly some people woke up one morning and the Internet was gone. So this happened in certain countries where there were political upheaval and suddenly one morning the government just shut off the Internet. Can you imagine waking up one day and suddenly you can't reach your loved ones, you don't know how they are. You can't access a map. You tried getting a car, you can't do that anymore. You try to access your files, none of that works. Boom, everything is gone.
00:26:08.194 - 00:27:13.090, Speaker B: Can you think of your personal life right now? How much of it is mediated by the Internet? This is freaking tragic, right? This is a thing that governments probably shouldn't have the power to do anymore. And today the Internet is built on a series of contracts and policies that groups agree on, and that can totally happen in a bunch of places. And that's a very acute example. It happens in a lot smaller cases. Lots of countries are starting to deploy social credit systems where they track what you do and what you say and so on. And if you say the wrong thing about the government, if you disagree too loudly, then your access to services starts getting cut off. Suddenly you can wonder why people don't say bad things about the government when if you do that, you can't use the train, you can't travel, you can't see your friends and see your family, or potentially you're cut off from the social networks entirely, right? That's the level of power that some governments are now getting through the computing infrastructure.
00:27:13.090 - 00:28:07.158, Speaker B: And so it's really critical that we change how the Internet works here, that we bake in strong security and protections for human rights directly in the network layer, right? So one approach is to, you could wait until the UN and a bunch of countries decide to realize that this is important and therefore curtail everyone's powers, which is close to guaranteed. Never going to happen. Never say never, but very unlikely. Or you can just build safer, stronger systems and deploy them. The way that the future is defined is by the builders creating the technologies and deploying them at scale. That often has way more impact than governments deciding to shift it in one direction or another. And so you can, with web3 and with crypto, create a dramatically safer and better infrastructure for the world.
00:28:07.158 - 00:28:55.826, Speaker B: You can create systems that are censorship resistant, you can create systems that are privacy oriented, that protect your ability to interconnect and talk to other people, that protect your ability to reach your loved ones, and eventually that protect your ability of actually connecting. Right? So today with Filecoin, we have a massive scale storage network that is significantly censorship resistant. You can deploy applications through it, and that way you can prevent some shut off, but you're still having to connect to that through your cell network or your home connection and so on. We can build crypto powered ISPs, right? Helium is an example of one of these. Like, you have a crypto powered isp already providing local connectivity. We can build many of these and scale them. You can even build a satellite network.
00:28:55.826 - 00:29:26.242, Speaker B: Right? So Starlink is pretty cool. We have a satellite constellation providing Internet access, which is an amazing achievement. Like, that's super, super awesome, but it's controlled by one company and one country. So if your community is not in their priority list, you could find yourself cut off from that connectivity. So we should have a decentralized, humanity first oriented satellite network. And you can build that with a crypto. We could start shipping satellites and power.
00:29:26.242 - 00:29:56.940, Speaker B: That ISB with crypto. That's a level of power here. Once you build something like that, you can bring connectivity to the whole world without having to ask for permission or allowing attackers to infringe on people's rights globally. So from my perspective, you can build a human rights preserving Internet infrastructure by building the infrastructure with verifiability and with decentralization in the bottom.
00:29:57.710 - 00:30:07.998, Speaker A: I think that is like, it sounds crazy, but that is actually the case. People are like, well, are you telling me that I can go launch a satellite on my own and try to give Internet to people? Yes, you can.
00:30:08.084 - 00:30:11.658, Speaker B: Yeah, you can. We've done it. Cryptosat is a startup.
00:30:11.754 - 00:30:16.960, Speaker A: Yes. And they also run Dogecoin, unless I'm mistaken, there's a dogecoin server in space.
00:30:17.890 - 00:30:36.038, Speaker B: Yeah. So in fact, some of the hacks that we've done through Ethglobal, included Dran, which has no's in that satellite. So, yeah, you can go ship a satellite into space. A, it's not that expensive. B, you can raise some money for it. C, you can build human rights preserving infrastructure. So go do that.
00:30:36.038 - 00:30:36.518, Speaker B: Yeah.
00:30:36.604 - 00:31:05.214, Speaker A: And you can do that now. In the future, we'll be able to do this. All these tools are actually handy to us. And that to me is the actual incredible part of the power you get from cryptography now being more accessible to people and all these economic incentives that make building the future a lot more exciting. Well, Juan, thank you so much for this amazing conversation. And hopefully you all get to ask him some questions later on outside at the audience after the next talk.
00:31:05.332 - 00:31:09.760, Speaker B: Yeah, I will take no questions while there are talks going on, so don't even try.
00:31:10.210 - 00:31:12.554, Speaker A: All right, please give Juan a big round of applause.
00:31:12.682 - 00:31:13.100, Speaker B: Thank you.
