00:00:01.680 - 00:01:35.794, Speaker A: Okay, well, um, has everyone seen a copy of the, um, of what I'm calling the course introduction, which, um, sort of outlines the, um. Yeah, yes, right, yeah, which, um, outlines the, um, proposed conduct of a course and also mentions prerequisites. Well, I'm saying I assume that people know the spectral theorem. Well, maybe at least the spectral theorem in finite dimensions for DoPA joint, for hermitian matrices, complex, real and complex entries. But surely at some point we'll review the spectral theorem in infinite dimensions. Well, maybe another qualification, another prerequisite if you like, would be some familiarity with linear algebra, because this, this course is really quite closely related to linear algebra. The idea k theory is.
00:01:35.794 - 00:03:11.040, Speaker A: Well, well, the basic fact about linear algebra is really just, really just a statement about k theory, okay? A very simple statement in the setting of k theory. So k theory is a function to everybody. Every ring with unit gives you a group. This was also the group k one, for instance. Okay, so for every ring with unit, you get a group, a billion group. Okay, well what's the, maybe the simplest group? Anyone want to suggest what might be the simplest non zero group? Yes. Well, yes.
00:03:11.040 - 00:03:50.444, Speaker A: Okay, in multiplicative notation then it's just called the neutral element for multiplication or the identity of the group. If it's an abelian group, then often you use additive notation. So it's, so you talk about the zero element and the zero element. Well, every abelian group has to have zero and the zero. It's an exercise. Zero is unique. But let's try for the next one that's a group.
00:03:50.444 - 00:04:35.554, Speaker A: Okay, maybe the simplest group of all, single group with one element. Now the group with two elements is also unique. There's a unique group with two elements, but that's, I wouldn't call that the simplest possible group because it has their relations. What's the simplest group, which has, for any number of generators, you have a group called the free group with those generators and no relations. But if you just have a single generator, then what's the group? Yes. Yeah, it's a group of integers. That's a group, right? With addition and.
00:04:35.554 - 00:06:04.840, Speaker A: Okay, so in fact, the basic fact of linear algebra. Now by linear algebra, I'm not going to include the spectral theorem for finite dimensional inner product spaces over the real and complex numbers. By linear algebra, I just mean over an arbitrary field. Well, okay, the, so you look at vector spaces over the field, and normally in linear algebra, in this course, we'll be looking at infinite dimensional vector spaces. But in Hilbert spaces, infinite dimensional Hilbert spaces. But in linear algebra, it's usually just finite finite dimensional vector spaces. Okay? And in order not to compromise the basic facts about linear algebra, I don't want to talk about the dimension because it's already a fairly big theorem.
00:06:04.840 - 00:07:03.794, Speaker A: So it's one of the main facts about linear algebra. Then it makes sense to talk about the dimension of a vector space. Okay? So I'll just say we'll talk about the linear algebra talks about finitely generated vector spaces. Vector spaces that are generated have a finite subset which is not contained in any proper, proper linear subspace of the whole space. Okay, so what's the basic fact? Well, before I go into what the definition of k zero is, I'm just going to say what one is the one of the basic. Well, there's something, I have something. I'm proposing that there's something called the, a fundamental theorem of linear algebra, okay? The fundamental theorem of algebra.
00:07:03.794 - 00:07:25.834, Speaker A: This is not that the fundamental theorem of linear algebra, that's not really a first order theorem at all. It's not about vector spaces. It's about theorem. So you have a whole lot of main theorems, like the dimension exists. Every vector space has a dimension which has good properties. The dimension of the direct sum is the sum of the dimensions. So.
00:07:25.834 - 00:09:06.614, Speaker A: Well, and so the fundamental theorem of linear algebra is that all these facts, for instance, null rank nullity or injective for a linear map, implies surjective, always in the context of finitely generated vector spaces, all these basic theorems which are non trivial, any one of them is non trivial to prove. Okay? But they're trivially equivalent. Okay? So the fundamental theorem of linear algebra is that all non trivial theorems, first order theorem, are equivalent. Trivially equivalent. What's an example? What's the way? Why do I say, I have to say non trivial theorem, non trivial first order theorem? Because if you just say there exists the basis, I think that's too easy. That's not one of the non trivial theorems, especially in the finitely generated case. Okay? So the basic fact, one of, one of the, one of the basic facts, which is equivalent, trivially equivalent to all the other ones, and it's a non trivial term, is that k zero of a field.
00:09:06.614 - 00:10:19.014, Speaker A: So what's a field? A field is a ring, a commutative ring. Multiplication is commutative, and every element is invertible. Every non zero element is invertible. That's what a field is. So for any field, the k zero group is what Rishi suggested was the simplest, simplest billion group with non zero variant group, namely the integer okay, so that's pretty. If you happen to know the definition of k zero, or even just the k zero is this, you just say that k zero revealed as the integer, then that's a fairly simple statement. And, okay, well, I think this is a good way to start the course to maybe just work out what the definition of k zero is in the case of a field.
00:10:19.014 - 00:13:15.480, Speaker A: What's the definition of k zero in the case of a field? And then maybe even realistic to think of it as an exercise to show that if the, if the. So, as I outlined in the course introduction, what this course revolves around in terms of formal activities is homework and participation. So I hope that every week someone will do a small number of exercises, maybe modest, including certainly modest ones, and just choosing the exercises from what it's suggested in class, and the TA teaching assistant, Joshua Lau, sitting in the front right now, he's offering to supply some exercises, possible exercises also, that you can choose to do. Okay, so the first exercise, if you like, is to, well, maybe to check. The first exercise maybe, is check the fundamental theorem of linear algebra, what I'm calling fundamental theorem of mineral. Okay, so in other words, so what's a good possibility? Check. You want, if you want to prove that something involving a whole lot of things is a whole lot of individual statements is true, then you just pick some random things to prove.
00:13:15.480 - 00:14:14.510, Speaker A: You pick some random examples of statements to prove. So for instance, one pair of statements to prove equivalent. So the statement is that certain basic facts are equivalent, right? Any, to any two basic statements of fact. Non trivial statements of fact are equivalent. Would someone like to suggest a sample non trivial statement, not the one about dimension, which I already did? So I mentioned that every, say, finitely generated vector space has a dimension which is a natural number starting with zero, could be zero, positive integer starting with zero. And they take the direct sum of two finitely generated vector spaces. The dimension of the sum is the sum of the dimensions.
00:14:14.510 - 00:14:55.878, Speaker A: Okay, so that's one statement. That's one statement we want to prove. It's equivalent to something else. So I guess what I have in mind is eventually to prove, after we've introduced the definition of k zero, prove that that statement, that dimension exists, is equivalent to saying that k zero is the integers and the. Okay, but, okay, so I already know some people's names. Let me put some people, let me put someone on the spot. Chican.
00:14:55.878 - 00:16:44.340, Speaker A: What's an example of a, what's an example of a non basic, non trivial fact about linear algebra? Right? Oh, the rank nullity theorem okay, I was hoping you wouldn't mention that, because that's. Because it's slightly complicated. The statement is slightly complicated, and the reason is that it involves the notion of dimension, okay? And that somehow you're not allowed to the ideas you want to prove. If dimension exists, then the Rank noli theorem holds where the numbers are dimensions. Now, if you prove that implication that the dimension exists implies that rank nullity, then you're allowed to assume that the numbers in the statement of the rank nullity theorem are actual dimensions, okay? Because you're assuming dimension exists that you're doing that implication. But if you want to talk about the converse implication that if you just assume the rank nullity theorem, then dimension exists and makes sense, well, somehow you're pulling the rug out from underneath it, because if you assume that the numbers in the rank new theorem statement assume that those numbers are dimensions that you're taking for granted that there is a dimension. So.
00:16:44.340 - 00:17:47.194, Speaker A: But I have a way of. Since Chicam has suggested this particular statement, non trivial basic fact, then I have a way. A way. I have a sort of a more harmless way of stating it, which doesn't involve an ocean of actual dimension. So you have to explain what the numbers are, right? So in the linear operator in a finitely generated vector space, which, because of the existence of bases, it says that it is when you know what dimension it is, when you know what dimension is, it is finite, dimensional, has a finite basis. So. Well, so what I want to explain what the given explanation for the two numbers that appear in the.
00:17:47.194 - 00:18:07.534, Speaker A: How many numbers appear in the rank newly theorem. I guess it's. It's several numbers, right? Okay, but they're all. They all are dimensions. Okay, but we don't know what dimension is because we're trying to prove dimension exists. So how do we stay? Well, okay, I had. I got an idea.
00:18:07.534 - 00:18:45.270, Speaker A: Even if I say so myself, I think it was a brilliant idea. Namely, instead of talking about the dimension of a. Of a vector space, you can talk about the fake dimension, okay? And that's the existence of the fake dimension is trivial. Okay. You don't have to. And so what do you suppose the fake dimension is? Well, of course, if it's a zero vector space, then the fake dimension will be zero. If it's a one dimensional.
00:18:45.270 - 00:19:37.204, Speaker A: If it's a one dimensional vector space, the fake dimension will be one. But I shouldn't say one dimensional. I should say singly generated non zero and singly generated. Okay, if it's a singly generated non zero vector space, then why is the fake dimension one? That's because it has a set of generators with one element. It has a singly generated, so it has a, a set of generators containing a single element, and that's the smallest number of elements in a generating set. So fake dimension for rank nullity. I'm not going to go through this in gory detail.
00:19:37.204 - 00:21:16.244, Speaker A: I'm just going to, but in case someone wants to do it between now and Monday, prove that. If you assume the rank nullity theorem, then this implies that, well, what it implies is that fake dimension, fake dimension on finitely generated vector spaces is additive, okay? And of course the other, you want to prove the other way around too. But that's the question at the moment is just stating the conclusion and also stating the hypothesis without mentioning the actual dimension. So what's the fake dimension? Fake dimension, you can define it for any vector space. It doesn't have to be finitely generated, okay? Because any vector space has a set of generators. That's obvious, right? Why is it obvious? I mean, if you just want some set of generators, you can just take all vectors, okay? You don't need to take, there's no point in taking the zero vector because a vector space automatically has a zero element, okay? That's required. Same as for, it's the fake dimension.
00:21:16.244 - 00:23:16.614, Speaker A: You look at the generator, you look at the generating subsets, look at the smallest number of elements, smallest number of elements in a generating subset. And there are two definitions of a generating subset. One is, there's no, as I said, no proper subspace containing it, no proper linear subspace containing it. But another way of saying it, which you sort of a general dual formulation for the notion of generating, generating subset of a group generating subset of an algebra and a ring. So what you can say is it's a subset of generating if whenever you look at all the finite linear combinations, that that gives you everything, okay? Because, and the reason that's equivalent is that the set of all finite linear combinations is a vector space and it contains this and it's obviously the smallest one. So the, that's what I've generated subset. And why does so, in general, if you look at all generating subsets, you get a whole lot of different cardinal numbers, right? Like if you threw in all vectors, then that would be quite a large garden.
00:23:16.614 - 00:24:24.256, Speaker A: It would be silly to ever look at a larger set, a larger generating set, but there's no such thing as a larger generating set, right? But unless you threw, unless you threw in the zero, unless you threw in the zero, where a finite. The whole vector space were finite. Then if you threw in the zero, you'd get one more, the generating cell. Okay? But the point is, if you have any collection of cardinal numbers, in particular natural numbers, any set, any set of natural numbers, finite or infinite, there's always the smallest element. Okay, and is everyone aware of that? Okay, well, that's quite, that's a somewhat arcane statement for arbitrary sets of cardinal number. But if you want to talk about sets of sets of natural numbers, then it's a little more elementary. Okay? The smallest number of elements in generating something, that's a big dimension.
00:24:24.256 - 00:26:03.520, Speaker A: So rank nullity expressed in terms stated in terms of fake dimension. Okay, I think that's a good exercise to, I'm saying that all these basic facts are trivially equivalent. Well, maybe I'm exaggerating a bit, but none of these equivalents between basic facts, non trivial basic facts, none of these equivalent remotely compares in depth and interest with how you improve any one of the non trivial basic facts. So what's another basic fact? Someone want to suggest another one? What about bases? What can you say about a basis for a vector space? Suppose you have two bases for a vector space. Is that your hand up? What do you know about the two bases? Single basis? We know. All you can say is what it is or maybe how many elements are in it. And if you are in the business of defining dimension, you are constructing a number, which you're going to call the dimension.
00:26:03.520 - 00:27:40.074, Speaker A: Then the number of elements and the basis could be called the dimension. That's one way of defining it, right? But suppose you have two bases, then what's interesting to say, to compare them, they may not have any common vectors, right? There are two basic aspirations. Okay, how does that sound? Everyone? I guess once it's on the table, then everyone recognizes it, right? Okay. Because after all, I'm assuming that everyone has studied linear algebra, this may be one of the most familiar basic facts, one of the most trivial, one of the most basic, non trivial, one of the most familiar basic non trivial facts about finitely generated vector spaces over a field. Okay? The answer is, I hope I can get it out of the envelope. Okay, what was the question? The question is, what can you say if you have two different bases for the same vector space? All right, well, the important fact is that almost the only thing you can say about the two of them is that the number of elements in them is the same whether it's finite or infinite. Okay? All right.
00:27:40.074 - 00:29:04.340, Speaker A: And so that is one way of. So you could, that could be used to prove a fake dimension of that. By the way, let me give an example. Let me just show how fake dimension is not obviously additive. Suppose you take the direct sum, take the direct sum of two vector spaces and you look at a set of generators for the first one, and you look at a set of generators for the second one. Then obviously the union of those two sets considered in the direct sum, in a natural way, union of those two sets of vectors is going to generate the direct sum, okay? And it's, and the number of elements in it is the sum of the number of elements. Okay, so, but how do you prove that this set of generators is the, is the smallest, has the smallest number of elements in it for a set of denominator? That's, that's, you know, these, these theorems about vector spaces, non trivial theorems, they're even sometimes slightly non trivial, just to state, just to get straight.
00:29:04.340 - 00:29:57.612, Speaker A: Okay? And, um. All right, so, um, that's, um, um, maybe the most familiar statement about vector spaces, say finitely generated vector spaces, that the number of elements in a basis is unique. And then once you know that, you can call that number of elements the dimension, because it's, it's elementary. It's not, it's not. It's a trivial statement that every finitely generated vector space has a, as a basis. And so why, how do you get a basis? We have a set of generators. One finite set of generators, say vector one, vector two, up to vector ten.
00:29:57.612 - 00:30:37.220, Speaker A: How do you get a basis from that with the most ten elements? Everyone know how to do that. You just choose one of the vectors at random. And if it's, if it forms an independent set, you keep it. That means if it's non zero, if it's, if it's a dependent set, in other words, for a single vector, if it's zero, then you throw it away. Okay, so then you have that. Now you have a certain set of keepers, okay? Either it has a single vector in it or it's still empty. And you look at vector number two and you do a similar thing.
00:30:37.220 - 00:31:40.504, Speaker A: You look at vector number two, you look at it, you put it beside the set of keepers and you say, is this still an independent set? If it is, then you keep, then you join the second vector number two to the keepers. You keep vector number two. If it's not, if this set suddenly becomes a dependent set, then you throw away vector number two and they go to vector number three and you just keep on going. And it's elementary bookkeeping exercise that this you always have a set of generators, okay? The keepers always form the keepers together with the vectors. Well, the way, well, the keepers together with the vectors, you, you haven't, you haven't looked at yet. The keepers together with the vectors you haven't looked at yet form a set of generators. In other words, if you throw away the vector, the vectors you throw, the vectors you throw away are really unimportant.
00:31:40.504 - 00:32:07.992, Speaker A: They don't, they're not needed to have a set. What's left to be a set of generators. All right? But once you're finished your set of keepers, you don't have anything left. So you look at your set of keepers, well, it's still, it's a set of generators. It's a generating set, because there's nothing left over the generating set. And it's, by definition, by construction, it's a set. It's an independent set.
00:32:07.992 - 00:33:30.894, Speaker A: Well, generating independent set, that's a basis. That's one definition for a basis. Of course, there's another exercise for vector spaces that there's more than one definition for a basis. But let's not worry about that moment. A good definition for a basis is that it's a linearly independent set of generators, okay? And that easily implies that every vector is uniquely a linear combination of vectors in the set. Okay? So let me start to say something about what, what the k zero group is, say, just in the setting of a field. Okay, now I'm going to depart a bit from the textbook because it's, um, the definition that's usually taken is in some ways simpler than the definition that's used in the book by Professor Rordel Copenhagen.
00:33:30.894 - 00:34:50.030, Speaker A: So does everyone know where the module is over a ring? Okay. To have a unit of rings, and that's what we have. We have unit, no, where does the unit of ring go here? If unit will ring, then you can talk about modules over the ring. And in particular, if the ring is a field, we've agreed, I think, that a field is a special case of a ring with unit. Then if you look at the field, then that's a special case as far as modules are concerned, because at this stage, we don't need to know what a module is. I can just say something I know, namely, a module is exactly the same as a vector space, okay? A module over the ring, when the ring is a field, is exactly the same as a vector space over the field. And that means you have the abelian group of vectors, and then you can modify by elements of the ring.
00:34:50.030 - 00:36:57.624, Speaker A: Well, I've just done it, for an arbitrary ring, you put the ring element beside the vector and you call that modification scalar modification, maybe if you don't mind calling the elements of the ring scalar, but in the field case, everyone is familiar with the axioms and that this multiplication satisfies. Okay? So the reason I'm talking about modules is really the definition I'm thinking of for k zero in general, talks about module, which are generalized vector spaces, if you like. But in the case of a field, let's just talk about vector space. And if we're talking about linear algebra, that means we're talking about finitely generated vector space, okay? And we know that those, if we, once we straightened out the fundamental theorem of linear algebra, we know that that's the same as saying finite dimensional vector space. Okay, so how do, how do I get a group? How do I get in a boolean group? By looking at finitely generated vector spaces. Okay, so I'm going to define an abelian group, and then the definition extends to an arbitrary unit or ring, and then it's going to be the same as the definition in the book. There's another exercise, I mean, with these exercises, I'll be saying more about them and even attempting to do them, even doing, even giving lots of hints, or even trying to do some of them without doing the whole thing, giving away the, giving away the game, losing the fun.
00:36:57.624 - 00:39:18.054, Speaker A: Okay, so what, what do we do for an arbitrary field? Let's say f is the field and we look at finitely generated vector spaces, okay, by the way, to define a group, the first thing we have to do is get a set, right? Because what's a group? A group is a set with an operation. So if you just look at all finitely generated vector spaces, that's not even a set. Okay? But if we look at isomorphism classes of finitely generated vector spaces, we know what it means for two vector spaces to be isomorphic, right? And so you can group vector spaces together into isomorphism classes, and these will not be sets, but you can look at them as objects. You can look at them as objects and they will. Well, the question now is, if you look at the isomorphism classes, if you look at the, all the isomorphism classes of finitely generated vector spaces, is that a set? And by the way, if it didn't say finitely generated, if you look at arbitrary vector spaces, then the set of, not only is the set of vector spaces not a set, but the set of isomorphism classes won't be a set either, because after all, the isomorphism class of a vector space is parameterized by its dimension. There's a cardinal number, right? If you take all cardinal numbers, which are every, any cardinal number is the dimension of a vector space. And if you look at all cardinal numbers, how many people are familiar with the fact that that is not a set? Not a set.
00:39:18.054 - 00:40:22.214, Speaker A: Okay, so, but if I say finitely generated, that means in particular the dimension is less than or equal to n or some n equals. Then if we know the set of singly generated vector spaces, the isomorphism classes form a set and also two generators, they form, the isomorphism classes form a set and so on. Then the union of all those sets will be set by isomorphism classes of finitely generated vector spaces, and it'll be a set. So it's fair game to try and turn it into a group. Okay, so that's what I'm going to try and do. Look at the, look at the set of isomorphism process. So it's an exercise that, this is a set, I'm sorry.
00:40:22.214 - 00:42:15.562, Speaker A: Be a little careful. I'll keep quiet when I move with her. Okay, well, the set of isomorphism classes of finitely generated vector spaces, that's worse. Even there should be some way of avoiding, okay, well, I want to turn it into a group. Well, and for instance, the zero, the zero vector space will be the zero element and the, but it's, but it's not. And the way you add, if you want to know how you add to two isomorphism classes, we just take the direct sum of the, of the, take the direct, okay, that's enough for today, I guess. Let's not go over, but this, I'm going to turn this into a group, not initially, just a semigroup, because you can define addition but not subtraction.
00:42:15.562 - 00:43:01.006, Speaker A: But once you have a semi group, there's always a group. And universal developing group it was, some people say it was invented by Grotendijk, but it was invented earlier by Russians, and in fact it was invented by everyone in grade two or grade one. Okay, when you go from the natural numbers to the, whatever grade it is, okay, so please, please pick out some nice simple exercises from what we've been talking about and from what Mr. Law sends you. What I send.
