00:00:00.250 - 00:01:07.406, Speaker A: Vitalik Buterin. He's been a friend of the East Denver effort for some time and obviously is very interested in lots of different developments that might be happening. So when we originally invited Vitalik to come and read the be is for Buffacorn book with the governor at East Denver 2021, of the things that we were talking about, sort of the curiosity around, wow, this know an actual state government interested in doing something innovative. Yeah. So as we've sort of talked about it over the time, even since Denver, there's some intrigue here, and there's a lot of really great partnership opportunity vectors. And we're so grateful to have Vitalik come and spend a little time with us and give us his insights on why this is such an interesting and important formation of opportunity for just the future of all of these efforts technologically that we've got going on. So with that, I'd like to introduce Vitalik Buterin, the founder of the Ethereum and the inventor of the Ethereum protocol.
00:01:07.406 - 00:01:10.098, Speaker A: Vitalik, go ahead and take it away, man.
00:01:10.264 - 00:02:15.266, Speaker B: Thank you. And it's good to be here. Good to see you again, John. We're good to likewise, good to see Colorado friends again, virtually. So I think kind of what brings us together here is a couple of things, right? So I think the blockchain community and which the Ethereum community is obviously part of, and many people in the state of Colorado are basically both trying to see if we can come up with ways to kind of upgrade our community infrastructure to satisfy the needs of the Internet age, right? And the Internet has obviously brought a lot of changes to society, a lot of changes to the world. A lot of new things become possible with the Internet, and there's a lot of new challenges. I know that the state of Colorado, for example, has been very interested in looking at kind of more radical new approaches at things like governance and at things like community organization.
00:02:15.266 - 00:04:15.390, Speaker B: So, for example, I know that the Democratic Party has used quadratic voting as a mechanism for decision making. We have a local community that's been trying to do quadratic funding for some businesses in downtown, in Boulder. And so there's a lot of these interesting experiments, right? And ultimately, these kinds of experiments are in many ways what the Ethereum community is all about, right? The Ethereum community is all about trying to see can we use blockchains plus other things and whatever makes sense in each use case to try to see if we can come up with better ways to basically help groups of people cooperate. And that's something that people have done kind of through the blockchain itself through smart contracts, through daos, in some cases, even through things like some of these technologies to allow for more kind of trust minimized interaction. So even just secure randomness is one really good example of this in one very particular field. And these are things that are very important, right? And I think people are realizing that the way that our economy works right now is ultimately, as kind of the usual quote goes, kind of paleolithic humans with medieval institutions, with modern super technology, right? And so if we can see if we can take some of their new super technology we've invented in the last couple of decades and actually help people work together in deeper ways at scale, then that's the sort of thing that's completely in the Ethereum community's vision. And things like supporting public goods development is something that's very close to the Ethereum community's heart.
00:04:15.390 - 00:04:56.602, Speaker B: Just because in the Ethereum community, as in many other, in all free software communities, just about everything is a public good. No, you write a piece of code and you publish it. It's not really owned by anyone. That's just something that you've kind of released and put out there, and anyone can go and download it. If I write a blog post, everyone in the world can go read it. And so we are kind of interacting with each other and cooperating and benefiting each other at these kind of very large and unprecedented scales. And we just need to have better infrastructure to organize and encourage those kinds of things.
00:04:56.602 - 00:05:13.520, Speaker B: So very happy to see, or excited to see what kinds of things that people come up within this hackathon and hope that these are things that people will not stop here and just continue working on for a long time.
00:05:14.130 - 00:05:26.966, Speaker A: Thank you, Vitalik, for taking the time. We look forward to getting you back out here to Colorado and unpacking even more opportunities as they come up. So we appreciate your support and we look forward to seeing how these things go.
00:05:27.148 - 00:05:30.340, Speaker B: Yeah, I'm looking forward to visiting Colorado, too.
