00:00:00.320 - 00:00:30.030, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Wave refuel, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today's the 25 January 2022. Alright, everyone, let's get into it. So a great tweet from swagtimus here today where he basically tweeted out, I'm definitely not the only one who thinks two k ETH is cheap. Six months from now, ETH goes deflationary while virtually all adoption metrics go up. Only mainnet l two s defi Tvl NFT volumes are up and to the right. This isn't 2017, when we were unsure about this whole crypto experiment.
00:00:30.030 - 00:00:37.910, Speaker A: This is Sparta. And then he continues. JK, this is a different time. Just take a look around and you'll see everybody building. Cool shit. We'll be fine. We are going to make it now.
00:00:37.910 - 00:01:21.584, Speaker A: You know, you guys know, I basically preach this to you guys all the time, that really how different this, this time around is to back, you know, 2017, 2018 and even 2019 to an extent. Um, you know, I'm sure you've heard all the stories from a lot of the OG. So basically say that this time around, there's just like a night and day difference. We have all these applications happening, we have all these people building on it. We have all this money investing. It's not kind of like a question of will crypto succeed? Or if it will succeed. It's kind of like, when is it going to succeed? And everyone's kind of like convinced that crypto is the future and that ethereum is the future, and that we're all going to basically be essentially kind of using this in our everyday lives going forward, especially over the next kind of like decade as this adoption cycle continues.
00:01:21.584 - 00:01:56.076, Speaker A: So from that point of view, I mean, looking at the price of ETH is irrelevant in the short to medium term. Long term, the price of ETH should reflect the value of the ethereum network, should reflect the utility of the ethereum network, and should reflect the amount of people adopting it over time. That's, that's actually held true since Ethereum's kind of genesis event. The more people using it, the more people getting value out of the network, the higher the price of ETH goes. Like over the longer term, of course, now short to medium term, it's anyone's guess what happens. You know, I know we had like a little bit of a bounce over the last 24 hours, but I'm not writing home about anything until we kind of like, get back into a more bullish momentum. But at the same time, I'm not really in a rush to get back there, to be honest.
00:01:56.076 - 00:02:26.774, Speaker A: Like, I don't think it should be rushed because every time we rush to get back, it would just kind of like, come back down. I mean, I think what ended up happening after the May crash is that we rushed to get back to all time high. We went to a new all time high of 4900, and then we never really came down because it was just too quick. I don't think we were able to build a base long enough. I think it takes longer than what we kind of did. Even though I remain incredibly bullish after the May dump still, and I'm still obviously bullish now, but I was more short term bullish then for whatever reason. But now I'm not as short to medium term bullish.
00:02:26.774 - 00:03:12.742, Speaker A: I think that the markets need to kind of cool down a bit, especially outside of the Ethereum ecosystem. So many scams, so much kind of like crap pumping, so many things becoming like stupidly overvalued for where they are and kind of like their adoption cycle that we needed this. But as swagnamus points out here, it doesn't matter what the ETH price is doing in the short to medium term. The Ethereum network is still growing in six months. We're going deflationary. I mean, we've been deflationary a lot recently, and we've even had deflationary weeks, which is crazy, right? Like, I don't think anyone expected us to have deflationary weeks before we went to proof of stake, but it's pretty crazy. And we're also, I think, at all times, or at least most of the time, we have less issuance than bitcoin now because of the fact that effectively AIP 1559 was more than a halvening.
00:03:12.742 - 00:03:50.118, Speaker A: It was like a 70% net reduction. So basically, since 1559 went live, the Ethereum network has had less issuance than bitcoin, which is a pretty, pretty funny thing to think about. And then you have everything else, right, the alt two adoption happening, that there's a lot of l two news today, actually, that I'm going to talk about. You defy TVL keeps going up. You know, TVL is going to go up and down based on the price as well. But if you kind of like, look at ETH denominated TVL, I think that's going up across layer one and L2. NFT stuff, I mean, the NFT stuff seems to kind of like be detached from the broader market because of the fact that there's just kind of, like, so many different kinds of people in there, and there's a lot of people who do NfT stuff that will never touch defi.
00:03:50.118 - 00:04:14.736, Speaker A: They might not even be buying ETH to speculate on it. They're probably just buying it to play around with nfts and things like that, and for gas fees as well, of course. Um, so there's that happening, and then, yeah, back to. To sphagnumus's point about how this is in 2017. You know, the biggest thing in 2017, unironically was cryptokitties towards the end of 2017. That was the biggest thing happening on the ethereum network back then, besides the ETH price going up. Um, but in terms of, like, actual, like, applications, that was it.
00:04:14.736 - 00:04:35.084, Speaker A: And that clogged the network. And compared to today's NFT environment, cryptokitties was like a blip. It didn't even. It doesn't even matter now. Like, I mean, no one even talks about cryptokitties now, but, yeah, it's like a blip. And the high fees back then are literally kind of like very low fees compared to what we see today. But obviously, the NFT ecosystem is much bigger than it was then.
00:04:35.084 - 00:05:08.448, Speaker A: DeFi, I'm pretty sure, make it down. They went to Mainnet in December 2017, which is obviously one of the first DeFi products. Uniswap didn't hit Mainnet until 2018, I believe, or even 2019, I can't remember exactly, but definitely not 2017. There are some icos in 2017 that led on to be DeFi projects, like Zero X, for example, that has the zero X ecosystem and matcha. But really, I mean, Defi was like a niche within a niche. Like, no one was talking about Defi back then. I mean, the Defi term didn't actually come to come to be until, I think, August 2018, I believe it was.
00:05:08.448 - 00:05:46.828, Speaker A: Before then, it was just kind of like talking about financial products on Ethereum. And it wasn't just, you know, it wasn't described as decentralized finance with Defi or anything like that. But, but, yeah, we've come very far. We still got very far to go, but always great to kind of, like, reflect, take stock of what's been happening, uh, you know, over the kind of like, last few years, what's happening now and what's going to happen into the future. So I think, uh, as Swaglima says, yeah, we're going to make it. Nothing fundamentally changed for Ethereum over the last, over the last kind of like few months as the price has trended down. Um, and I, you know, obviously over the long term, I expect the ETH price to, to continue to trend up as the Ethereum network continues to get adopted, as we get rollouts of things like l two s and things like that.
00:05:46.828 - 00:06:09.736, Speaker A: Uh, but yeah, very exciting times. Uh, I'm going to leave it at that. Onto the next update. So the ethereum.org Twitter account shared a pretty, I guess, like important post today called the great renaming. What happened to ETH two? Where they basically go through their rationale for removing all references to the ETH two terminology on ethereum.org dot now regular daily Gwei refuel watchers.
00:06:09.736 - 00:07:03.862, Speaker A: And listeners will know that I've been talking about this for a while and how the ETH one and ETH two terminology. I've been using it, but it's not the right terminology anymore because we've, we've kind of like branched off into these terminology of execution layer and consensus layer. And I've described before how execution layer basically refers to what we have today with ETH one, essentially like what we all use today, right, where we have like the EVM that we all kind of like interact with, that executes our transactions. And then ETH two is, has become the, what's called the consensus layer, which is basically the beacon chain, right, the proof of stake beacon chain. Now, this becomes a lot more clearer and a lot easier to explain when, you know, post merge, because then it just becomes the execution layer and the consensus layer, which equals just one ethereum. So you have the EVM that we all know and love today that we play around with on what we refer to as layer one, as the execution layer. And then the consensus layer is proof of stake, the beacon chain.
00:07:03.862 - 00:07:37.098, Speaker A: All well and good there. So, but this post basically goes through, you know, where did the Ethereum 2.0 ETH two terminology come from? It's been part of the kind of like roadmap terminology for quite a while now. I mean, Vitalik's been talking about it for ages as well, and they kind of like go around like, why, you know, why can't we use ETH two? There's a few different reasons. It doesn't really make sense to use the terminology of ETH two. And how does this up? How does this update change the roadmap? Well, it doesn't. I mean, the roadmap that you guys have seen a lot of times, you know, this graph here from Trent van Epps and the roadmap that Vitalik's put out recently that remains the same.
00:07:37.098 - 00:08:11.144, Speaker A: Like just because the terminology changes doesn't mean the roadmap does. And obviously we have the merge coming up and then after that we're looking forward to sharding vocal tries. A bunch of other stuff happening on the Ethereum, I guess, like it's called the execution layer side of things, but also on the consensus layer side, which I'm going to talk about in a bit as well, which I put out an interesting post today on that. So, I mean, I highly recommend giving this blog post a read. It's, it's, it's a great little breakdown of kind of like why we're moving away from the ETH two terminology. I know that there's going to be, you know, these big youtubers that keep using it. They're also going to keep saying things like ETH two is going to fix gigabytes, gas fees or solve gas fees.
00:08:11.144 - 00:08:48.077, Speaker A: I really hate that there are big youtubers who should be more informed spreading this narrative. And you guys know, this is like the number one narrative that I hate the fact that people are saying ETH two or the merge are going to reduce gas fees when the topic is a lot more nuanced than that. And the merge isn't going to really do anything for gas fees. It's going to give us a slight bump in capacity because of the faster block times. But I don't expect that to actually be materially felt by anyone. I mean, the only time that you materially feel gas fees going down is when network demand kind of like tapers off due to maybe kind of like bearish price action or NFT mania dying down. But generally you're not going to feel it due to some slight capacity increase.
00:08:48.077 - 00:09:16.694, Speaker A: I believe it's like an 8% capacity increase. That's nothing, guys, like. I mean, it really is. We had like a 25% one or increase with the gas limit, I guess like a few months ago that got eaten up within weeks, within like a week or two. And we did feel that for a little bit, but at the same time, it coincided with the market kind of cooling off and the NFT stuff cooling off as well. So it's kind of hard to pinpoint where, where that was coming from. But the funny thing is, is that gas actually went into the single digits right as early as I think, like six or seven months ago.
00:09:16.694 - 00:09:35.746, Speaker A: So when you kind of like, think about that, it's kind of crazy. But, but yeah. Anyway, give this blog post a read. I'll link it in the YouTube description for all of you. All right, back to the L2 chat. So Emilio from Abe put out a great tweet thread today. Starting the thread off with we can already do a lot to improve transaction cost on optimistic roll ups without relying on EIP 4488.
00:09:35.746 - 00:10:19.314, Speaker A: Now, you recall, recall, EIP 4448 was the EIP put forward by Vitalik and a bunch of others about kind of like reducing the gas costs of the core data that rollups use by about five x to give them five x more scalability. But this isn't going to be coming till after the merge. So what else can teams do to optimize their code for optimistic rollouts? Well, with Ava V three roll up specific APIs, they're going to be dropping the transaction costs from one way to way estimated. That's a crazy efficiency jump. And this is not going from layer one to L2, by the way. This is the efficiency of optimistic roll ups alone. And this is at 250 GUI, which isn't the normal guy price.
00:10:19.314 - 00:11:10.322, Speaker A: The normal GUI price most of the time is what, 80 to 120 I think is the range most of the time. So, you know, less than half this, this here. So you're going to have like sub ten cent. Are there kind of interactions here for certain transactions? And then Amelia goes on to explain this in his thread here, which I think was really cool. It's a bit technical, but you definitely give it a read if you're, if you're technically minder or a developer and you understand what he's saying, if you understand terms like store and slowed, well, then you'll understand his thread, I believe. But yeah, this is really cool. This goes back to what I was saying a few weeks ago and what I've written about in the newsletter before about how teams can optimize their code for these new environments, even though they're kind of like EVM compatible and EVM equivalent, they're still very different in that there's certain things you can do to reduce your cost because of the way that core data is treated and how that's posted to layer one.
00:11:10.322 - 00:12:15.148, Speaker A: And these improvements and these optimizations are only going to get better over time, just like how there's been optimizations made at layer one for gas costs, so too at L2. And the funny thing is, is that they all compound together as well. Like you can have optimism doing their own, their own optimizations on the core protocol work on the, on the optimism network, which kind of then flows onto all the apps and flows onto all the users and then the apps themselves can optimize as well. So we're going to get these costs down so much. And then when we have ERP 44 88 implemented, when we have data sharding things like that, like even optimistic roll ups, which are the more expensive roll ups, at least right now, are still going to be, you know, sub ten cent transaction fees on complex transactions, which would be pretty crazy. I mean, I've said to you guys before that I believe ten cents to a dollar is a sweet spot for most users in the first world countries, but I think that's getting that much cheaper than that. Obviously, if you want to kind of expand this technology out to third world countries and poorer countries out there, the people who really need it, especially defi, we need to get those costs, but to basically free.
00:12:15.148 - 00:12:53.982, Speaker A: And the thing is, we will, we can have like hybrid constructions of this stuff as well, evolidiums and other kind of constructions where the security may be maybe lower. But the thing is, the transactions are basically free. And we can even have like full blown roll ups with free transactions as long as the activities, the activity is enough to make up for it. And you can like kind of make the transaction fees off the fees that are tied to the actual app, like what Dydx does. So there's lots of different ways we can do this stuff, guys, and it's coming, and it's coming really, really quickly. But I think this is just like super exciting to see that Aave is already making, you know, v three specifically kind of optimizations here. And v three isn't even live on the optimism or arbitrary mainnet yet.
00:12:53.982 - 00:13:19.836, Speaker A: So can't wait to see this go live, I'm pretty sure it's going to go live relatively soon. So in a related, actual actual kind of like topic to what I was just talking about with l two s and kind of optimizing over time. Texture had a great tweet today where he said, my parents used to pay $0.50 an hour for 14.4 kbps Internet. It took minutes to connect and we couldn't use the phone went online, photos took minutes to load. People who don't remember this have basically no context for where we are in crypto.
00:13:19.836 - 00:13:56.216, Speaker A: I've spoken about this so many times on the refuel, about basically how early we are on the technology side, but this perfectly encapsulates it. Imagine if you were using dial up Internet or 56k modem Internet back in the late nineties, early two thousands, and you were thinking to yourself, damn, is this as good as it's going to get like, this stuff is not scalable, like, and kind of like resigning to basically being like, well, you know, this is broken. That's what a lot of people do with Ethereum. They see the high transaction fees today on layer one. They don't know about L2, and they automatically go, Ethereum's broken. Ethereum's unscalable. Nothing's working.
00:13:56.216 - 00:14:39.216, Speaker A: And they don't realize how early we are to this technology because I think in today's world, we've gotten to a point where people don't understand what being early means because I mean, think about all the people who are born, who have been born over the last ten years or so, even, even the last kind of like 20 years, they've only really known a world with the Internet in it. And especially, I mean, as they kind of like got into their teenage years, where they become a lot more active on these things because they use it a lot more. Kind of like in their everyday lives, they've only known good Internet, right? They've only known being able to connect to Wi Fi wherever they've gone. They've only known social media, they've only known things being free to them. They haven't known the pain that some of people like that are my age or older than me would have experienced. Like, I experienced dial up. It sucked.
00:14:39.216 - 00:14:59.720, Speaker A: I had like a 25 gig limit, which was actually a large limit back in the day. And I think this was in 2006 or 2007, and it was, it was really bad. Like, and the thing is, I kept capping that. All I was doing was playing like a bunch of games. I was playing a lot of World of Warcraft. World of Warcraft didn't use much data, but I kept capping that. And your Internet would slow to a crawl when you reached that cap, it was horrible.
00:14:59.720 - 00:15:32.338, Speaker A: Like absolutely horrible. But like, back then, like, yes, people complained about it, they thought it sucked. And I was too young to realize what upgrades becoming, but the upgrades came. Now we have fiber Internet in a lot of places, right, where it's get gigabit per second Internet, but unlimited amounts of data, and it's relatively cheap as well. So technology gets exponentially better over time. And I think more people kind of need to realize this when it comes to blockchains, especially when it comes to ethereum scalability, roadmap. I know I'm preaching to the choir here, but I think this is something that you should use as an example when talking to people about these sorts of things.
00:15:32.338 - 00:16:03.894, Speaker A: Basically say to them, hey, you know, we're really early on the technology side of things. There are other kind of, like, chains that may, quote, quote unquote, be more scalable, but they sacrifice certain properties to achieve that, and it comes back to bite them. I mean, as we've seen over the last few days, it comes back to bite certain networks. So I think from that point of view, it's actually an analogy that a lot of people can kind of resonate with. But I think the younger crowd may not resonate with it because they didn't experience it. There may be something that you can kind of, like, I guess, analyze for them. Maybe something got to do with the video games or something that they're kind of, like, into.
00:16:03.894 - 00:16:19.114, Speaker A: I'm not sure, because I'm funny. Funny thing is, like, I'm not old, right? I'm like, 29, turning 30 this year. But I've got no idea what, like, the teenagers are up to. I don't have. I don't have kids or anything like that. I don't really know any teenagers. I've got no idea what goes on in their life.
00:16:19.114 - 00:16:52.100, Speaker A: But if you do, if you've got, you know, possibly teenage kids, maybe you're, you're, you know, listening to this, you've got teenage kids or no teenagers, you know, try and see what they're into, see what pain points they have in their lives, and then you can kind of, like, use that, I think, as kind of, like, an analogy for them. But, you know, if they're into crypto, a lot of them wouldn't be. But, yeah, just kind of like spitballing there, but, yeah, great tweet from texture here. Kind of we're going through what, I guess, like, how early we are on the tech side of things in crypto. So arare capital has deployed fused to arbitrum. So I think I brought this up the other day. They were teasing this.
00:16:52.100 - 00:17:25.604, Speaker A: So fuse is a permissionless money market. So now you can do permissionless pull creation on Arbitrum. This is one of the major money markets that have gone live on arbitrary, and obviously, Aave isn't live on their, live on there yet. So I think fuse maybe one of the biggest, if not the biggest money markets live there. And there's also a complete redesign of the Rari portal that utilizes asset based discovery and streamlines the user experience. So you can see here, you can go to Rari app, and you can select between the ethereum network and the Arbitrum network, which I find to be really, really cool because I always love seeing that drop down menu there. So this is, this is really awesome.
00:17:25.604 - 00:17:43.634, Speaker A: I mean, Rari app is actually a pretty cool URL as well. Short and sweet. But yeah, if you haven't tried this out yet, definitely recommend doing so. It's just another thing for you guys to do on the arbitrum network. Super exciting. Exciting how fast all of this stuff is coming together. I mean, just a few weeks ago, even a few months ago, there wasn't really much to do.
00:17:43.634 - 00:18:13.670, Speaker A: Now there's plenty to do. I mean, there's new things to do pretty much like every week on the arbitrum network, on the optimism network, on the other kind of like networks as well, like Polygon on stocknets coming, you know, coming along very nicely. I mentioned swag. Swagdomus is Starknet roundup yesterday, which lists a bunch of things. So much happening, guys. Like, I can't keep up with it all these days, actually, you know, I find myself because Twitter is really bad, doesn't show me a lot of things. I think it's because like, I wake up much later than like basically at the end of people's day.
00:18:13.670 - 00:18:34.790, Speaker A: So Twitter basically doesn't adjust to that, doesn't show me a lot of things. So I find myself going on antiprosynthesis, Twitter account a lot because he retweets basically everything. Like, it's absolutely awesome how much he's able to cover. And I use him as kind of like a curation resource as well. So if you're not following him, definitely do so because he's got a lot of great info there. But just scrolling through his feed, it's just crazy how much is happening. And this is just a theory.
00:18:34.790 - 00:19:00.894, Speaker A: I'm right. This isn't just, you know, the other kind of like chains isn't the wider crypto ecosystem. This is literally just ethereum. And the fact that like, I'm, you know, struggling to keep up with it these days is really bullish and goes back to what I was saying at the start of the, of the refuel about how who cares about the price, guys? Like, there's so much happening, so much to pay attention to, so much to learn, so much to research. The price is going to do what it's going to do. But as long as we keep building, as long as we keep adding value to the network, it's just going to be up. Only over time, I believe.
00:19:00.894 - 00:19:34.322, Speaker A: All right, quick little update here from optimism. So as I've mentioned to you guys before, with these roll ups, the more transactions that they process, the cheaper the gas costs get over time because they kind of like amortize over all the transactions. And you can actually see the perfect chart here of transactions divided by day times average time, the average times cheaper per transaction. You can see as more transactions are coming in, the gas savings go up with it. So this is really, really cool to see this in action here. A lot of transactions happening on these, these roll ups lately. I think they're going to keep going up, obviously over time.
00:19:34.322 - 00:20:22.298, Speaker A: They're not even anywhere near their, you know, their full capacity, which is crazy, right? Like I, but I feel like, you know, as I've said before, once they do tokens, once they incentivize usage, we're probably going to see a lot of this, you know, a lot more transactions happening on these networks. And actually funny thing about the tokens, you know, I've been saying for a while that I figured a lot of these networks would do, would do tokens in the first half of this year. You know, I still think some of them will. But it's funny because teams don't want to launch tokens into bear markets, I don't think. I think a lot of teams want to launch tokens when the market is hot and for obvious reasons. But funny enough, I actually think it's better for teams to launch tokens into bear markets because then the tokens price and token valuation doesn't get ahead of itself. It allows more people to buy it when it's in kind of like I guess like a lower valuation and allows more people to share on the upside.
00:20:22.298 - 00:21:04.350, Speaker A: So I would actually encourage any team launching a token to do it during bearish periods because you get like that, you get like a better token distribution, you get a better community because you get people that don't get wrecked. Like I don't know about you guys, but like I kind of like take notice of these things and I actually sometimes actively look out for it whenever there's a really hyped token launch. And DyDX is the perfect example here. Remember how hype Dydx was? And everyone was talking about it, everyone was buying it. And I remember saying in the Discord channel, I wasn't giving investment advice, but I was saying the fully diluted value of DyDX went up to something like 25 30 billion and its circulating valuation was like 5% of that. And I remember saying that that was ridiculous. It was absolutely ridiculous.
00:21:04.350 - 00:21:26.202, Speaker A: There's no way I was going to hold that valuation when the investors were up massively. There was liquidity mining going on, there was air drops and stuff happening too. There was just so much sell pressure and its valuation was just like really, really high. Even though I had a lot of usage, its valuation was just too high for my blood. And I think it's what, trading at like six or $7 right now. At its peak, it was trading at like $25. But.
00:21:26.202 - 00:21:50.634, Speaker A: But for every now and again, I go on to like, uh, and check the replies to Dy DX's Twitter post or Antonio from Dy DX's Twitter post. And there's lots of people in there saying, do something to make the token price go up. Because what happened is they bought into the hype, they bought at a really high valuation, and then the token price just went down. Only since then it's gotten pretty destroyed. Like, I think it's down like 70% or something. And this has happened to so many tokens. It's happened a lot in the Solana ecosystem.
00:21:50.634 - 00:22:39.762, Speaker A: I know it's become a meme at this point, but in that ecosystem, there's been so many tokens that people have gotten wrecked on, and it's largely a function of these tokens having really small circulating supplies on their launch. But also they launch during a bull market where the valuation gets way ahead of itself. So I think launching in a bear market is actually really healthy and keeping that valuation as low as possible to get enough people kind of like bought into it so they can share on the upside as the network grows is the way to go about it. So I'm curious to see how many l two projects launched their tokens in this, in the first half now of this year. They may wait until kind of like there's a more bullish market, but we'll see, we'll see. I'm sure there'll be a couple of them that launched their tokens in the first half of this year still. So another tweet here from swagnames, who was, quote, tweeting Scott Lewis, who said, I think, I think my Internet's gone off.
00:22:39.762 - 00:23:24.214, Speaker A: But anyway, I think that Scott Lewis said, I think the dusting. Many people, many people. Mainnet ETH is a big deal. What if by hard fork, we mercury drop every address on Mainnet Ethereum with 0.01 210 ETH, a free deposit to arbitrary optimism, good to bootstrap optimistic rollops, and good to stop people from getting hurt as fees rise? So basically, what Scott's suggesting here is there's a lot of people that have stuck funds on Ethereum mainnet because of the fact that you can't move it because it costs more in gas fees to move it. So why not give these people the equivalent, I guess, like of a free deposit into arbitrary and optimism through a hard fork to just get them on board of there so they don't have stuck, stuck funds. And sphagnum is basically has a list about why this would be really cool and why he wants this so bad.
00:23:24.214 - 00:23:50.986, Speaker A: A few of the reasons. Biggest, it would be the biggest airdrop in crypto history. Gigantic media coverage, massive awareness for roll ups. Users get their stuck funds back, raising the mood of out priced users, game back dominance versus other EVM chains. So I actually agree with basically all of this. I think this would be very, very positive for the ecosystem. I also think there'd be some controversy here as well, because by depositing, by only giving a free deposit to arbitrum and optimism, the Ethereum network is now paying playing favorites, right.
00:23:50.986 - 00:24:12.570, Speaker A: The Ethereum community is now playing favorites. Arbitrary and optimism are not the only roll ups in town. Optimistic roll ups in town. They're also not the only roll ups in town. So if we favor these two networks over all the other l two s, or just one of them over all the other l two s, is that fair? I would argue. No, I would argue that that is actually the deal breaker. So if we're going to do this, which to be honest, I don't think this is, this would happen.
00:24:12.570 - 00:24:49.484, Speaker A: It's so much kind of like work to get this done. I don't think it's going to happen anytime soon. But if it was to happen, you would need to basically say users can on board to any roll up that they want out of a selection of probably the most used roll ups, or at least the ones that have some sort of traction on Ethereum, you'd still be playing favorites to an extent, because you might be excluding some roll ups that are just getting off the ground or, you know, just kind of like getting a little bit of traction. But it's still better than playing favorites with one or two of these things. But I agree with everything else from spark dimness here. Good thing to think about. As I said, don't think it's going to happen anytime soon, but if it does, it would save a lot of users funds, which I'm all for, of course, obviously.
00:24:49.484 - 00:25:35.874, Speaker A: So Connext announced today, or they introduced today, the modular interoperability stack, which is, which they're calling a paradigm shift for cross chain operations featuring this Nomad project here. So what this is, is connects has established a strategic partnership with Nomad, a new protocol that allows for cheap, fully generalized cross chain communication that can easily be deployed to any chain or l two that supports user defined computation. So Nomad is an implementation, an extension of the optics protocol, which is optimistic interchange communication. So basically a different way to do cross chain communication. A I guess like this, they're advertising it as a more secure way to do cross chain communication. Faster and more liquid, I believe, as well. So there's obviously a blog post you can read and a Twitter thread you can read on this as well.
00:25:35.874 - 00:26:27.484, Speaker A: But really cool to see, I guess like Connect, which is one of the front runners or the forerunners of cross chain communication and cross l two communication and bridging to be teaming up with another project to kind of like take this to the next level. As I've said to you guys before, I think bridging, cross chain communication, cross l two communication is going to be absolutely massive. It's going to be one of the biggest kind of like verticals within crypto. And I think there's a lot of value to be had here because at the end of the day, people want to use networks where they can make money on, especially if those networks offer them cheap fees as well. And people are going to be bridging between networks because there's always going to be some kind of like somewhere to make money, right? Whether it's on Ethereum mainnet, whether it's on another chain, whether it's on a side chain on l two, there's always going to be somewhere where you can be making money. And bridging between these chains needs to be seamless for enough people to kind of like take advantage of these opportunities. So I think the demand for bridging is only going to go up and I'm really excited to see connects and Nomad partner up here.
00:26:27.484 - 00:26:56.152, Speaker A: So Vitalik posted a new kind of, I guess like research post today and I can't load it because my Internet's gone off. I still don't have proper Internet guys, by the way. They, they've just like screwed me around something, something amazing. I mean, I'm getting it hopefully next Tuesday, which will be six weeks from when I ordered it, so it's just crazy. But so I've been using my phone's hotspot, which is, as you can see, totally unreliable. But anyway, I want to go into, just into detail quickly about this document. This document is basically how to move forward with ethereum to single slot finality on the beacon chain.
00:26:56.152 - 00:27:09.352, Speaker A: So you can give this a read. Highly recommended. It's really great. It's not too technical. I think it's pretty easy for, for everyone to follow. But essentially right now on the beacon chain, we don't have single slot finality. We have finality every 15 minutes or so.
00:27:09.352 - 00:27:48.356, Speaker A: Now, while we want single slot finality. Well, there's a few different reasons. If it's high links them in a blog post, I won't go into detail about them, but there's some stuff around user experience and mev that you should kind of like, check out there. But I guess just wanted to kind of like mention as well, this probably is not going to happen for three years, you know, at the earliest or something like that. This is definitely something that comes after sharding, comes up after vocal tries, comes after a lot of other kind of like, upgrades that are coming to the, I guess like a theorem network post merge. So don't expect it anytime soon. But I think that moving towards single slot finality, if we can, getting it down from 15 minutes to 16 seconds would be an absolutely massive feet and absolutely massive improvement for the network.
00:27:48.356 - 00:28:11.268, Speaker A: And I'm very much looking forward to seeing the day that goes live. So just wanted to kind of highlight this post for you guys to go give a read. So Seb from Zappify shared this video today. A sneak peek of the new NFT dashboard on Zappa. So you can see here there's an activity dashboard. Now, they've, they've used me as an example, so double click into me here and you can see kind of like my profile. So this is basically a profile view where you can kind of like.
00:28:11.268 - 00:28:37.642, Speaker A: This isn't just kind of like the NFT feature, it's also the profile view where you can kind of follow people and see all their profiles and things like that. So you can see here people following me, who I'm following, and you can go follow people from there. And this is just a sneak peek. And there's kind of like nfts that I've kind of like bought and hold and stuff like that. So really, really cool to see this. I like this, being able to kind of like explore your friends, kind of like profile see stuff. I mean, as I've said to you guys before, really, there's only a few ways, good ways to look your nfts right now.
00:28:37.642 - 00:29:03.934, Speaker A: I know there's a few different tools out there, but really there's, there's really just Opensea was what I use most of the time, but I hate having to change between different dashboards. I would like to have everything in kind of like one dashboard, and what better one. What better dashboard for that, for that to be than Zappa? So very cool to see these features being put together by Jasper. By the way, Jasper, shout out to you. You've been dating me a bunch as well about these features, so thank you for that. But, yeah, very, very cool to see this. You can go watch the video for a closer look.
00:29:03.934 - 00:29:15.094, Speaker A: It'll be linked in the YouTube description, but I think that's going to be it for today. So thank you, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
