00:00:02.490 - 00:00:35.142, Speaker A: Cool. Well, thank you all for having me. My name is Jaden. I work with a company called Future Primitive, and I primarily work on ERC six five one, which we're going to talk a little bit about today. The previous speaker mentioned there were some other people who could talk about the crypto things, and that's, I guess that's me, because I can't talk too much to the AI side of it. Linear algebra was one of the only classes I failed in university, but big fan of all the things going on there. And I think I'm going to try and make a couple of claims today about the intersection of crypto and AI that I think are under discussed at the moment.
00:00:35.142 - 00:01:28.342, Speaker A: I gave a variation of this talk at ETH Denver the other day where I talked about turning assets into agents. How do you take these things that exist on a blockchain, tokens, nfts, and give them the properties of an agent, the ability to take actions on their own, the ability to affect the environment around them. But I think maybe a more interesting thing to look at is turning agents into assets, because right now agents exist in a bit of a void, right? You interact with them individually and they can make some changes to the world around them, but you don't quite have the same rich environment to play in and especially financialized environment that crypto gives you. And I really do think when you combine an agent with an asset, the ability to manipulate assets, and even the ability to be identified as an asset, some really cool things can happen. Yeah. A little bit about me. How many of you have one of these or owned one of these at one point? Right? Okay.
00:01:28.342 - 00:01:48.766, Speaker A: Really aging myself. This is the oldest I've felt in any talk so far. This is a feature phone super like everybody used in the early 2000s. They were great, right? You can make calls, you can send texts. They had some features, right? People probably played snake on them. You had a calculator, and they were just better than a landline, right? Same interface, same keypad, but you could bring it with you anywhere. And it made tons of people's lives better.
00:01:48.766 - 00:02:15.650, Speaker A: But it was a stepping stone in kind of the tech tree of development, right? You all probably have one of these in your pocket today. This is a smartphone, and there's a reason that none of us are carrying around feature phones today, because smartphone introduced new ways of interacting with the world around us. First, they gave us Internet access that was always on. No longer were you just calling and texting people. You know, you can interact with anyone around the globe. You have access to the entire world in your pocket. It also introduced third party apps.
00:02:15.650 - 00:02:44.522, Speaker A: It wasn't just you're tied to the creator of your phone to give you the features you want in a phone. Anybody could come up with things and build things for the devices that are in our pockets. And it was a new input type. It wasn't buttons on a keypad, it was taps and swipes and pinched to zoom and new ways of interacting with the world. Ar. Those are really big changes. And there's a reason that so much of our live is viewed through a phone these days is because it's very, very useful and very, very valuable.
00:02:44.522 - 00:03:20.490, Speaker A: And this being an AI talk, I probably don't have to tell anybody what any of these are. But I think if feature phones are the past and smartphones are the present, we're starting to get a glimpse of what the future looks like. It looks like this the humane AI pin the Rabbit R one AI device and Chat GPT's voice input screen. These are new ways of interacting with the world around us. It's not a smartphone, it's an agent. It's something that acts on its own, on the world around it. And there's a similar kind of theme developing here, right? Instead of just accessing the world around us, we have something that accesses the world around us on its own.
00:03:20.490 - 00:03:55.078, Speaker A: We give it inputs and tell it what to do, but it knows how to navigate the world around it. As an autonomous agent, it's adaptive to its environment, right? It's not manually programming apps and saying, when you touch this button, do this. It's able to adapt to the environment it finds itself in. Browse unknown website, take actions based on input, and it's a new way of inputting data. It's not taps and swipes, which was novel when you were coming from a keypad. It's communicating with voice, and it's communicating at the level of ideas rather than at the level of exact touches on a screen. And I think this is just the natural tech tree progression of everything.
00:03:55.078 - 00:04:20.062, Speaker A: Not just phones, but objects in general. Things that make our lives better in general. You start with just an object that has utility, that has some features that makes life better. You add programmability to it, you open it up for anybody to build for you, turn it into a platform, and then eventually people start to build agency into it. People start to build applications that can act on their own. This is an AI thing. I don't have to explain any of that to any of you.
00:04:20.062 - 00:04:54.198, Speaker A: But what's really interesting is when you look at this from the perspective of NFTs, NFTs are just Internet native objects at the very core, that's all they are. And I think NFTs, naturally, because they're an object, will follow that same techfree style progression. You start with an object that has some utility, you add a programmability layer, and it eventually becomes something that's identic, that can act on its own. And NFTs are great, right? I don't know if you've played around with them, they're great at what they are. You can own them, you can transfer them, you can buy, sell them, right? That's all standardized. You can go use any marketplace you want. You truly own it because it's a private key you have.
00:04:54.198 - 00:05:29.826, Speaker A: And there's some utility, right? Like the creator of an NFT can add some extra features to the NFT if they want to. It's overall just better than what came before, which is centralized data and centralized databases. We're putting assets into people's hands that they can truly own. But NFTs are still just in the feature phone phase of this tech tree. It's still just objects with utility. What does it look like when you give NFTs the ability to be programmed? You give a common language for programming on chain and Internet assets. And how do you get into the realm of being agentic, of taking actions on their own? That's what we've been working on with ERC six five one, and with token bound accounts.
00:05:29.826 - 00:06:08.650, Speaker A: The core of token bound accounts is every NFT is also an Ethereum wallet. Every NFT has a unique wallet address, meaning that every NFT, no matter who created it, when it was created, nfts in the past, nfts in the future, they all are wallets. They all come with a wallet address that can own assets, execute transactions on Ethereum and create their own identity, create their own history on chain. It takes things that were previously just objects and assets to be held and turns them into things that can take actions on the world around them. And I would say that it's not just that NFTs are Internet native objects, that's kind of the feature phone era. NFTs are Internet native identities. They have a visual identity.
00:06:08.650 - 00:06:57.342, Speaker A: They have an on chain identity in the form of a wallet. They have an identity in terms of the actions they've taken, the actions they will take. You all seen this meme? This is an AI thing, right? We have these crazy big models that have this just immense amount of knowledge and understanding and ability to do things. And we kind of feed it through this chat like interface. We're getting more and better interfaces now, but we're kind of taking a lot of complexity hidden behind the scenes, and we're putting it behind something that's easy to digest, easy to interact with. And as a user, it feels like I'm interacting, not with some big, scary, crazy thing, but I'm just interacting with a chat window. And I think what NFTs give to agents is they give them an identity, an identity that's not just something that a user can interact with, but also an identity that can own assets.
00:06:57.342 - 00:07:54.686, Speaker A: It gives every agent, a bank account, the ability to execute transactions anywhere they want on the blockchain, and the ability to be identified, right, instead of the crazy model names that some of you see on, like hugging face or whatever, this gives a model the potential to be uniquely identified by a visual identity, by an asset, as an asset, and potentially be monetized as an asset. Because one thing that NFTs are really good at is turning intangible objects, things on the Internet that are kind of tough to say, like this is an object, right? My phone is an object. I can touch it, I can feel it. It's a thing I hold in my hand what is a photo, right? That's not really tangible. But nfts have created a way to make Internet objects tangible, ownable, and usable. And I think the same can be held true for models. Now, there's still some things that are kind of weird about nfts, right? If we go back to the feature phone example, if I take my phone with me from the US to Canada, for example, it just works, right? I carry the same object with me across the border.
00:07:54.686 - 00:08:30.960, Speaker A: I maybe swap the sim card, maybe pay some roaming fees, but generally it just works. It's not quite the same with nfts. And trust me, there's a reason I'm getting into NFT specific stuff, because I think the problem space of turning nfts into agents is very similar to the problem space of bringing agents on chain. But if I want to take my NFT across chains, I have to interact with a bridge, which means I'm paying a bunch of money in gas. That also opens me up to finality risk and to bridge risk, I'm putting my asset into a contract I don't control. And giving up an asset, it's not just I bring my NFT with me, it's I give up control of it and I get a clone that I can redeem for the original one. And it introduces this weird provenance issue.
00:08:30.960 - 00:09:05.542, Speaker A: Which copy of the NFT is canonical? What is an NFT? If you're locking it up and minting a clone and then tracking which clone is canonical with tokenbound accounts, we think there's a better way to do this. This is just kind of illustrating how you do cross chain bridging with nfts right now. We think there's a better way to do this. Instead of moving your NFT with you on whichever chain you want to interact with, you just give the NFT an identity. You give it something that is constant across all chains. For example, you give it a wallet with tokenbound accounts. Every NFT's wallet is the same address on any EVM compatible chain.
00:09:05.542 - 00:09:53.050, Speaker A: That means you have one identity that goes with you and can be used anywhere you want to use it on any chain. If you have an NFT on mainnet and you want to swap meme coins on base, you can do that, right? It's just a wallet. And anybody can tell that this NFT on Ethereum mainnet owns these bold coins on base. You can do it with lens protocol, right? You can interact with on chain protocols on chain dapps, with your NFT as the user, rather than just you interacting as your wallet, you're creating something that has its own identity, its own agency, across any chain you want to interact with. And how this works is all of these calls right now, today, go over a bridge. So either sent from the origin chain of the NFT to the destination chain of the NFT, and this works well, it's a little expensive. There's some cumbersome parts of it, but this works, right? This gives your NFT that cross chain identity.
00:09:53.050 - 00:10:47.930, Speaker A: The reason I'm talking about this is I think the problem space of cross chain nfts and making token bound accounts into an identity that works on every chain is very similar to the problem space of bringing agents on chain. The core problem here is how do we prove off chain data, data that doesn't exist on one chain? How do we take that data and how do we prove it on chain? Right? We have really good tools for that in the crypto world, right? We have bridges that have some pretty decent security models where you can trust that if a bridge says something is true, there's a pretty good chance it's true. But that relies a transaction on the origin side. You have to do something in the crypto world for that thing to be proven in another crypto world, but with agents, right? There's no real origin transaction, you do some inference that's not a transaction that's happening. There's no real proof of that happening. You're relying on some way to take that off chain data and put it on chain. And so I think this is an open problem space.
00:10:47.930 - 00:12:12.146, Speaker A: I think the kind of paths of people who are trying to do really compelling cross chain applications and the paths of people who are trying to do really compelling AI applications on crypto rails are going to cross, and they're going to cross very soon around how do you get this data that doesn't exist on a chain onto a chain in a way that is provable and verifiable and can take actions? Now, if we go kind of back to the nfts as agents thing, right, if we want to get to that final side of the tech tree where nfts aren't just programmable, right, we've kind of solved that already, but we want to get to nfts that can actually be used as agents and powered by AI models to do things on their own as an asset that can take actions in its environment. Right. Now, today, if you want to do this using all the tooling and stuff we've developed, I say, I had an agent, I want to have this NFT that I say, hey, go and mint like the most popular Zora NFts this week, right? Give it a plain text command, give it a something that is very fuzzy, very non transaction encoded, and have it go do an action for me. We can probably hook this up with an off chain model that submits on chain transactions. But what will happen is it'll prompt me to do a bunch of transactions, right? It'll kind of convert that instruction into a bunch of transactions that I then have to sign and put on chain on behalf of my agent, rather than my agent just acting as its own individual. It requires a human in the loop, right? And if we're going to build real compelling agent applications, right. If your rabbit is prompting you to sign a transaction every time you want to book flights, you kind of just want it to go and book the flights.
00:12:12.146 - 00:12:47.246, Speaker A: You don't really want to have to put in your credit card every time you do it. This is kind of the crypto equivalent of that. So we're working on a bunch of stuff around Tokamat accounts for v four. That's a bit of a step forward in this regard. We're introducing this concept of auth extensions. And auth extensions are smart contracts that can be added to tokenbound accounts by either the owner of the NFT or the creator of the NFT that change, who's allowed to use the token bound account for that NFT, who's allowed to operate that identity on chain. And this gives you an alternative to me just manually signing transactions from every transaction, having to originate from my wallet.
00:12:47.246 - 00:13:20.046, Speaker A: I can now give control and delegate this identity to an agent who can do things for me. And either I as the NFT owner can do that, or someone who's creating a really compelling NFT application that has built in AI tools can have that ship out of the box with their nfts. Their nfts just come with an identity that's integrated with their agent that can do things on chain. And so in this case I say, hey, can you go collect the Zora NFTs for me? It's like, great, it goes out, it does it, it pays the gas out of the token bound account as its own individual. And it just lets me know, hey, all right, I did it. Here's how much it costs. There's no transaction pops up.
00:13:20.046 - 00:13:55.654, Speaker A: It's just the same experience. Like I was interacting with an agent in a non crypto context and it's all self custodial. We want to make sure that you, as the owner of the NFT have the final say. So if an NFT creator creates a AI agent and you don't trust it, you can always disable that. Yeah, I think the other thing that's really neat is tokenbound accounts are basically, right now an NFT thing, right? Nfts are tied to accounts, tied to identities. And that makes a lot of sense, right? Like we kind of think of objects as it's one object, it's one thing. I hold a phone in my hand and it's one object.
00:13:55.654 - 00:14:36.370, Speaker A: Even though it's really many objects, they're all composed into one. And with token out accounts, we look a lot at nfts, but with auth extensions, we're really giving control to developers to determine how do you want to assign identities to any piece of onchain assets, to any on chain assets. You could take an 1155 token, which can have some fungibility, and you can give it a unique onchain identity that inherits all these properties. You could have an ERC 20 token that backs a token bound account with an auth extension that determine who is allowed to use this identity or which agent is allowed to use this identity. Ultimately, we really want to see this world where NFTs are not just an asset you hold in your wallet. That's what they've been for years. We want to add that programmability layer, and that's kind of the level of the tech tree we're working on right now.
00:14:36.370 - 00:15:10.480, Speaker A: But ultimately, I think every object goes to that tech tree of an object with utility, to an object that is programmable, to an object that really is an agent that can act on its own. And we're doing a lot of the on chain stuff to do that. And I think it would be really cool to see when a lot of the other side of this equation, the AI native side, starts to integrate with the crypto side so that models can be identified by assets, take actions on chain as their own identities. I think that's going to be really neat. Yeah, that's about it. That's what we're working on. Thanks for having me.
