00:00:00.200 - 00:00:19.622, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Delegway refuel, where we cap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Cisano, and today's the 21 March 2022. Alright, everyone, let's get into it. So as you guys know, I will be at Blockchain week's event this week. Just a friendly reminder to you guys. I'm flying up to Sydney tonight from Melbourne. I'm recording this in the daytime.
00:00:19.622 - 00:00:45.314, Speaker A: This is the first time in my new house that I've recorded a refuel in during daytime. You can actually see the sun in this room during the day, guys. I'm not just like hunched over and got like in a dark room all the time, but yeah, yeah. Very excited to kind of interview Mehdi from the Sigma prime team with one of the east two client teams tomorrow morning in Sydney. And then on Wednesday, I'll be kind of like having a chat with Kane from Synthetix to close out the day in Melbourne at Marble Stadium there. So hoping to see you guys there. It's.
00:00:45.314 - 00:01:02.590, Speaker A: I know it's been hard to get tickets for the actual physical event. It's about five times oversubscribed. I think even more than that, they've been sending emails out saying, you know, please confirm that you are coming. Because if, you know, if people don't confirm, they can give tickets to other people who really want to go. So, you know, even if you're not there, that's fine. I mean, I'm sure I'll see some of you at Amsterdam as well next month. And there's other conferences during the year too.
00:01:02.590 - 00:01:20.046, Speaker A: So just wanted to kind of give you guys a reminder there, but also remind you that there'll be no refuel for Tuesday or Wednesday. And there probably is not going to be any newsletter for Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday either. But they'll be back on Thursday. You know, Thursday will be a nice episode. I'll just recap everything from. From kind of like the two days that I'm spending in blockchain week and everything like that. So very much looking forward to.
00:01:20.046 - 00:01:44.230, Speaker A: Very excited for this. This is my first proper crypto conference since ETH Denver 2020. So it's been a long time. Thank you, COVID, for that. But yeah, now I'm very, very excited about this and hoping to see some of you there. Anyway, moving on. So we have another all core devs call that happened on Friday and we have Tim Bico's summary thread, as usual, going over everything that happened, a lot of the talk, sorry, a lot of the call was talking about the merge.
00:01:44.230 - 00:02:02.916, Speaker A: Right. The kiln testnet. What happened with that? As I mentioned last week, there were a couple of bugs in different client, different clients. There wasn't any issues with the spec and they weren't kind of critical bugs. But it has kind of like brought the discussion of, okay, we need much more testing of these things. We need to be able to test, test, test, test because of the fact that it didn't go exactly as we wanted it to go. Right.
00:02:02.916 - 00:02:50.872, Speaker A: Like, I mean, the bugs were, I don't know if I'd call them critical, but they did result in, you know, unexpected consequences and clients kind of like forking off of each other. And actually if it had happened on main net, I think Prism was affected by this. And from my reading, if this had happened during the main net merge, it would have actually been a pretty, pretty bad thing because it means that the kind of the bugs chain would become the majority chain because as you guys know, prism is the super majority. And this is, as I've discussed before, this is why client diversity is so important as well. But due to that, you know, just my own reading, I haven't heard this yet, but just to my own reading, as I said to you guys, like if this testnet didn't go super smoothly, which it went smooth enough, but there were obviously a lot of, you know, a fair few kind of like bumps along the road, I don't think that we would have the merge in June. Now June was never a date given by kind of like the core devs or anything like that. It was a target window.
00:02:50.872 - 00:03:15.240, Speaker A: And I've said that to you guys every single time. But if I was to put money on it, I wouldn't put money on June anymore. Like July or August sort of thing is what I'm kind of like looking at now. But again, it's so hard to kind of like give a date here because it really does depend on these testnets. It depends on the confidence of the core developers, of the core researchers and how they feel going into a merge. Right. So I think that at this point, don't, I wouldn't expect the merge in June, but that's fine.
00:03:15.240 - 00:03:49.200, Speaker A: I mean, I've said this before on the refuel too, guys. Like when I look at this sort of stuff, like does it really matter if it's two to three months later than what you expected it to be? Because in the grand scheme of things, once it's actually out there, everyone just moves on to the next thing. And this is what happened with ERP 1559, that took two and a half years to get to Maine. And there were periods of time during that two and a half years where people were like, is this actually happening? Right. They actually questioned it and there were legitimate, legitimate concerns with it because no one was really actively working on it to get it into the network. And then we, we kind of like had this whole thing spun up. You know, Tim Biker lived the charge a lot here, a bunch of other people as well, to get this thing onto, onto mainnet.
00:03:49.200 - 00:04:17.286, Speaker A: But when it comes to the merge is in a very different position, there's no, is this thing going to happen? It's happening. It's just kind of like, you know, maybe it happens two to three months later than we expected it would. So, so, yeah, as I said, guys like, you know, maybe, maybe there's going to be another testnet now because of this. There's definitely gonna be a lot more dev nets, but I probably would expect at least one more testnet like kiln. It's just to run through it again to make sure that that goes smoothly because this is a big deal, guys. This is bigger than any other upgrade in Ethereum's history. This is bigger than launching the beacon chain.
00:04:17.286 - 00:04:49.694, Speaker A: And we can't get this wrong. So it's better to kind of like have a quote unquote delay or kind of like release this two to three months later than people expected rather than kind of releasing it and then the network kind of like breaking and then we having to roll back. And, I mean, that would be a disaster, right? So don't quote me on this, please do not say, you know, breaking. Ethereum educator Anthony Cisano says the merger has been delayed. No, I'm giving my opinion on where I see things right now. And I'm, and, you know, there was no date given or anything like that. So I don't consider this a delay, but I just like to keep you guys on the bleeding edge of this sort of stuff and to kind of learn through how I'm thinking about it.
00:04:49.694 - 00:05:27.964, Speaker A: But go read this thread from Tim Baiko for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description, but from my reading, just reading between the lines like I normally like to do, I just do not think a June merge is going to happen at this stage just because I just don't, I don't believe that it should happen. Like, honestly, if I was kind of a core devil, core researcher, I would be pushing the others and I would be kind of suggesting to the others be like, hey, guys, like, I don't think we should merge in June. We need more testing, blah, blah, which is exactly what's happening, by the way. But I would be doing the same thing because I know just how critical and important it is to get this thing right. And unless everyone feels comfortable doing a merge on main net, we shouldn't do it. You know, if theorem is not a small network, it's $300 billion network, trillions of dollars of value, settle on it yearly.
00:05:27.964 - 00:05:56.800, Speaker A: I mean, it's a worldwide global thing. It's not something like a little small thing that we can just kind of like, you know, move fast and break things on that, especially at the protocol layer. So yeah, that's the, that's the latest on the merge there, but I'm still pretty excited. I mean, the kiln testnet, other than those bugs, they seems to have gone really, really well. It's still live, it's still kind of like chugging along there. A lot of insights being kind of like gathered from that as well. And the client teams, I think are setting up better testing infrastructure as well, which is where good for not just the merge, but also future upgrades.
00:05:56.800 - 00:06:34.760, Speaker A: Obviously Shanghai is coming after the merge when we have like withdrawals enabled stuff like ERP 48, 44 and all that good stuff there. So. So yeah, that's the latest on the merge and onto the next thing now, which is a tweet thread from Peter, who is a core developer at Go Ethereum. He is one of the longest standing Ethereum core developers. He's been around since basically day zero. And he put together a thread about two main things, basically about complexity, creep of the Ethereum protocol and compensation for core developers or salary pay, you know, kind of like eat compensation, all that sort of stuff there. I had a lot of people tell me I need to cover this.
00:06:34.760 - 00:06:56.830, Speaker A: Okay, fair enough. I will. I did kind of like give some more comments in the Discord channel as well. But I saved most of my comments for today's episode because I have a lot to say about this and I'm just going to say it from my head. I have no pre written notes or anything like that. I'm just going to say what comes to my mind. First thing I want to say, just to give you the overall context here, this is not the first time Peter has put together a thread like this.
00:06:56.830 - 00:07:23.400, Speaker A: This is not the first time people have complained about core developer pay. Maybe complain is the wrong word, but like brought up the issue of core developer pay. And this is not going to be the last time. It's not going to be fixed by putting together these threads. It's not going to be fixed by, you know, kind of like publicly shaming the Ethereum foundation to, to do things. And we only really have one side of the story. And this is one thing that I've been thinking about last couple of days when I tried to kind of like frame this and kind of like, look at both sides of the argument.
00:07:23.400 - 00:07:48.860, Speaker A: But it's really hard for me to do that because all that we have access to, right. The information available to us is basically some of the core developers saying that they feel like they're being underpaid and that, you know, for the work that they do, it's really stressful, blah, blah, all that sort of stuff, which is totally understandable. But we don't have the other side. We don't know how much they're getting paid. We don't know what, what kind of vesting schedules they have, um, you know, with, with ETH incentives that they're getting. We don't know that what they're saying is the whole truth. Right.
00:07:48.860 - 00:08:29.738, Speaker A: And I'm not saying that these people are lying, but without them telling us exactly what they're getting paid, all we can do is believe them on their word. And I'm not saying that, as I said, I'm not saying that they're lying, but I don't like having debates with people about things, with only having one side of the story, that you wouldn't go into a courtroom and only allow one party to basically defend themselves or basically give their side of the story and then don't listen to the other party. That's not how it works. And obviously this is different to a courtroom, but, you know, in, just in a debate in general, you don't hear just one side of it. You want both sides of it. So I think not having all the information available to us is a big hindrance to this. And I think that the, these, these kind of like threads that, that Peter and other people put out, I don't actually think they're very productive because in my mind, nothing changes.
00:08:29.738 - 00:08:57.880, Speaker A: This is so what happens when you put a thread out like this is that you basically defer to the court of public opinion, and that's never a good court to be in because the public opinion can be swayed, you know, any which way. It's emotional, it's fragmented. Twitter is the worst place to have debates. Everyone has an opinion on everything without having access to the full kind of like, body of information, and it just gets us nowhere. What I think the way to affect change is, is for Peter and other people in the Ethereum foundation to bring this up with Ethereum foundation leadership. Now, maybe they've done that already. Good.
00:08:57.880 - 00:09:30.182, Speaker A: If they have, if they haven't, then they should, because that is the only way to affect change. You're not going to be able to publicly shame the Ethereum foundation into doing things, especially because, as I said, we don't have the information. We could all be saying, hey, Ethereum foundation, you should pay people more. And in reality, they're actually paying people, you know, a fair rate. Now, is it going to be as much pay as someone working on a top, you know, working on DeFi protocol from day zero or working on another layer one from Day Zero is potentially going to get, given that they get kind of like tokens when the tokens are worthless. You know, probably not. That's just the way it works at this stage in Ethereum's life.
00:09:30.182 - 00:10:11.808, Speaker A: But for someone like Peter, who's been around since day zero, you know, he mentioned that he's not financially independent yet. And I kind of think that's crazy because there's no way that he wasn't paid a lot of ETH in the early days because of the fact that that ETH was worth a lot less back then, right? So, you know, and I'm not just, I'm not trying to pick on Peter here. I just want to kind of like give a general sense. This is how I think about it. If you're paid a token as an incentive, right, on top of your salary, saying, hey, here's a token bonus, right, for working on our project, whether it's a default project, a layer one project, whatever, and it's worth say $1, right? And the market caps like $100 million. Fair enough, right? You get that, you're like, wow, okay, this is cool. I'm going to sell this, right? This is money that I can kind of like take, I can use it, blah, blah, I'm going to sell this and you're free to do that.
00:10:11.808 - 00:10:57.186, Speaker A: But then let's say that token goes up to $100 or $1,000, right? And you kind of think to yourself, holy shit, like, why did I sell, right? And then you start complaining, well, I mean, that's on you as an individual, right? You were paid these tokens. You could have held them, you didn't have to sell them because it's on top of your salary, right? Which usually is, there's a salary portion and then there's the kind of like token portion, which is kind of like a stake in whether it be like a company, you know, an equity stake or tokens in a protocol. But if you sold them too early, well, that's on you. You shouldn't be relying on someone else to, quote unquote, bail you out of that. Now, I'm not saying that's what Peter did. I'm not saying that's what other core developers did. But I've seen instances of this happen before where people sell way, way, way too early and then the token price skyrockets because their work is valuable.
00:10:57.186 - 00:11:24.290, Speaker A: Right. The work that they're doing has added value to the network and they now regret selling and they want their pay to be bumped up. But in reality, there's probably another person that didn't sell, and that's why they have been able to earn much more money from that. So that's kind of like one example there, but kind of going back to the main kind of like points here from, from Peter about compensation. As I said, there's not much I can actually say on this topic, given that I don't know what these core developers are paid. I don't know if they're over or underpaid. I don't know what token vesting they have have any of that information.
00:11:24.290 - 00:11:59.446, Speaker A: So there's no point me speculating on things without that, the access to that information. So I'm not even going to try. There's already been plenty of people talking about this. The one thing I will say about core dev compensation is that it's not just the Ethereum foundation that gives kind of like funds to these teams. And you recall recently, in December of last year, the Ethereum foundation spun up the client incentive program, which basically gave about $13 million worth of ETH per to each core client team as validators on the beacon chain. And in order to kind of like, you know, and that's vesting over time, but in order to kind of like align incentives and give these, these core developer teams a nice big bonus. And that's in ETH.
00:11:59.446 - 00:12:29.042, Speaker A: So if ETH goes three times from here, that's now worth $39 million. Right. And obviously, as ETH keeps growing and growing, it worth more and more. But if those teams decide to sell their ETH and then ETH kind of like goes three x, maybe they're going to regret that, right? I don't know. You know, who knows? Who knows how that's going to play out there? But there's, that, there's things like what Trent van Epps is setting up right now the protocol guild, which is working to kind of like fun core developers, there's other initiatives out there. I mean, obviously I did the NFT drop recently where I donated 20, about 20 ETH to core developers. Well, myself and Kira did that.
00:12:29.042 - 00:12:49.004, Speaker A: Two core developers on open grants, which was already an active grant that had, I think, about 900 and something ethernet from. From one person there. I think his name is James Fickle. So there's that. There's a bunch of other initiatives. The EF gives a lot of grants out, you know, all that sort of stuff. And as I've said before, the core developer teams, you know, a lot of them do things rather than build core developer clients.
00:12:49.004 - 00:13:23.556, Speaker A: Like for example, I mentioned Meti from Sigma prime before I was talking to him. And they do things like audits, right? They do security audits. That's a very nice kind of like revenue stream for them because as I said before, auditors are in very, very short supply and they're able to capitalize on that because they really understand code. There's other ways to do things like Nethermind is building stuff with starkware, all these sorts of stuff, right? So there's money there. Now. In saying that, I don't actually think that money is the whole story at all. And I think that for someone like Peter, who's been around for a very long time, I think what he's feeling is burnout.
00:13:23.556 - 00:13:54.244, Speaker A: Because put yourself into Peter's kind of like shoes for a second here. You've been working on the Ethereum protocol since day zero. All the stressors, all the anxieties that have come with that. You've been through everything. The Dow Shanghai Dos attacks, all the protocol upgrades that you had to kind of like pay attention to, you know, always in the back of your mind like, did I do something wrong? Did I code something wrong that will lose people money, all that stress. Imagine having that for since 2014, essentially, right? And not, look, he's probably had breaks here and there on holidays, but as far as I know, he's never had like a long term break from quarterback. He's just been working all the way through.
00:13:54.244 - 00:14:12.524, Speaker A: He's obviously very proud of his work and has a lot of pride, and that's totally fine. But yeah, putting. Put yourself into those, into his shoes, it's definitely burnout. Now there's more money fixed that. I don't think so. Like me personally, you know, if I was burnt out and someone offered me money to fix it, that wouldn't fix anything, really. I mean, maybe it make me, would allow me to take more time off.
00:14:12.524 - 00:14:46.648, Speaker A: But I, I find it hard to imagine that someone like Peter, in the position that he's in, doesn't have the means to take time off. And as far as I know, the Ethereum foundation has always, always encouraged people to do this. But I think what Peter feels is a grand responsibility to the Ethereum protocol, especially in a time where so much is going on, the merge, you know, upgrades are coming faster, sharding statelessness. There's so much happening with the Ethereum core protocol that I think, you know, Peter just feels that weight on his shoulders, which is totally fine. I totally get that. But again, I go back to what I said before. I do not think that these threads are very helpful.
00:14:46.648 - 00:15:20.390, Speaker A: I think that pushing internally, talking to the right people, getting in contact with them, and getting people to kind of like rally around you in a more, not private manner, but like in a more targeted approach is better than just kind of like a shotgun approach here. But that's just my opinion on it. Now, the second thing in Peter's thread was that they kind of like, he focused one on was the complexity of the Ethereum protocol. Now he was talking about how he thinks that the Ethereum protocol is becoming, you know, maybe too complex. It's becoming harder to reason about. There's a lot of features going into the core protocol, and then he lists through them basically all this kind of like stuff here. You can read this thread, I'm not going to go through them all.
00:15:20.390 - 00:15:52.922, Speaker A: And then he's kind of like, last tweet here was, I can't say what the solution is, but my two cent is to stop adding features and start calling, even at the expense of breaking things. There are less and less people knowing and willing to piece together a broken network, and each change pushes more away. I actually disagree with this, and I found it was weird that Peter would say this. You know, obviously he's a lead at the lead at Geth. One of the top core core client teams out there has been a core dev forever. He's closer to this than I am. But from speaking to other people, especially people that are close to this sort of stuff, I don't feel like people are getting pushed away.
00:15:52.922 - 00:16:23.402, Speaker A: We have more core developers and researchers than we've ever had. The protocol is adding a lot more features, but it's being worked on in much more efficient and effective way than it ever has. So I don't know where Peter's getting this opinion to from. Maybe he feels this way personally, but I don't think this is a common sentiment shared among core developers. Now, I could be wrong here, but that's my current read on it. Now, I also don't agree with stop adding features, and I don't agree with the Ethereum network getting more complex. I think the Ethereum network is actually going to get less complex over time, and that's because it's taking the modular approach rather than the monolithic approach.
00:16:23.402 - 00:16:54.554, Speaker A: You know, things like not doing execution sharding and only doing data sharding is simplifying one of the core protocol upgrades, doing, you know, proof of Casper FFG instead of Casper CBC for, for the proof of stake construction is simplifying things. That's not a subjective thing. That is an objective thing that has happened. Dank. Sharding is simplifying things again. You know, I don't feel like the Ethereum protocol is getting more complex from that, that kind of view there. But in saying that you can't have what Ethereum offers you, what a theorem wants to do without inevitably adding more complexity to it.
00:16:54.554 - 00:17:55.502, Speaker A: If you want a theorem to be just like bitcoin with smart contracts, and that's it. Well, I mean, we had that and we saw all the bottlenecks that, the scalability bottlenecks, the gas fees going up, you know, really, really high, the sustainability bottleneck of the chain getting too big, and we need to do statelessness and stuff like that. Like complexity is not necessarily a bad thing, but I think the way to think about complexity is that, okay, does adding this feature to the network improve the network by 100 x, for example? Does it improve, maybe not even 100 x? Does it improve the network by ten to 100 x? Is it worth the added complexity? And I think that pretty much everything that's been added to Ethereum protocol at this stage has improved it by that much. I actually think that ERP 1559 is a 100 x improvement because we stopped leaking value, like the value of ETH needs to go up in order to secure the network as secure as possible, and a lot of other downstream effects from there. But we stopped leaking value from that. And not only did we kind of like stop leaking value, but we made the network better to use, you know, by kind of like making transaction fee smoother and all that sorts of stuff there. Proof of stake.
00:17:55.502 - 00:18:22.262, Speaker A: I actually think that's 100 times improvement on proof of work that enables sharding, which is, you know, the data sharding, which is 100,000 x improvement for L2s. Same with things like ERP 4844, which is the blob carrying transactions. All this sort of stuff in my mind is a massive improvement and we should pursue it. Now Peter can disagree with me. He's, he's the one who codes this sort of stuff. He knows more than I do about it. But I don't think this is the common belief and sentiment shared by all the core developers and researchers.
00:18:22.262 - 00:18:46.104, Speaker A: And you can actually see some of them kind of like saying that here. Like Dankrad Feist says, you know, complexity is like debt and Dankrad is the person who came up with dank shouting, by the way. But he's, you know, he said complexity is like that. Ideally you want to have none, but then you usually also can't create anything. So you of course want to minimize the complexity while still creating a system that is useful. Creating complexity in isolation is definitely bad, but are we doing that? I don't think we're doing that right. We're not just creating complexity for the sake of it.
00:18:46.104 - 00:19:18.350, Speaker A: We're creating complexity to add more complex features to improve the network by, you know, hundred x, if not more. And there's a bunch of varied comments here from core developers and researchers, past and new, which is, you know, I always like seeing this and seeing stuff like that. But, you know, I didn't really agree with, with Peter's framing here. And as I said before, I think that he's definitely, you know, he's suffering burnout. I don't think that, I don't think that's a negative thing either. I think that everyone needs to take care of their mental health before they can actually do their best work. And at the end of the day, you know, Peter has, you know, deserves a break more than anyone.
00:19:18.350 - 00:19:44.366, Speaker A: So, you know, maybe he doesn't want to take a break until after the merge. That's totally fine as well. He has responsibilities and he feels responsible too. So, I mean, in my opinion, like if he, once the merge is done, he should definitely just take an extended break just to, you know, just to kind of like stop feeling burnt out. I know maybe that, you know, I don't know what he's feeling and anything like that, but it certainly seems like burnout. And I think other people agree that. It certainly seems like he feels a lot of stress and anxiety over this sort of stuff and, and I would too.
00:19:44.366 - 00:20:12.574, Speaker A: But I guess the solution to that is not to keep doing what you're doing. The solution is to take a step back, take a break and repair your mental health there. But anyway, I've talked about that, this thread long enough that's just kind of like my general thoughts on this sort of stuff. I just want to be clear that I don't think threads like this are helpful. I don't think they're going to affect change. I think what affects change is having targeted feedback to the people who actually are in a position to make the changes rather than doing a court of public opinion. Because in my mind, that just never works.
00:20:12.574 - 00:20:28.142, Speaker A: Honestly, it really doesn't work. It leads to so many opinions. It leads to so much kind of like, I guess like bad stuff happening and being said. I mean, the bitcoin maximalist absolutely jumped on this thread. They loved it. Like, oh, look at this. You know, a core Ethereum developer is saying that the Ethereum protocol is too complex and we should simplify it.
00:20:28.142 - 00:20:49.822, Speaker A: This is what we've been saying for years while totally ignoring the fact that this isn't a consensus view. This is just one person's view of course they're going to latch on to. I just, it was just annoying to read that again. But Peters entitled to his opinion. As I said, he's much closer to core developer and research than I am. But my read just from kind of like talking to other one other core developers and researchers, just from kind of like seeing other comments. I just don't think everyone feels the same way as Peter.
00:20:49.822 - 00:21:14.490, Speaker A: And that's good. It's good that we have different opinions here, but hopefully we can get to a consensus. Hopefully we can actually, you know, if the core developers are actually being underpaid severely, we, you know, get them more money. Right. But at the end of the day, a salary is never going to get them what we know to the point where they need to be give them vested ETH, which is the ethereum foundation did with the client incentive program, do more of that. You know, the protocol guild that tren is working on is going to do stuff like that. That's what we need.
00:21:14.490 - 00:22:06.832, Speaker A: At the end of the day, we don't need kind of like people saying, oh, you know, we need to have like a salary of 500k for the core developers. Honestly, guys like, yes, that salary sounds like a lot, but that is not going to move the needle like a vested ETH thing would, especially as ETH goes up in price, especially if kind of like we had it from the early days, which I'm pretty sure the Ethereum foundation does pay out bonuses as ETH at any given time. So people held that, you know, it'd be really nice. But I just found it very surprising that Peter said he is not financially independent from, you know, yet from Ethereum, even though he's been there from day zero. I don't know the details of that, but I did find that quite surprising because I came in a lot later to this kind of like, ecosystem in 2017, and I got to the point where I am financially independent by kind of like investing in ETH and kind of like doing some other stuff as well. So I just found that surprising. But again, everyone's situation is always different, as always in, you know, the individual situation to consider here.
00:22:06.832 - 00:22:29.844, Speaker A: Maybe Peter couldn't hold on to that ETH. Maybe he really needed to sell it at the time that he got it in order to kind of like pay for expenses, and that's totally fine. Like, the early days of Ethereum is very different to what it is today. So, as I said, without having all the details, I can't really give much more of an opinion than that. But I hope that clears it up for you guys and kind of like gives my view on it and definitely read all the other kind of like views on it. You know, I've seen a lot of them on Twitter. Take it all in form your own opinion about it.
00:22:29.844 - 00:22:50.906, Speaker A: Don't just kind of like form an opinion based on one thing that you read. Try and kind of like get multiple views. I think that's always the best way to go about doing things. All right, so I'm going to power through these. I've got eight minutes left. Going to power through the rest of these updates here. So domothy, a loyal disciple of the Daily Gwey, as I said here, has put together an absolutely amazing post on Reddit called stuff our ethereum should know, proof of stake edition.
00:22:50.906 - 00:23:34.688, Speaker A: Now this is quite a lengthy post here. I highly recommend giving this a read, but this is basically debunking all the stuff that I've talked about before and all the common misconceptions got to do with proof of stake, the merge, ETH two generally, all that sort of stuff, stuff like the merge, reducing gas fees, you know, a stake, becoming unlockable at the merge, all that sort of stuff, and going into a lot of detail, too. So just wanted to highlight this highly, highly recommend checking it out and giving it a read. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so we had another tweet from Polynyard during the week comparing transaction fees for amm swaps between different kind of like networks, be it L2 networks or layer one network, side chains, all that sort of stuff. You can see the breakdown here and everything like that. But, you know, and kind of polynya has a thread here about this, talking about the caveats and stuff and everything.
00:23:34.688 - 00:24:05.004, Speaker A: And then in the comments there's a bunch of different kind of things to read. Just wanted to highlight that thread for there. But what I wanted to kind of like say here is that when looking at this sort of stuff and just looking at the vanilla transaction fees, you show this to someone and a total noob right to crypto, what are they going to tell you? They're going to say, hey, Ronin looks the cheapest because Ronin fees are zero. But then you're missing all the other context. Now, for those of you who don't know, Ronin is the axie infinity side chain. It's not anywhere near as decentralized as a theorem. I don't even know if it's decentralized.
00:24:05.004 - 00:24:30.084, Speaker A: I'm pretty sure there's still centralized controls in place for it. And, you know, obviously kind of like things like state bloat and stuff isn't considered. And I think the network recently had like a lot of issues staying online and stuff like that. So just looking at transaction fees in a vacuum is not the way to evaluate these sorts of networks because you don't, you don't have all the other stuff that goes into it that are stuff that I've talked about before. But I just wanted to kind of like highlight that there. But definitely give Polynar's thread here a read. It is a great, a really great one.
00:24:30.084 - 00:25:11.400, Speaker A: All right, so we have a really cool resource for EIP 4844 here called AIP 4844 Dot, which is codenamed Proto Dank Sharding, which is shard blob transactions I've spoken about a lot recently. Now this has guess all the information you need about this EIP, links to basically more information about it, tweets, all that sort of stuff. Definitely go, kind of go check this out. And the reason why everyone's excited about this EIP is that it will vastly reduce transaction fees for L2. And as I said, this is tentatively scheduled for the Shanghai update, which is coming after the merge. So definitely go check out this for more information on that. And also check out Vitalik's own technical faq on ERP 4844 here.
00:25:11.400 - 00:25:43.536, Speaker A: It's quite lengthy, so if you, this is basically will give you everything you want to know about 4844, that's for sure. And it does get into the weeds or the technical weeds as well. So definitely go check that out if you haven't already. All right, so friendly reminder that gitcoin grants round 13 matching round is still live. If you haven't donated yet, be sure to do so. So it's after ten days of the matching round being live, there's been over $400,000 of contributions from the community with over $3 million in matching funds. Now, this round has been, I think, smaller than the last round, given the state of the market, given the state of the ecosystem.
00:25:43.536 - 00:25:57.264, Speaker A: Right now it's much quieter. So I kind of like expected this. But yeah, if you haven't donated yet, be sure to do so. Thank you to everyone who's donated to both the deli Gwei and ETH hub. Really, really appreciate that. And yeah, definitely go check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description for you to donate as well.
00:25:57.264 - 00:26:20.732, Speaker A: All right, now we have something that I missed, I think, a couple of weeks ago, and Defi Saver sent to me. This is an update from them. So they introduced something on March 8 called their completely new and modular automated strategies. So their first new strategy automates debt payback with assets in mstable yearn or arare capital for Makerdao. CDP CDP owners in market crashes. Now, you can read more about this here. It'll link to the YouTube description.
00:26:20.732 - 00:26:47.874, Speaker A: But yeah, Defi Saver, I mean, is pretty awesome. They've been around for quite a while now. Basically, the logic is that they want to automate your defi kind of like activities, especially things like saving your position for liquidation and stuff like that. And as I said, they've been around for a while, and I should disclose that they've been a sponsor of ethub before. But as you guys know, Delaware doesn't take sponsors, so they haven't been a sponsor of Daily Gwei. But yeah, I just wanted to kind of like highlight this. Definitely go check out, check out this and check out Defi Saver.
00:26:47.874 - 00:27:35.146, Speaker A: You know, if you do have open positions on, you know, any of these kind of like apps here, make a compound, uniswap, mstable yearn, stuff like that, they definitely provide a lot of really, really cool automation tools for you to kind of play around with here. All right, so finally there is a new job at the Ethereum foundation that I've been asked to kind of like recommend to you guys on, on the refuel. Now this is a test engineer job. Now, the reason why I was asked to recommend this is because of what happened with the kiln testnet merge and how we need more testing done on kind of like the Ethereum core protocol side. So if that sounds like something you want to do and then you want to be involved and you want to help with and is, don't just think this is something small, guys. This is a critical part of Ethereum of core protocol development. But if this sounds like, sounds like, sounds like something you want to do, go click this, apply for this job button here.
00:27:35.146 - 00:28:24.802, Speaker A: And if you apply for it, definitely let me know so I can kind of like, you know, put your name forward to, to the relevant people as well. But yeah, the requirements for this role are listed down here. It is definitely a technical role. You know, you, you need to have experience working with the EVM, experience with both the execution and consensus layers of Ethereum is also nice to have, you know, inclination to think through failure modes for software proficiency and all the, you know, the stuff that, that's you listed here, all that sorts of stuff. But don't let that discourage you. If you are technical, if you have worked on this sort of stuff before, definitely just apply for the job and see how you go with it. I think it'd be a really cool job to like have and really rewarding as well because you would be responsible for helping test all the stuff and making sure that we don't have repeats of what happened, kind of, I guess with the kiln test net where we had a few things that needed more testing done on it and we may have been able to avoid kind of like the bugs that we saw on, on the kiln test net there.
00:28:24.802 - 00:28:40.614, Speaker A: But anyway, I think on that note, this is going to be it for today's episode. Just a reminder, again, no refuels the next two days, but a refuel on Thursday. So thank you everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all on Thursday. Thanks everyone.
