00:00:00.250 - 00:00:31.650, Speaker A: The core idea and that some others are leaning into now is like, yeah, if I'm holding eth on a roll up, I should just be holding the liquid staking token. Like, why wouldn't I? And so I think that trend is going to very much play out in Celeste in a way that we just don't see in these other cosmos chains of this one asset. Like, proliferating as money across these many different chains. Like, once you're in that scenario, you're going to want the liquid staking token and you're going to want the one that's the most neutral, the safest, the most, the closest to the base layer. And that's what led us to strive, because they were clearly the best team who were doing this. We were very impressed.
00:00:31.730 - 00:01:01.118, Speaker B: What's up, everyone? We are now almost one month out from Das London, the largest institutional conference in all of crypto. That's happening March 18 through the 20th, obviously, in London. This one's going to be a blast. We are almost ten times oversubscribed for tickets, which is pretty nuts. So again, we've had to lower the discount to bell ten. And better yet, make sure you bring your friends, we sell a four pack of tickets. Find people in your company, bring your boss, bring your family, bring your girlfriend or boyfriend, whatever it is, just go.
00:01:01.118 - 00:01:10.322, Speaker B: You're going to get a discount if you use that team pack. Run, don't walk. Make sure you go. Give those tickets today and cheers and see you in sunny London town. All right, everyone, welcome back to another.
00:01:10.376 - 00:01:11.566, Speaker A: Episode of Bell Curve.
00:01:11.598 - 00:01:13.214, Speaker B: Before we jump in, quick disclaimer.
00:01:13.262 - 00:01:14.974, Speaker A: The views expressed by my co host.
00:01:15.022 - 00:01:19.334, Speaker B: Today are their personal views, and they do not represent the views of any.
00:01:19.372 - 00:01:23.014, Speaker A: Organization with which the co hosts are associated with.
00:01:23.132 - 00:01:25.142, Speaker B: Nothing in the episode is construed or.
00:01:25.196 - 00:01:30.294, Speaker A: Relied upon as financial, technical, tax, legal, or other advice.
00:01:30.342 - 00:01:42.940, Speaker B: You know the deal. Now let's jump into the episode. All right, everyone, welcome back to another episode of Bell Curve. Today I'm joined by Aiden Salzman of Stride and John Charbo of DBA. Guys, welcome.
00:01:43.390 - 00:01:44.926, Speaker A: How's it going? Good to be on.
00:01:44.948 - 00:01:46.238, Speaker C: Thanks for having us on.
00:01:46.404 - 00:02:28.282, Speaker B: Yeah, guys, this is going to be a blast. This was coming off the week of coming off the back of a massive week for Stride. By the time this is live, we're going to have Ste alive. And John, I think, is going to take the cake for the most thorough piece of content ever produced about a single protocol. And for those of you who haven't read this piece, this little masterpiece, we're going to link it in the show notes, but I highly recommend that you read it because that was kind of the inspiration for a lot of what we're going to discuss today. So overall, guys, this is going to be a really fun deep dive into Stride, the protocol. But we're going to use Stride as a jumping off point to cover some of the hottest topics just within the broader space of liquid staking protocols in general.
00:02:28.282 - 00:02:59.560, Speaker B: And I think we're going to get into a lot of fun stuff that's not only going to be relevant for Stride, the cosmos and Celestia, but also for Ethereum as well. So maybe before we get into some of those broader themes, Aiden, can you just give us an overview of the architecture of Stride? And if you could touch on maybe some of the stuff that listeners who spend most of their time in the ethereum ecosystem and kind of have this workflow of sort of lido and ethereum, their protocol won't be as familiar with things like interchange accounts, liquid staking modules, stuff like that.
00:03:00.170 - 00:03:33.130, Speaker C: Definitely. So stride is a liquid staking protocol in cosmos. Like lido and Ethereum, stride takes in token deposits and issues St tokens against them. So for example, Stride will take in a TIA deposit and issue STT against that. It auto compounds rewards. And unlike steeth on Ethereum, ST tokens do not rebase. So the exchange rate between tokens and SC tokens, it's not one to one, it actually changes through time.
00:03:33.130 - 00:04:30.130, Speaker C: So if you hold one SCT at the beginning of the year, at the end of the year, you might have 1.1 TIA against that one SCT. Architecturally, Stride is an app chain, so most liquid staking protocols in other ecosystems, they're built as smart contracts. And for end users, this doesn't make a huge difference. But Cosmos, the sort of architecture of most Cosmos protocols is as appchains. And one thing that this allows Stride to do is it can support lots of different SD tokens in parallel. The way that this works is all of the core protocol business logic lives on the stride blockchain, and it can open IBC connections to other blockchains, and the liquid staking logic flows through those IBC connections.
00:04:30.130 - 00:04:57.274, Speaker C: So one reason this is helpful in Cosmos is you have these very minimal blockchains. For example, Cosmos Hub doesn't support smart contracts. Celestia doesn't support smart contracts. Some blockchains do have virtual machines like osmosis. They have cosmosm, but many do not. And the way that stride supports liquid staking is through something called an interchain account. All this is.
00:04:57.274 - 00:05:31.080, Speaker C: It's an account on another blockchain controlled by stride. And the reason you need something like this is with liquid staking. Users deposit tokens. They're all pooled, and then stride will stake and unstake those tokens on behalf of users. The logic to stake and unstake, that's the part that you need the interchange account for. So every day or every epoch, stride will send a message which batches stakes and batches unstakes, aggregating deposits across the epoch period. And that's sort of the high level idea of an interchange account.
00:05:31.080 - 00:05:47.980, Speaker C: There are some other differences. Stride has its own validator set. So stride uses interchange security, which has sort of some other interesting implications. LSM is another sort of interesting topic that I'm sure we'll get into, but at a very high level, that's how stride works.
00:05:49.950 - 00:05:50.746, Speaker A: Awesome.
00:05:50.928 - 00:06:11.314, Speaker B: Now, I actually want to double click there, Aiden as well, on the relationship with the Cosmos hub and what interchange security is. So can you give us an overview of what basically the hub is again, for listeners who might not be as familiar and what this concept of interchange security is and why Stride opted into that?
00:06:11.512 - 00:06:40.182, Speaker C: Yeah, definitely. So one way to think about Cosmos is it's sort of like a neighborhood, and the Cosmos hub is like the model house. So if you want to move to this neighborhood and build a house, typically what chains do is they'll fork the Cosmos hub. It's like the minimal, simple version of a blockchain built with the Cosmos SDK. In terms of what the Cosmos hub does, I mean, it issues the atom token. So that's its main purpose, I would say, or has historically been its main purpose.
00:06:40.246 - 00:06:42.990, Speaker B: It also has working on that main purpose.
00:06:47.570 - 00:07:31.846, Speaker C: The main product offering that the Cosmos hub has is a form of restaking called replicated security. I guess replicated security is also just one form of restaking offered by the cosmos hub or in cosmos. So soon, Cosmos Hub will have partial set security. But currently the service that the Cosmos hub provides is called interchain, or sorry, replicated security. And this means a different blockchain can inherit the validator set of the Cosmos hub. The reason a blockchain might want this is the validator set of the cosmos hub is extremely decentralized and economically very secure. The validators have strong reputations.
00:07:31.846 - 00:08:18.022, Speaker C: Cosmos Hub was one of the earliest proof of stake chains. I think it launched back in 2019 and they also have economic stake. So with Stride, for example, as a liquid staking provider, it's really critical that the underlying validator set that runs, the stride protocol is secure because liquid staking providers can have huge tvls. So stride could theoretically one day have billions or tens of billions in TVL like Lido and Ethereum. And the way that IBC works, the validator set technically custodies those tokens. So you want validators that are very reputable and that won't rug the protocol and take those tokens from users. So stride was the second blockchain to use interchange security after neutron.
00:08:18.022 - 00:08:32.990, Speaker C: And you can kind of think of this like the Cosmos hub outsourcing its functionality to other blockchains in its ecosystem. Neutron does smart contracts, stride does liquid staking. And yeah, that's a bit about ics.
00:08:34.390 - 00:09:32.370, Speaker B: Awesome. And I'd be curious as well, from your perspective, just because when you look at almost from like a business perspective with stride, I think one of the unique things about stride, as opposed to something like Lido on Ethereum or Jito over on Solana, is that you're trying to be kind of this solution for multiple different app chains, right? And obviously there's a power law in terms of assets that are actually widely adopted and have liquidity within cosmos. So let's just take the approach of atom in general. Obviously, that was a massive early first win for Stride, I would say. So can you talk about some of the other almost like, softer benefits as this? This is going to foreshadow a topic that we're going to discuss quite a bit later, but kind of this idea of alignment being important from who you are sourcing security from, and then if you could actually touch as well on the idea of protocol owned liquidity and how that was actually beneficial for the staked atom, atom pair.
00:09:33.110 - 00:10:00.234, Speaker C: Yeah, yeah. It's a great question, actually. I'd love to hear John's take on alignment as well. I don't really know how to define it. One thing I would say is stride. So for stride, I would say alignment means getting out of the way of other protocols, letting them do their jobs with liquid staking. The leverage that a liquid staking protocol has over a base layer, or the effect that it has is the decentralization of the validator set.
00:10:00.234 - 00:10:35.222, Speaker C: And this is really critical for any blockchain. Decentralization is the only thing that separates blockchains from the traditional tech industry. So when stride is aligned, we don't want to help the Cosmos hub do interchain security better. We just want to get out of the cosmosub's way and make sure that it's as decentralized as possible. I think what you're alluding to might be protocol and liquidity. And the way that this works is when Stride opted into interchange security. There's an exchange of payment for a service.
00:10:35.222 - 00:11:16.310, Speaker C: So stride pays 15% of its inflation and revenues that it has from liquid staking to Cosmos Hub in exchange for this security service. This is a great deal for Stride. So Stride's economic security went up ten x after it opted into ics, and its cost basis for security went down ten x. So the security per unit of spend went up like 100 x, which is a huge win. But in addition to this, Stride also got what's called protocol owned liquidity, and this was 450,000 atom from the Cosmos hub. So the Cosmos hub community pool took, I think, about $4.5 million, and it deployed it in an st atom atom pool on neutron.
00:11:16.310 - 00:12:10.590, Speaker C: The reason this makes sense for the Cosmos hub is typically bootstrapping and sustaining these pools requires liquidity, mining incentives on behalf of the LSP. But for Cosmos Hub, there's all this idle liquidity just sitting in the community pool. So why not, assuming the protocol is sound and won't get hacked, why not take that liquidity and deploy it throughout has a. It's a way to get over this bootstrapping problem of bootstrapping atom defi throughout different chains. There was an additional ask, so I think this worked really well for Cosmo sub, and they ended up deploying more protocol and liquidity. So Sonny from osmosis asked for an additional 900k atom, about $10 million, and that is now deployed on osmosis. I think it's earning something like 100k annually, and the hub can always take it back so that the ownership resides with the hub.
00:12:10.590 - 00:12:40.240, Speaker C: Strat has a similar deal with osmosis. So 20 million OSMO have been deployed to the SC Osmo Osmo pool, and hopefully more protocol and liquidity will be deployed in the future. So it's this sort of nice symbiosis between other chains and stride where stride gets in TVL and starts to bootstrap defi around the SC token and the community pool with very little financial risk. There's no real risk of impermanent loss. They can help bootstrap some of this defi. So that's how protocol and liquidity works?
00:12:42.930 - 00:13:14.010, Speaker A: Yeah, for the alignment stuff. Worth double clicking on that. You're saying I chime in a bit there, yeah, just for the word gets butchered all the time now just because of the whole ethereum alignment meme, blah, blah, blah. What we're concretely talking about here is like incentive alignment. And with lsts, we have a very concrete thing that we're talking about. So it's a very clear principal agent problem between two different parties here. We're always talking about whether it's stride or lido.
00:13:14.010 - 00:14:00.918, Speaker A: You have this issue between the liquid staking protocol itself and then the users of that protocol. So steeth holders or steel holders or St. Adam users, and also similar one between that liquid taking protocol, so stride lido, and the underlying chain itself. And those actually are two different problems to solve, which is something that sometimes gets overlooked, is there is a different principal agent problem between the holders of the asset, which are like your direct customers, and the chain itself. And that is what is often a very difficult problem to kind of solve in these. And what you see in ethereum world is like, Lido is the main one who's pushing this forward is this idea of dual governance. So concretely, the idea is like, hey, Lido token holders, they have all the governance rights.
00:14:00.918 - 00:15:10.030, Speaker A: So we can alleviate this by giving veto rights to steeth holders. So now all of our customers can veto anything if we try to do something crazy that's against their interest. Like, hey, we want to make 100% fees tomorrow, or go nuke the validator set or something like that. And that is supposed to kind of act as a proxy for also alignment with the host chain itself. So, solving both principal agent problems, but it is like a kind of fundamentally difficult and possibly impossible thing to solve there of what is the host chain of, how do you define that here? And that's what someone like Danny Ryan has criticized, the dual governance thing on lid of force. Like, oh, Steve, holders don't represent all of the ethereum community. And so the kind of fundamental question is like, okay, but what is the right thing to be aligned with? What is the right representation of the celestia community that we should be giving governance rights to? Should it be that STa holders are allowed to veto stride decisions that affect them? Or should it be like a full celestia governance vote? Or should it be some sort of social consensus among celestia that's able to veto things against them? So that is just like a very difficult problem to solve.
00:15:10.030 - 00:16:08.754, Speaker A: And so that is, a number of the things that stride has done with their existing products already has also kind of worked in this direction of like, okay, what are some ways you could alleviate that? And one of the things that they've added, for example, with St. Atom and St. Osmo, is, okay, we can have a council from these host chains like from osmosis or the cosmos hub that is ratified by their own governance, that understands the cosmos hub really well, and they can propose to stride like, hey, these are the validators we want, as opposed to stride handpicking them themselves. And similarly for celestia is a slightly different round of saying like, hey, we're going to try not to be super opinionated. We're just going to take what you guys say of a more copy staking approach of whatever validator set you guys have already picked. We're just going to honor that and try to distribute relatively accordingly to that. But you do still have a little bit of this fundamental problem at the end of the day of like, okay, but what if Lido or stride wants to deviate from that? At the end of the day, their governance does have power to do that.
00:16:08.754 - 00:17:02.018, Speaker A: And so a really good post in the Ethereum context, but is fully applicable here too, is Mike neuter had a post probably a couple months back on Lido attack vectors talking about exactly this. And this is what I think alleviates a lot of it's just like the natural incentives are there for stride or lido others to behave. Most of the attack vectors in practice are like, if these lsps try to go off the rails, they mostly just nuke their own protocol as opposed to actually harming the underlying protocol. You can mess with the validator set a little bit and then you just kind of get cut out and you destroy your own product. But it also is a particularly fun problem to solve in the context of stripe, when they're doing many different solutions and different chains may have a different answer to what is the right answer to host chain alignment with celestia may look different than the answer to what it should look like with the cosmos hub. So it's fun to keep playing around with those completely.
00:17:02.184 - 00:17:43.194, Speaker B: I mean, it's such an interesting question to delve into, because one of the other differences in between these different ecosystems is that they have very different origin sort of points, which led to different path dependency issues. So we're going to talk about this quite a bit. But if you look at one of the dichotomies of Ethereum compared to other proof of stake systems, is Ethereum started as proof of work. And there was this period during the merge where staking had this horrible ux, and that led to this divergence in the adoption of staking versus liquid staking that you see in, for instance, cosmos or Solana, where there's a low overall lower stake rate, extremely high penetration of liquid staking. And it's the exact opposite in cosmos. Very high native stake rate, very low liquid staking. Same with Solana.
00:17:43.194 - 00:18:23.980, Speaker B: So we can get into that. But I want to double click on this issue of alignment and just underscore some of what John said there. And maybe to add these sorts of categories of alignment. Know, liquid staking is something that is extremely close to the metal. You can see this probably most clearly in Ethereum today, where there's a lot of vigorous discussion around Solana, around Lido, rather. And I think there's a couple of different reasons for that, which is one, in some sense, staking pool operators, they're very close to the metal in the sense that you could actually, if you were to basically control a certain amount of stake, you could mess with the operations of the chain. Then there's this other issue of kind of giving up control, right, of the.
00:18:23.980 - 00:19:07.690, Speaker B: Maybe it's your values or how your validator set is selected, that type of thing. And then there's also this other component, which is many chains like Ethereum are starting to view their export and primary product as money, and you could view the liquid staked derivative as a competitor to that form of money, and that forms its own sort of tension as well. So I want to get into that. But let's talk a little bit about some of the solutions that have been proposed in Cosmos land and how they rhyme a little bit with some new suggested approaches towards staking in Ethereum. So why don't we start? Aiden, could you give us an overview of what the liquid staking module, the LSM, is and how that alleviates some of these concerns?
00:19:08.910 - 00:19:48.006, Speaker C: Yeah. So the liquid staking module in Cosmos, or LSM, is primarily two things. First, it is a regulatory framework around liquid staking. And second, it's a big ux improvement for the existing way to liquid staking cosmos. I'll touch on both of those. So, on the regulation side, Cosmos hub has been around for a long time, and Jay and Ethan, the founders, they've thought a lot about liquid staking and staking and some of the potential incentive misalignment that could arise from that. So I think there's a lot of uncertainty to John's points.
00:19:48.006 - 00:20:35.494, Speaker C: There's all these open questions around what actually are the incentives? Would a liquid staking protocol ever actually attack the base layer? Probably not, but there are some unknowns. So on Cosmos hub, one solution to allow the safe growth of liquid staking in the view of the Cosmos hub was to add two safety features. The first is a global cap. So it's just like, it limits liquid stake to 25% of overall network stake, and this gets rid of a lot of potential attacks. So, for example, the liquid staking protocols, even if they all come together, they can't halt the chain because you need 33% of stake to do that. So that's sort of like this idea of the global cap. It's sort of a sledgehammer, I would say.
00:20:35.494 - 00:21:13.282, Speaker C: It's a big, blunt tool. It's not very fine grained, but it sort of works for what the cosmos hub wanted. The second is the validator bonds. The idea behind the validator bond is it forces validators that want to participate in liquid staking to put up additional capital, and it helps mitigate some of these worries around the principal agent problem. So if a validator participating in liquid staking actually ended up going rogue and attacking the base layer in favor of the liquid staking protocol, its validator bond would be slashed. And the validator bonds is. There's all kinds of things you can do to play around with this.
00:21:13.282 - 00:21:46.190, Speaker C: You could increase the slashing rate on validator bonds. You could increase the yield or decrease it on validator bonds. But currently on cosmos, the validator bond is just sort of normal stake that's put up solely by the validator. So it gets the validators to have some skin in the game. So that's the regulation side on the mike. You actually, that was a great point you brought up, which is on Ethereum, there's this transition from proof of work to proof of stake. So when users were initially staking, they could choose between a liquid staking protocol or natively staking.
00:21:46.190 - 00:22:04.046, Speaker C: And especially early mean. I think both of you know more about this than I do, but my impression was especially early on, it was pretty hard to natively stake. So liquid staking was very attractive. On Cosmos, it's very different. So staking has been around for a long time. It's super easy. You just go on kepler, you stake.
00:22:04.046 - 00:22:44.000, Speaker C: So most tokens in cosmos are staked, and there's this unbonding period. And because of the unbonding period, which is 21 days on Cosmos hub, it takes a while to get your stake out and then put it in a liquid staking protocol. And this has been a big hurdle to user adoption. So the idea behind LSM is, well, what if you could get an NFT that represents your stake instantly, so you don't have any of these problems of instant unbonding and short and long range attack vectors. You just get an NFT that represents your stake, and you can deposit that into liquid staking protocols in exchange for lsts. So the onboarding flow to go from natively staking to liquid staking is like a matter of minutes, whereas previously it was weeks.
00:22:45.570 - 00:23:23.586, Speaker B: All right, that was a really good point. Let's take those in reverse order there. And actually, so that was a really good explanation of kind of the value proposition of, again, there's a funny path dependence thing where the really horrible ux for Ethereum stakers at the beginning led to high adoption of liquid staking. Low native Cosmos has the opposite problem where it was super easy to stake in the beginning, very high percentage of native stakers as opposed to liquid stakers. And now we're trying to move those native stakers over into liquid staking by making the flow a lot easier. So can you. One thing that I would just find particularly interesting is there's a fungibility constraint on LSM shares.
00:23:23.638 - 00:23:23.854, Speaker C: Right?
00:23:23.892 - 00:24:03.690, Speaker B: So that NFT that you were talking about, those aren't perfectly native one to one, it's specific to the validator that you're staking to. And then your own sort of delegation record, I believe is the term. So these are not very native or these are not very fungible, if you guys can hear that. And fungibility, for those of you who listen to the liquid staking session on Bell curve, we know it's very important. So how does on the back end stride manage these different non fungible positions and produce something that is maximally fungible as the LST?
00:24:05.310 - 00:24:45.346, Speaker C: Yeah, so it's kind of an interesting implementation detail of LSM that you get something that looks like an NFT. The reason it looks like an NFT is when you get a plot of these tokens, there's an address stored on chain that gets all the staking rewards for that NFT. I think there's different ways that the LSM possibly could have been built where you actually don't have. Where you don't have nfts, and instead you have a liquid staking token per validator. But this is sort of the way that the development shook out. So these nfts are very hard to use in. Like really they're just infrastructure for liquid staking protocols.
00:24:45.346 - 00:25:38.780, Speaker C: If you went to a lending protocol, for example, with this, like it's an NFT with a certain staking reward address, and there's a certain number of tokens. And it's just really hard for something like that to be integrated in DeFi protocols, which are already so complex. So like you said, what users typically do is they'll take this NFT and they'll deposit in a liquid staking protocol like stride. If you deposit your NFT into stride, you get scatm in return instantly. So your user journey ends there. You take your scottom, you can go trade it, sell it, use it as collateral, whatever you want on the back end. What stride is doing is it takes the NFT, it transfers it back to the cosmos hub, it turns it back into native stake, and then once every three weeks or so, stride rebalances delegations across the entire set.
00:25:38.780 - 00:26:09.620, Speaker C: There's some technical reasons for why it has to happen once every three weeks. It's not super important, but one interesting thing here is, unlike, I think, lido on Ethereum, or Ethereum in general, Cosmos is delegated proof of stake. So for stride to delegate to a node operator, there's no hurdle of onboarding the node operator or having them spin up additional hardware. Stride can just have a rebalancing algorithm on chain and delegate to whoever it wants.
00:26:11.750 - 00:27:15.960, Speaker A: Super interesting. Yeah. One important thing that this probably is kind of the point to touch on it that I think this design touches on is kind of like, what is the fundamental goal of what you're trying to do with this kind of protocol level regulation for liquid staking? Are you trying to just create some minimal form of infrastructure, which is what the LSM is doing to make these out of protocol lsts better? Or the other direction is to say, like, hey, us, as the protocol should just enshrine all this LST stuff, and we issue lsts as the protocol itself. And that is kind of like the clear delineation. And so, as you can tell from hearing about the LSM shares these technically semi fungible tokens that you get as a user that are in practice useless or not intended as an end user product. It's just kind of like a piece of infrastructure that's supposed to be deposited and destroyed, and they actually give you the end user product. The opposite direction of that that you could try to take is you could say, hey, the protocol itself should just offer one maximally fungible LST to everyone.
00:27:15.960 - 00:28:56.306, Speaker A: The TLDR is like, if you try to do one single maximally fungible one from the protocol, what you end up backing into is just like the proof of stake mechanism doesn't actually super make sense anymore, and you basically end up going into the proof of governance thing, which is what I've written about before. The proof of stake mechanism actually isn't needed. What others are trying to do in the middle is something that Aidan had touched on, is what could have been a different implementation if you modified the proof of stake mechanism such that each validator can issue their own lst that is fungible within their own validator. And so this is the kind of approach that if you've looked at some of the writings in the Ethereum world recently, over the past few months, of where some people in Ethereum have toyed around with the idea of how can we change the staking mechanism? Like the two tier staking post that Mike had written about and that doncrat had written about previously, and also actually very similar to something that penumbra has been working on with their staking tokens is the idea that in the, like, let's say aid and I are both delegated to the Coinbase validator on the hub. Like his delegation record of that, his LSM share and my LSM share would be different. Even though we're delegated to the exact same validator, you could implement it in a way which is more like what Penum is trying to do, of if we're both delegating to the same the, you would be able to have a coinbase specific LST that is actually fungible between us. And so you could start to see that, okay, is that a useful thing to have? Is that an end user product that could be issued for people to use? I still think what you basically end up with the end of the day is like, okay, but people don't want fungible within one of the 100 validators.
00:28:56.306 - 00:29:47.586, Speaker A: They want an actual maximally fungible thing, not the like, oh, this LST comes with a seven and a half percent commission that gets cut out of this one, and that one's a 5% commission. And they give you like, Mev rewards. And the other one, people don't want to do that. They want one maximally fungible thing. So even if you tried to do this, what's going to happen in practice, in my mind, is like, okay, now the protocol solution, like stride, like lido, whatever, is still just going to take in these shares issue a maximally fungible token that kind of pulls that across them, and that's what the end user will end up with. So that is basically kind of the guiding principle that this ends up coming to. To me, at the end of the day, as a protocol, when you're trying to design this regulation, it should just be with the goal of what is the thing that we can design that will make out of protocol liquid staking tokens better and more competitive and safer against each other such that there are lower switching costs.
00:29:47.586 - 00:30:02.410, Speaker A: They are just a safer and better product for users. It's not trying to replace them or get them to not exist or anything like that, or replace them with an enshrined version. It's just how do we make this other out of protocol thing safer and better for users?
00:30:03.550 - 00:30:48.010, Speaker B: Yeah, so much to unpack in there, John. But basically, I think if you brought. I'm just remembering back now to some of the conversations I've had about liquid staking in the past. And fungibility is like a core design constraint or design principle of something like lido. And probably the reason for that is because there are such power law effects to liquid staking, and liquidity is so crucial. Liquidity and fungibility kind of walk hand in hand, and you definitely wouldn't want to destroy mean. This is kind of like pretty nerdy stuff here, but I find it sort of beautiful, actually, that it's an interesting sort of alchemy that protocols like stride perform, and they take these sort of non fungible LSM shares and they produce something that is fungible, which I find super interesting.
00:30:48.010 - 00:31:26.774, Speaker B: I also do think, as a side note, I don't want to go too far down this tangent, but I think that the liquid staking module in general will end up. History will show that this is the right approach to take, that some form of regulate, like in protocol regulation, is probably the right way that a lot of these different protocols are going to ultimately end up walking down. And even though it's been moderate adoption so far, I have a lot of hope for it as a design principle. I think it's been very good. Okay, last sort of detail on this is one, how do we get the 25% cap? This is also one of my favorite parts about Cosmos versus Ethereum. This was Ethereum. This would have been like a year.
00:31:26.774 - 00:31:36.300, Speaker B: Multiple research posts and cosmos just kind of go, 25% feels about right. Let's give it a shot. We can change it, but how do we end up on 25%?
00:31:37.150 - 00:32:06.926, Speaker C: Yeah, that is a great question. So there's sort of this edge case in LSM where let's say you hit the 25% cap. So you have 25% liquid stake, 75% native stake. Now native stakers start unbonding. The share of liquid stake to native stake starts to go over 25%. There are other solutions that you could come up with here. For example, you could force liquid staking protocols to undelegate and then put that stake in a buffer.
00:32:06.926 - 00:32:57.220, Speaker C: And then the yield for each LSP goes down, but it's a bit tricky to do that. So the simple solution today is like, yes, technically the cap is 25%, but if you hit the cap and then native stakers start unstaking, it actually goes above 25%. The big mental threshold is 33% because that's where liquid staking protocols can halt the chain. So with the 25% cap, I don't have the math in front of me, but I believe you'd need 25% of native stake or, sorry, 25% of all stake. So one third of native stake would need to unbond for the liquid staking protocol to be 33% of the network. And that's just a massive amount of stake to unbond. So it felt like with a 25% cap, the chance that all liquid staking protocols collectively actually reach 33% of network stake felt very low.
00:32:57.220 - 00:33:08.600, Speaker C: And I think most even the critics of liquid staking agreed on this. To your point, it is a little bit hand wavy, don't have strong evidence for this, but that's sort of how we got to the number.
00:33:09.850 - 00:33:51.506, Speaker B: I love that. That's great. And one more, I want to just zoom in on that third point, because this has been of interest to me for a little while. In terms of mitigating principal agent problem and requiring validators to post a bond, there are many different ways that this could get implemented, and I feel like you could actually dedicate an entire podcast episode to just the design space for something like this alone. But, John, for folks who might be a little bit less familiar with kind of the trade off of requiring validators to post a bond or something like that, can you just give, like an Eli five overview of, again, why that is the case? And what are some of the different trade offs and different flavors of how that could get implemented?
00:33:51.698 - 00:34:40.814, Speaker A: Yeah, sure. So the basic idea is the kind of fundamental trade off you're trying to do here is the higher that the self bond you require out of validators, in theory, the more skinning the game that that validator has. So you have mitigated the principal agent problem more of like, okay, they actually have skin in the game. This validator isn't just going to go do something stupid, get slashed, and just get the user's money slashed because they have skin in the game, they'll get slashed, too. So that, in theory, is why a higher bond is better on the lower side. The benefit of that is that basically it just makes it a whole lot easier, and it's much more capital efficient. So if the bond is too high, what happens is, okay, I'm some random guy at home, I'm pretty responsible.
00:34:40.814 - 00:35:29.574, Speaker A: I want to run a validator and get some delegated stake from people, but I don't have a million dollars to go put it myself. Now, maybe I can't be competitive as a validator because I just don't have enough money to do a self bond. So you kind of self limit yourself of like, all right, you cut out the little guys who are unable to put the capital costs up themselves, and you just make the system generally less capital efficient because you can't liquefy this stake. So the extreme stance that you take on this is you just don't have any in protocol delegation, which is itself implicitly just a 100% self bond requirement. And this is what Ethereum does. And so what happens in practice when you go all the way in this direction is everyone just evades the mechanism and you end up with zero skin in the game anyway because everyone just says, screw this, I'm not putting up 32 eth myself. And the majority of people end up saying, all right, here, Lido, take all my money.
00:35:29.574 - 00:36:50.542, Speaker A: Coinbase, you take all my money. And then they're entirely putting up the user's money. And so if you look at Lidos, like their node operator registry, like their whitelisted set or Coinbase validator today, they're not like self bonding their own money. They're just like taking all the users money and doing that. So what is this balance of? Can you have a number that is reasonable and gives them some skin in the game, but isn't so big that it cuts out the little guy and also just incentivizes everyone to kind of just cheat the mechanism anyway and just get it all delegated to them out of protocol anyway? And so interestingly, in the self bond of the LSM, it is called a self bond because in theory that is what it is supposed to be, but there's obviously no way for you to actually perfectly regulate that. So for this self bond, stride can, it's not the way that they do it today, but they can decide to like, hey, we are going to put up the self bond for this validator. And that can sound like a bad thing because then like, oh, okay, we just defeated the self bond, but it can also sound like a good thing to some degree if it's used responsibly of like, hey, what if we make a really high self bond and then liquid staking protocols, like stride kind of subjectively say, hey, if you're coinbase, we're not going to front any of the self bond for you.
00:36:50.542 - 00:37:20.646, Speaker A: You put it up yourself. But for the smaller validators that we delegate stake to, we'll help you out and we'll put up half your self bond for you because we understand that you don't have the money. And so that sounds like a good thing. And so that is kind of the fundamental problem of what is the objectively right number that perfectly balances. Oh, you mitigate the principal agent problem, but you have the right capital costs for the little guy and balance all these things. That number just does not exist. So in the same way that 25% is a little bit like, this seems about right.
00:37:20.646 - 00:37:43.040, Speaker A: 251 sounds about right. Of like, it's a non zero amount of money that they're going to put up, but isn't going to squish the little guy out completely, but is enough to mitigate it. So this seems like a reasonable number, but where do you put that number? There is no perfect answer to it. And in theory, anything that you put up can always kind of can be evaded out of protocol if it's too extreme anyway.
00:37:43.490 - 00:38:09.206, Speaker B: Yeah. So would it be safe to say that in general, what we're trying to do here with these sorts of mechanisms is it's almost like one of the problems with crypto is that we don't really have a stick with a lot of things. Right. So we're almost trying to create these regulations that are going to. The end result will be something that's beneficial over a long period of time for users. And a lot of what has been applied so far is basically like an abstinence policy for sex. It's like, just don't do it.
00:38:09.206 - 00:39:07.386, Speaker B: Well, that doesn't work because people will then just evade and not use those regulations. We have to find a way to find some sort of middle ground where responsible actors, maybe there is a little bit of social pressure. It's like, hey, you should participate in the LSM because this is in the best long term value proposition for all of us, and don't do stuff out of protocol. So I think that's an interesting analogy to use. And one additional implementation detail that I would say there as well is you could mess around with slashing requirements as well, or slashing conditions where you could say, okay, we'll just slash the self bond part of it and not anything that gets delegated. So, again, why design space there in general? But moving past the LSM, and maybe this is where we can get into a little bit about some of the differences even in between Ethereum and cosmos in general. One of the things that I've been sort of thinking about is that Ethereum, it had to do all of this stuff first in a sense, and figure a lot of this out.
00:39:07.386 - 00:39:49.670, Speaker B: And now cosmos kind of has the benefit of it has a more mature staking ecosystem, but a slightly less mature liquid staking ecosystem. And so I think that there are definitely some lessons that could be learned, and I would just love to get a sense from you guys, and maybe, John, you touched about this honestly, and you expanded on this a little bit in even previous portions of your blog, but you started to touch on some of the proposals that are coming up in Ethereum land for things like two tier staking and stuff like that. Can you kind of walk us through what are some of the changes that are coming down the pipe potentially in the ethereum ecosystem? And then we can kind of compare and contrast some of the demand drivers for liquid staking adoption in between these two ecosystems.
00:39:50.250 - 00:40:48.460, Speaker A: So I'm skeptical that these changes will happen for the just obvious reasons with Ethereum of like, it would take a huge amount of momentum to meaningfully overhaul the proof of stake mechanism and get a lot of social consensus on it, where I don't know that that's going to happen. That's my general intuition on the situation right now. But most of the stuff that's been proposed in Ethereum is similar to the liquid staking module in that there is some notion of an in protocol awareness of this kind of like self bond mechanism of anyone can put up like as a validator, I put up say one ETH and then I can get delegated another 31 eth and you could play with whatever numbers you want. I think in Don Crod's post, I mean, he had put 20 to one, but you could change the number. That was just like an example. So very similar idea there of like whatever amount that I put up, I can, in proportion to that, get some amount delegated to me against which you can issue a liquid staking token. So that all sounds like quite similar.
00:40:48.460 - 00:42:06.338, Speaker A: The main difference, I would say that pretty much all of the Ethereum posts between like Doncrad, Mike and Vitalik had some on that they kind of contemplated is something that the liquid staking module, at least initially, the way it's implemented, does not do. And it is what Aiden had touched on before. And that is kind of differentiating the treatment between the self bond capital and the delegated capital. So in particular, what some of these other kind of like Ethereum ideas floating around have been, it was like, okay, we could give different interest rates to the two different tiers, and you can also apply different slashing rules to the two different tiers. So you could, for example, pay a higher yield to the self bonded tier as opposed to the delegated tier to kind of compensate them for the additional lack of liquidity and the higher slashing risk because you wouldn't slash them. And so I don't know that that makes a ton of sense from thinking about it more and more of really just putting in any kind of higher yield for that just incentivizes going around the mechanism to make another LST against the self bond anyway. And in practice, the market is always just going to set whatever is the right overall rate of like, let's say that you set the difference too high.
00:42:06.338 - 00:43:07.154, Speaker A: And so the delegated allocators, like they're making too much money. Well, what are they going to do that you just kind of return that money to users in the form of a negative commission, or if you make the difference too low or the same, or even give them like 0% yield on the south bond, they just charge a higher commission against the yield that is given to users. So the market is just always going to correct with commissions, whatever the yield is. Anyway, the more interesting and fundamental part that matters is what some of them had contemplated doing is removing all slashing risk for the delegated stake and limiting all slashing risk entirely to the self bonded stake. So that is something that is interesting. It is kind of just like basically an admission that economic security numbers today of when people say like, oh, we have economic security of x because y amount is staked, that number is a little bit not super perfect in that it's all delegated stake. And so that's not the amount of money that actually gets slashed by the person who's doing the action.
00:43:07.154 - 00:43:58.390, Speaker A: So they're not actually incentivized to do that. So removing the slashing on the delegated stake and limiting it to the amount of self bonding stake is saying like, hey, this is what the bad guy is actually going to lose. If they do the bad thing, they will actually lose x amount of their own money. And it's kind of saying that this is really the economic security. At the end of the day, it's like, what will the person who does the bad thing actually lose? And so I think that intuitively that does kind of make sense. And the idea of why you would want to do that in particular is that it kind of helps fix this problem that fundamentally exists with staking today and that you see in delegated proof of stake of I as a user, among other factors. One of the factors that I'm picking on is like, is this a good validator that is just going to screw up and get me slashed and then I'm going to lose my money? I obviously don't want to do that.
00:43:58.390 - 00:44:39.074, Speaker A: So what people will do in practice is they will overcorrect and they will use just like brand, among other reasons, as kind of like a proxy for safety of like Coinbase is responsible. I see that they have 20% of the stake. Other people trust them, they're reputable. I'm going to give them all my money. I know that they're not going to get slashed or do anything funny with it. And so when you entirely remove the slashing risk and you say like, hey, no matter which person you decide to delegate to, you're not going to get slashed anyway, don't worry, the user should have a much higher risk tolerance of the risk of slashing is removed, so they should be able to vote with their conscience. More of like, okay, I can just delegate to the smallest guy in the validator set because I want to help decentralize the validator set.
00:44:39.074 - 00:45:20.180, Speaker A: He's like a pretty good guy. I know him, I'm friends with him, and even if he screws up, I'm not going to get slashed anyway. And so you should get a bit more distributed validator set. So that part does make sense. It definitely lowers that calculation in your head. That being said, there is still the calculation in your head of like, okay, but what if a different validator is like, offer me different rewards of what if this guy at the top is doing timing games and juicing their Mev rewards and he has a higher yield? Well, that kind of still matters to me. And so you don't entirely remove that, but it does at least kind of reduce the barrier of users worrying about this risk in the back of their heads when they kind of pick a delegator and elect to them.
00:45:20.180 - 00:46:34.506, Speaker A: It also helps mitigate just like a lot of random tail risk scenarios that lsts create of like, hey, what if we have all of defi based on lsts? That is what everything is based on. And now you have an incentive potentially for someone to take over the validator set and just intentionally get all of it slashed because they have some short position open, or they're going to profit from a bunch of liquidations. If this thing depegs you kind of just get rid of that risk because now the asset actually can't really move away from slashing. So it's a bunch of trade offs in those. But in general, it is like a reasonable acceptance that, hey, this entirely delegated capital probably isn't providing a whole lot of incentive compatible economic security anyway. So can we just remove a bunch of these other risks by getting rid of the sloshing? And my expectation is not that will happen in Ethereum. I would expect other chains to play around with that, particularly in cosmos, as other chains are going to play around with different variations of the LSM, I think it makes sense for other chains to play around with this of like, we should just not slash delegated stake or treat it differently in some other manner, or even just give the first tranche of slashing to the self bought stake, and then after all of that has been slashed, then only start slashing the others.
00:46:34.506 - 00:46:41.530, Speaker A: There's different games you can kind of play with it. I would definitely expect people to start playing around with that as people have more variations of the LSM.
00:46:42.270 - 00:47:37.838, Speaker B: Yeah, I want to zoom in there, John, on one thing that you were starting to talk about, which was the validator selection process, and maybe we can shift to that because that was another part of the reason why when we talked about liquid staking protocols being really close to the metal of proof of stake chains, this was a huge part of that. Right. Basically validators having chains having some opinion. Right. Opinionated approach to what their validator set ultimately ends up looking like. Aidan as one of the founders of Stride, where you've been a liquid staking provider for multiple different proof of stake protocols, each with their own sort of opinionated version of what their validator set should look like? Can you kind of walk us through a how chains think about this? And then what are some of the different methodologies that stride has approached with basically helping select the validator set? Or like, what influence does stride have over the validator set, so to speak?
00:47:38.004 - 00:48:06.358, Speaker C: Yeah, the influence that stride has over the validator set is there's a percentage of stake that stride has, and that stake stride can delegate to any validator in the set. The reason it can delegate to any validator is, again, delegated proof of stake. So it's fully permissionless to do these delegations. The percentage of stake that stride has across different networks varies. On the cosmos hub, it's on the lower end, maybe two, 3%. On osmosis, it's actually quite a bit higher. Closer to 10%.
00:48:06.358 - 00:48:58.834, Speaker C: On ebmos, it's even higher, maybe closer to 20 and I expect it to keep going up through time. So this is a really crucial decision for stride, although decision might be a bit of a misnomer, because really stride tries to push this decision to the chains that it's supporting. Going back to stride's core goals, I think any liquid staking protocol should be very, as we said, aligned with host chains for validator selection. What that means typically is decentralization and network performance. Different chains have different preferences. There's no one size fits all. The default approach that stride takes is it excludes all centralized exchanges, because why would you want to stake to them? It doesn't really help decentralization or network performance exclude validators with a higher than 15% commission.
00:48:58.834 - 00:49:31.422, Speaker C: It's just quite high. And often they're investors that are running their own validator, just kind of a proxy for that. And then stride delegates to the top 30 validators. It uses an approach called copy staking for the top 30. So it just looks at the weights and it delegates proportional to those top 30 validators. The reason it's only 30 is sort of a technical implementation detail, and I expect this will increase to the entire set soon when stride sends these interchanges. So interchange blockchain programming is super tricky.
00:49:31.422 - 00:50:25.762, Speaker C: There's all kinds of weird edge cases that you get when you're trying to program things asynchronously versus if you just have one global state machine, and there's all these fallbacks and edge cases you have to handle if something succeeds or fails. So, getting a little bit technical here, but the way that stride stakes again is it sends an IBC packet which says like, hey, on Cosmos Hub, please stake this on my behalf. Cosmos hub does it or not? And then it sends an acknowledgment. So it's much easier for stride if everything happens atomically. So if an entire batch of staking and unstaking happens atomically, and there's only so many stake and unstake messages that can fit in a single block of transactions. So across most chains, it's about like 30. But anyway, we're refactoring and this will be 100 soon, popping back up the stack.
00:50:25.762 - 00:50:57.914, Speaker C: There's some different processes that stride uses on different chains to optimize for decentralization and network performance. So on atom and osmosis, the process is community led. Stride stakes 25% of all of its stake to each quartile of the set. So this ensures like a baseline level of decentralization. We don't want to stake everything to the top of the set. Or the bottom, there's trade offs to both. So we just kind of distribute things mostly evenly, but then within each quartile, a neutral council.
00:50:57.914 - 00:51:32.570, Speaker C: On each of these post chains, Adam and osmosis will evaluate the validators based on things like uptime, governance, participation, commissions, how long they've been in the active set, things like that. And then they get stack ranked and then delegated to accordingly. And this gets refreshed every few months. For DYDX, they really care about network performance. Obviously for a perps protocol, this is crucial. So the validators there were selected with some feedback and help from the DyDX foundation, optimizing for network performance and latency. And for celestia.
00:51:32.570 - 00:52:03.700, Speaker C: Celestia is a very minimal blockchain. So the approach that stride is taking for SCT is just copy staking. And for Celestia, we actually will delegate to every single validator in the set. So we're trying to be maximally unapinionated. We got lots of feedback from the celestia community and just delegating to every validator in the set proportional to their stake and then rebalancing through time. This removes the effects of skewing the stake that a liquid staking protocol would otherwise have.
00:52:04.230 - 00:52:46.666, Speaker B: Yeah, and just to underline that last part, Aiden, for folks that might not be quite as familiar, one of the issues with proof of stake chains that start with native the ability to delegate built in, you end up with very top heavy validator sets because of exactly the dynamic that John was describing before. Where there's kind of an early lead, there's typically a validator with a brand name. Maybe it's course one, or Coinbase or P to P or whoever. I don't really know any of these other long list of names. I know these names. They have all the stakes I'm just going to delegate up there. So there's kind of this problem that a lot of chains have early on in their lifecycle where they have these very top heavy validator sets.
00:52:46.666 - 00:53:30.110, Speaker B: It makes sense from the standpoint of a delegator, but it isn't necessarily in a chain's best interest. So maybe there are like a couple of different options that a chain could go down. And I do think there's a little bit of tension here, frankly, because maybe like let's just generalize and say there are three options, which is one, you could just say, hey, I don't actually really know how to construct a validator set that's maximally decentralized. Stride, could you help me out with that and stride has, like, a very detailed philosophy on what they think a validator set should look like. Then there's kind of a middle ground of this community sort of approach where there's a little bit of input from stride and a lot of. A good amount of input from the protocols, like it's what osmosis did. And then there's just like a copy, which is to say, this is the route that we go with Celestia and just say, hey, we're just going to copy the existing validator set.
00:53:30.110 - 00:53:58.886, Speaker B: And the tension, and I'd be curious to get both of your guys perspective on this is, I understand from the perspective of Celestia wanting, they don't want to surrender any control over what their validator set looks like. But similarly to other chains, they have this kind of top heavy validator set. Right. And it actually might be in their best interest, long term to give someone like Stride who is, you could almost consider them a neutral third party in some respects. More control there. But I'd be curious about how you guys see that. I don't know.
00:53:58.886 - 00:54:01.930, Speaker B: I don't know if tension is the right word, but dynamic.
00:54:02.510 - 00:54:30.820, Speaker C: Yeah, I think you hit the nail on the head. People are going to delegate their stake to the top of the set for obvious reasons. So this is definitely a problem on many chains. I think for now, taking one of these approaches and applying it to a chain is the simplest way to do things. So, for example, with Celestia, they want copy. Staking makes a ton of sense. Stride should just do.
00:54:30.820 - 00:55:03.866, Speaker C: They're actually. They want something that's a bit more opinionated and that decentralizes network stake. I think they're just maybe a bit. Yeah, they're just more comfortable with that idea. But there are merits to both approaches, so I could see some blend of these working well in the long term, maybe after stride builds up some trust with the celestia community, improves the technology, we're starting with one solution and progressing towards something that's more trust minimized. Maybe we would move from copy staking to something that's more opinionated. That's sort of one way I could see it playing out.
00:55:03.866 - 00:55:10.240, Speaker C: But here's to hear John's take. I know this kind of starts to get into the proof of governance territory, so, sure, you have a lot of.
00:55:10.930 - 00:56:48.042, Speaker A: It's like, it's such a tricky question, because what is the right thing for Stride to do for most of these chains? Because particularly for someone like Celestia and someone like Ethereum, stride and Lido, actually can't answer that question when Ethereum and Celestia themselves don't know the answer to that question. I think most on chain governance chains, like the cosmos hub or like they have, I would say, a reasonable view of like, hey, we're fine with being pretty opinionated and we want to decentralize the validator set intentionally. We would like to move in this direction, and on chain governance will have a say in this is kind of where should we should go. Ethereum doesn't have that on chain governance and agreement on like, hey, this is what we want to do in the first place. And Celestio has some form of on chain governance, but also wants to lean very heavily on off chain governance and emphasize that even more over time, not trying to just be subject to what do Tia token holders all want to do? So then kind of the fundamentally difficult problem with that is like, okay, let's say that we want the celestia community to decide what is the right staking distribution. What does the celestia community actually mean in this scenario? Is it the Tia token holders? Because we kind of just said, no, it's not just the Tia token holders, but that's the simplest things to do, is just to say, what do the Tia token holders do? Whoever they delegated to is the right thing to do. And so kind of to the point of what I think will probably be the right natural progression is clearly for stride.
00:56:48.042 - 00:58:23.774, Speaker A: Having spoken to the community, the celestic community, a lot people around it, the thing that they want right now is just launch at first with a very minimally opinionated copy staking, pretty much just copy the entire set and then remove the handful of both sexes and some people who charge like 100% commissions because they're like investors running their own validators, remove that handful and then otherwise just copy what we're doing. And then I think as you build up more trust and work with them over time, and as the selected community kind of figures out what they want themselves of, like, hey, this is how we want to build the validator set, then stride can work in reflection of that, because liquid staking protocols that just kind of intuitively get. This is one of the most important things to me, of the teams that get that. The best thing for them to do from a product perspective is literally to just do whatever the hell the host chain wants and not try to. What is the thing that optimizes our validator rewards on the margin that our liquid staking protocol can get? The way that you grow the fastest as a liquid staking protocol is by having the trust of the community and building the safest and most aligned thing for that community. And that's how you grow really quickly and that's how you become money and that's how you become the safest product for them to use anyway. And so I think it's going to be this natural and just iterative progression in both stride for Stea's case and also like Lido and Steve's case in Ethereum, it's going to be just like this iterative process over time of both base layers are difficult because they don't want this super opinionated on chain governance that just says like hey, this is exactly what we like, please just do this.
00:58:23.774 - 00:58:37.760, Speaker A: There is no clear answer. So it's going to just be kind of this iterative game over time and it will probably get more opinionated over time, just taking more feedback from the community and intentionally kind of decentralizing the validators that over.
00:58:38.770 - 00:59:28.260, Speaker B: You know, it's really interesting to hear you say that as well, John, and not to speak, but it's sort of interesting to watch how Lido and P to p have approached this over on Ethereum. And again, this is not necessarily anyone's fault. There's always so many moving parts and yeah, if we had perfect communication then we could solve a lot of problems. But even like some of the recent timing games that have been getting played over on the lido side of things, well that's kind of an example where you're maximizing the MEB rewards that you're getting for your staking pool. But that's probably not what someone who's working on Ethereum consensus would say is the best thing that we should be optimizing for, right? Obviously we want to extend the window where we can earn rewards and extract Mev, but that puts an enormous amount of strain, frankly, on sending messages around them.
00:59:28.870 - 01:00:32.194, Speaker A: Interestingly, stuff for stuff like timing games are actually an interesting example of why I do think the end result for a lot of these and will not even be a bad thing is a single liquid staking protocol for some of them potentially to end up with the majority or all of the stake and then just be pseudo reined in to be like this pseudo enshrined solution where they kind of do what the governance of whatever the community wants. Because the problem with something like timing games is it is actually inherently zero sum and arguably like value destructive because you just mess with chain functionality. So if Lido has say 30% of stake ish, which is what they have today. While they haven't done this, and I'm sure they would not, because it wouldn't be a good idea, they are explicitly incentivized to tell all of their validators, hey, you must play timing games or we're going to kick you out of the validator set. Because they will make more money if they do that. Absolutely directly, because they are only a third of the validator set. And on the margin, they are picking the pocket of some other guy's validator.
01:00:32.194 - 01:01:33.826, Speaker A: If Lido has 100% of the stake, they are incentivized to tell every single validator in the set, hey, if we catch you playing timing games, we're going to kick you out of the set immediately, because now you're picking from our own pocket. And then what they're incentivized to do is to be 100% just aligned with, how do we maximize the value of the underlying protocol? Because the liquid staking protocol, their value is tied to, I get some percent of whatever this underlying protocol is worth, effectively, and the staking system. So I want the biggest, most valuable, healthiest staking system underneath. Because if I nuke it, well, then I nuke my own protocol and I lose money. So something that a team that really gets that, hey, the thing that is the best for the liquid staking protocol legitimately is just, what can we do for the host chain? That is like, whatever they want, whatever is best for them is just fundamentally really important. And that is the direction that I think some of this will start to go. Over time, people will start to realize that liquid staking protocols, the ones that really get that, hey, we're disincentivized ourselves to do whatever is in the best incentives of the chain.
01:01:33.826 - 01:01:40.250, Speaker A: Those are the liquid staking protocols that are going to make the most money, and they're going to do the best anyway because those are the ones that are going to grow alongside the host chain.
01:01:40.370 - 01:02:03.214, Speaker B: What's up, everyone? We are now almost one month out from Das London, the largest institutional conference in all of crypto. That's happening March 18 through the 20th, obviously, in London. This one's going to be a blast. We are almost ten times oversubscribed for tickets, which is pretty nuts. So again, we've had to lower the discount to bell ten. Still hooking you guys up, getting you a 10% discount on bell ten. And we've onboarded a whole bunch of new speakers.
01:02:03.214 - 01:02:21.094, Speaker B: So that's Dan Tapiero of one RT, Pascal Gothier of Ledger, Anthony Scaramucci, the mooch himself. Michael Sonnenshein of Grayscale. Brad Garlinghouse of Ripple. Sergey Nazarov of Chainlink. Matt McDermott of Goldman Sachs, their global head of digital assets, Stani Kulachov. Danny Masters. The list goes on.
01:02:21.094 - 01:02:39.790, Speaker B: This one is going to be an absolute blast. Make sure you don't miss it. And better yet, make sure you bring your friends. We sell a four pack of tickets. You are going to get a discount on that. So find people in your company, bring your boss, bring your family, bring your girlfriend or boyfriend, whatever it is, just go. You're going to get a discount if you use that team pack.
01:02:39.790 - 01:02:45.210, Speaker B: Run, don't walk. Make sure you go get those tickets today and cheers and see you in sunny London town.
01:02:45.290 - 01:02:45.774, Speaker C: Okay?
01:02:45.892 - 01:03:21.130, Speaker B: I'd be really curious. I don't want to go too far down this dynamic, but I do find it very interesting because basically what you're describing there, John, is a, there are different sort of natural market structures that arise based on industry. So there are some industries which are prone to natural monopoly. So that would be like a utility provider or something like that, and the US regulates that and that's how we get around it. But what we're describing here is a monopoly type dynamic where in some senses that's actually beneficial. But obviously there are some issues with monopolies as well. So a really interesting example I've talked about on this podcast ad nauseam, a really interesting period of time to go back and look.
01:03:21.130 - 01:03:46.150, Speaker B: It's going to sound like a funny analogy, is when John D. Rockefeller was creating Standard Oil. A lot of analogies between the early oil industry and the crypto industry today. And one of the issues for them back at the time was this volatile pricing of oil. And they were like, well, it'd be great if we could just find a way to fix the pricing for oil in a way that it was standard and they did that. And the way that they did that was through monopoly. That's where you get the term fixed prices today.
01:03:46.150 - 01:04:22.480, Speaker B: And obviously that provided a benefit for people at the time that wanted some form of standard way that they could price out oil and that they knew the price of oil I was going to pay for in twelve months is going to be the same as it was today. We didn't have robust futures markets or anything like that back then, but obviously over time it was too much control and over time the interests of, again, it's sort of a form of principal agent problem, actually. So how do you guys square? Because there are lots of infrastructure layer things that would just be better if it was like, yeah, we just have monopoly here, but is there a steel man argument for the other case? Are we sacrificing competition or something like that? Or is it just all upside? What do you guys think?
01:04:24.050 - 01:05:08.240, Speaker A: There's definitely some benefits to having the kind of monopoly here, particularly. There's also a question of is it possible to get around it? But the kind of benefit of a quote unquote monopoly here is in the sense that that just means maximum fungibility and kind of money ness of the asset, which is inherently what most people who hold a liquid staking token likes teeth. That's what they want. They want there to be one canonical version they don't want to think of. Oh, there's a mantle staked eth, and there's a rocket pool staked eth, and there's a lido staked eth, and there's like 20 different versions. Like, what the hell is this thing? They just want there to be like, there is ETH and there is staked EtH, and that's all they want to think about. And so that's why the natural kind of incentive goes towards that.
01:05:08.240 - 01:05:59.806, Speaker A: I think naturally, what most of these tend towards over time is a single party being very large because of that, possibly a couple, a small number of them. And then what you just really want to make sure that you have at the end of the day is okay. The downside of having a handful of big players is only if they're acting against the interests of kind of the host itself. If they're really big, but they're doing everything that you want and they're serving you perfectly, then you don't care that there's one asset, there's no inherent centralization in the asset that's bad. And so it's a matter of having a system that's set up reasonably well to keep them in check, such that if Lido ends up with 100% of the stake, they can't just say tomorrow, like, hey, we change our minds. We're actually just going to keep 50% of all the fees now. And, sorry, you deal with it because we have all the power.
01:05:59.806 - 01:06:56.378, Speaker A: That's what you just don't want to make sure that the power dynamic is at the end of the day. And so just iteratively making changes to the staking mechanism that make the difference on the margin between different liquid staking tokens, generally smaller, such that the switching costs are lower and it is easier to move between them in different ways. And then I think naturally there's just going to be pricing power against someone like that in the long run. Particularly because the version of the staking token like stea or steeth that will actually exist for most places in the future isn't actually Lido's version concretely. And you start to kind of see that at the end of the day of like because it is going to live on these many other chains. These other chains at the end of the day do have some level of power. And you're starting to see that actually with l two s today, where l two s start to realize like, hey, we've got like $2 billion of ETH in our bridge that we could stake.
01:06:56.378 - 01:07:55.120, Speaker A: Why do we leave this in Lido staked EtH? Why don't we just make our own version of mantle staked ETH or whatever other staked EtH? Because we have some bargaining power now. And I think what that tends towards over time is people don't actually want a million different versions, but that there is real leverage such that you can't just have this extractive pricing power of like if the staking token underneath just starts to charge like crazy fees, then people on the other side are going to fork it and have different options to make sure that they're internalizing their own value capture. So I think that you end up with pretty Lindy money, like liquid staking tokens across many chains for something that's like a money like asset. And then just naturally their commissions are kept in check to a very reasonable rate where they're going to end up charging what is the value we actually provide. What does it cost to run this protocol and do all this stuff? Because you're not just going to have a valueless governance token there. At the end of the day, that's extracting too many fees in an open permissionless system where you could fork everything, be able to extract that much, I think it's just going to get killed by the protocol itself and other consumers who have power there.
01:07:56.650 - 01:08:44.740, Speaker C: Yeah, I would agree with a lot of what John said. The way that I think about this is in the short term, I think having high competition is very important because it forces liquid staking protocols to build things that are aligned. Like John was saying, I think the natural incentive is to make something that is maximally aligned with the underlying protocol. But if it's impossible to compete and you get a monopoly really early on, then that one protocol might have no competition and not build in a very aligned way. So I think in the short term, basically what we want is just make it really easy for lots of lsps to compete in the long term. There are these really powerful network effects, brand liquidity integrations, et cetera. We all know them that might tend towards one or maybe a couple of.
01:08:44.740 - 01:09:20.640, Speaker C: So in that case, I think what is really important, like John said, is regulation, keeping liquid staking protocols in check, having checks and balances, and also preserving some sort of right to exit. I think things will play out differently in the short and long term, and right now I'd say we're still in the short term phase. Maybe we're more in the medium to long term on Ethereum, but for cosmos, my perspective is just make it as easy to compete as possible, and lsps will naturally build things that are aligned and then they'll ossify through time.
01:09:21.410 - 01:09:22.158, Speaker A: Awesome.
01:09:22.324 - 01:10:02.458, Speaker B: All right, guys, there's one more section that I want to cover here on general demand drivers for liquid staking tokens. And then I want to get into. I actually want to spend basically the rest of the podcast talking about celestia, which I feel like is its own extremely unique animal and frankly, an ecosystem that I've been really interested in and diving deeper into. As you know, John, in your blog post, you had kind of a list of some of the different demand drivers for liquid staking in general. So that could be. We talked a little bit about the Ux, and that was a little bit of an idiosyncratic ethereum specific reason, but there are other things, like a robust deFi ecosystem. Can you just kind of walk us through what some of those main demand drivers are for liquid staking protocols in general?
01:10:02.624 - 01:10:30.162, Speaker A: Yeah, sure. Yeah, I'll kind of just walk through the list of these. I think there was like seven of them I had in the post. Some of the super idiosyncratic ones for Ethereum were just like the very simple stuff that we all know that definitely ramped up a lot of defi adoption at the start. And this fact that you don't have any native delegation, so this is just a way for people to delegate stake. And the other part being the merge was obviously very idiosyncratic factor. If you had this long period of time where the beacon chain was live and you could stake, but you couldn't unstake it until the merge.
01:10:30.162 - 01:11:07.010, Speaker A: So the only way to have any kind of promise of, hey, maybe I just put my money into a black hole for like five years, and then I can't touch it if the merge doesn't happen, is like, you need a liquid staking token. So liquid tokens filled that gap. And so by the time that proof of stake came around of the merge, it already had like a super high adoption. So those are very idiosyncratic in favor of Ethereum. Some of the other things that are these kind of apply, I would say pretty equally to both Ethereum and cosmos. This is where I say like, not tax advice, not legal advice, whatever, I don't know what I'm talking about. Consult your accountant or whatever, depending on where you are.
01:11:07.010 - 01:11:54.414, Speaker A: So there's two things about particularly like reward compounding and tax efficiency, that a lot of people like lsts for this reason, again, depending on your jurisdiction. But very often staking income that comes in the form of like I'm just continuously receiving rewards may be treated as income which is often taxed at a much higher rate compared to say like long term capital gains. So ideally what you would like is to try to defer that income into capital gains rather than income. So often that is sometimes an appeal for some of these non rebasing liquid staking tokens, which is stride's model. This is like how like Jeto's whole on Solana works. And this is why some people actually don't keep base teeth. They wrap this teeth, it's because it doesn't rebase and so the price goes up over time.
01:11:54.414 - 01:12:28.550, Speaker A: So there's a better argument that when you sell this thing, it is actually you are incurring a long term capital gain on a price increase rather than taxable events along the way that's treated as income. There's no clear guidance on this. Depends on your jurisdiction, but generally people do favor it for that reason. There definitely is real demand because of that. Another part is like reward, just auto compounding of whatever the baseline APR is of. Let's say the protocol issue is like 6% per year. You get a higher apy if you automatically, as you get more rewards, you're just automatically staking those rewards.
01:12:28.550 - 01:13:29.546, Speaker A: So then you get compounding returns over time and lsts can stride will automatically fulfill that role for you. Of the second that they get new rewards like every few hours, they're just like restaking that again so that you can compound rewards over time. And that compares to, again, depends on which staking system you're in. But like something like Ethereum, the way that it's currently constructed right now is if you have 32 ETH on a validator and you're getting more staking rewards, they just sit there and they don't earn extra rewards because it is fixed to 32 eth per validator. So the only way that you could start compounding more rewards is once you get another 32 e to spin up a full new validator for a regular person that's running one or two validators, that doesn't happen in practice. You just end up with a lower APY compared to someone who has like millions of ETH and they're just pulling it and constantly spinning up new validators. So there actually are proposed fixes that should hopefully eventually happen over time with Ethereum, like Mike Noida's proposed around like a max effective balance, which I think will happen eventually, although probably not probably won't happen in Petra.
01:13:29.546 - 01:14:24.720, Speaker A: It sounds like unfortunately, but probably in the fork after that would be kind of fixing this issue of like okay, the validator balance can go beyond 32 and so you can automatically compound rewards. So there's ways to mitigate this, but that is like a real incentive that exists is the ability to auto compound rewards because you get a higher yield. So that kind of applies to both. And then the main big difference, and this has been the thing that is very in favor of Ethereum adoption over cosmos adoption is just what are the dynamics around the muddiness of the asset and the defi adoption of the ecosystem. And so disproportionately what you have in the ethereum ecosystem is this whole buzwordy means ten different things, but eth is money. Concretely, it is the thing that when you go to a new place, this is the default trading pair or what I'm going to use is defi collateral or we're going to go spend places. This is what most defi stuff is based on.
01:14:24.720 - 01:15:01.098, Speaker A: And so that means there is higher adoption for this thing. People actually want to use the thing as opposed to what you see disproportionately in a lot of cosmos, proof of stake assets is it's a random chain and there's no moneyness or utility of the asset. People buy the asset and they want to get yield, so there isn't a big difference to them of like, hey, I already have an easy in protocol delegation mechanism, I can just go stake it in protocol. Having St. Adam or St. Osmo or something else doesn't actually help me. If I'm just buying this thing, staking it for a year, and then I just want to sell it after a year, it's like I don't really care.
01:15:01.098 - 01:15:53.818, Speaker A: It doesn't make a huge difference. So that has disproportionately kind of like affected the adoption in the ethereum world versus cosmos world a lot. Another quick thing is just liquidity to sell if you want to avoid the unbonding window. Generally, you won't be able to sell without avoiding the unbonding window if you're natively staked. And people who want fast liquidity, if market changes and want to sell really quickly, is like you have a liquid staking token, you have that optionality. The moneyness is the kind of very interesting one, because that's what kind of segues into why I think Celestia is like a very interesting market, the largest and most interesting market that I would say that stride has had so far that they're launching into now. And it is because the asset has fundamentally very different dynamics that I think over time will lead to disproportionately much higher liquid staking adoption compared to other traditional cosmos assets.
01:15:53.818 - 01:16:31.234, Speaker A: And that is because it is something that more closely mimics the dynamics of how eth is used in kind of ethereum world. And I think early on there's going to be lower adoption naturally, because it's a new coin that launched. I mean, most investors are still vesting and locked up. They can't liquidate to take their tokens. That's where most of the supply is, just like locked up. It's not actually circulating. You have all those kind of weird early dynamics, but over time you have the dynamics of this is an asset where it is supposed to be used in this money like way across all of these celestia roll ups, where for many of them, it will be the base gas token.
01:16:31.234 - 01:17:15.894, Speaker A: It is what fees will need to be paid to down to the celestia base layer. It is what will presumably be as kind of the base gas token, and then as a very high market cap coin, it's probably going to be used in a lot of defi collateral across many of these chains. So there's going to be a lot of adoption of this thing. And then what you also fundamentally have is it's going to be used on many different chains. And you kind of see this in Ethereum. I've felt this for a while of the fact that in the long run, most eth will be used on l two s as opposed to the base layer itself is actually a driver of lsts in the long run, because you're now fundamentally in the place where this asset, everywhere it's going to be used, the base asset doesn't fundamentally have any special place anymore on Ethereum. You can't pay gas in steeth today.
01:17:15.894 - 01:18:06.150, Speaker A: There's no difference kind of between these assets. Once you're already kind of holding a bridged representation of the asset anyway, you're kind of like, self selecting for people who are okay with this understanding of, like, I'm holding a wrapped representation of this asset, and it just kind of lowers the barrier to, okay, if I'm holding eth on a roll up, why am I not holding wrapped steeth? And similarly, it's going to be like, all right, if I'm using Tia on all these roll ups to pay gas and using defi collateral, it's like a wrap version anyway. Especially, why am I not just holding stea and earning more money for no reason at this point? Why wouldn't I just use it for all of these things? And I think that you're going to see that in practice. So it will be accepted as a gas token. It will become very commonly used as defi collateral across these chains. So overall, I think that they have the best shot of actually mimicking a much higher adoption over time just because of these dynamics. Just makes sense for a much stronger liquid staking adoption.
01:18:06.970 - 01:18:44.530, Speaker B: Yeah. And just to underscore that point, and this is why I think the liquid like bridging, first of all, just in a sense, bridging is kind of a myth. The native asset never actually leaves the chain. It just gets locked up in different types of vehicles that export, like debt or synthetic versions of that asset. And some mechanisms are more credible and safe than others. Hence the idea of the LSM being potentially a progenitor of this idea of kind of regulating or making more credible the vehicle that exports the sort of wrapped version. So I think that's an extremely interesting point.
01:18:44.530 - 01:18:59.610, Speaker B: And maybe, Aidan, as someone who's approaching the celestia sort of ecosystem, can you expand a little bit on what John was saying about why it's such an interesting market for stride specifically, and then we can talk about the moneyness of tia narrative.
01:19:00.190 - 01:19:43.800, Speaker C: Definitely. Yeah. So I'll give a quick overview of where I think Celestia is at a high level overview of where the liquid staking market is at, and then touch on that point. So we recently put up a post outlining how stride is planning to launch on Celestia, how we're thinking about it. The key headline is that SCT, both its staking APR and utility as a monetary asset on roll ups, will drive demand for SCTIA, because as John is going to get into SCT is modular money. I think Celestia is going to be the biggest market for stride this year, hands down. Maybe in coming years as well.
01:19:43.800 - 01:20:20.606, Speaker C: John brought up a lot of good points about why STT in particular makes sense if you have these thousands of roll ups they're all using mean. The explanation at the end of the day isn't that complex. People just want more yield, so they're going to hold the staked version of the thing, not the unstaked version of the thing. And the easiest way to export the staked version of the thing is through liquid staking. So that's sort of how we're thinking about it. I'm sure John is going to get into this modular money angle a bit more shortly. In terms of what the liquid staking market for Celestia looks like today, Celestia is very minimal.
01:20:20.606 - 01:21:07.090, Speaker C: They actually don't have interchange accounts. So stride, with its typical approach, can't launch out of the box. We built a different approach, which we'll be launching, which uses a multi sig for custody on the back end. The reason for that is the only two ways to support liquid staking on Celestia today are through a centralized exchange or a multi sig, and so we're going that route. We have a CIP, a celestia improvement proposal, to add interchange accounts soon. And hopefully interchange accounts will be added in the next few months, and then stride will smoothly transition from multi state custody to interchange accounts at a high level. Our goals are to reduce trust assumptions, have Celestia govern validator selection, and use battle tested, observable audited protocols.
01:21:07.090 - 01:21:38.060, Speaker C: In the long term, there are sort of interesting approaches you can take. You could build like a ZK liquid staking roll up if you have this thing called a snark account on Celestia, makes it even more trustless than energy accounts. You don't have to trust the validator set. To attest to some logic through IBC, you can actually just verify ZK proof on Celestia. That's a bit further out. But short term, multi sig, medium term, ICA, long term ZK roll up is sort of the way that we're thinking about it right now.
01:21:41.630 - 01:22:19.974, Speaker A: Yeah, and kind of on that, the whole modular money thing that people are, that is kind of the thing in Celestia when people talk about TIA. That's in practice. Why a lot of this stuff matters, particularly to celestia, I think, is because I think in practice, it's not going to be for the reasons that you said of bridging is kind of like a myth in the sense of these wrapped assets. It's not. TIA is modular money it's going to be whatever version of stea on these roll ups is modular money. That is the asset that is actually going to be in end users hands that they're going to really be using. So it is very important in that scenario that that's not going to happen.
01:22:19.974 - 01:23:45.278, Speaker A: If that bridged LST is some one of one multi sig that has one validator underneath that is issued by some random protocol nobody knows and can just regulate any moment with a closed source protocol. It needs to be something that mimics the underlying asset qualities as much as possible, that needs to be built in a very safe and aligned manner, that actually mimics the properties of the underlying asset. And that has also actually becomes an important point also, in addition to that, which is very important in stride, in my mind, and this is one of the biggest things that we thought that when we were looking at stride and can anyone else build, like, a competing solution is kind of just like, the neutrality of what they have actually built is so critically important for this, because stride is actually an app chain where the purpose of this chain is like, hey, we take in assets, we issue liquid staking tokens, and we manage your validators. That's it. It's not some general purpose defi chain that has like a dex on them that's competing with these other people. It is, hey, if you get a version of SIA on your roll up, it is bridged through stride, and it is just like a representation of a bridged asset from an actual neutral issuer. And that is going to matter a lot, because particularly this version of TIa that's going to be used throughout these rollups, for the reasons that we've described, isn't actually going to come from Celestia itself, because there isn't that native smart contracting and bridging.
01:23:45.278 - 01:24:28.974, Speaker A: There's not the native LST deployed there. The thing that ends up being the bridging hub for these celestial rollups is going to be another chain. And so that is what stride is trying to fill. The question is thinking strategically from the perspective of any of these other chains that want to import stea and for that to be an important part of their economy that they're using as a gas token for defi, et cetera. If you're mansa or eclipse or whatever, it's just like any of these roll ups is using this asset. Do you want a bridged representation of that asset that is coming through a chain that is your direct competitor, a chain that is going to, for example, they are trying to be the trading hub themselves. They want to be the defi hub in this whole ecosystem, and now they have the leverage over you.
01:24:28.974 - 01:25:04.330, Speaker A: So for those reasons, it generally doesn't make sense for me. If you're one of these chains, one of these celestial rollups to get that bridge representation, you probably don't want that coming through a chain like osmosis or a chain like neutron. You don't want that to be the asset issuer. You want it to come from the most neutral place possible so that, you know, when you're dealing with this person, you're not just like giving leverage to your direct competitors that have these incentives over you. You don't want to get into all of that. You just want an actual neutral asset representation that is bridged to your roll up. And that is a really important thing for stride and contrasts to a lot of these other cosmo chains that are looking around doing this.
01:25:04.330 - 01:25:23.074, Speaker A: It's like, in practice, they're general purpose chains that are going to be directly competitive with these roll ups. So just thinking strategically, from their perspective, they're going to want the neutral asset that is the closest representation of the base, underlying asset that is the safest, the most aligned coming through. Just like it's just routing hub that's kind of going through here. And so that's like a really big advantage in stride, in my mind.
01:25:23.112 - 01:25:45.514, Speaker C: Yeah, double clicking on that. This has been stride's dna since day one. This is an early differentiator against P stake and quicksilver. Some of our competitors, their vision was to have all these defi applications on top. I think early on we realized that for liquid staking tokens, what you want is to export it everywhere else. You don't want to suck in activity onto your own chain. You just want to push it and get it used in as many places as possible.
01:25:45.514 - 01:25:53.630, Speaker C: So stride has always been very neutral, does one thing, does it very well, and we just try and keep things simple and support other chains.
01:25:54.530 - 01:26:29.402, Speaker B: Yeah, really well. Want to. For listeners who might be a little bit less familiar with Celestia's particular architecture, and I do want to draw a comparison to Ethereum here, but one of the things that Celestia doesn't have is native smart contract ability on its base chain. So that's why there isn't, you can't have the same type of canonical bridges that you have between Ethereum and arbitrum, or optimism between celestia and any of its sovereign roll ups that just simply doesn't exist. Right. So that's a big architectural difference, but I would be interesting. Let me draw this comparison and see what you guys think about this.
01:26:29.402 - 01:27:13.606, Speaker B: But in a sense, Celestia and Ethereum actually converging on a somewhat similar design here, basically minimizing the complexity of the base chain, or certainly the activity on the base chain, and then exporting its native asset to its ecosystem of roll ups. Right? So that's basically ethereum again started very differently. There's an enormous amount of activity on main chain, and now it's pushing its activity up to its roll up layer. But what it wants to do also is export Ethereum. Celestia is almost in a completely different. But maybe there are pros and cons to the situation. They don't have all this activity to push up, but it's even more minimally designed, which is kind of a better fit for the exporting of the money.
01:27:13.606 - 01:27:20.570, Speaker B: So do you guys also see that as a similar. Is that an apt analogy? And just what do you think about that whole dynamic in comparison?
01:27:21.150 - 01:28:41.170, Speaker A: It's definitely how they're trending over time. I think that gap continues to converge of Ethereum is progressively going to have the majority of just value transacted, that's in these terms is going to be on other chains, probably not on Ethereum itself. And TIA is completely minimal right now, where literally the only thing you could do is just IBC out the TIA token to some other chain to the point where you can't even have any kind of different bridge, you can't have the liquid staking protocol deployed on it natively. And in the long run, I expect that to change. Of some of the stuff that Aiden had touched on earlier of what I think in practice will happen, although this will take probably multiple years to happen, is adding some kind of at least ZK verifier like snark accounts to the Celestia base layer, so that even if we're not doing arbitrary computation on the base layer, such that we can't deploy a smart contract for liquid staking protocol on Celestia, you can deploy just a ZK verifier contract there, just a ZK verifier such that you can have some kind of off chain logic of a liquid staking protocol where this is now verified by the Celestia base chain. So you can have effectively like a ZK roll up, like stride built as a ZK roll up transition to that that would be able to post these proofs to Celestia. That just gives you a much stronger set of trust assumptions.
01:28:41.170 - 01:30:02.890, Speaker A: They will never have that general purpose computation. I don't see any world where Celestia itself adds general purpose like smart contracting or anything like that to the base layer. That will never happen. And I think that actually is a thing that I don't think Ethereum has actually figured out still of where exactly on the spectrum should the base layer be. And this is something I tweeted about kind of recently that was highlighted by the gas limit increase kind of conversations around that where I think that Ethereum is very clear that the goal is for the majority of ETh and activity within the ethereum ecosystem to happen on other chains that it is supposed to happen on Ethereum. L two s, I don't think it is settled what is the role of the base layer in that world? And I think that it is still like a little bit in this middle ground of it's not in the celestial direction where it's very clear that Ethereum's message is kind of like, hey, everyone on the l one, get the hell off. Like, go to an l two, you do still have general purpose, smart contract, and there are still like two quite different views, I would say, in a lot of the Ethereum community where I think that there is a large subset of the Ethereum community that thinks in the long run, the Ethereum base layer, the execution layer, the only purpose is really to just like you're posting commitments and it's just like verifying proofs in the way that kind of like Celestia maybe eventually will in a few years that they will actually converge to the same thing.
01:30:02.890 - 01:30:50.454, Speaker A: And I think there's another large half of the community that says, okay, most of the activity will happen on l two s, but we actually want the base layer itself to actually be super functional too. It'll just only be for the really high value applications, like the most valuable DFI, the most valuable applications will still live there. And that will be viable because we're going to do like statelessness, we're going to do zkVm, we're going to bump up the gas limits, and it will actually be useful. I think the Ethereum base layer is kind of in this middle ground where I don't think it's actually decided which of those two directions it's going into. And I think a lot of that is highlighted by this kind of debate in the last few weeks of should Ethereum just raise the gas limit on the base layer? Like Vitalik had written in the like, yeah, like, we haven't raised it in several years. Know, hardware improves. Like, it's pretty normal.
01:30:50.454 - 01:31:36.666, Speaker A: You should raise the gas limit a bit. And there's kind of this philosophical difference of will Ethereum converge to the same thing that we think celestial will converge to, where there's really basically nothing there but proof verification, or should it still be actually a pretty useful thing? And I do think that materially changes kind of like what the architecture of the system looks like in the long run of where do a lot of these applications live. And so that is like a pretty important thing, I think, for Ethereum to grapple with. I don't see functionality on the base layer going away anytime soon. I think you're especially going to see that in the next year when probably the biggest meta in crypto for activity in this coming year is going to be a lot of the restaking stuff. All of that is rooted on Ethereum. All of the restaking and liquid restaking tokens and all this stuff that people are going to be playing with, most of that's going to be on the base layer still, it's not going to be this minimal thing.
01:31:36.666 - 01:31:51.360, Speaker A: So I don't see that happening anytime soon. I think it's reasonable to add functionality, but directionally I would say that they're probably moving closer over time because I think celestial will at least add some functionality and ethereum, most activity will still move to l two s regardless of what the base player does.
01:31:53.890 - 01:32:41.440, Speaker B: Yeah, in that world. How do you guys, I mean, this is, we're departing a little bit, I suppose, from the liquid staking part of this, but let's just say we're zooming out two to three years into the future, and Ethereum has gone down the road of basically minimizing the role of the base layer. And it kind of takes a very celestia philosophy in terms of that direction. How do those two chains compete in terms of their roll up ecosystem? I'd be very curious to get your guys perspective on that. And also, sorry, do you see the majority of Ethereum roll ups today? Seeing as Ethereum roll ups, like, is it accurate to say that these roll ups are scaling Ethereum? I'm poking John here. Or is there the possibility that they could shift over Chintra architecture and transition to sovereign roll ups or something like that?
01:32:42.290 - 01:33:32.730, Speaker A: I think we are going to see this continued blurring of the lines, which is why I was poking at a lot of the stuff that I was poking at earlier this year with some of the blog posts of like l one versus l two s and roll up stuff. I think that if you try to abide by the old mental models of is this just an ethereum l two, or is it a Celestia roll up? And are those mutually exclusive? And everything needs a clean categorization? I don't think that those are going to exist anymore. I think you're going to see the blurring of the lines and I think that we're seeing that play out in practice of what do you see multiple Ethereum roll ups doing in the past? Just like couple of months of like, hey, we are paying way too much money for da. Like, economically, this is just not viable for us as an application developer. This does not work for our users. This does not work for us. Who has a bottom line? We're going to change Da underneath.
01:33:32.730 - 01:34:27.460, Speaker A: And for now, the clear solution to that is like, hey, we're just going to swap n celeste underneath because it's way cheaper. I think that's a trend that will continue to happen. I don't see any logical reason why that would not be a trend that continues and grows over time. I think port 44 will definitely provide obviously some additional bandwidth and mitigation to that of at least slowing down that for current existing ones. But the trend is very clear of we're going to have applications and businesses that understand what their bottom line is and it's not going to be an acceptable answer of like, oh, I'm paying $100 million a year for some hand wavy notion of alignment or security that doesn't really make sense to their application. They're going to pick what makes sense for them as a business and increasing that's going to be a number of alternative DA solutions, whether that's Celestia or Eigen layer eigen da, whether it's avail different types of committees, whatever it is, there's going to be a lot of them. I think that continues to happen.
01:34:27.460 - 01:35:30.838, Speaker A: And in that world, I think that you still see Ethereum like l two s where the core of their users and the assets that they are scaling in that sense to the kind of question you had is they are still going to be quite Ethereum based. And I think that we see that in practice that's going to happen with someone like eclipse of like they're in ethereum l two depends on what you call an l two, but they're going to continue to use something like selastic underneath for DA because it's just going to make more sense for them as a business. So that is kind of the differentiation that I see between them is like, I think most of the places that ta gets used will disproportionately have Ethereum da, sorry, will have Celestia da. Like there'll be relatively celestial native projects, because that's kind of what it starts as a telling point. I think that increasingly you will see a lot of the places that eth gets use is off chain da just because there's only so much DA that Ethereum can provide and certainly at least will for at least a couple years. But there's a lot of demand to use eth. And so I think that you're going to continue to see these kind of like hybrid solutions that are, we're in Ethereum too.
01:35:30.838 - 01:36:11.246, Speaker A: That's where most of our users come from. That's the kind of the ecosystem we're trying to scale, but we're swapping different da underneath, whether that's avo, Lyra, like all these different ones, you're going to keep saying that. So I don't see that trend changing anytime soon. But Ethereum still just has such a gigantic head start on just the lindiness of the ecosystem. The moneyness of the asset that people still want to use like that is still what most people want to use. While stea is hoping to become this modular money over time, the practical reality today is that it has a much worse token distribution. Less of it's got a higher inflation rate, it's less neutral, like all these different things that Ethereum has by a gigantic leg up over every ecosystem.
01:36:11.246 - 01:36:24.406, Speaker A: And that gap is not going to change overnight. People are going to still want to keep using this, and the center of activity is still going to be Ethereum because of restaking and all these high value applications that are you, how are.
01:36:24.428 - 01:37:18.950, Speaker B: These two ecosystems going to compete on their export being money? It's sort of an interesting reframe because, and honestly, Chris goes has written a phenomenal blog post about this kind of like supply side versus demand side economics when it comes to blockchain. But the mental model used to be all these things were bundled into one place, and if you wanted to go use the things within this protocol and ecosystem, then you had to use the native currency, which was something like ETH. But now what we're talking about in both the case of Celestia with Tia and Ethereum with ETH is there's this protocol which doesn't actually really do that much, but the thing that's valuable is the lineiness of its export. And so it changes the game in terms of how you're supposed to compete. And I would just be curious, and I promise we'll bring this back to liquid staking in a second. But how does Tia and ETH, the asset compete when the functionality of the protocol is much less of a factor?
01:37:20.330 - 01:37:57.534, Speaker A: I mean, ultimately, what people use as money and what they prefer as money is going to keep changing over time. And there's no objective right answer to that. I think there's a lot of factors that go into it and it will keep changing over time in practice, especially in the longer run. I definitely think you see a kind of like power law to this. There's not going to be a thousand different monies that people want to use, especially because the barriers will just continue to break down such that it's easier and easier and easier over time, that, hey, if I spin up a new chain, it doesn't actually matter what the protocol architecture underneath is. What I use for dA, where I settle, blah blah blah. Like all those different things, I just have a chain.
01:37:57.534 - 01:38:46.710, Speaker A: And if people want to use X asset, they can use X asset. And so as those barriers become better over time, you're going to see, okay, it doesn't actually matter if my chain is using this da and that blah blah blah. If people want to use Eth on my chain, they're going to use Eth on my chain. And that's what you see in practice with someone like eclipse again, and all these other ones that are transitioning to a lot of this celestia da is that their existing user base that they're going after is like, hey, we prefer Eth. This is what we want to use. It doesn't matter that in the background there's some cost that's variable that the chain needs to pay. In Tia terms, it's not that hard for like, all right, we just handle this on the back end, we swap some EtH to Tia and we pay the gas fees for you on the back end, it's going to keep getting abstracted away more and more and you're just going to have, what do users prefer to use as an asset? And so that's where a lot of it becomes like, slice needs to make itself.
01:38:46.710 - 01:39:22.750, Speaker A: If it's going to be any form of the modular money, it needs to just make itself more of an attractive asset for people to use within a certain ecosystem. And that's going to be a lot of just like the community around it. And then the quality of the asset itself, that will change over time and all of those will get better. But a lot of it is really going to be just the decentralization of the asset, the ownership of it, the distribution of it, just like having more reasonable economic policy. That's going to take time. It's not actually money today. I don't think that anything outside of bitcoin and ETH is actually reasonably close to a form of money today.
01:39:22.750 - 01:39:39.640, Speaker A: Even Sol is not there. I think they can get there in the long run as they get a much better distribution, a much better credibility, neutrality of the asset. So Celeste has a path to that, and I think people will use it in excitement of that. But it's definitely not there today. It will take a very long time to fully get there.
01:39:41.130 - 01:40:13.680, Speaker C: Yeah. One area that I am pretty excited about is seeing what tokens are used on sovereign rollups built on Celestia. Something that I've underestimated in the past is how powerful tribalism is. And I think sovereign rollups in particular, this concept was born out of Celestia. And the first sovereign rollups, I think, are going to be built on Celestia, probably by people who own a lot of tia and will use tia as the base asset. So there's like, reasons to use ETh as money. It's more decentralized, less volatile, very liquid, all these things.
01:40:13.680 - 01:40:20.914, Speaker C: But I think all of that can be outweighed by tribalism and sovereign olives, I think is probably going to be the first place that we see to use this money.
01:40:21.112 - 01:41:04.218, Speaker B: So I was actually going to go exactly to this. And I'm curious to get your perspective on this, Aiden, and yours as well, John. But here's a pro and a con that I see for the ETH roll up ecosystem versus what has historically been seen in cosmos. And I think it comes down to the tradeoff between a shelling point and interop. And the vision from cosmos from the very beginning, was this interoperable network of chains. And sovereignty was a huge pull for why you were building in cosmos as opposed to Ethereum. And the benefit of that is that you have this kind of ideologically driven, neutral public good in the form of IBC, which has solved interop and bridging.
01:41:04.218 - 01:42:11.654, Speaker B: And it not only solved a technical problem, it solved a social problem, which is everyone just built their chain from day one, from the perspective that these were going to be interoperable. Now the opposite is going on over an ETH roll up land where maybe eventually there's going to be interoperability between roll ups, but maybe never. And I don't even think it's a technical reason, it's a social reason. It's like the incentive is for each of these roll ups to try to create the dominant ecosystem where all of this stuff lives. Now, the trade off of each of these things is cosmos has struggled from the beginning to have one canonical shelling point, and the sovereignty kind of cuts both ways, because everyone wanted to use their own native token as gas, they didn't want to use atom, right? And there was never a cohesive narrative. And so that was the flip side of that, where I could actually see over in Ethereum land that it's the vibe, like, everyone use ETH as gas, and I could actually see Ethereum getting used as gas. Whereas I think the challenge in the sovereign roll up land is actually going to be every sovereign roll up wanting to use their own token as money.
01:42:11.654 - 01:42:29.610, Speaker B: And even if that's not feasible long term, miles and I have this debate on a weekly basis, it probably will be tried in the beginning. So I'd be curious to get your take on that. So I see it. To summarize, I see Tia's competition not as ETH, but the sovereign roll ups that actually use its own ecosystem.
01:42:30.190 - 01:43:00.600, Speaker C: Yeah, two things I would say to that. The first is I think there are other reasons. So like using native token as gas, that's one reason to build napchain, but there are other reasons. Being sovereign allows you to fork in the case of a hack, for example, or a protocol bug. It allows for much easier coordination around upgrades. And then there are some other sort of security benefits that you get from having an upchain as well. So there are other benefits, and I think a lot of them translate to roll ups as well.
01:43:00.600 - 01:43:32.720, Speaker C: But in Cosmos, it's always been the case that when you launch a protocol, you need a token to secure the validator set. This is no longer true after interchange security, but historically, it's like 98 out of 100 app chains have a token, so there was no other route. With roll ups, you don't need a native token, and you still have all the security benefits. And I think this has sort of played out on ETH is much more money like than Arb or op, and I think it'll play out similarly on Custia, but I guess we'll have to see.
01:43:33.730 - 01:44:30.642, Speaker A: Yeah, I very much agree with that. I think for a mix of reasons, you won't see most of these sovereign roll ups kind of mimicking what we have seen in cosmos in the early days. For a mix of what he was just describing there, aiden of I think that a lot of it will look like Ethereum, where a lot of these protocols don't want to launch a token or at the very least don't want to launch a token when they launch, because people want to wonder if there's going to be a token. Being realistic, that was very helpful to people like optimism and arbitram, that they didn't have a token at the start, but people wondered, when are you going to have a token? Most protocols will want that, as opposed to just like launching with one right away. And they're just like, hey, here are all the tokens. That's generally attractive to most protocols, and from most that I've spoken to, they tend to be going that route of like, we won't launch with one, but we can have one later. And there's a meaningful path dependence to how these ecosystems develop.
01:44:30.642 - 01:45:00.150, Speaker A: So like, okay, if that's the incentive, is to launch in that way without your token at first, but have one later on. But hey, we're live for like six months or a year first. And in that entire period, this other asset, whether that's Steo or Eth, becomes the base money and the base asset in your ecosystem over the past six months or a year. You're not just going to show up a year later and be like, hey, here's my governance token. We're going to make it the gas token. Now users are just going to kind of tell you to fuck off if you try to do that, for the most part. And it would just be like a really bad business decision.
01:45:00.150 - 01:45:50.310, Speaker A: I think that more people had a view a couple of years ago of like, oh, this gives us a lot of utility. It makes our token worth more like if it's used as a gas token. I think that most people realize in practice you're just creating a lot of barriers to user adoption and you're just going to hurt yourself if you try to force in roll up token number 46 as the gas token of your chain, and this user has to figure out how the hell to get this thing, just not going to figure it out, they're just not going to use your thing. And so I think in practice, what Aidan said is right, it's going to look a lot like Ethereum, where these chains are going to build themselves on either eth or Tia as probably their starting asset, and there's just going to be a huge path dependence, and particularly these sovereign roll ups. They're not the ones who are going to start with Eth. The ones that are Ethereum l two s like eclipse, even though they're using celestia, they're going to start with a hide path dependence on like ETH is probably going to be the main asset. That's the gas token.
01:45:50.310 - 01:46:14.798, Speaker A: Even though we'll have a lot of steadfi, the ones that start as sovereign rolls without a tie to Ethereum, I think that most of them are incentivized to just start without their own token and just use Tia as the main token because that's going to minimize the onboarding. That's going to be tapping into the right community that they're trying to go after. They're generally incentivized to take that path, and I think that path just keeps running itself out. They don't change that a year later when they have their own token. And I think it's a much better model than all these different chains forcing their own.
01:46:14.804 - 01:46:20.040, Speaker C: One fun fact, Tia and Adam are both gas tokens on.
01:46:23.210 - 01:46:50.426, Speaker B: Very cool. So you know, some light bulb actually just went on there hearing you discuss that. So it feels like there's an opportunity for restaking as well. There's a resaking part of this story for sovereign roll ups, right. That might want to launch without. I hadn't even thought about that, John, but that's a really good point. Without their own token, suddenly they can do things like points, points or whatever and then get that when know sort of initial burst of activity.
01:46:50.426 - 01:47:28.700, Speaker B: I would be curious, Aiden, have you thought about restaking at all? Because there's a natural alignment as well, in between liquid staking and restaking, I would say. I guess this is something that could potentially, it's just such a funny, I guess Eigen layer could say. I think a lot of people assume that Eigen layer is going to be e three staking forever, but there's probably good evidence to suggest that's not actually the case. Pretty sure freehammer has actually said that on a bell curve in the past. So anyway, we can assume that's not going to be the case, but there could be opportunity, I guess, for more TIA aligned restaking provider as well. So I don't know if that's something you thought about.
01:47:29.310 - 01:48:22.570, Speaker C: Yeah, the way that I think about liquid staking, restaking, stride, all this is to some of John's earlier points. Stride does one thing and does it very well right now, which is liquid staking. If it does anything else in the future, like restaking or exporting other tokens as a bridge or something like that, it should be very aligned with that ethos. Restaking is a huge opportunity for sure. It does have, I think, different risks than liquid staking in particular, managing leverage is much more challenging. So on the one hand, maybe there are some vertical integration benefits to liquid staking and restaking, but on the other, there's all these new risks that you introduce. So I don't really know where I stand on it today, but stride doesn't currently have any plans to build restaking.
01:48:22.570 - 01:48:49.122, Speaker C: The other thing I would say is, I think in terms of the value, like, let's just take Ethereum, for example. ETH is the base token. That's what everyone wants. That's the community that people are buying into. It's what defines the ideals steeth layers yield on top of eth. So steeth depends on etH. And I think similarly resaking will depend on liquid staking.
01:48:49.122 - 01:49:24.906, Speaker C: If steeth is the best collateral, for example, and users demand they already are getting their 5% yields from steeth, they're going to want to deposit that into Eigen layer. Unclear what the yields from Eigen layer will be, but let's say it's like 1%. I think if Eigen layer says, like, hey, actually, no, we're not going. Also, Eigen layer has not suggested this. I'm just using these familiar names. If Eigen layer said that we're not going to accept seeth and we're going to build our own Lst, I think that would be a big footgun because users are demanding using seeth as collateral. So that's sort of like the dependency value chain that.
01:49:24.906 - 01:49:32.770, Speaker C: See. So I think resaking and liquid staking will be very mutually beneficial.
01:49:34.070 - 01:50:55.230, Speaker A: Yeah, I think it's hard to answer where this will play out. I think that Shiba will have the very clear benefit of just looking at Ethereum and being meaningfully behind that and just seeing how it plays on Ethereum of who kind of has the power between the liquid staking protocol versus the restaking protocol if they're separate, depends to a large degree on who has the kind of stronger consumer demand of, like, if literally everyone wants to restake with eigen layer and all of this teeth is deposited into eigen layer, well, then maybe Eigen layer does think about, oh, hey, we actually have the power here. What if we just swap this into our own thing? If in practice, the vast majority is still in steeth and restaking is this fun thing, but it's not overwhelmingly a gigantic piece of the market where they could really just kind of take it over themselves, then in practice, they can't actually do that. And so a lot of will just depend on how big is restaking over time. In Ethereum, most of what we see is, I think that restaking as a meta and as a defi thing to play around with will be very large this year. I think it is unclear if at this point still if restaking as a actually very large economic model that secures a million abs and provides a meaningful amount of yield in the long run for a lot of users. I think that's a huge question.
01:50:55.230 - 01:51:35.674, Speaker A: I don't think that as of right now, the answer is not yes, that's definitely. And so Celestia is just, like, way behind on that of like, there isn't a line of people who want $10 billion of staked stea right now to restake and secure their chain. It just doesn't exist at all right now. But there's a real need for. People do want to use stea in a lot of these places early on. So it'll just be seeing how do these markets develop over time. What is it that users want? Because there are some benefits of putting them together, but there are also benefits of keeping them neutral and separate and keeping them very distinct products, because building either one is like a very full time job with a gigantic team, and they're very different.
01:51:35.674 - 01:51:58.610, Speaker A: And that's why we see that in ethereum in practice so far of like, Lido is just like, hey, for like, we're just staying in our own lane, and Eigen layer is being also same. Like, hey, for like, we're just going to stay in our own lane and just kind of see where this goes. I think that's the right strategy for pretty much everyone for now, especially because Celeste would be so far behind on that. It's not about to have this gigantic need for restaking tomorrow. It just doesn't exist.
01:52:00.070 - 01:52:53.060, Speaker B: Yeah, well said. Well, guys, maybe we can start to wind down here. We've given quite a long podcast for listeners, but I want to conclude with John. We've talked through actually some of the reasons specifically why, but maybe we could end with why the market for Celestia and the penetration of liquid staking is going to be meaningfully different from the penetration that we've seen in cosmos or Solana. We've again talked about a lot of those reasons, but let's just underline it so that the listener kind of walks away with it and then mean. And we should have caveatted this at the beginning, by the way, but both John and I are investors in know, but for good reason. We've been fans for a long time, so, yeah, we'd love to just kind of end on why Celestia, again, that penetration might be very different and kind of what are future plans for stride that listeners can expect to look out for?
01:52:53.430 - 01:53:59.478, Speaker A: Yeah, in summary, I would say the kind of main things is that's my high level view of why Celestia is such an attractive market for someone like stride is. I mean, one is just the raw size of the underlying asset of just like, yeah, Celestia's like, the tea is worth a lot and will probably be worth more in the future. Not financial advice, but the other part is like, okay, out of that, how much is going to be liquid staked? And I do think that that's going to be higher over time. And the reason is because I do think it mimics a lot more of the dynamics in Ethereum, much more closely than most of these other existing cosmos chains or other existing chains, particularly in that the goal of this asset is to be kind of used as this money like thing across many, many different chains. The version that the end user is always going to be interacting with is going to be this bridged version at the end of the day anyway, and is going to be used widely in that capacity in a way that a lot of these other cosmos tokens are not of. Like neutron accepts a bunch of gas tokens and stride accepts a bunch of different gas tokens. Most users don't actually pay in them because they don't actually want to use this thing and they don't care about it.
01:53:59.478 - 01:54:54.866, Speaker A: Most just use whatever. TIA is actually going to be in a strong position where that will be the preferable thing that most people use across these for both gas defi, all these different things. So you get a lot of broad adoption on all these different chains and it will be a bridge representation on all of them. And so once you're already in that position, you're going to hold the liquid staking token. That is going to be most users preferences. And we start to see that playing out on Ethereum today of like, there are a lot of ridiculous things around blast, but the core idea and that some others are leaning into now is like, yeah, if I'm holding eth on a roll up, I should just be holding the liquid staking token, why wouldn't I? And so I think that trend is going to very much play out in Celeste in a way that we just don't see in these other cosmos chains of this one asset, like proliferating as money across these many different chains. Once you're in that scenario, you're going to want the liquid staking token and you're going to want the one that's the most neutral, the safest, the most reliable, the closest to the base layer.
01:54:54.866 - 01:54:59.910, Speaker A: And that's what let us try, because they were clearly the best team who were doing this. We were very impressed.
01:55:02.210 - 01:55:31.206, Speaker C: Yeah. Thank you, John. And in terms of our plans, as John said, neutral, aligned, all those things. By the time this goes live, we'll have launched with SCTO. It's secured by a multi sig on the back end comprised of a number of validators. This is the only way for us to launch now. We'll be migrating to interchange accounts in a few months and then ZK roll up approach is probably twelve plus months out.
01:55:31.206 - 01:56:10.078, Speaker C: It's sort of our technical migration path in terms of what's next in the wild, where is STT going to be used? What's actually going to happen? Three main things I would highlight. The first is airdrops. I think the reality is today there's an explosion of activity around Celestia for good reason. And lots of those teams are airdropping to Tia stakers. I think it's going to be really important that STT stakers and any other LSP that they're included in those airdrops practically. This just happens with work behind the scenes, talking to these teams, indexing STT holders, things like that. That's going to be really critical.
01:56:10.078 - 01:56:39.980, Speaker C: The second is organic activity. So stride typically incentivizes liquidity and sometimes organic activity that'll happen around the ecosystem. We're talking to teams like Eclipse, Astria, Dimension, manta, long list. So bootstrapping that and then the third is we're starting to think about how to bridge SCT to roll ups. And more news on that will be coming soon. So that's kind of what you can expect for SCT in the next few weeks.
01:56:41.230 - 01:57:08.114, Speaker B: Awesome, guys. Well, look, this was a phenomenal conversation from my perspective. We went for almost 2 hours and I think we only covered about 50% of the detail that was in John's original post. So again, guys, we're going to link that in the show notes. Definitely go and check that out, especially if you want to nerd out a little bit more around some of the technical details that we sort of skipped over. But yeah, Aiden could not be more pumped for stride and the future of stea as modular. Guys.
01:57:08.114 - 01:57:13.800, Speaker B: Aidan or John, if folks want to find out more about the work that you guys are doing, or follow you or whatever, what's the best way to do that?
01:57:15.290 - 01:57:19.462, Speaker C: I'm Aiden xerox on Twitter. Best place to find me yeah.
01:57:19.596 - 01:57:26.360, Speaker A: Can find me on Twitter or just dba. XyZ is our website. Easiest to find everything there?
01:57:26.810 - 01:57:32.878, Speaker B: Awesome, guys. Well, this was a really fun one. Appreciate both of you. And yeah, we'll do something like this again soon.
01:57:33.044 - 01:57:33.662, Speaker A: Thanks, man.
01:57:33.716 - 01:57:34.094, Speaker C: Thanks, man.
01:57:34.132 - 01:57:34.880, Speaker A: Take care.
01:57:35.410 - 01:57:35.900, Speaker C: See you.
