00:00:00.250 - 00:00:26.150, Speaker A: Before we jump into the app, quick reminder that nothing on Bell Curve is financial advice. Everything is just a meme. Hope you guys enjoy. Huge shout out to our sponsor, Reserve. If you don't know Reserve, we're going to talk more about them later in the show. But Reserve is the easiest way to design, deploy and govern stablecoins, backed by a diverse set of assets with access to DeFi, yield and ensure it's. Super interesting.
00:00:26.150 - 00:00:30.774, Speaker A: Very excited to partner with Reserve. You'll hear more about them later in the show. Should we get into it?
00:00:30.892 - 00:00:31.958, Speaker B: Let's get into it.
00:00:32.044 - 00:00:32.374, Speaker C: All right.
00:00:32.412 - 00:00:33.318, Speaker A: See you on the other side.
00:00:33.404 - 00:00:39.190, Speaker B: Welcome to another episode of Bell Curve. I've got Shreyas Hariharan and Mika Honkasalo. Gentlemen, welcome to the show.
00:00:39.260 - 00:00:40.070, Speaker C: Great to be here.
00:00:40.140 - 00:00:41.274, Speaker D: Thank you. Great to be here.
00:00:41.312 - 00:01:00.686, Speaker B: Guys. We're missing Jason on this one. He said he was so intimidated by your intellectual prowess and capability, he actually couldn't no porgy. He woke up without his voice. So we're going to do our best to soldier on without him today. We got a great episode for everyone. We've got a lot, frankly, to unpack, and I'd love to get into as much of it as we have time for.
00:01:00.686 - 00:01:17.458, Speaker B: Shreus, I actually want to turn this over to you. You have this great analogy of kind of Kosis theorem, right, and kind of this theory of the firm and how that might translate into the new world of Dow. So I saw you gave a talk at Mainnet. Can you kind of just unpack your ideas there?
00:01:17.624 - 00:02:22.838, Speaker D: Yeah, for sure. So the basic idea that Ronald COAS, who was an economist in the 1930s, worked on is the theory of the firm, which is he asked this question, if why does the firm exist? Why can't individuals, say, at Ford Motor Company, whether it's the engineers or the designers or the executives, just work as independent freelancers? And why do they have to come together as a firm to sell their services? And the reason is because firms reduce transaction costs. And so firms actually there's a lot of costs incurred when individuals sell their services independently in the free market. And specifically, there's three types of costs. One is triangulation, which is finding and measuring the quality of a service. The second is transfer, which is it costs a lot to bargain and negotiate for a specific service. And so if you have an individual every day who's trying to negotiate how much they're supposed to get paid and what their contract should be, that would be quite costly.
00:02:22.838 - 00:03:15.386, Speaker D: And lastly, trust, which is the party, may not be trustworthy, and usually you have the legal system that comes as a last sort of option of recourse, but legal system itself is expensive. And so firms really help reduce these transaction costs, which is why individuals work at firms. And then the Internet has helped reduce transaction costs significantly. And so by individuals being able to directly work for services that other individuals demand. It's reduced transaction costs. One example would be Uber, where drivers are able to sell their services and find riders. And of course you have the app that mediates that, but that's very different from having a taxi medallion that mediates it.
00:03:15.386 - 00:04:46.274, Speaker D: And then same with Airbnb, same with other gig economy type freelance design services. And so blockchains are in that wave of helping reduce coordination costs where you have this system, you have kind of ethereum, let's say, that really helps have those nation state type properties of contract enforcement that can help people from around the world, whether it's from different countries or in some cases anonymous, people really trust each other. And then you have these individuals that can sell their services directly because they have some shared level of sort of contract enforcement or trust that mediates that. And, yeah, my argument in that post was that while transaction costs have reduced, there reaches a point where individuals and we're seeing this with contributing to protocols, where it is hard for individuals to contribute to protocols directly because there's a lot of cost involved in coordinating different skill sets. Whether it's smart contract engineering or governance work. There's bargaining power and even passing a governance proposal. And so there are Dows, these collectives that come together to even contribute to protocols that make the contribution even more effective and impactful.
00:04:46.274 - 00:05:01.334, Speaker D: And so the idea is that it's almost like you've had this unbundling of labor and then now you're kind of having a rebundling, but that's emerging more slowly through Dows and especially Dows that contribute to protocols.
00:05:01.382 - 00:05:14.142, Speaker B: Yeah, it's funny to look at Dows through the lens of Cos, right, the Cos's theorem, because if you look at a company and the aim of reducing transaction costs, you look at something like trust, like, hey, you both work here, so you trust.
00:05:14.196 - 00:05:14.798, Speaker D: Right?
00:05:14.964 - 00:05:37.746, Speaker B: Triangulation right. You don't have to go out and find the service. Like it's the guy sitting next to you or the San Francisco officer or whatever. So you can see very know kind of traditional corporations in America, how they've improved efficiency through basically just this kind of top down, hierarchical, rigid organization. Maybe the next evolution of that is the Internet, where you're not all necessarily working for the same firm, but like Uber drivers.
00:05:37.778 - 00:05:37.974, Speaker A: Right.
00:05:38.012 - 00:06:16.882, Speaker B: As an example of like, okay, we're both on this app and we don't necessarily need to trust each other, I can very easily find you. When you look at Dows and Trace, I know you were sort of talking about this specific subset contributor DAOs in your talk, but it was interesting to look at it through this lens because I think in some instances it's almost like we're going one step back for Kosis Theorem, because even if you look at a lot of these DAOs that are trying to now recruit services, it's like, hey, let's just RFP out every single minor service, right? In some instances and that just seems to create a lot of friction. So I guess, Mika, maybe as a kind of avid Dow contributor, maybe you could address some of that point and how you see all this.
00:06:16.936 - 00:07:30.006, Speaker C: I do think that in crypto sometimes there is this thing are we building something new or are we building existing things over again on the Internet? And when it comes to how to set up working organizations towards building actually some useful product or service, I think the baseline is sort of we do start from a reset in a way, and that's where a lot of this comes from when people are sort of discovering a lot, like, okay, how should we set up this organization and how do we accomplish this goal? I think in practice, for example, I've been like a delegate on MakerDAO and the sort of least impressive part of MakerDAO is probably the dao part in terms of how well it sort of organizes itself. So there is a lot of skepticism around that. But I think it's more of like a process question where we reset and we get to try these things in a global and sort of pseudonymous way or potentially at least it's up to the market to decide and that's sort of what opens up, I think the kind of cool stuff and eventually leads to better outcomes. But it's just within working in that environment, it just looks a bit more hectic on a day to day basis.
00:07:30.198 - 00:08:21.094, Speaker B: A question that I put to you guys is it seems to me sometimes I hear Dows get talked about in two different ways, right? Which is one, we are going to sort of reinvent the theory of what the firm should look like, right. And in general not obviously differs on a Dow to Dow type basis, but in general we want something that looks less like a rigid hierarchical structure. We want a flat organization, something that looks more like a democratic form of governance internally right. Where contributors get more of a voice than necessarily just top down management. On the other hand, shreya I was kind of struck by listening to your talk and description of Dows in a lot of ways. It's almost the continuation of many trends that we currently see, right? Like the gig economy, first of all, like a global employee and contributor base, everything kind of takes place online. So I guess those aren't necessarily mutually exclusive ideas.
00:08:21.094 - 00:08:46.950, Speaker B: But in order for, let's say, like protocol Dows or contributor Dows as opposed to, I guess you'd call bitcoin or ethereum a Dow, but let's focus specifically on hyperstructure protocol type Dows. Do you think we need to totally tear everything up at the roots and reinvent it? Can governance actually be this governance that we're experimenting with that be an advantage? Or do you see it kind of as the natural continuation of trends that are already occurring in, let's say, the tech industry.
00:08:47.370 - 00:09:42.482, Speaker D: Yeah, I think there's always a combination of both. So the unique things that blockchains and crypto enable one is that you take a simple thing that anyone can create an ethereum address and anyone can create multiple or several hundred ethereum addresses. That's a very unique property of Blockchains that you could have these hundreds of pseudonymous identities. Each of them could be transacting, contributing to different protocols, engaging with different protocols as a user. And it's just so different from a drill identity in a nation state where you have one identity linked to one person. And so, yeah, I just picked that as one example of something that is distinct about Blockchain. So I think many Dows need to have more elements of corporate governance, especially things on maybe the idea of an independent board that reviews the compensation of a CEO.
00:09:42.482 - 00:10:30.878, Speaker D: That's a useful idea, but then you have these unique elements, which is anyone can contribute to a Dow. In some cases you have several pseudonymous contributors who don't know each other. In some cases you don't know who they are. I think you kind of have to lean into the fact that the Dow native way of contributing is different in the sense that there is more churn in the contributors. And so you have someone who contributes for a few months in one protocol, contributes to another protocol for a few months. And so I think, yeah, you always want combination mean, to summarize, I would say you need so let's take Aave as an example. So Avi is a lending protocol.
00:10:30.878 - 00:11:31.090, Speaker D: Aave, I would say, has maybe one of the more functional DFI Dows that that exist today. And so there's a core protocol that is built by Ave companies, that is the liquidity protocol that all the users use. And Avi builds V one, V two, V three, does the major innovations on what the protocol needs. And then you have this large surface area for governance and for the Dao. And so that surface area includes risk parameter updates, asset listings, what assets should be listed on Ave Treasury allocations, how the treasury should be allocated. The safety module, which is ave, has this insurance fund and how the insurance fund needs to be adjusted to reflect the growing needs of the protocol, grants and sort of funding incentives for people to build on top of Aave. And so there are these host of functions that the Aave companies that the centralized team is not working on, that clearly the Dao is doing.
00:11:31.090 - 00:12:11.010, Speaker D: And there's some things that can happen in a subdao model. So it's almost like a unit of the Dao. And so Ave grants, Dao functions like that. But there's some things that is just much better as a service provider. So you have, say, Gauntlet or Llama or Chaos Labs that serve Aavedao with specific services. And it's just way better because they compound expertise from working across several Dows to provide Aave with a useful service. So I think you kind of need a combination of different things and I think the unique thing that Dows enable is that anyone can theoretically contribute.
00:12:11.010 - 00:12:33.418, Speaker D: But like I pointed out before, there are some constraints on these things that anyone can theoretically say get a government contract or something, right? But in reality there's a lot of constraints that prevent people from doing that and we need to ease that access better but also make sure the quality of the work and contributions remain high.
00:12:33.584 - 00:13:27.034, Speaker C: It depends a lot. I think also on the task at hand that's being performed, what kind of dos structure is good because you can think like Ethereum is kind of like this big ship. If there would be sort of real governance decision making in that, I don't think that creates an optimal outcome actually. And also people I think just generally in an informal way agree what the roadmap should be and let's just work very deliberately toward that then something like Uniswap as well. It's kind of like an order book and you just trade on there and doesn't actually need that much stuff. But like the Ave example explained here and like the Maker one, I would rather let computers do everything right, but as long as they can't, you need a human kind of doing those parameter updates and that's where you kind of need governance because the task is more complex than matching orders in a way. Like actually setting interest rates and things like that is not like a trivial task.
00:13:27.034 - 00:13:59.602, Speaker C: Even in Maker, you actually need someone to do it. And I think also an underestimated part is that people do have an opportunity to contribute anonymously or pseudonymously to these projects. There is, I think, a lack of really high end work always. And if you're able to do that, I think you're always able to make your way to the top of or to an important place in terms of working on ava interest rates or something like that because so few people actually do that very well.
00:13:59.756 - 00:15:01.978, Speaker D: Yeah, I think that's I really like that point because Ethereum is a great example of you don't need on chain governance for everything. Ethereum functions well and governance is basically decision making and it's almost viewed as like blockchains and DAOs. It's like an extension of social networks, which is social networks help people maybe communicate with each other. But the point of maybe Dow governance is that you combine that communication with real coordination and decision making power where the structures that people can make decisions and the structures need not be sort of on chain governance or token holder voting, right? They could really differ based on what the needs of the protocol are. And also even within the on chain governance uniswap is much more a hyperstructure that has just a need for governance, for the fee switch and treasury allocation versus Aave has a much bigger mandate because of the sort of risk side.
00:15:02.064 - 00:15:45.670, Speaker B: We've talked about that. This idea, even in past episodes with Hastu and Chris in episode one of this season, this kind of idea that there are different governance structures that are appropriate for different layers. Let's say however close a protocol is to kind of let's call it the base infrastructure layer of crypto, right? So let's say for something like Bitcoin or Ethereum like governance because there is some governance, right? There are EIPS, right? Like we implemented EIP 1559 this year. That was very there. There are changes that are being made there, right? There's. Ultimately, like to your point, there's a roadmap that's being aligned on, but it's kind of this big it's this big barge, right, that's very hard to move in one direction or another. And that's probably more of a feature than a bug.
00:15:45.670 - 00:16:16.318, Speaker B: Then you could kind of go one layer up, right? And then maybe there's something like an Aave or Compound or Maker. Those are like very base layer infrastructure things. And then you can kind of go all the way up the stack to more consumer facing applications. So what are your sort of thoughts on different governance structures that are appropriate? Do you think it should be kind of bigger and more democratic at the base, the infrastructure layer so things are harder to make quick changes to and maybe more nimble at the top? Or how would you think about prescribing different types of governance to different parts of the stack?
00:16:16.414 - 00:17:17.666, Speaker C: I like a very clear separation where if you have things that need to be done, that part I think should be done by people who are really invested and aligned with the project. And then the base layer infrastructure, especially over time, things like Aven Maker more and more will reach that kind of ethereum status to me where I just think of them as kind of like natural monopolies that can form very well and they're kind of like the big energy companies that are almost nationalized by nation states and things like that. That to me is an analogy and the way that the business operates in some of those cases. Ethereum at End State is kind of like a business that any idiot can in a way operate because it just runs and makes money forever. It's like digging oil from the ground at that point. When you reach that sort of real level of maturation, I think it looks like that as a business. So in that sense, I don't think it needs to be touched anymore.
00:17:17.666 - 00:18:06.662, Speaker C: Same way like the core Internet protocols don't get to email doesn't really get touched in that way. So I think there you really want to over time reach that and then when you're doing something very specific, that's where it helps to be much more concentrated. But also you can think all the organizations on top of Ethereum are kind of like subdows of that in a way because they're building, using that infrastructure, building their own thing, utilizing and taking advantage of ethereum's properties. They just have their own governance model on top and their own rent and value extraction. But the more consumer facing you are and the more nimble you have to be, the more you are less of a Dao. And then over time, I think all DAOs sort of should get dissolved in a way where it just runs on pure math, the whole thing.
00:18:06.716 - 00:18:53.602, Speaker B: I'm going to make maybe a weird analogy here that might be a bit of a reach, but sort of bear with me one big topic especially like, let's say in the case of something like Lido, an advantage that DAOs can do, that would have been much more difficult to do in the real world is to ossify certain things in code. Right. Make it immutable so that you can't necessarily change it. If you think about it, if you think about the governance of the United States, what we've basically did, we kind of forked different ideas in the past, right? There was like the Magna Carta, which was kind of Commonwealth law in the UK. And the Republican sort of structure back in ancient Rome. And we took a bunch of that and we created this thing called the Constitution and then we sort of ossified it. We made it very difficult to change what that ultimately is, right? You can do it if you get a supermajority.
00:18:53.602 - 00:19:37.394, Speaker B: We added Bill of Rights and all that kind of stuff. But we almost enshrined this thing right at the beginning of the United States. And I'm not sure how familiar you guys are with this kind of idea that ultimately property law, like strong property law enforced by the state is a huge determinant for what ultimately makes something successful or not. But I kind of believe that, right? Like, because build a company in the United States as opposed to other countries because we know that the government isn't necessarily going to come in here and take it. All right, there's that kind of certainty. So I'd be curious how good of a job you think Dows right now are doing at creating that same sense of certainty. Right.
00:19:37.394 - 00:19:54.426, Speaker B: There are a couple of examples where that hasn't necessarily been the case, but if you call ethereum a Dow, I think they've done a pretty good job of that. But I'd be curious about some of the other Dows, like how immutable the state that they're creating, what good of a job you think they're doing?
00:19:54.528 - 00:20:58.298, Speaker D: Yeah, I think that analogy of the Constitution should maybe apply to the blockchain, to layer one blockchains. And so I think, like ethereum, it should be changeable, but hard to change. Like the Constitution in blockchains, though, it's easier to change in the sense that, well, it may be hard to do an EIP process, but maybe you could fork ethereum. You could start your own blockchain. Now, it's hard to get adoption in that case, but it is difficult to start a country with your own constitution. The barriers entries are much harder than higher than the barriers entry to start your own blockchain. Now, protocols and Dows that are built on blockchains inherit some of the properties of blockchains, but they don't need to resemble the same level of in some cases they could be unchangeable, completely immutable.
00:20:58.298 - 00:21:47.674, Speaker D: In some cases they can have much more flexibility. I think in, say, lending protocols, there should be some room for the changing nature of DFI and markets versus maybe an AMM, maybe uniswap V four after if they launch it. I don't think so, but maybe that's it. And then you just need like minor upgrades on top of it. But maybe that doesn't apply to, say, learning protocols. It just depends on what the application is. I think if you do stick to a specific, if you do stick to remaining relatively immutable, where, yes, it's possible to change, but you're having an opinion.
00:21:47.674 - 00:22:30.266, Speaker D: Let's say like Nouns, for example, has this one auction every day forever, and people bid on that auction and the proceeds go to the treasury and then is allocated to fund projects that build on nouns. That's an opinion. Like they could maybe have 20 auctions in a day, they could maybe have one auction every month, but the protocol has an opinion which is they're doing one auction a day forever. And that's what's said and that's like the social consensus. There's a way to change the protocol and you could really increase the auction speed or decrease it. Let's say there's no demand for nouns auctions. Will they make it one a month? I don't know, but it's more interesting when it just sticks the one a day.
00:22:30.266 - 00:23:09.174, Speaker D: And then maybe you have forks of nouns that experiment with different auction frequencies. And so I think there is something special to this community building. This is almost a little bit like the autonomous nature of the Dow, which is the protocol does have these rules that are opinionated and are specific and there's some social consensus that it's going to just run forever. It attracts this community of contributors or users and builders that are attracted to that particular mission and that opinion. And if people really oppose that instantiation of the protocol, you could of course, fork it and have your own experiments to run with.
00:23:09.212 - 00:24:08.282, Speaker C: To me, it's very much dependent on just the business you're in and the business you're in kind of dictates it where you can think like MakerDAO has two ways to go about this. You can just try to be super decentralized and try to survive, and maybe that's the right way to become the most important global infrastructure and an important stablecoin. But the other one, which forces you to take risk and forces you to govern things, is if you want to generate yield off chain for example. But that does give you the advantage of capital efficiency, being able to put that capital you make off chain into on chain vaults that increases your competitiveness. So the good part about forking is exactly that you get to try out every variation of this. But I think it depends on the business you're in a little bit, where it could be where the right way to go about Maker from now on is to be very conservative. Or it could be that right now the best way is to get all the off chain stuff, put the yield sources in and really push the capital efficiency and make Dai more attractive to hold.
00:24:08.282 - 00:24:16.366, Speaker C: And that's what wins you the game. So I think it very much depends on just the market forces you in a sense to do different things.
00:24:16.468 - 00:24:56.278, Speaker B: Mika maybe we could start to get into some tangible examples here, like moving from the kind of high level theoretical down into what's actually happening on the day to day. Maybe we could actually start with Maker, because Maker in many ways is kind of a bellwether. I think the first maybe you could call it like Consequential dow. If you don't include something like Bitcoin or Ethereum, you actually just describe for listeners who might just kind of know what Maker is, understand what Maker the token is versus Dai. But can you just describe Maker as an entity? Like if you were describing a business like Amazon, you say it's a shipper, right? It provides AWS. Like these are its customers, this is how it makes money. Could you kind of give us an overview of Maker and how it all works and then we can get into the governance?
00:24:56.374 - 00:25:28.642, Speaker C: I think for the purposes of understanding it as a business, it's very much like a flat organization with different parts. I'm describing the old version of Maker. The new version is sort of more eccentric. But before that comes, let's just talk about how it's been. It's like a flat organization with core units who are often responsible for a specific thing. Those core units are made up of a certain number of people, for example, engineers, and then they have a facilitator who sort of in a way tries to answer to MKR token holders. So that's one part of the equation.
00:25:28.642 - 00:25:59.326, Speaker C: The second part is you have delegates who basically vote on everything related to money and how risk is handled within the system. So it's about how budgets are allocated, how different risk parameters around debt ceilings are set. And then there are token holders, not very many, but token holders who have delegated their tokens to these delegates, who then approve or disprove basically how budgets are allocated and how risk is managed within the system.
00:25:59.428 - 00:26:15.330, Speaker B: So that's kind of the governance structure. What are all of those different pieces trying to achieve? Right. I know at a high level it's kind of the perpetuation of the stablecoin die but what if you sort of went around and pulled all these different stakeholders within the organization? What would they say the objective is?
00:26:15.480 - 00:27:20.906, Speaker C: So that's the funny and sort of worrying part in some sense in Maker nowadays, which is that people will probably give you different answers to that question. Some people are much more heavily want a certain type of growth strategy and another one like another. So it can be as simple as what should the interest rates be like? How competitive should you make them in a bull market to encourage leverage from the system to all the way to the baseline philosophy of do you have real world assets as collateral or not? And that's like a point of friction and actually probably gets you quite a bit of different answers. And ultimately it's like democratic vote in a way of those people who or those tokens that show up via delegates or themselves, the majority always kind of wins. So it's like a democracy in that way. It is kind of like a slow moving entity in that way where you tend to get decisions that are kind of conservative. And it's good that for example, in the bull market people didn't take UST, for example, as collateral and things like that.
00:27:20.906 - 00:28:08.774, Speaker C: So there's been sensible decision making. So I think there's some good parts to it, but there's also some bad parts to it where also the dow tends to ossify around certain people. And in practice, you do tend to get this effect where a few people are very much like sort of the key decision makers in the system. And that's not necessarily bad, but it's just like a reality as well. So I think there is probably more complexity on the organization side that's kind of necessary in that way relative to what's actually being done. So it is kind of complicated, but it is also very cool in a way because you do have different kinds of people from all sorts of different backgrounds like bringing new ideas to the table and those do have a good chance of getting implemented if they're good. So there's a lot of positives as well.
00:28:08.892 - 00:28:17.546, Speaker B: All right everyone, brief break in the show here to talk about our newest sponsor, Reserve. So it's looking pretty bleak out there. It's not looking that great. We know the one thing there's no.
00:28:17.568 - 00:28:20.054, Speaker A: Bear market in stablecoins stables.
00:28:20.102 - 00:28:51.890, Speaker B: Baby stables. We love those stablecoins, which is why we're excited to partner with Reserve Protocol. So let's just start with the basics. What is reserve? It's a self service platform to build, deploy and govern asset backed stablecoins which can be integrated with DFI or within the real economy. So the cool thing about Reserve is basically anyone out there permissionlessly can take any set of ERC, 20 tokens and use them to collateralize their own stablecoin. So the long term goal of the Reserve Protocol is to create a noninflationary currency that is stable. On a month to month basis, but also a century to century basis.
00:28:51.890 - 00:29:07.750, Speaker B: In the meantime, though, they're open sourcing design decisions for stable coins, which is just super, super cool. I think one of the benefits that you get there is diversification. You hear it all the time in Finance 101. No such thing as a free lunch except for diversification. That's what you're getting with reserve protocol.
00:29:07.830 - 00:29:33.950, Speaker A: Yeah, I've known the team for a long time. I spoke on a panel at SF Blockchain Week with Nevin? With Joe Carlson and Alex Gladstein. Really impressive growth that they've been able to have so far, right? Their premier stablecoin is RSV. It is backed by three other stables. It's already used by over half a million people, transacting over $300 million a month. Right. Now, like Mike was talking about, anyone can go create a custom bespoke stablecoin using the reserve protocol.
00:29:33.950 - 00:29:45.622, Speaker A: You can back it by maybe specific USD stables, or you can get creative and maybe build something more complex, like inversely correlated assets. The branding, governance, and composition are completely up to you.
00:29:45.676 - 00:30:15.902, Speaker B: And lastly, if there are any builders who are listening and you aren't interested in issuing your own stablecoin, what you can do is you can stake reserve's governance token against your favorite stable strategies. So what you're doing there is you're providing backstop insurance to stablecoin holders. Not riskless, right? Not financial advice. There's definitely some risk in doing that, but it does allow you to earn yield, especially now in crypto when there are so few ways to do that. It's definitely worth checking out. So at the very least, you should click the link at the bottom of this episode, go check out the reserve website, see all the cool stuff they're up to. Most importantly, though, click this link.
00:30:15.902 - 00:30:21.362, Speaker B: Got to give Jason and me some credit here. Give us some love, baby. Give us some love. All right, now back to the show.
00:30:21.416 - 00:30:22.162, Speaker A: Let's get into it.
00:30:22.216 - 00:31:23.586, Speaker B: There are kind of like three large sets of stakeholders in Maker, right? There are the core units, then there's also the delegates, and then there are kind of token holders, right? And one of the benefits, one of the maybe the cons of an organization like that is there's a lot of friction sometimes and people aren't necessarily aligned on one goal. So sometimes it feels like, hey, we could be sprinting faster here if we all just got on the same page. That's what the goal kind of is at a startup. But on the other hand, it seems like it functions as this sort of checks and balances type system, right, where actually moving slower can be a feature, not a bug. In some instances, maybe the case of not accepting UST as collateral is quite a good one, right? Because I would imagine that would have been very damaging to the Maker protocol. So maybe with that particular frame of governance in mind, let's move to another kind of base layer protocol, something like Uniswap, right? Which my understanding of Uniswap is, there's Uniswap Labs, which sort of builds consumer facing products on top of the protocol. Then there's the recently formed Uniswap Foundation, which manages updates to the actual protocol.
00:31:23.586 - 00:31:37.706, Speaker B: So I'd be curious if you take a look at these two forms of governance. Like, is the governance structure that Maker has necessarily applicable to Uniswap? Is it not mixing? Could you not just copy pasta it over to this new protocol? And if not, why?
00:31:37.808 - 00:32:24.326, Speaker D: Yeah, I think for uniswap. Yeah. How Uniswap is so different is that the AMMS, just by the nature of what they are, require much less governance? There's just way less surface area for what token holders and what contributors should. So right now, how Uniswap governance structured? There are just two main things that governance needs to do. One, it can allocate the treasury. So right now it's allocated the treasury to different initiatives, to the DeFi Education Fund that funds legal and policy initiatives for DeFi, to grants programs. And then now the Uniswap Foundation, and it can sort of allocate the treasury.
00:32:24.326 - 00:33:22.090, Speaker D: And then two, there's the fee switch, which is a Uniswap Dao can start earning revenue. And maybe once the fee switch happens, then it results in other questions because you have a bunch of right now the Uniswap Treasury is just Uni tokens. But then if there are other assets that go to the Uniswap Treasury, then there's more room for governance because you decide what to do with those assets. Maybe there's a treasury management question, maybe there's a question of how do you use those assets in governance about the protocols. But even in its maximum like, there doesn't seem to be as much need for governance. And so I think the goals of Uniswap should be to attract developers and front end to bring liquidity to the protocol. And it's interesting because the Labs entity is sort of building products on Uniswap and is no longer kind of growing and maintaining the protocol.
00:33:22.090 - 00:34:12.798, Speaker D: The foundation is now taking charge of that. And so, yeah, there's this question of does the foundation just do minor upgrades to the protocol? Will the foundation come up with sort of new fresh innovations? And is that the right structure to incentivize some of the top sort of smart contract developers to engineer major innovations in the Mm model? I mean, that's yet to be seen, but I think the basic idea kind of works fine. There's always questions that Uniswap governance is a little different from Maker, which is Maker. There's a lot going on, there's a lot of different stakeholders. It's quite messy. Uniswap, it's more there's not much going on. And I think it's a little bit of a function of the Mm doesn't need too much.
00:34:12.884 - 00:35:10.640, Speaker C: Yeah, I think just what kind of structure I would want actually for Uniswap is like the Labs entity. And Uniswap Labs really has an incentive to grow the protocol just by the virtue of them having a lot of uni on their balance sheet and them being like the founders of the project. And I do find that the problem with grant programs and things like that so far has been that you're not really able to produce those sort of long term results where someone is really incentivized to build their business on top of uniswap. So the kind of ideal case you'd want actually is okay, someone like taking the Uniswap. Protocol, really putting a lot of effort into building a new type of business on top of the protocol, for example, like perpetual swaps or something like that, and really making that their own thing and being able to be rewarded in Uni. In a way for that effort and actually becoming like a second labs entity that's on top of the protocol. That does as much good for the protocol almost as the Labs entity does.
00:35:10.640 - 00:35:41.450, Speaker C: I think protocols have been sort of poor at managing sort of their token table, cap table and really incentivizing this kind of action. But that's the kind of thing you'd, ideally, I think, to me, like to see, because otherwise it's just the Labs entity doing its thing and swap token holders thinking whether or not it's okay to turn on the fee switch, which is kind of like an uncreative way. But if you could really have another tip of the spear pushing things forward, that's the kind of outcome you'd really want. And maybe the foundation can do that.
00:35:41.520 - 00:36:20.630, Speaker D: Actually a good example of a second Labs entity in Aave, there's BGD Labs, which consists of some core members of the original Ave Genesis team, including the CTO, who then left Ave companies and is getting funded by the Dao to work in core protocol development. And so, yeah, there's at least one instance of people who have a lot of context in the protocol and who are motivated to build for it, but are getting now funded by the Dow because it is a different approach to build products on the protocol versus focus on new protocol innovation.
00:36:21.130 - 00:37:03.090, Speaker B: I have a question about something like that. If you think about again, maybe this is oversimplifying it, but using the analogy of like a firm or something like that, let's say a firm wants to embark on a new area of business, right? Like, let's say blockworks. We've got to use an example, we're a media company, but now we've got research as well. So right now it's like, okay, we got to figure out in addition to media, how to sell research. It's a little funny to kind of hear the CTO is like, oh, I'm going to leave Ave companies and start my own thing that leverages this. Because instead of like in a firm, right, going back to coast and reducing transaction costs, you're like, hey, it's your job. You're already employed here.
00:37:03.090 - 00:37:20.730, Speaker B: Let's go figure out how to do this. There's no additional costs or friction. But now it's like every time there's a new thing, someone come disband from the entity, leverage what's already been built and be like, I want equity in this new thing that I'm building. Do you kind of see from that lens it might actually increase transaction costs?
00:37:21.950 - 00:38:01.186, Speaker D: Yeah. The reason is because the protocol is different in the sense that it's like products on protocols, building unison v three and V four is different from building a wallet. Right. And so I think all that's equal if there were no regulatory hurdles or if there were no other issues. I think the right structure is you have everyone in that same team that's both building the protocol, building products in the protocol. You're thinking about both in the same way. You ID don't even have equity.
00:38:01.186 - 00:38:46.370, Speaker D: Everyone has token ownership and there's nothing else. There's no one equity, one token that leads to different incentives. That's, I think, the ideal case. There are a lot of constraints that prevent that from happening. And so I think the second approach does make sense, which is you have people who are funded by the Dow to maintain and upgrade the protocol. They can stay in the Labs team, but if the Labs team is focusing more going forward on building products, that is kind of just different from the core protocol maintenance and development. The core Labs team also has equity.
00:38:46.370 - 00:39:02.438, Speaker D: There could be situations where the token does well and the equity doesn't do well. The equity does well, the token doesn't. And I think you're kind of having a different bet when you're getting funded by the Dow to maintain and upgrade the protocol.
00:39:02.534 - 00:39:44.982, Speaker B: Let's talk a little bit about this idea of value creation versus value capture in DAOs Shreyas, I saw you shared an article the other day, and I thought it was quite interesting, basically, to summarize for the audience, just because you create something of value doesn't necessarily mean you can capture that value. Right. Like, maybe the most classic example is something like a Wikipedia, right? I think I use Wikipedia a shocking amount in my day to day life. Actually, I even do it on weekends sometimes go down little Wikipedia rabbit holes. And it's like very entertaining for me. I think humanity as a whole probably gets an enormous amount of use out of Wikipedia. The effect to which that value that Wikipedia has created has been captured by the creators of it.
00:39:44.982 - 00:39:56.134, Speaker B: That's where it's a little bit thinner. I don't know. Sherris, if you want to maybe take a swing at summarizing this particular article, we'll link to it in the show notes. But you want to take a swing.
00:39:56.182 - 00:41:21.160, Speaker D: At yeah, I can share some of my thoughts. I've been thinking about this for some time, and then Bryno shared a really good post. And some of it overlaps with what he shared know, because of the nature of open source protocols and the fact that there's a lot of things how companies capture value that is driven by the fact that there's either proprietary data or there's a proprietary algorithm. The source code is proprietary and open source protocols by default, you don't have any of that. And so right now the main things that have accrued value is the main token model that probably that makes sense right now that clearly works is ethereum. I think the layer one chains and the proof of stake model that kind of makes some sense versus really anything else. And you probably have then things like maybe Aave and Maker that fall probably in between where it makes more sense than say something like uniswap but it still is not proven yet.
00:41:21.160 - 00:42:21.114, Speaker D: The few things one is this question of revenue. So let's take uniswap, right? Uniswap is an open source protocol. There's always this debate can it turn on fees and you have the fee switch that can bring revenue to the Dow? You could do that. But in reality a lot of the revenue could actually come from products built on top of the protocol, can come from maybe payments from order flow. This is how folks like Robinhood and other wallet and exchanges will make money. And so that is a way more sustainable revenue source than maybe the fee switch though the fee switch could bring quite a bit of revenue to the Dow. And also there's always a sense that you can't keep increasing prices because at some point the switching costs when you have open source protocols competing with each other is just much lower.
00:42:21.114 - 00:43:54.134, Speaker D: And so I think one idea that I have is you kind of almost want a more unique way to capture value to these protocols. And this is like thinking a little bit out of the box here, but there was a good post by someone from Nouns who talked about NFTs as Providence rights. And so maybe an analogy if you think about Uniswap, let's say didn't have any ERC, 20 tokens but instead you just had NFTs that were issued, you just had socks or some other NFT collection or you had continuous auction NFTs, some things that people could own that had Providence rights over the underlying protocol. That maybe is interesting, which is uniswap is a culturally significant protocol and therefore people are owning these assets that have this cultural significance and maybe there's demand for that. Still an open question as to how many people would demand that, whether that's valuable and all that. But that maybe is interesting as well where the open source protocol itself doesn't try to capture fees in the traditional way, but there's other ways that it can have sort of status and provenance rights and other individuals or rich people can maybe have some ownership over funding these projects. Yeah, it's a possibility too.
00:43:54.134 - 00:44:03.206, Speaker D: But yeah, by default web two products just have a way easier value capture methodology than open source protocols.
00:44:03.238 - 00:44:43.414, Speaker C: I do think sometimes we maybe overthink the sort of value capture bit in the sense where uniswap token holders, like uni holders, their incentive is to maximize profit taking from the system. That's what they would ultimately like to do. But uniswap as a business may be one where the margins are just very small. But that's not that different from just how technology improves people's lives. Your distribution, your overall volume gets higher, but your cut gets smaller and the efficiency of your business is much higher. You can think like Unisop versus New York Stock Exchange. Unisop is like the open version that the whole world can use.
00:44:43.414 - 00:45:43.114, Speaker C: Maybe it becomes bigger than the New York Stock Exchange and maybe the cut you're able to get is not as big as the New York Stock Exchange because of regulatory reasons, because of forking and competitiveness. But there is also some switching cost involved on migrating that liquidity, where the liquidity on uniswap is not that sensitive to some fee level and you're able to get that fee level and that's how it ultimately plays out. Also these kinds of businesses, it's very hard to know. And this, I think, comes to the NFT point in a way what the monetization methods are ultimately and how good or bad they are because something like Google didn't make money until it made money. Right? And I think a lot of these businesses kind of could be similar where you can intellectualize all you want about what the uniswap fee switch should be. But ultimately if the product suit is really large, a lot of it gets decentralized over time. Maybe there is some amazing value capture there over time and that's how it just plays out.
00:45:43.114 - 00:46:14.990, Speaker C: But it, again, I think depends a lot of the business you're in and the switching costs where if I put the fee up by whatever basis points on uniswap, is the liquidity gone or not? And if it is, all the exchange aggregators will navigate to that, but the uniswap front end won't and that has its own stickiness and a lot of users. So I think very traditional business thinking does apply to something like the uniswap fee switch, for example.
00:46:15.080 - 00:47:08.702, Speaker B: Yeah, I wonder the limits to which it probably isn't so black. There aren't an enormous amount of instances of forking really that are very successful. Right? I guess Sushi swap is like the big one that is still kind of playing out in real time and lord knows they've gone through their struggles with leadership and everything over there. But it doesn't seem like there are that many instances of forking purely with eliminating a cost and taking an enormous percentage of the user base. And when I kind of think back to an analogy of I am a customer at bank of America and Fidelity. Why? Because when I was in high school I got dumped into those bank institutions and even though Robinhood had no trading services for a long period of time. I still kept my stuff on Fidelity.
00:47:08.702 - 00:47:26.890, Speaker B: Why? Because it was like kind of a pain in the ass to move everything and I just didn't really want to do it. So I know if it was $100 for every trade on Fidelity, I probably would have moved that. But it's $5 a trade and it was like, is it really worth it? So I wonder if there's some element of that within crypto as well where there's a sensitivity barrier, maybe for four.
00:47:27.040 - 00:48:21.866, Speaker D: Yeah, I do think there's totally a safety what's the word for it that you just don't move things when you're the B, two B equivalent is you don't get fired for using IBM. I think there's definitely that on the consumer side, which is why trusted brands have a lot of value and Coinbase works and people don't switch from Coinbase. I agree with all that. I think that's at the product level, though, and that's different from the protocol. So I think you want to own the end customer relationship, then you want to have so I do think uniswap's, like wallet or the thing that owns the end customer relationship totally will know if it's good if it's as good as Coinbase or Fidelity or Robinhood or whatever. Will have that trust with consumers and can have that retention. And if it satisfies those needs of users.
00:48:21.866 - 00:49:23.920, Speaker D: I agree there's very few people that are super DeFi, native and picky. But that's kind of different from the protocol because the protocol almost exists in the middle, right? So I think it's in this weird pine because these DeFi protocols, on the one side you have infrastructure that's really costly, that's hard to build, but once it's built, it's hard to displace, which is something like ethereum. On the other side, you have things that really have the end customer relationship, like the unisoft front end probably is an example. But yeah, like wallets and Coinbase and things like that, that have the end customer relationship. Again, it's hard to displace because people don't like to move. And then in the middle you have these protocols. And I think these protocols have to move to one side or the other to become in some cases, they have to vertically integrate, like dYdX is building its own chain, or they have to do both, sort of vertically integrate to build a wallet and have the end customer relationship, or they have to do both.
00:49:23.920 - 00:49:38.978, Speaker D: But again, we're just talking about the core protocol. And if you separate the protocol from the product, I think that's where it becomes harder and you need to have maybe some more thinking on how you actually have revenue with strong retention.
00:49:39.074 - 00:50:07.902, Speaker C: The data point that really supports this, that these protocols can become that kind of infrastructure, I think is going to defileama.com. Look at what the top projects are by TVL. They're the same ones they always were. They're maker armor. Uniswap the curve lido is the new one because that's like an actually new thing that came in the new last cycle. And in last cycle we did pump every single incentive you'd imagine into forking and subsidizing all the variations. And yet you still have this result.
00:50:07.902 - 00:50:26.590, Speaker C: And you can imagine, okay, if Maker is ten times bigger, if Ave is ten times bigger, it gets more difficult to job. It gets more difficult every single dollar you add to one of these things. So that would make me think that, okay, these do have that opportunity to become like really sticky infrastructure that's actually kind of difficult to displace.
00:50:26.750 - 00:51:26.854, Speaker B: I've got another maybe even to dive into some of the nuance and maybe let's actually use the example of the two protocols that we've been primarily referring to this whole episode, which would be Maker and Uniswap. So there was actually a great post by Multicoin. I know they're struggling a little bit recently, but they've put out some great content and it was basically this idea that protocol like DAOs manage risk and the more that you manage risk, the more unforkable you ultimately are. So like if you take the example of something like Uniswap, the competitive advantage that Uniswap has is liquidity. Liquidity begets liquidity, right? So right now they've got an enormous amount of market share, they have the most liquidity on there, tightest spreads, et cetera. But ultimately at the end of the day, you could imagine someone else is going to have the cold start problem of how do we get that liquidity. But if someone offers tighter spreads or lower fees, if we eventually turn on the fee swap for Uniswap, you could imagine really mercenary traders or liquidity providers just hopping over there.
00:51:26.854 - 00:51:58.146, Speaker B: There's like very low switching costs. On the other hand, trying to fork something like Maker is more difficult, particularly if it goes down the route of real world assets because there's an enormous amount of very technical underwriting of risk that goes on in that protocol. And if you just fork it with a different set of code, you can't take all the expertise and people that have built up on the original protocol and just magically make it go over there. So do you agree with that kind of nuance? And do you think that some protocols are more susceptible to being forked than others?
00:51:58.248 - 00:53:34.122, Speaker C: I do agree with that framework that taking on or just the business is more complex in a way where it's not that Uniswap token holders are taking full risk of the Uniswap protocol. In a way because if there is some reason why the ETH USDC pair gets drained for funds with some hack and Uniswap holders are technically liable for that in the implicit way, even if they're not explicitly so. Because if either they make those users whole or somehow they have to ensure that the trust in the system doesn't go to zero and people in the future will trade on it and otherwise their token goes to zero, right? So they are always taking the risk. It's just that their risk is different from something like maker where the risk is more complex, where you have lots of these different layers that are sort of like Maker for example. The specifics are interesting, I think where the stablecoin itself is kind of forkable in some ways because it's just the denomination of your leverage. And if it's just that it can be replaced because you can just take another system, take out dollar loans against your ETH and be fine with that and you have some cost of capital competition there. But the stuff that is enforkable is if Dai is just integrated everywhere and it's an actual stable coin that's used for payments and lots of different things and it has a liquid market on Aave and it has trading pairs on uniswap, that stuff doesn't makes it less forkable.
00:53:34.122 - 00:54:05.226, Speaker C: So because it's a more complex system, has all these aspects about it, even uniswap you can think how much is uniswap forkable or maybe I should just go after the ETH USDC market and only that with incentives because that's the biggest market and I can just try to get that one market away. Like uniswap isn't one thing, it's all these different markets, right, and they all have their different competitive dynamics so you can even slice that one up in different ways and try to attack uniswap in lots of interesting ways. So yeah, I don't know if that answered the question, but it was like at least some rambling on run it.
00:54:05.248 - 00:54:47.334, Speaker B: Did answer for me. Guys, we're starting to wind down here. I'd love to kind of get your thought of the end game, so to speak, on Dows and maybe we can ultimately divide that in between. What are some of the improvements that you guys would like to see made, let's say over the next couple of years and then maybe we can zoom out much further down the line. What you think? And one question that we've been asking a lot on this series is I think if you hear the way community, the community aspect of Dows talked about like one year ago versus today, it would be very different. Where one year ago there was an enormous focus on the community and engaging them and it was this big competitive advantage. And now I think that maybe some of the shine has come off of the last bull market.
00:54:47.334 - 00:55:28.326, Speaker B: People are kind of more talking a little bit at least in the research of doing the show about like you got to run every little thing by the community, which is great. That's one of the great things about Dow is that so many people can contribute but also good decision making is often by putting fewer people in front of making decisions than more. I've sat in on a couple of I'm thinking of this Twitter spaces that I sat in on the other night where I'm just watching this group get roasted and basically they want to RFP out every single little decision. And I'm just thinking to myself, like, man, that's pretty tough. I don't think that's necessarily the best way to do it. So I'd love to know how you think about kind of the pros and cons of each of these Dows having this super positive engaged community.
00:55:28.428 - 00:56:37.926, Speaker D: I suppose, yeah, I think you'd want to separate the decision making maybe into three types of decisions. The first is these extremely big, significant decisions, like a decision to deploy a protocol on another chain, a decision to do an upgrade from V Two to V Three, a decision to have some major change, to, say, ave's safety module, to change the protocol in some significant way, to maybe set up a grants program. Like those type of decisions where you have on chain governance or something like that. I think then on the other extreme, you have sort of decisions that like capital allocation decisions that could be much smaller and made much quicker and be made by people with much higher context. And so people who can make a decision on we should sort of fund this team or this service provider. And it's not a ginormous amount of the treasury, but it's within our budget. And we're like risk specialists.
00:56:37.926 - 00:57:37.662, Speaker D: We have the highest context on which risk vendor to choose that I think should be made by either full time people in the Dow or high context contributors. And I think you have the middle, which is something that maybe there'll be a little more innovation on, which don't fall in both those categories, where it doesn't benefit from onchain governance and also doesn't benefit from a team of five people deciding. And maybe in some cases that's like light token holder involvement. Maybe you have hundreds or thousands of higher context contributors. These might be voters or others that vote on some of these allocations. Or nouns has an interesting model called Prop House, where every month they have a certain amount of ETH that's allocated to contributors that put up interesting projects that they want to fund and nouns holders can vote on it. So some innovations in that med space.
00:57:37.662 - 00:58:03.750, Speaker D: But yeah, I think generally you see either too much of a bias in some cases to the onchain governance for everything or too much of a bias towards a few people doing everything. And I think you just want to contextualize which decisions need on chain governance and which decisions need a five person team kind of that has high context working on it.
00:58:03.900 - 00:58:45.794, Speaker C: The community aspect to me is both overrated and underrated. I think it's like overrated in the bull market sense of how many people you have on discord being excited, pumping the project. But if you think, for example, from MakerDAO's perspective, important part of. The community. I think the protocol and token holders there should set risk limits on what people can build on top, but let those people flourish and that's the real community. So Centrifuge is like the real important community for makerdap because they're interfacing with the Makerdough protocols, bringing real world finance to it and they're an important community contributor really. And you want to give those people a great opportunity to build their business on top of this.
00:58:45.794 - 00:59:16.654, Speaker C: And you at the protocol level are making sure that you're taking intelligent risks with regards to how much, like leeway you give them. But that kind of community to me is very important. You want to see and I think for example, all the Gauntlets and Llama and others who work on Ave, that's the important part of the community because they're actually really contributing and being in there and making their business, but also AVAT, for example, as a business better. So that's the kind of community framing that I like more than sort of the number of people on discord anyway.
00:59:16.772 - 00:59:50.266, Speaker B: Maybe like zooming out almost like to sort of an annoying degree, right? Like the vast majority of people today are employed by traditional startups or corporations or whatever the companies across the world. Do you see a future, let's say 20, 30, 50 years from now where it's more split and maybe half people kind of contribute in a sort of part time manner to these Dows? Do you think people continue to work in companies but many people contribute to Dows on the side? How do you think ultimately the balance of work ends up balancing out here?
00:59:50.368 - 01:00:52.474, Speaker D: I think the 40 50 question is hard to answer. I'd say over the next five or ten years, I think the number of people that contribute to protocols and Das will increase quite a bit. But I don't think that will compare to the number of people working at Google or Facebook. I think it's just much more so that you'll have many, many more people that can earn a full time income contributing to protocols. I think there's especially like a subset of highly skilled workers, whether on the sort of programming side or the risk side or the DeFi financial side that will have doors open up. Like right now it's extremely hard to contribute directly to one of these protocols but it'll become easier to various other organizations or there'll be structures of these Dows that make it easier. And so I think that number will increase.
01:00:52.474 - 01:01:44.030, Speaker D: It's hard to put what that number will be because it's kind of contention on just how many protocols there are and how big that grows. But yeah, I think it'll be several, several multiples of what it is today in the next five or ten years. But yeah, I also don't think these protocols don't require you kind of have this bifurcation of people, right, where you don't need like a 5000 person full time group working for Unisoft protocol or Aubi. That's just not how it works. It's just much more you have these smaller units of individuals and computers that can tag team and contribute to a few protocols. Maybe they focus on learning protocols and they have some expertise that carries over. Maybe they work for service providers that work for Dows.
01:01:44.030 - 01:01:57.170, Speaker D: And you'll have maybe a bridge too, which is you have a little more of the traditional entities as well engaging with Dows and there's ways that people contribute maybe more indirectly.
01:01:57.510 - 01:02:50.674, Speaker C: I agree with that a lot. Maybe my answer is fun when related to it, but I would imagine there are like these stories of I think there's like at 1.1 dude who was working on a very important SSL infrastructure that the whole world used and if that guy had died, who knows what would have happened. I'm not sure if that story is entirely true, but directionally those are the kind of cases and you can think how many core contributors does Bitcoin have? It's like very few. But Coinbase has a lot, right? So the businesses on top that build and I think ultimately a lot of these protocols will end up in a similar situation where it's just one guy saving SSL kind of situation, but then on top because more and more, hopefully if any of this works, more and more businesses will interface with Blockchain. That means that those companies will have a lot of people, but the core protocols themselves don't. So maybe that's a fun answer for 20 years from now.
01:02:50.872 - 01:03:55.190, Speaker D: And yeah, Mika's Fine made me think of there's a book by Nadia Ekbal called Working in Public. It's on the maintenance of open source software, where she actually talks about how different founders of open source projects said that when the project got a lot of attention and everyone wanted to contribute, it actually was annoying for the founders because the quality of contributions really reduced and they have to now deal with management and maintenance of all these people. And so there's a fine line between what you want like high quality contributions, but you don't necessarily need 1000 people trying to sort of comment on improvements of your staking contract or something. I think that's suitable for certain types of contributions. Maybe like bug bounties in crypto have that place for a marketplace if really any number of people can come and spot a bug. But that's a very organized sort of situation where people contribute for high context contributions. It's just very few people can actually drive value to a protocol.
01:03:55.530 - 01:04:53.862, Speaker B: Yeah, actually we found this one of our employees gave me this feedback one time and it was a it was a transformative bit of advice, which was we were arguing about something a while ago, it was like a design decision or something like that and something was weighing in. Someone was weighing in that shouldn't have and trying to mediate this disagreement and the advice that was given to me is like, well, people basically, not everyone should weigh in on every decision, because that actually makes it much worse. Right. The people that have expertise on a specific decision, they should be given more autonomy, and then on the margin, you'll make better decisions going forward. So I kind of keep that in the back of my head as well. That actually oftentimes, if you want good decisions being made as a leader, you want to try to find out who should ultimately have authority and say, and how can we actually limit the amount of influence occasionally on decisions and such? But, guys, we're nearing the end of our time here. You guys have been super generous.
01:04:53.862 - 01:05:04.586, Speaker B: I really enjoyed this episode. If people want to find out more about your work or follow you or whatever, what's the best way to either get in contact or follow you guys?
01:05:04.688 - 01:05:23.934, Speaker D: Yeah, I enjoyed the chat. I'm hello. Shreyas. On Twitter. Helloshreyas. And I'm a co founder at Llama. So we're at Llama on Twitter or Llama XYZ, where you could follow our work and we contribute a lot to protocols and DAOs.
01:05:23.934 - 01:05:31.398, Speaker D: So, yeah, if people have any thoughts or questions on some of these ideas, we'd love to chat with them.
01:05:31.484 - 01:05:41.350, Speaker C: I'm at Mhongasalo on Twitter and I write a mediocre substac as well, at mhongasalo. Substack.com. So feel free to subscribe and enjoy that.
01:05:41.420 - 01:05:51.530, Speaker B: It's a good substac. You're being modest, Nika. All right, guys, this has been a ton of fun. Thanks very much. We'll have to do it again sometime soon. Don't.
