00:00:00.440 - 00:00:31.038, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Way Refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today's the 19 April 2021. Alright, everyone, hope you had a good weekend. Hope you survived the little bit of a dip we had. Obviously, ETH fell from about 25, $50 to $2,000 in a matter of, I think it was maybe 24 hours, you know, for the whole dip to kind of go through. But we've kind of bounced back up and I think we're up to about 22 50 at time of recording here. So I hope none of you kind of got liquidated.
00:00:31.038 - 00:01:02.648, Speaker A: I saw there was like $10 billion worth of liquidations over 4 hours. So obviously a lot of people losing, losing money there. But, you know, that's the game you play when you, when you play with leverage and you're a trader. But anyway, I think, you know, people were looking for a reason as to why we dipped so suddenly. And there were people pointing to different things. And one of the things that people pointed to was this kind of tweet from this account called fxhedge, where they basically said, US treasury to charge several financial institutions for money laundering using cryptocurrencies. And then they just put sources here.
00:01:02.648 - 00:01:26.978, Speaker A: They didn't say what source it was or anything. It's just this random Twitter account. They disabled replies and, you know, everyone was obviously, quote, quote, tweeting here. Now, I think Jake Stravinsky here, who is an actual lawyer and understands what goes on at these kind of like, organizations, had a great tweet where he said, I don't find this credible. The tweet itself is fishy. The treasury doesn't charge money laundering. The Department of justice does, or the DOJ.
00:01:26.978 - 00:02:13.380, Speaker A: And a case against several FIS financial institutions at once would be unusual. Also, criminal investigations are kept strictly confidential and rarely leak. I'm not convinced by unnamed sources. And, you know, I think just using common sense here, obviously, it's kind of a good way to come to the terms of the fact that, you know, this doesn't really make sense, right? This random Twitter account that didn't even follow this up. I don't think, uh, you know, um, kind of like put this out there and people are saying, well, this is the reason why we dumped, because there was some fud and, you know, uh, people got scared and, and the market got shaky, and then we kind of dumped off there. I don't want to believe that this is the reason we dumped, because if one tweet from a random Twitter account can dump the crypto market, like, 20%, then I'm. I just don't think the market's anywhere near mature.
00:02:13.380 - 00:02:40.750, Speaker A: Uh, you know, obviously there's a lot of crap that goes on in the markets, but generally it's not, like, as bad as this. I would consider, you know, if this was, like, the real reason we kind of, like, dumped, which I don't think it is. You know, it's kind of, like, very circumstantial here. There's not. It's not conclusive evidence or anything like that. But, yeah, I would be kind of, like, very, very surprised and a bit disappointed, too. But anyway, as Jake says here, he doesn't believe that this was actually, you know, real.
00:02:40.750 - 00:03:24.194, Speaker A: I think there was some kind of sanctioning or something that went on for, I think, million dollars worth of criminal activity or something, which is. Which is nothing, right? Especially, you know, it doesn't make sense for criminals to use, you know, cryptocurrencies to kind of launder money, except maybe things like Monero and maybe Z cash, right, the private cryptocurrencies. But using bitcoin or Ethereum, like, especially using the Ethereum network, like, everything is just transparent. Like there's, you know, you're not, you know, hiding from anyone. And, you know, I would actually say maybe the fiat system is less transparent than a. Than a blockchain, you know, so people, you know, I guess criminals are always using the fiat system for money laundering anyway. So, yeah, this was just maybe just a poorly timed tweet.
00:03:24.194 - 00:04:00.906, Speaker A: Maybe the market was going to dump anyway, and then this tweet kind of, like, just knocked it over the edge. And there was a bunch of other kind of fud, I think, as well. Like, you know, someone put out a tweet that Coinbase employees, or at least Coinbase executives, were selling a lot of their stock, and some of them sold, like, 100%. But then there was a story from the block that came out and that, you know, turned out to be not true. It was basically just, uh, options that had invested so far. I think some of them were doing it to cover taxes and things like that. So, you know, it's just crazy, right? Like, I know the term fake news is completely loaded, and I'm not going to go into the politics behind it, but, you know, there's so much crap, right? There is so much crap out there on Twitter.
00:04:00.906 - 00:04:27.670, Speaker A: And, you know, even if you try to be accurate sometimes, you can unknowingly be putting out inaccurate information because your source was wrong. And then, you know, it's. It's really easy for bad information to spread because that tweet with the Coinbase execs selling whatever, that tweet got a ton of. A ton of eyeballs on it, I think got thousands of likes and retweets and things like that, whereas the. The block story didn't get anywhere near that from what I saw. So, you know, it's. It.
00:04:27.670 - 00:05:12.682, Speaker A: I think Andreas Antonopoulos said this, and I can't remember the exact quote, but he said, you know, bullshit is, you know, very. It doesn't take much for bullshit to spread, but to actually kind of, like, correct it and correct misinformation, it's just like a monumental effort. So it's dangerous out there when you're. When you're kind of, like, on these platforms and anyone can say anything they want and, you know, anyone can create a Twitter account and just, like, spew whatever they want from it. I think, you know, using multiple sources here instead of just, like, reading one tweet and taking it as gospel for anything, not just for this sort of stuff, but, like, anything in crypto or anything in really in life doesn't even just apply to crypto, is the way to go about it. But, yeah, I don't think there, from what I've seen, that was the cause of the dump may have contributed to it, among the other things. But again, you know, markets are complex.
00:05:12.682 - 00:05:53.010, Speaker A: There's infinite things going on in the market at any given time. And, you know, people always love to find a reason for things happening, and I just don't think that that's probably a good use of time at this point. So, yeah, just wanted to kind of give some comments around that one there. So Canada is approving or has approved three Ethereum ETF's, which are going to launch Tuesday. So that will be tomorrow I'm seeing here. That was quick, right? They already had some bitcoin ETF's launched, and I, in one of my data, daily grade data pumps that I did kind of last month, I showed that they were growing quite steadily. And on that note, I know that I owed you guys a daily grade data pump this weekend, but I literally had no time.
00:05:53.010 - 00:06:16.626, Speaker A: I should have, like, managed my time better there, but it sucks. So I may do it this weekend or I may just wait till next month and do, like, a two month episode there because I think it's a bit late now. But, yeah, sorry about that. But anyway, anyway, back to this for now. So, you know, this is this is really cool. I mean, Canada is moving a lot faster than the US here is, obviously. I think the US needs to move, like, really quickly.
00:06:16.626 - 00:06:44.200, Speaker A: Now. There is, I think last time I checked, like, ten BTC ETF applications. And the thing is that the US has waited so long now that they have to apply, approve all of these at once. They can't pick favorites. Cause could you imagine, like, there's like, ten, you know, really high quality applicants, you know, some of them including, like, grayscale and fidelity and a bunch of other financial institutions. The SEC can't be seen to be. To be picking sides or taking favorites here, so they're going to have to approve them all at once.
00:06:44.200 - 00:07:06.124, Speaker A: Now, I think that's fine. I think that's good. But they've put themselves into this position now where they could have approved it a long time ago. You know, one of the prerequisites is to have CME futures, and that's been life of bitcoin since the end of 2017. So the fact that they've waited so long until 2021 is quite ridiculous. So I'm glad to see Canada kind of moving here. You know, three Ethereum ETF's all going live on Tuesday.
00:07:06.124 - 00:07:39.794, Speaker A: It's gonna be wild to see what kind of inflows happen here, right? Because the bitcoin one had had a bunch of inflows into it. And I think this can definitely be very positive for etherium, Ethereum's narrative within the institutional space, of course. So it's gonna be really wild to see how many people kind of play, you know, buy into that and how many people have been waiting for products like this and what effect it has on the price as well. So you. Yeah, definitely going to be monitoring that, and I'm sure I'll talk about it on the refuel when these things go live. So I put out this tweet today, and I wrote about it in the daily Gray newsletter. I basically just put out a simple tweet.
00:07:39.794 - 00:07:55.522, Speaker A: I was. I was actually talking to David Hoffman at the time, and we were just talking about Ethereum and, like, you know, the past couple years and stuff. And I. I kind of just said to him, I'm like, you know, Ethereum is an infinite canvas for infinite ideas. And I'm like, oh, my God, that's, that's, that's, that's a tweet. That's. That sounds cool.
00:07:55.522 - 00:08:32.070, Speaker A: Um, but, you know, it was in the context of just, like, discussing what you can do with Ethereum and why we were so bullish on Ethereum, you know, yes, we were talking about how bullish we were about Ethereum. But anyway, what I meant by this is essentially, if you think about Ethereum, right? And think about, like, the network and think about what you can do on it, even though it has all these limitations, like, obviously, scalability limitations, which lead to high costs and all that sort of stuff, it doesn't matter. You can still build whatever you want. There is no one stopping you. Um, there is no central party telling you what you can and can't build. No one's going to shut down your app if you build it. Maybe.
00:08:32.070 - 00:08:55.422, Speaker A: Maybe there's a bug in it. Maybe you get, you get kind of hacked or something. But, you know, other than that, nothing's going to kind of stop you from being able to build on Ethereum. And, you know, and then I, you know, the canvas is infinite here. And I described this in the newsletter today where I said that the canvas is infinite, but we have, like, an observable canvas. You know, how in the universe, we have, like, the observable universe, and the universe is infinite because it's always expanding. And.
00:08:55.422 - 00:09:21.526, Speaker A: And then as time goes on, we can observe kind of, like, more of the, of the universe sort of thing. This is kind of like the same with Ethereum as. As we get, like, as we progress through Ethereum's kind of life, and Ethereum gets different upgrades, we kind of have, like, a better kind of observable canvas here, where, you know, the canvas is infinite. But, like, as we unlock upgrades, like L2, we get. We get to see more of the canvas, right? We can build on more of the canvas. We can develop more. We can.
00:09:21.526 - 00:09:42.418, Speaker A: We can kind of, like, get more apps out there, so to speak. So there's that aspect to it. And then, you know, I talk about, like, infinite ideas, and, and really, you can literally come up with anything you want as long as you can kind of, like, you know, code it up, you can deploy it to Ethereum. No one's gonna stop you. Yes, it may be expensive, but. But no one's gonna. Gonna stop you there.
00:09:42.418 - 00:10:11.188, Speaker A: So, you know, and then I actually touched on, like, the term world computer in the newsletter today and how I think that it actually still describes Ethereum quite well. I think no one uses the term to describe Ethereum, but it makes sense. It is a network run by thousands of nodes that are run on computers right around the world. So it is a world computer. It executes code, arbitrary code that people deploy. It's just not very scalable, and that's fine. I don't think that it matters if it's scalable or not.
00:10:11.188 - 00:10:37.542, Speaker A: Early PCs weren't quote unquote scalable either. They were slow. They couldn't do much. You know, they were single threaded, like the EVM is, where they, they basically weren't able to kind of process things in parallel. So things were very slow, but that was still a computer. So why is Ethereum not a world computer? Just because it's slow? Like, I don't, I don't really buy that. At the end of the day, though, I think calling Ethereum a world computer misses a lot of what Ethereum is and, and can be.
00:10:37.542 - 00:11:21.966, Speaker A: I call it the Infinity network in today's newsletter. Again, these are just terms to describe the thing. I think the fact that we can't describe Ethereum in just one term is, is incredibly bullish, because Ethereum has infinite canvas for infinite ideas. You can do whatever you want, and that means you don't have to bucket yourselves or define yourselves. Builders don't have to define themselves by just one or two things. So, yeah, from that point of view, I kind of think it's, it's really cool that, you know, you can build anything you want on this sort of stuff and you have all this design space to do so, and then you have like more of this observable canvas coming into light once we deploy things like L2, even things like 1559 different eips and stuff like that. So, yeah, anyway, I wrote more in the newsletter.
00:11:21.966 - 00:12:09.758, Speaker A: You can go check it out there if you want to, if you want to learn more about that one. So URi from starkware here, put out an interesting kind of like, tweet here with some metrics about Dy DX and how dy DX fared during the dip over the weekend. So Dy DX's stockx powered exchange had 1000 liquidations in less than 1 hour over the weekend when prices dropped very hard. Each liquidation was executed at 6000 gas on L2, compared to 280,000 gas on layer one. That's claiming 0.5% versus 10% of total ETH gas budget during a crucial hour, which is a big deal. Now, this is a huge deal, and I'm going to explain more about how gas works on Ethereum because I had someone message me today asking me to explain something to them, but I'll get to that at the end here.
00:12:09.758 - 00:12:47.150, Speaker A: But anyway, you can see the massive reduction here, right? This, these liquidations only cost 6000 gas on L2, whereas on mainnet they would cost 280,000 gas, which is a huge amount and 10% of the, of the total gas available per block, which is absolutely massive. Right. And this is just for, for one, one liquidation. Right? And there was like a thousand of them within an hour. So, you know, if you work out how many Ethereum blocks come out in an hour, it's roughly, you know, if every 15 seconds it's roughly 240 Ethereum blocks. Right. So yes, there's a lot of gas there, but it's expensive right at the end of the day.
00:12:47.150 - 00:13:43.922, Speaker A: So, yeah, I just like these metrics that came out of here. And there was some other stuff about, you know, a lot of traders on dy DX basically were very happy with the performance during the dip because usually these things are only battle tested once there's like a dip or a crash or something like some extreme volatility. So great to see that stock where Starkware's tech powering Dy DX here fed quite well during the weekend slump there. So Chris Beniske put out a great tweet here where he basically said Defi helps ETH tell its story to the financial masses and NFTs help ETH tell its story to the cultural masses. Now this is, I mean, this is very succinctly put like, I think this is a perfect way to put exactly what the various use cases on Ethereum do. You know, Defi obviously is, is the financial aspect of Ethereum, right. And at the heart of Defi, you have ethy asset, which powers most of defi.
00:13:43.922 - 00:14:31.622, Speaker A: So it helps. So DeFi essentially helps the ETH asset story get told. The asset of ultrasound money, the asset of being used as triple point asset, trustless collateral, staking in kind of ETH two and things like that and, and being used as kind of like this economic bandwidth. Now, nfts help out, help ETH tell its story to the cultural masses. So obviously ETH is being used as money within nfts. But if we expand ETH to mean the Ethereum network as well, it basically, if you look at a lot of the nfts out there, they have a lot of ethereum culture embedded into it, right? Crypto punks, for example, is the perfect example here where it has a lot of ethereum culture baked into it. Like radical experiment, you know, from 2017 that people thought were, was, was really cool at the time, but no one really valued it.
00:14:31.622 - 00:15:04.402, Speaker A: And then over time, there's cultural significance to it. You know, some people think that the different kind of punks that were, that were claimed from their contract but never moved, they're more valuable than others. And I've seen kind of these things happen. And then the ETH logo itself is actually present in a lot of different NFTs. And it kind of like helps, I guess, like tell Ethereum story. And there's one, one NFT creator or at least designer that I know that I've spoken about before, Kitte, who's making his world of a theory and pieces. And there's, there's actually one for auction right now.
00:15:04.402 - 00:15:30.424, Speaker A: You can go check that out. But essentially it's telling Ethereum story. And like he had one on, based on the Genesis block and like he's got one for auction right now on Etherscan and stuff like that. And you know, those, that nft kind of like, I guess digital art and, you know, just art in general and, you know, kind of collectibles just tells that ethereum story there. So you. Yeah, great tweet here from, from Chris. I think it was very, very well put here.
00:15:30.424 - 00:16:04.658, Speaker A: So squish on Twitter had an amazing thread on what is going to happen to the ETH cell pressure once we have the merger happen. So, you know, I've spoken about this a lot in the past, bits and pieces, but I think Squish's thread here actually put it quite well. And I'll link the thread so you can read through the whole thing. But essentially I wanted to focus on what he said in this first tweet where, where they said post merge eat cell pressure will drop 90% for BTC cell pressure. To reduce this much, it takes three halving events, which is twelve years. Right. Because every four years is one.
00:16:04.658 - 00:16:26.052, Speaker A: So that's twelve years for BTC to reach this. So ETH will undergo the equivalent of three BTC halving events in the next three months. Twelve months, sorry. Now I'll explain this. You know, for those who may not know what's happening here in ETH one today, right. With the proof of work network, we are currently paying each year 4.5% new ETH.
00:16:26.052 - 00:17:09.230, Speaker A: So new ETH issuance to minus to secure the network, which roughly works out to an additional, I don't know, like 6 million ETH or something, maybe less than that, but about 6 million kind of new ETH per year to, to minus to secure the network. Now in ETH two, we are going to be paying 0.5% to 1% to the kind of like same, probably, probably less than that. Like I would say, you know, 1% is like on the high end of stuff. Like right now we're paying less than 0.5% on the ETH two network to secure the network. Now this is because you only need to pay the stakers, right? So if a 4 million ETH is staked, which it is right now, you only need to pay that 4 million ETH in kind of like staking rewards.
00:17:09.230 - 00:17:32.530, Speaker A: So the staking rewards right now 7%. So 7% on that 4 million ETH. But if you expand that out to the total eat supply, it works out to, I think, 0.3% right now. So that's how you get it down and that's how it's reduced a lot because you don't need to pay as much for security. And Justin Drake spoke, you know, in, at length about this on his podcast with bankless. So definitely go check that out.
00:17:32.530 - 00:18:02.976, Speaker A: And then, you know, obviously, once you add in EIP 1559 fee burn here, which Justin Drake actually puts that. Put out some good stuff here. I'm going to talk about in a sec. This is what people mean by making ETH supply net deflationary, where it actually goes negative, right. Instead of issuing 0.3%, we're burning more than we're issuing and we would go to negative, you know, negative percent. Like whatever it is right now, it'd be negative 2% based on some of Justin Drake's calculations, which is actually a perfect segue into what he's been doing.
00:18:02.976 - 00:18:36.226, Speaker A: He's been putting together Google kind of like sheets here on, on the net, annual buy pressure of pos and proof of stake in 1559. He's been kind of like putting together some things here, making some assumptions, and has a great spreadsheet here. And I'll link this in the YouTube description for you to check out. And then he also put together just before this kind of thing about the staking rewards and how they'll be affected when the merge happens because of the fees. Not all the fees are burned. Some of the fees still go to miners and then stakers. So.
00:18:36.226 - 00:19:07.994, Speaker A: And I think that's something that people are missing because by Justin's calculations here, he expects 25% staking APR immediately after the merge, which means it's currently 7% add on the fees, right. 25%. That's, that's huge on your ETH, right. Staking. So which means, you know, more rewards, more ETH is going to be staked and more economic security. So, you know, we could see 20 million ETH staked quite quickly after this merge goes through and people realize that they can get a really nice return on their ETH just by staking it. And that's a huge amount of the ETH supply.
00:19:07.994 - 00:19:53.014, Speaker A: That's like 15% or something of the total ETH supply. Just like locked in, staking, earning these kind of things. And, and stakers also, because they're earning these rewards and they're not having to run like, you know, mining machines or use lots of electricity. Their running costs are quite low. They're, they operate their opex or their operate operational expenditure. So because of that, they're just gonna take that ETH and like, hold it most of the time and restake it and like, just compound it from there. So we're gonna have like this, this thing where even though we will have enough fee burn, probably to go negative issuance, we will even go further than that, because if you only count the issuance as like, what's circulating, you know, we will even have less than that because like, even the new issuance that's being issued, that 0.3%,
00:19:53.014 - 00:20:21.914, Speaker A: actually, if it goes to 20 million ETH, it'll probably be closer to like a think maybe 1%. Not, not 1% exactly, but 0.8%. But anyway, a lot of that will just be restaked right in these kind of in ETH two in, in staking, which takes it out of circulation anyway. So, yeah, that's. I mean, once people really understand this, I think that they really get the bull case for Ethya. But it takes a little bit of time to kind of like, come to terms with the fact that this is going to happen. And, you know, this is the implications of it as well.
00:20:21.914 - 00:20:41.308, Speaker A: And, you know, on the staking note as well, Coinbase here announced that their ETH two staking has begun. So they've started allowing customers off the waitlist to earn 6% on their ETH. I haven't gotten an invite yet here. I just signed up as like, curiosity. I don't plan to actually stake through Coinbase. Obviously, I'm doing it all on my own. My trusty staking box series, it's keeping my.
00:20:41.308 - 00:21:19.186, Speaker A: Keep my validators alive. But, you know, I don't, I don't think that's a bad thing that people are staking through Coinbase, especially people who don't have 32 ethics. Obviously, I'm going to push people towards more decentralized solutions like rocket pool, and there's a bunch of other solutions out there. But I think most of them right now are centralized because of the fact that there's only a one way bridge right now with, with ETH one to ETH two but, you know, people who have maybe one or two Ethan still want to stake can do through, do so through exchanges. And exchanges do make it incredibly easy. I mean, I've written a newsletter about this before where I encourage people to stake on their own. I really discourage people from using exchanges to stake in.
00:21:19.186 - 00:21:34.438, Speaker A: They can stake on their own. You know, it doesn't take much to get set up. You know, you can do it, like, you know, if you've got some hardware, you can do it, like, relatively quickly. There's plenty of guides out there. Bankless has some guides. Summer esat. If you just google his name, he'll come up with plenty of guides there.
00:21:34.438 - 00:21:59.902, Speaker A: So, yeah, from that perspective, if you do have the ability to stake on your own, I would highly recommend it rather than going through exchanges. But I don't blame you for going through exchanges if you, you know, maybe you're a smaller ETH holder, whatever. You know, not everyone got to buy ETH at $100, right. Because if you think about it, the 32 ETH minimum was. Was only $3,200 back, you know, even just a year ago. Right. And, you know, and now you kind of, like, look at what it is now.
00:21:59.902 - 00:22:14.488, Speaker A: And if you just take a $2,000 ETH price. Right, at $64,000 for. To validate on your own with. With 32 ETH. So totally get that. You know, that's a, that's now a barrier for entry for a lot of people. So if, you know, if you don't want it, maybe.
00:22:14.488 - 00:22:50.732, Speaker A: Maybe you have 32 ETH and it's like your entire stack and you don't want to just send it across to ETH two again, exchange staking, you know, gives you kind of liquidity on your kind of, like, assets as well and makes just the thing easy for you. So, yeah, if you. If you need to do that, that's fine. No one's going to blame you for. And I think in general, you know, the exchanges like that are offering staking are kind of distributed now, too, where you have Coinbase, your krakens, your Gemini is, I think, binance, of course, and stuff like that. So it's not just all centralized on one. But I would like to avoid a world where the majority of the network is taken up by, like, five or six exchange staking kind of operators here.
00:22:50.732 - 00:23:17.614, Speaker A: So, yeah, we're gonna keep an eye on that. I'll keep an eye on the distribution here, and I'll probably cover it in the data pump video when I, when I do it. Hopefully soon. But, yeah, I'll leave it at that for now. Be excited to see kind of like how, how much, you know, how many people stake through Coinbase here. So I wanted to mention this just because, I mean, disclosure here. I'm an advisor to both of these projects, Polygon and M stable here.
00:23:17.614 - 00:24:21.044, Speaker A: But I did want to mention this because M stable is going to be going to polygon soon, so they're going to be deploying on there. I was actually a part of, obviously putting the wheels in kind of like motion here and making this happen because m stable as a platform is really like their killer product is what's called M stable, say, where you can basically earn a nice yield on your stable coins. And the yield at the moment is like 20% now, even though the yields quite high on just your stable coins because of Ethereum's kind of network fees, a lot of people are kind of like priced out because if you, if you've got like, say so, you have like $1,000, you want to get some yield on it. Well, if you do that and put that thousand dollars into mstable, the transaction fees can probably eat into a lot of that immediately. Like, think about it. If you put $1,000 in and the transaction fees total like $50, let's say that's 5% of your money already gone to fees, and then you basically have to wait three months to make that back at 20%. So why, like, why would you do that? And that's what happens.
00:24:21.044 - 00:25:02.414, Speaker A: A lot of these yield farming platforms are definitely not attracting the smaller users here. Now with Polygon, it does attract the small users because the fees are basically negligible on polygon. It's a, it's a scalability solution for Ethereum. It's, it is, I mean, this is, this is debate raging right now about what's a L2? What's not a L2, you know, by the traditional meaning of what a L2 is, where it's secured by Ethereum and only Ethereum. Polygon is definitely, I guess the Pos chain is definitely not that. But that doesn't make it like, you know, super insecure or anything like that. I think polygon is, I mean, obviously, as I said, I'm an advisor here, so I'm biased, but I think polygon is a really, really great solution.
00:25:02.414 - 00:25:41.056, Speaker A: And because they're so politically aligned with ethereum, they're very symbiotic with Ethereum. The polygon smart, sorry, the smart contracts that control the staking on polygon are on Ethereum. And polygon also checkpoints itself to ethereum every so often, you know, maybe every couple hours or so. So it does use Ethereum's network to secure itself. And if Ethereum went offline, polygon would also go offline. So, you know, better than a vanilla kind of like, quote unquote side chain or things like that, and definitely keeping it in the Ethereum family, so to speak, and. And letting people experience these defi, you know, in, in a scalable way.
00:25:41.056 - 00:26:07.386, Speaker A: So I, you know, this, this whole debate about, like, what's a L2, what's a sidechain, what's not, what's a hybrid? It's gonna rage on for a long time. I've tried to win the narrative war here, and I'm not gonna win it. People are just gonna call everything L2 from now on. I don't think. I think the term at this point has lost a lot of its meaning, but what I like to refer to a lot of these solutions as. As Ethereum, scalability solutions. Now, scalability solution can be both technical and political.
00:26:07.386 - 00:26:35.280, Speaker A: I think a lot of people are missing the political side of it, because let's. Let's compare here for a second, and maybe I'm going off on a tangent, but I think this is very important. Compare polygon to BSc, right? I think that's just a very nice comparison, because everyone's pretty familiar with these two platforms. Now, I just described to you what Polygon does. It checkpoints itself to Ethereum. It runs its entire staking infrastructure on Ethereum. And the team, and, like, their entire ecosystem, are very politically aligned with Ethereum.
00:26:35.280 - 00:26:44.016, Speaker A: I know that for a fact because I know the team. I work with them. I know how much of, like, an ETH max is. They are. They absolutely love Ethereum. They love ETH. They stack it all the time.
00:26:44.016 - 00:27:07.308, Speaker A: I have zero doubt about their political, kind of, like, affiliations with Ethereum and their beliefs for this system. Now. Now, let's take BSC, right? Same kind of scalability you probably get, right? You have, like, these. These cheap fees and everything and whatever. Now look at the actions of the people behind BSC. Look at what CZ does on Twitter. He'll go on and talk about BNB, flipping ETH.
00:27:07.308 - 00:27:33.344, Speaker A: He'll say that Ethereum is only for rich people, and who cares about using Ethereum? Come use BSC. He will not support a theorem layer, two solutions. He will obviously support BSc. He would have, you know, he should have already done, like, a bridge. He's not even. I mean, binance isn't even doing a bridge into Polygon for example. And, and, you know, originally Polygon was matic, and Matic actually did their raise through binance on the I and through an ieo, and I'm pretty sure Binance is also an investor in them.
00:27:33.344 - 00:28:29.708, Speaker A: So when you kind of look at that and look at the political affiliations, you can see here what is good and what isn't, because mat Polygon is not only politically kind of, like, aligned, but they're also using Ethereum block space, which means they're also using ETH and paying ETH to network. And once 1559 is in, Polygon will be contributing to ETH burn. By using the Ethereum network, they're also incar, and they're, Polygon isn't just going to be a PoS chain. They're also building L2 solutions as well. So from that point of view, I am all for supporting these kind of teams that have Ethereum's values at heart, and just because they're not what some people consider, like, a true L2, and maybe it's a, people like to call it a sidechain or whatever. I don't think that matters as much as people think it does. And my problem with BSc was, was one that it's incredibly centralized, right? I mean, the Polygon pos chain has, it has, has hundreds of validators, hundreds of stakers with slashing and all that good stuff.
00:28:29.708 - 00:28:56.388, Speaker A: BSC doesn't. It has 21 nodes that are all controlled by binance. Like, it's very obvious. But then on top of that, you know, my problem was also the political kind of stuff that was going on. And, you know, when, when a community is attacked by another community, they're not just going to sit there and take it, because if you sit there and take it, you lose. That's why you kind of, like, fight back there. So for me, Polygon is a way, or at least the Polygon pos chain is a way.
00:28:56.388 - 00:29:37.112, Speaker A: It does a lot of things, but one main thing it does is it kind of, like, can stop projects from going to BSc because projects obviously want scalability now. Well, why not go to Polygon, right? Why not go to the, the Ethereum alliance and affiliated platform rather than the. The leech and the parasite on, on BSC? So, yeah, anyway, I'll leave it, I'll kind of leave it at that, because I'm going, I know I'm going off on a tangent. I do want to do a standalone video on this, and I'm not just shilling it because obviously I'm an advisor. Whatever. I fully disclose that I'm an advisor because I think the project is, is awesome and I think the people are awesome and I want to help them kind of succeed here. I, you know, I'm not, I didn't join as an advisor just to shield them.
00:29:37.112 - 00:30:37.234, Speaker A: So, yeah, anyway, I'll leave it at that for now. I'll move on to the next thing here, which I think is really interesting as well, which is ether scan adding a new feature in that can illuminate the mev extraction going on. Now, I've explained to you guys last week, on one of last week's refuel, about flashbots and all the stuff going on there and the stuff with me v, so I'm not going to recap that today, but what Etherscan did is that they've added a nice little feature here, as you can see in the top left of this picture, where on different transactions they'll actually tell you. If it was a private transaction that bypassed the Ethereum mempool, which most likely it used flashbots to go directly to miners, which I think is really, really cool. Right? I think it's cool to know and see this and study it and see kind of like get an idea of what percentage of transactions are now going through these, you know, flashbots or what's called dark pools, instead of the Ethereum mempool. So yeah, this is another amazing feature that Etherscan has added here, I think. I mean, I've spoken about Etherscan before and I've spoken about how amazing they are for adding these features.
00:30:37.234 - 00:31:25.544, Speaker A: But yeah, I think it's just really, really cool. So, definitely keen to, to see them add more of this stuff here and definitely keen to find my first transaction maybe one day, or see people kind of like sharing this on Twitter about like these private transactions to see what's actually going on here, see what Mev was kind of extracted and things like that. So, yeah, great, great to see these from eat the scan here. Alright. The last thing to talk about was a question that came in from a fan and they basically asked, hey, can you explain what this means on the refuel? And this was something that Vitalik commented on Reddit, and this was about one of the Erps that went into Berlin. So I'll kind of like read it out here because I know that my camera is blocking off the picture. So essentially Vitalik said, AIP 29 29 makes a few op codes cost more gas.
00:31:25.544 - 00:31:55.940, Speaker A: This was done because those opcodes take a long time to process, so it's not safe to have blocks that use those opcodes. Too many times because now after the Berlin hard fork, well, I mean now essentially these opcodes cost more gas. It's no longer possible to have blocks that use that opcode as many times. And this makes the chain safer. A few applications become more expensive as a result, but other applications become cheaper also. Now that the chain is safer we can increase the gas limit which makes every application cheaper. Okay, let me break down some things for you.
00:31:55.940 - 00:32:33.428, Speaker A: Opcodes, you may have heard this word. You may have not before. An opcode is essentially an instruction that is sent to the ethereum virtual machine by the smart contract, essentially. So I won't go into the technical details here, but each op code costs a bit of gas to execute on the Ethereum network. Each block has twelve and a half million. Twelve and a half million gas per block. So if you make these op codes too cheap you can have what's called a denial of service attack or a DOS attack where it can become, you know, very profitable to attack the chain and slow the chain down because you're basically just stuffing blocks with these cheap kind of like opcodes.
00:32:33.428 - 00:33:29.226, Speaker A: Now these opcodes that were increased in value were done to mitigate the risk of a DOS attack because of this. And because we've, we've increased the cost of these opcodes in particular we can actually now look at increasing the gas limit of blocks. So we can go from say twelve and a half million gas limit per block to 15 million because that does risk the denial of service risk is less now. And the main, kind of, one of the main risks of increasing the gas limit is increasing the risk for these DOS attacks which would slow the network down and cause like all funky stuff to kind of go on here. And if, you know, in the worst case it could actually cause notes to kind of go offline. And if you google the 2016 Shanghai DoS attacks you'll actually see that this happened where the parity client, or was it the geth client? One of them I can't remember exactly. I think maybe it was the geth client was, was DOS attacked.
00:33:29.226 - 00:34:00.682, Speaker A: And then it went and those nodes went offline but the parity client was still around so the network continued on. But obviously these things are really bad. Like we don't want any of the nodes to go offline through these kinds of attacks. So from that perspective, that's why these op codes were kind of increased in gas costs and that's why we can now safely increase the gas limit a bit, which, which, you know, should explain essentially what Vitalik means here. I hope that does explain it for the. For the person who asked me to kind of go over this. It is kind of complex because it's technical.
00:34:00.682 - 00:34:18.896, Speaker A: But at the same time you can basically just think of opcodes as instructions that. That are sent to the Ethereum virtual machine. And. And each of those instructions cost gas. And if your smart contract has a lot of opcodes in it right. It's going to cost a lot of gas. Because it needs to go through each of those depending on what you're trying to execute.
00:34:18.896 - 00:34:47.378, Speaker A: And, you know, some of them can be abused to, you know, deal with different nodes within the network and stuff like that. So from that perspective we can increase the gas limit now. Because we've increased the cost of a few op codes that would have been. You know it would have been unsafe to increase the gas limit before because of these opcodes. Anyway, I've said the word opcodes too many times at this point I think I'm going to leave it at that. We've gone over time lot to get through but we did it. Thank you everyone, for listening and watching.
00:34:47.378 - 00:34:54.674, Speaker A: Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up. Join the Discord channel. Subscribe to the newsletter and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
