00:00:01.440 - 00:00:25.914, Speaker A: Welcome to the Blockcrunch podcast, the show for crypto natives. Every week we do short but in depth conversations with the most important builders and investors in crypto so you can filter through what's noise and stay ahead of the markets. I'm your host, Jason Choi. Nothing on this show should be construed as financial advice, and my guests, myself, and my employer may hold positions and assets discussed on the show. Today's episode is brought to you by radix, Crypto.com and Bittrex Global.
00:00:26.644 - 00:01:29.190, Speaker B: Hey there. Welcome back to another episode of the Blockcrunch podcast. And this week we're going to break down one of the most complex topics in defi and crypto, and that is algorithmic stablecoins. Now, the reason why I say it's one of the most complex is because it combines so many different elements from economic theory and game theory, and the mechanism design for these different projects are amongst the most complex I've seen. That's why it takes so many months for people to finally come around to the idea of a project like Ampleforth, which is not exactly an algorithmic quote unquote stablecoin, but it incorporates some of the key principles from there. So in order to break down this massive topic and break down some of the different trade offs between the main projects in this space today, I have the analyst from mechanism Capital, Benjamin Simon, on to talk exactly about what makes these different projects different and why do we need algorithmic stablecoins? So, because it's such a massive topic, we're actually going to break this interview down into two episodes. So the episode you're going to hear today is primarily about the economic origins of algorithmic stablecoins.
00:01:29.190 - 00:01:54.300, Speaker B: The pain points that it's trying to address, as well as some of the main projects out there, including Ampleforth and basis cash. And in the next episode, which you'll hear next week, you're going to hear about projects such as MT, set dollar, and also fracs, which is a fractional collateralized stablecoin that is also algorithmic in nature. And we're also going to hear about Bent's personal favorites. So if you want to hear more.
00:01:54.332 - 00:01:55.972, Speaker C: About that, make sure you're subscribed to.
00:01:55.988 - 00:02:10.188, Speaker B: The show and check in next week. Now, without further ado, here is my first conversation with Ben around algorithmic stablecoins. I'm super excited to have Ben Simon from mechanism capital making what I think is your podcast debut, right?
00:02:10.356 - 00:02:13.384, Speaker D: It is. Thank you so much for having me here. Jason, such a pleasure.
00:02:13.684 - 00:02:48.674, Speaker B: Yeah, super excited, super honored. To have you on. I know you're very well versed on what we're going to discuss today, which is algorithmic stablecoins, which, admittedly have confounded me for a while. So I'm very excited to dive into that. But before that, just to give our audience a sense of who you are. Usually I like to ask about how someone got into crypto, but I realize a lot of people just basically skip that question because it starts getting repetitive over time. So I wanted to ask you instead, what is one thing that you're most proud of having done in crypto so far, or maybe a thing that you want to have done in crypto after your, quote unquote, finished with crypto?
00:02:50.414 - 00:03:41.318, Speaker D: Well, I've only been in crypto full time for, I guess, about six or seven months, something like that, but I'd say that. So there's not that much that I've accomplished so far. So I think the thing that I'd want to have done or accomplished by the time I'm done with crypto is pay a few things forward. I guess there are many things in crypto that are, that. That are great, these lofty ideals. And I think everyone, or at least people in crypto, want to take part in those, like banking the unbanked and creating sort of a secure, decentralized future. But I also love things about crypto itself within the industry, specifically this lack of friction and this sort of meritocratic ethos where you can sort of come in if you work hard and you put your head down and research, you can reach out to people and ask questions, and people will give you opportunities to discuss things and to learn about things.
00:03:41.318 - 00:04:01.994, Speaker D: And, you know, I've relied on the kindness of a lot of people and the patience of a lot of people when I was learning, I guess, maybe six or seven months ago. And that's something I'd like to pay forward and sort of build an institution or something like that, that can last after I leave crypto or when I'm done, quote unquote, with crypto.
00:04:02.974 - 00:04:42.596, Speaker B: Yeah, absolutely. That sounds like an amazing answer because that's something that I've been thinking a lot about as well, and I'm sure we'll see something from that. Now, just to kind of pivot into the meat of what we're going to talk about today, because there's a lot to cover here. We're going to be talking about algorithmic stablecoins. So for listeners who are not aware, these are projects like ample four DSD bases that you might have heard of before. So today, what we're going to do here with Ben is to have him help us break down some of the major categories in Algo, stable coins, what are some of the main trade offs, and to really think about why do we really need these things in the first place, and what are the major kind of risks and where he sees the space going. So I'm very excited for this.
00:04:42.596 - 00:04:53.864, Speaker B: So, just to kick us off here, Ben, can you help us maybe break down just what are the big stablecoins and how do they compare to maybe other decentralized stablecoins like makerdao or Dai?
00:04:54.924 - 00:05:55.582, Speaker D: Sure, of course. So these algorithmic stable coins that we'll discuss are, as you said, pretty complex, and there are also some, so a few varieties that differ in their design. But if you asked me to sort of give a very short elevator pitch of what an algorithmic stablecoin is, I guess what I would tell you is it's a token that has a target price, and usually that's a dollar, but it could be any other currency, or even a basket of goods, or even actually gold or bitcoin, but it's a token that has a target price and expands its supply deterministically. If the token is trading above this target price, or contraction if contracts the supply, if it's trading below, that's sort of the very short answer I would give. If the target price is something that's stable, then it will eventually, theoretically stabilize around that target price. And so how does it differ from other stablecoins? So I think there are a couple other broad categories. So like you mentioned, there's maker Daos Dai, and there's also, I guess, synthetix s USD, there's reserve.
00:05:55.582 - 00:06:49.830, Speaker D: Those are all, I would say, decentralized over collateralized stablecoins that can be minted permissionlessly. So these all have hard pegs, they're pegged one to one, all with the US dollar, and they're backed by mostly crypto asset collateral. And some of this crypto asset collateral, there's debate about whether it's fully decentralized, some of it's not. But anyways, these can all be minted permissionlessly, and there's no single custodian that controls the minting and redeeming process. But there's also another category, and these are probably even much more widely used, which are centralized stablecoins like USDT by tether and USDC by circle. And those are also minted and redeemed, and can be minted and redeemed one to one for us dollars as a hard peg. But this minting and redeeming is done by centralized entities, and these are also not over collateralized.
00:06:49.830 - 00:07:39.544, Speaker D: You don't have to put down more, more collateral than necessary in order to get a us dollar token. Or USDT. Or USDC, yes. So those are the other two broad categories. And algorithmic stablecoins, how do those fit in? Well, they're pretty different because in their purest form they're actually uncollateralized. And we'll get into some of the nitty gritty of these purely algorithmic stablecoins, and also ultimately, I guess to give a little bit of a sneak peek, why I think these algorithmic stablecoins can't ultimately be fully uncollateralized, but in their purest form they're uncollateralized, unlike these other two categories. And as I said, they exist through this deterministic algorithm where they expand the supply in order to target a target price when the price is above this target price, and they contract when it's below.
00:07:41.124 - 00:07:59.984, Speaker B: Absolutely. And I do recall that when the first of these algorithmic stable coins came out and put forth, it really confused a lot of people, took more months to really understand how it works and why it matters. So from a first principles approach, why do we need something like algo stablecoins? What purpose are they serving? What kind of problems do they actually target?
00:08:00.144 - 00:08:36.076, Speaker D: Right. I think that's a great question. I think you can think about this from a very narrow sort of crypto specific standpoint of what are the things that we're missing with these other stable coins. So in terms of those other two categories, the decentralized stable coins, like, like s, USD or DAI, those are over collateralized. You have to put down much more collateral than would be a one to one collateral ratio in order to mint those stable coins, which is capital inefficient. And then for these other centralized stablecoins, they're maybe not as capital inefficient, but you also have to rely on these trusted entities. Those entities can blacklist wallets.
00:08:36.076 - 00:09:17.964, Speaker D: There's all these new questions coming out surrounding, at least in the United States, surrounding regulations. So there's a bunch of questions surrounding those and also generally problems with those other two categories. They of course also have their strengths. So you can proceed sort of in thinking about algorithmic stablecoins from that very narrow perspective. But there's also, as you mentioned, this first principles approach of maybe even like a grander vision of algorithmic stablecoins. And I think here we sort of get down to some pretty core concepts in monetary economics and economic history. We don't have to sort of get too far afield, but just to dive into this a little bit, because I think this is sort of important background for understanding the, you know, the broader vision of algorithmic stablecoins.
00:09:17.964 - 00:10:33.690, Speaker D: You have essentially this perennial debate in economic policy between people who favor a commodity standard, a kind of money that's based on or fully backed by something that has a hard cap. So traditionally gold or silver. And then on the other hand, you have people who favor a fiat standard, money that is basically created and printed by the government at will, and it isn't and is not backed by anything with a hard cap. And so there's been this common debate with the Bretton woods system, and even obviously going back well before that, and people who are partisans of commodity standards like gold or bitcoin, and I often count myself among those, like to point out the problems with having a fiat currency in terms of rampant inflation and the possibility that governments can debase the money supply. On the other hand, there's also other problems with having a money that is purely fixed in terms of the supply, like gold or even bitcoin. And so people who are pro fiat, I guess, if we're going to call them that, they'll point out that a hard capped currency like gold will make the economy susceptible to deflationary spirals. Even though there's some deflation that's good, for example, deflation that comes from technological innovation.
00:10:33.690 - 00:11:25.336, Speaker D: There are also forms of deflation from demand shocks that actually aren't good for the economy. So that's basically the trade off. And that's been traditionally the debate between sort of these hard money theorists and these fiat money theorists. And what's interesting about algorithmic stablecoins, now we're going to get back to this algorithmic stablecoin after that brief tangent. What's interesting about them is that they sort of sidestep that dilemma. They theoretically, at least in their ideal form, provide a kind of middle way between fiat and a hard capped currency. Because algorithmic stablecoins, their supply is elastic, as we said, their supply expands or contracts relative to what the price is of this stablecoin, which gives it the same properties as fiat, which can respond to demand change, the demand and demand shocks.
00:11:25.336 - 00:11:51.604, Speaker D: But it also doesn't have the qualities that would make it susceptible to runaway inflation because it isn't controlled by a person. There's this sort of rules based quality to it. So it's not something that can just be inflated at will. So theoretically at least, and it's, it can chart sort of a middle path between those, and that's part of at least the ideal beauty of it. Whether that can actually happen in practice, we can explore, but that's sort of the first principles approach, I would say.
00:11:52.224 - 00:12:17.882, Speaker A: Now, before we continue, I'd like to take a moment to share some exciting companies that made this podcast possible. Today's episode is brought to you by the good folks from Nexo. In this crisis, many investors aim to keep and grow their digital assets. Others seek to maximize the yield on their cash. Nexo allows you to achieve exactly these two goals. The company offers instant crypto credit lines against all major cryptocurrencies, with interest rates starting from only 5.9% APR.
00:12:17.882 - 00:12:30.824, Speaker A: Nexo also lets you earn up to 8% annually on your fiat and digital assets. What's more, interest is paid out daily. That means you can add or withdraw your funds at any time. So get started today at Nexo IO.
00:12:31.164 - 00:13:06.414, Speaker B: ID also like to give a shout out to our sponsor, Bittrex Global. As someone based outside of the US, ive always been frustrated about how hard it is to invest in companies like Tesla, Google, Apple and Netflix. Brokerage accounts have exorbitant fees and have terrible trading experiences. Fortunately, Bittrex Global is now offering tokenized stocks, which means you can invest in us stocks 24 hours a day, not just during stock market hours. You can even buy fractions of a share and manage your crypto and stock portfolio on one single exchange. I'm really excited about this as a user, and if you are too, sign up today for Bittrex Global using the link in the description.
00:13:07.274 - 00:13:35.494, Speaker C: This week's episode is also brought to you by Radix if you're interested in DeFi, Radix is a layer one protocol built specifically to serve DeFi. Radix focuses on speed, security and scalability, and previous iterations have delivered 1 million transactions per second. They recently raised $13 million in their token sale and have launched their liquidity incentive program as well. So head on over to radixdlt.com to learn more, or click the link in the descriptions below.
00:13:36.394 - 00:14:03.424, Speaker B: So let's kind of dive into this to really understand how it works, because you mentioned the supply expansion and contraction and its impact on price. So I think the best way to maybe start this is to it off with Ampleforth, which was the first project to really experiment with this idea. So can you maybe explain how does something like ampleforth work. And maybe, what are some of the main comments that you have around their model? Maybe main critiques or main pros there that you think they have?
00:14:03.884 - 00:14:36.802, Speaker D: Sure. Of course. So I think so. I was thinking a lot about how to frame this part and this comparison between projects. And I think the best way, or one of the potential ways to do this is to think about where new supply goes during supply expansions, when this stablecoin algorithm. Stablecoin expands, and who that new supply, or who the supply is taken from when the supply contracts. And that sounds maybe like a complex question, but we can start with Ampleforth, because the answer is very easy.
00:14:36.802 - 00:15:11.230, Speaker D: With Ampleforth, there is one token for the entire network. When the token is trading above a dollar, the entire supply expands. And when the token is trading below a dollar, the entire supply contracts. And the new supply that's created during expansions is distributed almost like an airdrop pro rata to every single wallet in the system. So for someone, if Jason, if you hold a million ampleforth, and there is going to be a 10% supply expansion one day, then after that expansion, you'll hold 1.1 million. And if I hold just ten, ample fourth, after that expansion, I'll hold eleven.
00:15:11.230 - 00:15:44.016, Speaker D: So it's distributed pro rata to every single wallet, and it's also taken pro rata from every single wallet. And so that's a very simple, even elegant model, I think. And I would actually think that's probably the nicest thing about Ampleforth, is its simplicity. It's this sort of single token model, and we might call this rebasing. So the supply changes, the entire supply of the entire network changes, and there's only one token. So that's basically how Ampleforth works. But you're going to ask also about critiques and strengths.
00:15:44.016 - 00:15:44.804, Speaker D: You were saying?
00:15:45.104 - 00:15:46.320, Speaker B: Yeah, that's right.
00:15:46.512 - 00:16:54.578, Speaker D: So, right. As I said, I think the main strength is this purported fairness and simplicity. So it's fair because every single participant in the network receives a proportional part of the expansion, and also has to pay their share in terms of tokens during contraction. So that's sort of the ostensible fairness of the network. What are the weaknesses of it? Well, I think the most important weakness, and this is something that I've written about in the past, and actually Robert Sams, who came up with senior Ed Sheri, which is maybe the other alternative model of algorithmic stablecoin that's inspired other projects, he was one of the first to point out this problem, but he said that essentially what an Ampleforth style currency does is not actually stabilize the purchasing power of the units of Ampleforth. It actually only stabilizes the price. So what I mean by that is, if you hold amples in your wallet, even if the price stabilizes to $1 through these expansions and contractions, you might still, your wallet balance will still be fluctuating dramatically.
00:16:54.578 - 00:17:54.752, Speaker D: If demand is fluctuating dramatically. So what that means is you might hold five amples at $5.01 day, and then that might go the next day to 25 amples at $1, and that would be ideal. But as demand keeps changing, as demand keeps changing, your purchasing power will keep changing, because purchasing power in this situation is not just a function of the price per unit, but it's also a function of the number of units. And what happens with Ampleforth is ampleforth, the network changes the number of units every single person holds. So even if so, this is kind of an important but tricky point, because it means that even if the token price stays stable, and it doesn't right now, but even if it were theoretically to stay stable, you know, through these changes of demand, people who are holding the tokens would still be susceptible to these demand changes through supply, and they would be bleeding tokens, or they'd be gaining tokens. So as far as acting as a stable coin, Ampleforth, it doesn't really do that.
00:17:54.752 - 00:18:59.184, Speaker D: It doesn't really stabilize purchasing power. Now, I think the Ampleforth founders and people in Ampleforth community might respond and say, well, actually, Ampleforth isn't meant to be a stable coin. It's not meant to act in the same way that we think of a stable coin is, because it has this, they'll bite the bullet and they'll say, yes, ampleforth, the purchasing power does change at Ampleforth, and that's sort of part of the beauty of it, even, because, because that's how it responds to demand. The problem is, I think Ampleforth has a price target, and its ultimate value is essentially to stabilize around that price target. It can't just be this free floating token that goes wherever. If it doesn't eventually stabilize and have some sort of purchasing power or price stability, it won't really have utility. Because if the argument is, and this is one of the arguments that's presented, if the argument is, well, this, ampleforth is a base money that is non correlated or uncorrelated with other tokens.
00:18:59.184 - 00:19:44.270, Speaker D: And it has this distinct movement pattern, that might be true, but there are various other things that you could think up that you could think of that don't have that are uncorrelated. Also with, for example, bitcoin or any other stock or anything like that. Something like Ampleforth, I think its value, or its at least aspirational value is its stability. In order to have something like a stable coin, it needs to ultimately have stability. I know that sort of like a truism, it sounds like, but it really is the sine qua none of stablecoins. So all of that is to say, it's a bit of a rant, but it's to say that ampleforth, what it does is it doesn't stabilize purchasing power. It means that every single person in the network is, every single wallet basically is susceptible to supply changes, and the purchasing power changes with those.
00:19:44.270 - 00:20:16.564, Speaker D: So that might seem like an unavoidable condition of this entire mechanism design of this idea that you have this token supply that changes algorithmically. But I think we'll see with the other models, this is a pretty good lead up, a pretty good lead into the additional models like basis, cache, and ESD. That doesn't actually have to be the case. And I think everything I just said might have been a little bit confusing, but I think it will, it'll be much clearer as we sort of compare Ampleforth to its alternatives.
00:20:17.744 - 00:21:00.454, Speaker B: Yeah, absolutely. I think that that's a great lead up to the next questions about the other projects. But just to kind of take a step back here to make sure our listeners really understand this from a deep level. So how does this supply change really affect the price? So just to kind of recap what you mentioned, so for something like Ampleforth, if the price of one ampleforth token is above, say, a dollar, or above a certain price band, or above a dollar, let's say it's above a dollar. For now, the supply basically continues to expand. So you get more and more coins printed into your wallet, whereas if it's under a dollar, you get more coins burned from your wallet. So can you maybe help us into it? How does that affect the price of the actual token itself? Is it because the user starts selling or buying the tokens?
00:21:00.924 - 00:21:57.038, Speaker D: Right. So I think this is a really good question, and I think there's more than meets the eye here, and this is true for all the algorithmic stable coins. But especially, I think for Ampleforth, you might think that actually when the token supply expands and there's more tokens that come into the market that go into the hands of ampleforth holders, that this would immediately and automatically push the price right back down to one. You know, let's say that there's 1000 tokens in existence, each trading at $2. And then the supply somehow doubles to 2000. Well, it would be rational for the price not to drop to one to keep the market cap the same. But I think in reality, what happens is the network goes through these reflexive cycles, where people see that the supply expands, and they see that there is basically holders who hold an ampleforth token when it's above a dollar, basically get more and more money each day that the supply is in expansion.
00:21:57.038 - 00:22:51.412, Speaker D: And so what that does is it creates this reflexive feedback loop of people actually wanting to keep buying counterintuitively while the price is above a dollar, because they see that there are these constant air drops in the form of rebases that happen. So that's kind of a counterintuitive effect of this algorithmic mechanism in Ampleforth's case. And actually the opposite happens in when it's below a dollar. So you might think that, well, when it's below a dollar and the supply contracts, this is theoretically supposed to be a countercyclical movement. So what's supposed to happen is the supply is supposed to contract, which should make every single ampleforth in existence more valuable, which should push the price up. What's really happening here is that when the network goes into a period of contraction, holders who own ampleforth are actually bleeding tokens once the price slips below a dollar. I would say that Ampleforth is in this contractionary phase, which is actually a debt phase.
00:22:51.412 - 00:23:28.056, Speaker D: Because the protocol is at this point basically grown too large. Demand has been outpaced and it's now needing to contract. And the people who are sort of financing that contraction, and people who that hurts, are any ample fourth holder that is still holding their tokens. Because what happens is they lose their tokens every single day through their wallet. So as long as the protocol is below a dollar, even if prices, let's say, stabilizing around $0.95, Ampleforth holders will lose a certain number of tokens per day. And so that creates the opposite effect, the opposite kind of reflexivity that we saw or that I just mentioned when it's above a dollar.
00:23:28.056 - 00:24:12.490, Speaker D: And again, these cycles of reflexivity also they don't last forever, because eventually they pop. And so if it's on the way up, it'll pop and they'll go back down to equilibrium. And if it's contracting, it'll eventually sort of reach its demand floor, and then, and then come back up. But they exacerbate, I would argue, the extreme volatility of the network. And we've seen that so far we haven't. Ampleforth was somewhat stable during 2019, but that was really the only period of stability, especially over the past six months. It's really been fluctuating in price, going through very extreme and violent contractionary and expansionary phases, which maybe one could argue is part of the beauty of the network.
00:24:12.490 - 00:24:15.534, Speaker D: But if you wanted to hold a stable coin, it doesn't really help you.
00:24:16.954 - 00:24:55.914, Speaker B: And speaking of debt, I think one great model to transition to is the Steiner Ridge model, which you alluded to earlier. And this is obviously a model that is championed by the basis project. Now, the basis project, just to give listeners a little context, they raised about $130 million a few years ago, but they were actually forced to shut down due to regulatory issues. But recently there has been an anonymous team that came out and relaunched this project in the name of basis cash, and they're really championing this model around senior edge shares. So maybe, can you help us break down what that model is and how is it an evolution, maybe, compared to, say, ampleforth?
00:24:56.034 - 00:25:48.000, Speaker D: Sure, of course. So as I started off talking about ample forth, I said maybe. One way to frame the differences in these models is where does new supply go when it's created, and where does supply come from when it's, when it's contracted, when the network is in contraction and supply is being burned somehow. So the answer to that for Ampleforth was simple. There's one network token, but for basis cash, which, as you said, is the sort of resuscitation of the basis protocol, which never launched, it's a little bit more complicated. So basis cash uses three tokens, what might be called a senior share token or value accrual token, a bond token or a debt financing token, and then finally the stablecoin itself. So there's basis cash BaC, that's a stablecoin basis shares, which is the senior shares value accrual token.
00:25:48.000 - 00:26:43.622, Speaker D: And then there's basis cash bond, which is the sort of debt financing token. And so immediately, this is getting a little bit more complex, but I think it's, but we can, we can break this down a little bit to see how, to see how it works. So at a very basic level, this question of where does new supply go when it's created, and where does supply come from when it's taken away? Essentially, new supply goes to basis cash shares holders. So the people who hold these senior shares tokens, what that means is when the price of the stablecoin itself, as in BAC, is above $1 instead of the entire BAC network rebasing, there is some sort of new BAC created. There is a certain amount based on the current price of BAC. And that new BAC is instead of distributed pro rata to BAC holders, it's actually distributed to basis shares holders. And basis shares is a separate token.
00:26:43.622 - 00:27:28.108, Speaker D: It's not pegged to a dollar. It's, it's totally free floating. And it's essentially its value proposition is only that it can be, you can use it to claim new basis cash that is created. So, and then on the flip side, you have this basis cash bond token. And what this, what this token is essentially is when these tokens aren't always, aren't always sort of circulating. Because when the protocol is in expansion, well, when the protocol is in, when the protocol is in expansion, these tokens aren't, are sort of moot. But when the protocol goes into contraction, meaning when basis cash falls below a dollar, what happens is you can essentially buy basis cash bonds.
00:27:28.108 - 00:28:30.178, Speaker D: And what that does is that gives you the right to owning a future basis cash dollar once the protocol reenters expansion after exits contraction. And then what you do though is you have to pay for this basis cash bond. And when you do that, you burn basis cash. And so this is again kind of a complex mechanism, but what this is doing essentially is it's insulating basis cash Bac. And I was using basis cash in that previous comment to refer to the stablecoin itself, not the entire network, but I'll be more precise to say Bac. So what this whole mechanism design is doing, this sort of more complex three token mechanism design, what it does is it insulates BAC, the stablecoin, from the market dynamics, the changes in demand which are absorbed fully by the basis shares holder, the basis shares token, and the investors who want to sort of speculate on that. And on the flip side, in contraction it's absorbed by the people who want to buy bonds.
00:28:30.178 - 00:28:48.714, Speaker D: The bond buying actually has sort of this future incentive, this future promise of more basis cash when the protocol goes into expansion. And that's what incentivizes people who want to basically participate in debt financing. So that's, I guess, the overview of the basis cash system and how it differs from Ampleforth.
00:28:49.294 - 00:29:15.970, Speaker B: So just to jump in here, so it sounds like for a senior rich model like basis cash, there's basically three tokens to maintain the peck of one token. Well, two other tokens maintaining the pec of one token. So there's the main stable coin, the basis cash, or the BAC token, which is supposed to be pecked to a dollar. And then you have what you mentioned, the bonds and the shares that basically function as different roles when the system enters into either expansion or contraction to help maintain that price.
00:29:16.162 - 00:29:18.698, Speaker C: So has the model actually worked?
00:29:18.746 - 00:29:29.582, Speaker B: What have you kind of witnessed in the markets out there when basic cache was first launched? Are people actually playing by these rules, or have there been existential risks that you might have noticed as well?
00:29:29.718 - 00:30:55.824, Speaker D: Sure, it's a good question. So I think there's a few other wrinkles here. And one of the main ones is that when basis cache launched, it didn't just distribute the tokens and say, okay, all the basis cash are out there now, and all the basis share tokens are out there, and then you can buy basis bonds when the protocol goes into contraction. No, actually, the way that basis cache, the protocol decided to distribute tokens that the founders are anonymous. But the way that the founders decided to do this is by creating this yield farming system, which essentially incentivizes people to want to hold basis cash. Because holding basis cash can actually be used to farm basis shares, which is, as we said, the value accrual token, which can claim inflationary rewards. So what that does is it kind of warps the market for basis cash, or at least it did initially, basis cash, as in, sorry, I keep saying basis cash, which should refer to the entire network, but I'm using it to refer to the stablecoins or BAC, but BAC's price, because of these reflexive second order effects, using BAC to farm basis shares and then also actually, you know, using holding basis shares in order to claim BAC through expansion creates this kind of very complex game, game theoretic cycle of reflexivity, where both basis shares and Bac feed off each other.
00:30:55.824 - 00:31:45.264, Speaker D: Because basis shares can be used, of course, to claim inflationary BAC, and then BaC can be used to farm basis shares at the outset until these tokens are all fully distributed. And this is so that's very much warped the market for basis cash so far. So I don't think we've fully seen whether this token, Basis BaC will find stability. I think actually ESD is a much better, and ESD has also been around for a longer basis, its cash is much younger. But ESD is a similar model to basis cache, which has been around for longer and has actually managed to achieve much more stability, at least than Ampleforth over, at least if we're taking comparative lifetimes. Because ampleforths been around for like a year and a half and empty set dollar has only been around for empty set dollar is ESD. Empty set dollar has only been around for about a few months now.
00:31:45.264 - 00:32:00.336, Speaker D: So I think that's actually a better comparison if we want to talk about finding stability. So yeah, the short answer is we haven't really seen yet for basis cash whether BAc will be sort of a stable coin.
00:32:00.480 - 00:32:13.556, Speaker A: And that wraps up the first part of our interview with Ben Simon on algorithmic stablecoins. The next part is even more exciting because we talk about the two projects that Ben personally personally is excited about, as well as what his long term view is for the space.
00:32:13.660 - 00:32:14.652, Speaker B: So if you don't want to miss.
00:32:14.668 - 00:32:23.524, Speaker A: That episode that's coming out next week, make sure you're already subscribed on your podcast app. You can just scroll down and subscribe to Blockchain podcast, and I will see you next week.
