00:00:00.640 - 00:00:26.362, Speaker A: Hello, everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Daily Way Refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today's the 22 February 2021. Alright everyone, let's get into the news from the weekend. So we actually hit 2000 on ETH over the weekend and then we came straight back down. So as you can see from the chart here, you know, we went just above 2000. I think we peaked at, what was it, 2038 ish.
00:00:26.362 - 00:00:49.014, Speaker A: And then we're back down to 1760. So, you know, classic crypto, right? Always keeping us on our toes, always doing what we at least expected to do. So, yeah, time of recording, eats prices. Unfortunately, it has come down a bit to 1760. I mean, this is the 1 hour chart. If I kind of go to the four hour chart, I mean, it looks less dramatic, I guess. And I have a bunch of lines here that I should remove.
00:00:49.014 - 00:01:27.390, Speaker A: But, yeah, I mean, this is like kind of similar to what we've been seeing for a while now. I mean, you can kind of see it here, right? It just bunny hop sort of thing, right? I'm not going to do any kind of technical analysis on this. I just thought, you know, when this happened or has, I've seen what I've been watching this happen, I'm like to myself, it's just such a typical e thing to do, right? Like we'll get to a nice milestone around two k. Everyone will get really happy about it, and then we'll have this like, dump. But, you know, I was looking at the bitcoin chart before, and it's the same thing there. I think the market's just cooling down a bit after a pretty epic run up in, in February. Uh, you know, I think in February, what we started the month at 1300.
00:01:27.390 - 00:02:03.038, Speaker A: We went to two k. That's a pretty big gain, right? Maybe what, like a 60 or 70% gain there in one month. So, yeah, I think the market's just kind of like cooling off for now. And typically, I think March is actually not a very good month for crypto, especially bitcoin, for one reason or another. And I wonder if people are looking at like last March and how we had that massive COVID crash and thinking, you know, oh, I better be out of the markets just in case. Not that there's going to be like another COVID crash, but, you know, it's all about the psychology of people and how they view the market and stuff like that. So who knows? As I said, not going to do any technical analysis or try to analyze the markets here.
00:02:03.038 - 00:02:21.062, Speaker A: Hopefully when you watch this video, you know, we've kind of stopped dumping here, but this is kind of like par for the course, I think. So, yeah. Anyway, let's move on to the news. Actually, I wanted to just thank everyone. I hit 2000 subscribers over the weekend as well on the daily Gwei channel. So really happy for that. So thank you to everyone who's subscribed to this point.
00:02:21.062 - 00:02:50.080, Speaker A: And I actually put out, hopefully ETH got to two k next and I think it did in the same day that I put this tweet out. So that was fun as well. But yeah, onwards to I guess 3000, 4000, 10,000. Like I hope to keep growing this channel as much as I can. I want to just keep like obviously educating, doing the refuels, doing the data pumps. There's a bunch of other videos I want to do when I've got some more time to do as well. I think, you know, I actually think there's a lot of holes still in the Ethereum educational space, especially around like just core topics.
00:02:50.080 - 00:04:00.434, Speaker A: I always kind of repeat myself whenever people ask me questions about, you know, L2, ETH one, ETH two, how gas works, you know, how this works, how that works. So I really want to kind of sit down and put a series together on all this kind of stuff and make sure that I cover it because I think there's not really anywhere I can point people to and say, hey, this is like the video you need to watch to know what this is about. I think there's a YouTube channel called Find Matics that does a pretty good job of explaining different things. They've got like Defi explainers and explainers on gas and stuff like that. But I think there's not really a home for like explanations on like ETH one and ETH two, how that process works in kind of video format and how like the development process works there and like scaling and things like that because there's a lot of people coming into our ecosystem and unfortunately their first experience of Ethereum is the high fees. So they think to themselves, like why can Ethereum not scale and these other things can quote unquote scale? And I mean, I went through this last week about how there's trade offs being made, but obviously newer people, you know, aren't going to see this, aren't going to really care about this. So I think, you know, there needs to be a lot more education done then and hopefully I can get some, some videos out about that sooner rather than later.
00:04:00.434 - 00:04:20.284, Speaker A: Speaking of scaling Kelvin Fichter from optimism, which is one of the scaling teams. I've spoken about them a lot. They're building optimistic ethereum. He tweeted out this kind of teaser picture today called it will get brighter. It's, I mean, the picture says it will get brighter. And it has the word optimism under it. It's like a billboard.
00:04:20.284 - 00:04:53.004, Speaker A: I thought it was quite funny because I went and looked back at one of Optimism's blog posts about like their rollout. So currently they're doing a kind of closed testnet with synthetix. So their public testnet, according to that blog post that they put out a couple months ago, is actually due late February, early March. So, you know, maybe this is kind of Calvin signaling that, you know, that's going to be coming out soon, right? And then there was no, like, public mainnet date given. But I wouldn't, I'd be surprised if it doesn't happen like kind of mid year, I think. Kind of. It's been going quite well.
00:04:53.004 - 00:05:44.792, Speaker A: A lot of people are hyped about optimism, of course, and we also have like ZK roll ups and starkware and loop ring diversify all these solutions. So I think, you know, I actually think the stuff that happened with the binance smart chain, and as I went through last week, I think a lot of it is actually kind of kicked Ethereum's kind of development ecosystem into high gear here. I think, kind of lit a fire under our ass, for lack of a better term, to kind of like, I mean, we have been kind of working towards scaling, but like it's even more pressing now. Right. I think that, you know, if we don't scale, if Ethereum doesn't scale, we're going to keep kind of bleeding users to these more kind of, I guess, like centralized chains and these other kind of chains in general that we shouldn't be, you know, we don't have to be bleeding. Right? We can, we can definitely get there, can retain users by, by scaling. And I think, you know, everyone working on scaling within the ethereum ecosystem realizes this.
00:05:44.792 - 00:06:34.702, Speaker A: And I think we're going to see a lot more focus put on this during, during this year. So I'm very glad to see that as well. We're really excited to see optimistic Ethereum go live on main net because that means that any developer can just deploy their kind of code. I guess they kind of like app to optimistic Ethereum. And their breakthrough is that they actually have a way where you can just directly port your app from Ethereum layer one to ethereum L2, I don't think you have to really change anything and it'll work the same way. And as we've seen with like binance smart chain, that actually works really well, right, when you have like a fully compatible chain that's more scalable, right, or a fully compatible kind of system that's more scalable, people are going to use it. So I actually think that the binance smart chain kind of showed us that there is obviously incredible demand there for, for a scalable kind of system.
00:06:34.702 - 00:07:12.516, Speaker A: And optimism is that. But secured by Ethereum, right? It's not its own chain, it's not kind of like got, I mean, it's not kind of centralized or anything like that. It's got its own quirks and some trade offs there, but it fundamentally inherits the security of Ethereum. So I'm really looking forward to optimism going live. But as I said, we already have other things live right on L2, like loop ring. When they put out this tweet over the weekend, their L2 Dex has settled over $500 million in trading volume as of a couple of days ago, which is really, really cool to see as well. And as they said here, all of it happened without users paying gas fees and all of it secured by Ethereum.
00:07:12.516 - 00:07:36.278, Speaker A: So I think, as I said, the entire Ethereum scaling ecosystem is on this path now where they're like, okay, you know, we don't want to bleed users to these other chains, right? We want to keep them in the Ethereum ecosystem. We don't want to price them out. We want to help them. And that's exactly what we're going to be marching towards. So I think 2021 is the year that Ethereum will scale. I think that everyone knows we need to scale not just with ETH two, but L2 as well. And I think we're going to get there.
00:07:36.278 - 00:08:02.814, Speaker A: I always bet on, like, aetherium's kind of builders and developers, and I have no reason to kind of like, not have faith in them at this stage. I mean, I've spoken to a few of them. I mean, I'm an advisor to, obviously, Matic or now it's called Polygon. They're doing a lot of great work there as well, and I'm trying to just push it along as much as I can. So obviously I'll keep talking about it on the refuels. Just keep you guys aware of this. And I implore you, if you have friends that are trying out Ethereum, tell them to try out L2 as well as part of their first kind of thing.
00:08:02.814 - 00:08:25.788, Speaker A: Say, hey, go try out loopring. I think loop ring is going to have direct fiat on ramp soon as well. So it won't be costly to go from layer one to L2. So yeah, look, look out for that as well. All right, I'll do some ETH one protocol stuff. So for those who don't know, the next Ethereum network upgrade is called Berlin, and it is going in very soon. So this is the timeline here, as you can see on the sheet.
00:08:25.788 - 00:08:54.574, Speaker A: So it's going to go on to the three testnets first. The first one being Ropsten on the 10 march, then goalie on the 17 March, and rinkeby on the 24 March now, and then Mainnet on the 14 April. So, you know, not too far away, less than two months away for it to get to mainnet if everything goes right with Testnet. So Berlin includes a bunch of different aips, bunch of different technical upgrades to the Ethereum mainnet. It doesn't include EIP 1559. I want to get that straight. That is hopefully coming in the next network upgrade.
00:08:54.574 - 00:09:34.254, Speaker A: And I mean, for those of you who haven't heard this, that network upgrade is just another way of saying hard fork. I kind of don't like using the hard fork terminology because it kind of, I think it comes with baggage. Right? Like normally when you think of hard forks, you think of contention, whereas these network upgrades are just par for the course for Ethereum. But one thing to note here is this will be the first kind of network upgrade for Ethereum in a very long time. The last one was December 2019, and that was Istanbul. And then after that, there was technically another kind of, I guess I wouldn't call it a network upgrade. It was a hard fork but non contentious one called Mirror Glacier, which went in January 2020, which was to diffuse the difficulty bomb back then.
00:09:34.254 - 00:09:58.934, Speaker A: So, yeah, I mean, this has been a long time coming. It's almost 18 months since we had the last kind of network upgrade. And I spoke about this in the Daily Way newsletter today. But basically that's because the network is much larger now. You know, it's worth over $200 billion. Any changes need to go through multiple kind of, you know, very, very intense scrutiny to make sure it's not going to kind of like, you know, mess up the network or anything like that. And then on top of that, it's.
00:09:58.934 - 00:11:00.104, Speaker A: It's just becoming harder and harder because there's a lot of pressure on the developers too now, right, where they kind of, like, feel the pressure, pressure to get this right there's only a handful of core protocol developers that can actually do this work. So I think that's why it's taken a while. But on a more positive note, you know, after Berlin, the next upgrade is called London, and it's actually being kind of, I mean, the aim is to get it in by July or August and this year, and this upgrade will actually include ErP 1559 and I think possibly some other things as well. And diffusing the difficulty bomb on Ethereum. For those who don't know what the difficulty bomb is, it's, it's actually a mechanism that is a part of the Ethereum protocol where every so often, depending on, I guess, like the kind of timeline that was set the last time it was diffused, it will actually, what it'll do is will kick in and then it'll slowly start kind of making blocks. Ethereum blocks take longer to kind of mine. And the goal is, is that, I mean, eventually it'll get to like a point where the chain basically freezes and that's what's called the ice age.
00:11:00.104 - 00:11:41.762, Speaker A: But what ends up happening is that there's an open network upgrade that goes in that diffuses the difficulty bomb and then just kind of like pushes it back. Now, the point of it is to make sure that the Ethereum 1.0 protocol doesn't ossify so that developers don't just stop kind of putting in the network upgrades. They know that they need to get one out there to defuse this bomb. Now, regardless of if EIP 1559 happens in July or August, for whatever reason, the, the difficulty bomb still needs to be defused. So that's still going to happen. So why not kind of like put in 1559 at that time? Because, you know, these network upgrades are actually quite hard to coordinate because you have to get everyone to upgrade their software and agree to it and kind of like go along with it, and it takes a few months to get there.
00:11:41.762 - 00:12:11.116, Speaker A: So, yeah, I'm looking forward to that happening with, with London, with 1559 going in. Hopefully it hasn't been officially accepted into the protocol yet. I think that call is happening soon, or at least there's a community call happening this week where there's going to be a bunch of stakeholders on the call and they're going to be discussing 1559. I think it's the call where the miners are going to be on it as well and discussing their side of it. I mean, I've gone through on the refill before. What I think about that, what I think about them and their side of things. And it'll be, it's going to be an interesting discussion, that's for sure.
00:12:11.116 - 00:12:44.698, Speaker A: So, yeah, looking forward to seeing all of that. So Trent posted this picture of, I guess, like a comment that Tim Bicar, one of the lead for ERP 1559, posted on the ETH research forum about EIP 1559 and how the base fee works and how it kind of adjusts. Right. So for those who don't know, the base fee, it adjusts depending on network demand, and the base fee is the portion of the fee that gets burned in EIP 1559. So there's the base fee and then there's the tip. The tip goes to miners. The 1559.
00:12:44.698 - 00:13:02.926, Speaker A: Sorry. The base fee goes to just burning that ETH, basically. Now what ends up happening is that because network congestion can get really crazy, right. Even above the tip, like we've seen, it'll adjust the block. It'll basically adjust the base fee. Sorry to account for that. And you can see the explanation here.
00:13:02.926 - 00:13:24.926, Speaker A: If so, I'll read it out to you. So if blocks are 0% full, the base fee goes down 12.5% compared to the previous blocks base fee. Right. If blocks are 100% full, the base fee stays the same. If blocks are 200% full, the max allowed under 1559, the base fee rises 12.5% compared to the previous blocks base fee.
00:13:24.926 - 00:14:06.544, Speaker A: So what this does is it basically makes it so that it takes roughly five minutes for the base fee to go up or go down by ten times and then ten minutes for 100 times, etcetera. So it basically means that it's a way to basically get the base feedback down. Right. So it's like an exponential kind of increase here to get kind of like the network congestion kind of cleared out so people stop doing transactions because it gets like, you know, too expensive, and then we kind of like, get back down here. So, yeah, that, this was a pretty cool explanation here, I thought. And, you know, I guess, like, Tim is just doing such amazing work here, like on 1559. Without him, I don't think we would be anywhere close to where we are today with this.
00:14:06.544 - 00:14:44.584, Speaker A: And, you know, there are people that are usually referred to as AIP champions, and they're people who take on a popular AIP and kind of champion it through to kind of like when it gets included in the network. And Tim took it, took, took a, took 1559 on board. And since then, it's just progressed so well. I mean, he's kind of done a lot of work around getting resources together, keeping the community updated on it, you know, shepherding it along and making sure that it's getting done and getting built and getting worked on. So, yeah, big kudos to him here. I mean, I've said it before, I just, I can't believe how much work he's put into this. And we have a lot to, we owe him a lot for 1559 at this point, so I can't wait to see it go in.
00:14:44.584 - 00:15:12.000, Speaker A: So diversify released their simple swaps feature here. Basically, this is their L2 swaps feature that you can basically migrate your assets to diversify as L2 ecosystem and basically trade like gas free. So it's very similar, I think, to our loop ring system, but you now have a different option with diversify. So, yeah, I mean, this is just another way that we're scaling on Ethereum, as I was just talking about. It's coming. It's being rolled out. People are working on it.
00:15:12.000 - 00:15:45.670, Speaker A: Definitely go check this out. If you want something, you know, maybe an alternative to loop ring. You know, you've used loop ring, you're like, okay, what else is there? Diversify is out there as well. So definitely go check them out. So, interesting tweet from Vance Spencer here on his ETH thesis. So for those who don't know, Vance is a co founder of Framework Ventures, which are very popular investment firm that usually spends a lot of time investing in defi and kind of the ethereum ecosystem. And he basically says with his thesis here that 1559 season, or AIP 1559 season, is rapidly approaching.
00:15:45.670 - 00:16:14.708, Speaker A: So ETH has done $5.5 billion of fees per year, which is basically 9% of the ETH supply. So if nine, if 1559 burns half of that, then two to $3 billion of the fees get burned. Right. That's, that's huge. And he's saying that the market's going to value that at 100 times, which means that there's going to be an ETH wealth effect tsunami where deepwear whales get even bigger, and then the ETH whale chain wins. And l two is gravy.
00:16:14.708 - 00:16:59.840, Speaker A: So I think what he's basically kind of implying here is that, you know, even without scaling, the ETH is going to, you know, suck in so much capital and become such, like a magnet, such a magnet for liquidity. And then l two on top of that is where kind of like the, the end users are going to sit. Like, I think, you know, and it kind of, like, I know for some people, it's going to pain you to hear this, but I think ETH one is just always going to be a whale chain, as people like to call it, or a chain, the layer one chain, for example, in ETH, even in ETH two, the layer one, because there's always going to be limited block space. Even if you kind of like, open up the block space to, you know, be as much as you want, you sacrifice decentralization. You just centralize it all. If you give people all the block space, they're going to use all the block space. Right.
00:16:59.840 - 00:17:17.424, Speaker A: There is unlimited use cases for this technology. We've only scratched the surface with Defi. We haven't even scratched the servers with nfTs. We've just started there, right? And there's like a million other use cases. Think of web3. Think of all that. So that the base chain, if we want to keep it credibly neutral and decentralized, is always going to be limited.
00:17:17.424 - 00:17:55.172, Speaker A: And even if we centralize it, as I just said, it's still going to be limited. So, and this isn't to say that l two is unlimited. Layer two is also limited. And this is why you kind of need to scale at higher layers, because you don't have unlimited scaling. That's, that's not, that's not how it works. So the base chain, to keep it as decentralized as possible, to keep it as neutral as possible, to retain the security properties that we want, it's going to be a chain, sorry, the main chain or the layer one is only going to be used in its end state by whales, right? They can afford it and also by L2s, kind of saving their state to layer one, essentially. So.
00:17:55.172 - 00:18:44.038, Speaker A: And that's fine, I think, because the end users and even myself, like all of you, are just going to sit on L2, we're going to get the same experience we got on layer one, I think, but much cheaper. The fees are going to be like basically cents. And, you know, we can keep adding more and more capacity as time goes on. So I'm not going to go through the whole, like, ETH scaling roadmap today and how that all plays into it. And this goes back to what I was saying at the beginning of the refuel when I said that I think there needs to be a video put out about this because I don't think people realize, like, how much scalability we're going to get at L2. But I also don't think they realize that layer one, right. No matter how much capacity you put at layer one, it's always going to get taken up so if it is always going to get taken up and that's always the end state, where eventually the fees skyrocket because the block space is limited.
00:18:44.038 - 00:19:36.234, Speaker A: No matter what you do, then why would you have like, as much scalability on layer one, right, as you like, unlimited scalability there, at least try to but centralize the chain at the same time. Why not go for the really great properties of decentralization and like really high security on layer one and then do everything else on L2? I mean, that just makes a lot of sense to me. Because if layer one is just going to be just as congested as a centralized layer, then what's the point, right? So let's get the best of both worlds, which is what layer one and L2 kind of that ecosystem does. And that's why I think that, you know, we're in a transition period right now where end users are used to using layer one. The L2 ecosystem isn't mature yet, so people are getting priced out. People are looking for refuge on other chains, which I totally get, and I don't blame them at all. I mean, to be fair, I'm not like someone who wants to spend dollar 50 in a uniswap trade either.
00:19:36.234 - 00:20:06.144, Speaker A: Like, I've been priced out to an extent too. I'm definitely doing less defi activity these days than I was, right. But I think during this transition period, it's just going to be something like of a pill that people need to swallow, that if we want to retain these properties, we just have to wait until L2 gets built out and that ecosystem gets built out. All the apps migrate on there because I do truly believe they will. And this isn't to say that other chains aren't going to probably get kind of like market share or do their own thing. I'm sure they will. There's various reasons why they will.
00:20:06.144 - 00:20:59.658, Speaker A: But I've written about this before on the kind of deli Gwei newsletter about Ethereum being this economic nexus for, you know, activity basically for, I guess like a nexus for economic activity in general, because you'll have ETH sitting at the center or Ethereum sitting in the middle, right. As the most secure, credibly neutral, decentralized blockchain in the world, right? I mean, bitcoin is also that. But bitcoin doesn't do anything except secure BTC, right? It doesn't do smart contracts and stuff like that. Maybe, maybe sometime in the future it does, but for now it doesn't. So Ethereum being the most secure, you know, credibly neutral, decentralized, smart contracting kind of platform that lets you do all this kind of stuff that is incredibly valuable in of itself. Which means that I think that any of the economic activity that happens on other chains is still going to feed back into Ethereum, for example, a lot of the activity happening on BSC, right. I imagine that's still coming back to Ethereum.
00:20:59.658 - 00:21:26.618, Speaker A: I imagine once people are done getting their profits there from yield farming or whatever, or done doing stuff, they're coming back to Ethereum. Right. You know, I'm curious to see the stats around that, and it'd be hard to kind of verify it, I think, depending on kind of where the stats are coming from. But I know a lot of people that, that have reached out to me and said, hey, like I'm doing this yield farming and stuff on, on here. Like, you know, why not? It's free money. But then I'm still bringing it back to ETH because that's where I want to be. That's where I like having my assets.
00:21:26.618 - 00:21:53.368, Speaker A: And I think a lot of people are like that as well. Even if you're priced out, you can still bring your assets back because it's still cheap to send Ethan and ERC 20 tokens around, right? Relatively. I think it's, it costs more to send BTC on bitcoin right now than it does to specifically ETH on Ethereum still. So there's that comparison as well. But yeah, so just a little bit of forewarning there. For many people newer in the ecosystem that aren't aware, layer one is not going to be where we sit in the future. Like, as simple as that.
00:21:53.368 - 00:22:22.166, Speaker A: Layer two is where people are going to sit. If you want to sit on layer one, you just have to pay the high fees. That's as simple as that. You, you're not going to be able to do the cheap fees. Maybe there's other chains that, that offer this and you're comfortable with using those. But on Ethereum layer one, I mean, I would rather we not compromise on the decentralization properties. I would rather we not compromise on the security properties just for the sake of scalability, when we can do all that at L2 and still inherit the security properties of Ethereum layer one.
00:22:22.166 - 00:22:50.446, Speaker A: But anyway, I digress there for now. I'm going to do a full video on this. I think. I think it's very important. And I really want to be able to point people to just like a nice video where I go through everything, you know, in a really kind of structured way so that people can kind of like, you know, not, I guess a lot of people like feel like they're in the dark right now. They don't know exactly what's going on, and they kind of like see something as like a savior is like a refuge and like, I'm just gonna go use this. And, you know, they don't understand why theorem can't scale and stuff like that.
00:22:50.446 - 00:23:17.550, Speaker A: Or a theorem hasn't scaled yet, I shouldn't say can't scale hasn't scaled yet. So yeah, keep an eye out for that. I think I'm gonna get on that very, very soon because I think it's very important that people are educated about this. So Alchemyx actually got introduced, I think it was a few hours ago now. So yeah, for the, this is a project from Scoopy trooples here. I've spoken about them on the refuel before, I think. But basically they're an a non, which is pretty cool.
00:23:17.550 - 00:23:52.988, Speaker A: So this is an anon launched project. So what this does is, and I'll read Scoopy's kind of tweets here. So what the alchemics alchemics system is, it's the flexible CDP system based on top of yearn vault. So basically what you do is you deposit Dai and then later on they're going to integrate other stable coins and you mint Al USD. Now, Al USD is a yield backed currency. However, you can redeem it for the DAI that is harvested from the yearn vaults. So what makes this project particularly unique, as Scoopy says here, is that Alchemyx is incredibly flexible.
00:23:52.988 - 00:24:45.372, Speaker A: You don't have minimum lockup time or expiration dates or any such nonsense as they say. You can repay your all USD debt with all USD or Al, sorry, USD or die anytime. And the kick here is that the yield generated from, from the year involves actually pays back your debt automatically in the CDP, which I thought was like really, really cool. And this plays into what we're seeing in DeFi, what we have been seeing for months now called, that I like to call autonomous finance, right? Where you have all these money robots doing things for you automatically. You don't have to worry about it, you don't have to check on it, right. It does it all automatically and all as part of these kind of defi systems, right? I mean just the simple things like putting your stable coins into a, into a yearn vault, just like simply, right? You're automatically earning kind of a yield on that. And there's, and there's kind of vaults that auto compound that yield as well, where you don't even have to claim the yield.
00:24:45.372 - 00:25:28.254, Speaker A: It'll just get auto kind of compounded into the vault and then you can just come back later and kind of withdraw your money. And, you know, there's like a million use cases here because of the composability with Defi, you can have autonomous finance running across like every single app you want to have it running across and like have, have little money robots doing all the work for you, earning you interest, you know, earning you kind of fees and stuff like that. I mean, I spoke about the other day how you can now have your sushi tokens staked in the sushi protocol to earn protocol fees and. And then take your ex sushi tokens which represent staked sushi to Aave, right? Put your aave. Put your ex sushi in Aave. You could draw stable coins against that. Then you could come to alchemics here.
00:25:28.254 - 00:26:02.732, Speaker A: Put your stable coins in there, right, put your die in there and then let their vaults do everything for you and pay down your kind of debt there. So I mean, that's just like super cool, right? Like you can do all these things across all these different protocols, and I imagine it's just going to keep compounding like that. So that's what we mean by money legos, actually, and how you can like put this, put them all together and kind of make these beautiful systems that just are what I, what I like to call autonomous finance. And this is really the breakthrough here. This is not what you see in traditional finance. This does not happen in the traditional finance world. And this is exactly what gets people the most excited about Defi.
00:26:02.732 - 00:26:52.826, Speaker A: I think not, you know, not particularly the, I guess, like the decentralization aspect, which is incredibly important still. But to be fair, a lot of defi isn't decentralized these days. There's still admin keys because still very early, right. And things like that. But what gets people the most excited is this concept of money legos, I think. But, you know, and on that note as well about decentralization, I've had a few people talk to me about this and say, well, you know, what's the difference between kind of like a centralized blockchain and these defy us being centralized? It's the same sort of risk. And I kind of, I kind of hit back on that and say, I don't think so, because for an example, if you have a centralized blockchain, that means everything built on top of it is potentially, can potentially be compromised, right? Because you can imagine that if someone controls the validating nodes of a blockchain, they can do whatever they want across every single app.
00:26:52.826 - 00:27:28.208, Speaker A: But if you have an admin key for one of your defi apps and you do something malicious on there, then most of the damage is only in your own app, right? Yes. The damage can, can be spread between different apps if you, as I just said, they all talk to each other. So if, you know, there's, there's some talking in whatever. I mean, we saw this play out last week with alpha finance and cream. You know how, I guess like the Alpha finance kind of like with kind of. Sorry, kind of went through an exploit and the capital in the Iron bank was kind of like stolen and stuff like that. You know, it's not like, it's all kind of like limited, but it doesn't affect the whole system.
00:27:28.208 - 00:27:56.104, Speaker A: Whereas when you have like the, the blockchain itself being centralized, it affects absolutely everything on the blockchain. Right. And this is my problem with on chain governance systems as well, for layer one blockchains is that the, everything built on top is at the mercy of the token holders of that chain, essentially. Right. Whereas for on chain governance, for different DeFi protocols, really, it's like the risk is contained. Right? The damage is contained. It doesn't affect like everything.
00:27:56.104 - 00:28:16.984, Speaker A: So that's kind of like the key difference there that I like to explain to people as well. But, yeah. Anyway, Alchemyx isn't live yet, but this is just like an introduction here. I spoke about them last week on the refuel as well. But definitely go check out the blog post here and read, read about them, learn some, learn a bit more. Follow the, I guess follow the Twitter account as well. And I'm sure they'll be, they'll be out with their live product soon.
00:28:16.984 - 00:29:23.936, Speaker A: So Alpha Finance has announced that they're teaming up with Saffron finance with Alpha Homora v one, they're going to be powering higher lending interest rates on ETH for, for Saffron finances v two, which means more assets will be lent on Alpha Homora and leveraged yield farmers will have more ETH to take leverage on with Saffron finance. So for those who don't know what, Saffron finance is basically a way to tranche risk. It's like Barnbridge, if you've heard of that project for different kind of things in Defi. So, yeah, I thought this was like really cool little partnership here. And the funny thing is, you know, Saffron V two was introduced over the weekend as well, and they're actually deploying to both binance smart chain and Ethereum at the same time, which I thought was interesting. I think what we're going to see happen is with a lot of this stuff, especially while L2 is still being built out, is that on binance smart chain, it becomes like a testing ground for developers, right? Because you can imagine that there's already Ethereum test nets, but they're not like great. A lot of the testnets suffer from the fact that they don't actually have a lot of DeFi apps on top of them for people to kind of test their protocols, like, you know, in a really great way.
00:29:23.936 - 00:30:13.630, Speaker A: And this is why Andre actually tests his stuff on Ethereum's main net. You know, he's famous kind of quote unquote test in prod, because testing on a test that there's not much there for them to do, they can't really play with all the DeFi protocols on there. So they kind of have to test on main net and do things on main net. Now with binance smart chain actually having like capital on there and apps on there, because binance is just bankrolling the whole thing, right? And it's like a more scalable way to do stuff, I guess, because of the centralization. I guess it doesn't really matter if you're just using it as a testing ground, which maybe that's like just the benefit of it, right? And then on the Ethereum main net, you're, you know, you, you can kind of go back there and you can use BSc or other kind of centralized things or chains as a stopgap until Ethereum's L2 ecosystem is ready. So I thought that was interesting as well. But yeah, definitely a big fan of both of these projects.
00:30:13.630 - 00:31:06.026, Speaker A: I hold both of these tokens, Alpha and SFI, just a disclaimer there, but this is more of this cross team collaboration going on that I was talking about, I think, a few weeks ago, and I've been talking about it for a while now, actually, where the teams now within DeFi, within Ethereum, have to work much closer together to kind of grow the pie together because I think if they're working in isolation, it's just not going to work. Right. You need to kind of like not only be open source on the protocol level, but you need to be open source on the kind of human level as well, which I really like seeing play out. So rocket pool actually put out part two of their kind of staking, I guess, like explaining series here. So for those who don't know what rocket pool is. Is it decentralized staking service for ETH? Two, they're not live just yet, but they're going live pretty soon, I think. And this part two basically explains the protocol and how the trusted node DAos will work here.
00:31:06.026 - 00:31:50.676, Speaker A: So part one went over kind of like the protocol itself and the users of the protocol. Part three will be about RPL and the tokenomics, and part four will be the launch details and the audit reports. Now, I'm not going to go through the whole blog post. Obviously you can read it, it'll be linked in the YouTube description. But basically I think it's really important to keep an eye on this project. If you're someone who either doesn't want to kind of like stake on your, your own, but doesn't want to use a centralized provider, or you don't have the 32 ETH necessary to stake, Rocketpool is going to be the solution for you because it is going to be a decentralized staking service where you can kind of like be, you know, be sure, be relatively sure and feel better about using this than a centralized service because of the fact that, you know, it's not centralized, right. It's aiming to be decentralized.
00:31:50.676 - 00:32:36.212, Speaker A: And I think, you know, this, this post basically explains how it all works. So definitely go read that. But I think there's a lot of people now who don't have 32 ETH, right? I mean, 32 ETH is now worth a lot of money, I think like $50,000 last time I checked. It's not like, you know, a year ago when it was worth $3,200 or something, when it was $100, it's, it's worth a lot more now. So if we want to keep ETH to staking open and democratized across like many different people, many different actors, we need to be able to give people the ability to stake with like a very low amount of ETH. Now, obviously, if you're doing this from the Ethereum main net, you know, with rocket pool, the gas fees are going to kind of put like a, kind of like a floor on how much you're going to be able, you know, like a minimum on how much you're going to be able to stake. But like that minimum is going to be like, what, 0.1
00:32:36.212 - 00:32:54.556, Speaker A: ETH or something like that. So, you know, even if you only have like one 8th and you want to stake with it, it's still going to be worth your while to use Rocketball. So definitely go check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for all of you. All right, that's it for today's episode, everyone. Thank you again for listening and watching. Don't forget to give that video a thumbs up and subscribe to the channel.
00:32:54.556 - 00:33:01.564, Speaker A: If you haven't already, join the Daily grade Discord channel and subscribe to the newsletter. Both linked in the description. And I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
