00:00:04.490 - 00:00:42.220, Speaker A: Hi, everyone. Thanks for tuning in to this week's news recap. First headline PayPal and Venmo to launch crypto buying and selling. You guys. So this was actually a story from last week, and due to a copy paste error yes, I know, that's kind of crazy. In my recap last week, I neglected to include this story, which was the biggest news story last week, which is, as the headline says, that PayPal and Venmo will be launching crypto buying and selling. Although it's not clear which tokens will be available, the service could roll out in as soon as within the next three months.
00:00:42.220 - 00:02:04.610, Speaker A: All right, so now on to the headlines for this week DFI hacks continue. With half a million dollars hacked from Balancer, the hacks in DFI continued this week with another multiprotocol attack, draining about $500,000 worth of tokens from automated market maker Pools. On Balancer, the attacker took out a flash loan of wrapped ETH on dYdX and swapped it for a so called deflationary coin called Statera ticker sta, which meant that there would be a 1% transfer fee charged from the recipient per transaction. However, the Balancer pool did not recognize that with each transaction, it was receiving 1% less of sta. And the hacker made this transaction 24 times to drain sta from the pool and then used the last single one way sta to get the pool to release more wrapped ETH and drain that pool. The hacker repeated this with WBTC SNX and Link, the wrapped bitcoin synthetics token and link for chainlink tokens. And then, because Balancer is actually giving out liquidity mining rewards right now, the attacker also obtained more balancer pool tokens and then used to get even more wrapped ETH.
00:02:04.610 - 00:02:49.522, Speaker A: If you followed all that, then good for you. So this actually was similar to the lend FME attack in that this stems from a certain type of technology being used in a system that could not account for that technology. And also what was similar is that this potential problem was actually flagged beforehand or known beforehand. Someone had previously flagged this as a potential issue to the Balancer team. In the end, Balancer decided to fully reimburse all liquidity providers who lost funds during the attack. Next Headline DEXes surging hit a new all time high. Monthly trade volume on DEXes reached $1.51
00:02:49.522 - 00:03:46.590, Speaker A: billion in June, up 70% compared to May's volume, which was just shy of $900 million. It's also up 46% compared to the previous all time high of $1 billion in March. Uniswap and Curve led the pack when it came to Dex volume, although total Dex volume is still just 2% of the volume on centralized exchanges. The block also did a nice deep dive on Dex aggregators such as One Inch Exchange, Toddle, and Paraswap. Unsurprisingly prices are best on the aggregators, as opposed to single DEXes, especially for larger orders. And this week, the Zero X Protocol launched its own Dex aggregator called Matcha, which I think is a really good name. All right, next headline the bitcoin stock to flow theory turns out to be nonsense well, the graph certainly looked credible.
00:03:46.590 - 00:04:56.454, Speaker A: People may have heard of the stock to flow valuation model for bitcoin, espoused by the pseudonymous Plan B Twitter account. We mentioned it here on the show, such as in the bitcoin having episode and potentially also in the episode with Dan Moorhead of Pantera Capital on unconfirmed. In case you don't recall, the stock to flow theory says that bitcoin has an unforgivable costliness because it takes a lot of electricity to produce new bitcoins, and that means that bitcoins cannot be easily faked. It then posits that since there's a large supply of gold compared to the new supply introduced to it, that gives it a high stock to flow ratio. And that bitcoin's stock to flow ratio is about half that of gold's currently, but will someday be even higher, and that will eventually result in the price rising. So the theory seems to make sense since we all know that the new bitcoins minted with every block will asymptotically reach zero eventually. However, a few posts, including an op ed this week by Nico Cordero, the chief investment officer and fund manager at Strix.
00:04:56.454 - 00:05:38.970, Speaker A: Leviathan, points out a fundamental flaw in the theory there is zero correlation between the stock to flow for gold and its price. There's an extremely striking chart in the op ed that shows this. In the op ed, he says, quote we believe the model's accuracy will likely be about as successful at forecasting bitcoin's future price as the astrological models of the past were at predicting financial outcomes. Eric Wall. The CIO of Arcane assets pointed out. Or he wrote up a post chronicling all the people who determined the model was flawed. All right, next headline.
00:05:38.970 - 00:06:30.250, Speaker A: Ethereums and investors beat the drum for EIP 1559. In his newsletter at the Daily Guay, anthony Cesano of Set protocol ETH hub and into the ether broke down. How he thought that if Ethereum Improvement Protocol Proposal 1559 were passed, it would both improve the user experience on Ethereum as well as help ETH accrue value. First, EIP 1559 would make it less common for people to overpay miners fees while maintaining the ability to skip ahead in line by paying a tip to miners. There's also a function by which the base fee is burnt so that only the tip goes to miners. Anthony breaks down how apps are currently parasitic on Ethereum. As he puts it, quote Their on chain activity does not add fundamental value to ETH.
00:06:30.250 - 00:07:57.794, Speaker A: What now happens is that the fee basically just goes back and forth between users and miners. He explains the cycle thus, quote User buys ETH, user pays fee, miner takes fee, miner may sell the fee ETH back into the market and cycle begins again. If EIP 1559 were to be implemented, however, since the base fee would be burnt, the rewards paid out to stakers in Ethereum, 20 will be less than what miners currently make, and overall, that would have a deflationary effect on Ethereum since the issuance would be smaller than what is burnt. On a related note, BlockTower Capital's re Paul tweeted that he thinks EIP 1559 is make or break for Ethereum. He said the reason was because right now the main issue for Ethereum and DFI is to get big fast since the space is still so small. And he said, quote Growth and ETH market cap has to keep up with the growth in the market cap of tokens on Ethereum or you incentivize a wide range of game theory attacks. Next headline 500 BTCs stolen traced to Zappo and Indodax, resulting in lawsuit A German trader named Dennis Noak sued bitcoin wallet provider Zappo and Crypto Exchange in Indonesia called Indodax after 500 BTC stolen from him, which was about 4.5
00:07:57.794 - 00:08:57.430, Speaker A: million at press time, were found open moved to wallets at Zappo and Indodax. As the block puts it, quote While lawsuits arising from hacks and stolen funds are common in the crypto space, this one stands out due to the degree to which it relied on asset tracing. Firms like Chainalysis and Elliptic have developed proprietary systems for analyzing blockchain data, tracking the flow of illicit funds, and even identifying the individuals behind it, but they tend to cater mostly to exchanges and law enforcement agencies. The NOAC versus Zappo case suggests that crypto asset tracing may start making regular appearances in civil law sets, too. All right, time for fun bits. First headline daily transaction fees on Ethereum higher than bitcoins for record 26 days. Stephen Zhang, head of research at the blog, tweeted a chart showing that Ethereum transaction fees have only surpassed bitcoins twice, and the current streak is for 26 days and counting, which is a new record.
00:08:57.430 - 00:09:36.082, Speaker A: He says that since the start of the streak, the average daily fees on Ethereum have totaled $791,571, while in bitcoin they've been at $341,000 430. Similarly, it turns out that the Ether options market has now reached the size of the bitcoin options market in December 2018. All right, thanks for tuning in. To learn more about Ben and CoinMetrics, be sure to check the links in your show notes. And don't forget, you can now watch videos of the podcasts and of this weekly news recap on the Unchained YouTube channel. Go to youtube.com c unchained podcast and subscribe.
00:09:36.082 - 00:09:45.490, Speaker A: Today. Unconfirmed is produced by me, Laura Shin, with help from Anthony Yoon, Daniel Ness, Josh Durham, and the team at CLK Transcription. Thanks for listening.
