00:00:00.440 - 00:00:24.605, Speaker A: Solana started from a different path to Ethereum and you know they didn't have the multi client approach but like now they're finally getting there and this might finally eliminate one of the biggest criticisms with the Solana blockchain which is liveness and totally did announce did say that he will remove the beta label from Solana if when Fire Dancer reaches a third of the network.
00:00:27.865 - 00:00:44.981, Speaker B: Nothing said on 0x research is the recommendation to buy or sell securities or toke tokens. This podcast is for informational purposes only and any views expressed by anyone on the show are solely our opinions, not financial advice. Boccaccio, Ryan and our guests may hold positions in the company's funds or projects discussed.
00:00:45.173 - 00:00:56.985, Speaker C: What's up guys? Welcome back to another episode of Ox Research. Today I am joined by Mark and Luke from the Blockworks research team to talk about everything that's happening in the crypto markets. Mark, Luke, thanks for coming on. How you guys doing?
00:00:57.855 - 00:00:58.995, Speaker A: Yeah, all good.
00:01:01.295 - 00:01:22.075, Speaker C: Good to hear it I guess. Let's, let's start off. What are we looking at? How do we feel about the markets? There's maybe been a little bit of shift in sentiment lately. I'm curious on your guys thoughts. Are we looking at anything specific at the moment? Any particular tokens or categories or areas that we're interested at the moment?
00:01:22.975 - 00:02:00.993, Speaker A: On my end it seems like it is kind of turning around but I've kind of been bullish from like most of Q2 when everybody was getting upset during the crab market. I've never seen such a mix of high prices like bitcoins at like low 60s. Ethereum is at like high 2000s combined with such bad energy. So I mean like, and I feel like this is every cycle. So I'm like, I love that everybody's so upset when Bitcoin's like 6 60k. Like this is, this is just a sign of things to come in the future. But then also, you know, as an analyst I spend most of my time looking at like fundamental data.
00:02:00.993 - 00:02:38.678, Speaker A: So you know, if you look at Q2 we're still in Q3 now, but if you look at Q2, you know, record active daily addresses, record revenues, you know, we're starting to see some more reasonable valuations in the space like price to sales, price to equities, kind of like matching some of their TradFi and Web2Pairs. So I mean overall I, you know, I'm feeling good about the markets and you know, with you know, entering our interest rate cutting environment and hopefully after the US elections there's Less unregulatory uncertainty. Either way, you know, I'm, I'm, I'm shaping up for a good 2025.
00:02:38.790 - 00:02:39.240, Speaker B: Yeah.
00:02:39.352 - 00:04:02.455, Speaker D: And looking out six weeks ahead, the 2024 election certainly seems to be big event that the market is waiting for resolution on. If we think back to the 2020 election, we saw a Vix spike and then equity indices form this high time frame equilibrium and consolidation into the resolution of the election. Then ultimately all of the hedging positions rolled off, people took off their protection and we saw a very large move to the upside following the election. And looking at the price action in equity indices and the VIX spike we saw at the end of July, I can't help but think it's the Same fractal from 2020, but just pulled forward a few months. So seeing things break to the upside right now, coupled with rate cuts and a bullish trajectory on that path, I'm particularly optimistic. And then looking at crypto markets in particular, there are many, many assets that have broken their downtrends and established weekly uptrends. We still see bitcoin dominance near cycle highs.
00:04:02.455 - 00:04:30.315, Speaker D: That being said, there have been some, I guess you could say, blue chip alts that have had substantial outperformance in recent weeks with moves being 100 to 200%. So ultimately, I think equity indices create bullish backdrop and a lot of the favorable assets in the space could trade a lot higher over the coming months.
00:04:30.615 - 00:05:16.315, Speaker C: Yeah, I like, I like the overview there. I think it's funny if you think back a year, I think these were, these were all sort of the factors that people had in their minds, right? For 2024, it was like rates were still high. People were thinking, okay, rate cuts will come eventually, we'll have an election year in 24. There'll be these other factors like kind of, you know, maybe come out of a recession, etc that was, you know, the economy is not doing so well or you know, late 22, early 23. And I think you look to the sentiment recently where maybe, you know, we have some of those things coming into play with, you know, rate cuts actually happening, an election coming, coming up soon. And I think people are, it's just funny to see people like maybe overthink it. They're like, no, I don't know, like it, maybe it won't happen the way that I thought it would happen, you know, and planned it out a year ago.
00:05:16.315 - 00:06:12.865, Speaker C: And to see, you know, like you said, some, some assets, you know, break trend or make moves upward and have, you know, people in the community on the timelines on Twitter saying maybe this is a take profit point, we could go lower again, I don't know what to do. I think that it's an interesting time in the market when you have sentiment like that where people, they're sort of battle scarred from the past few months. It's a big question for them on if we see this trend continue or not. And I think it's funny because you're seeing some of the risk appetite come back quite quickly. I don't know if people are just are overthinking rate cutting into like what seems to be an okay economy at the moment. But there are like meme coins that have done multiple x hundred percents in the past, you know, week off of this kind of this trending move in bitcoin and other assets. So we'll see where it goes.
00:06:12.865 - 00:07:08.985, Speaker C: But it's certainly exciting positive at the moment is the way that it seems. One thing that an agency that loves to continue throwing a wrench in our plans is the sec. And there was a headline the other day that I think was not quite as truly factual as it, as it claimed to be. But basically the headline came across the table that said the SEC says crypto mining devices are securities. Now I think this was not quite the actual ruling and result here this green United was selling basically boxes that they claimed mined their token in what was assumed to be like a depin project. I think what they were actually selling were bitcoin mining nodes. And then they were, they had some process to basically, you know, reassign like these green tokens to people on like Ethereum for example.
00:07:08.985 - 00:07:47.829, Speaker C: So it was a little bit of like, you know, just sort of blatant fraud I think masked as like a deep pin project essentially. So I, I think that ruling kind of, I don't know if these writers just, you know, they just really, really love clicks. But I think ultimately the ruling was a little more on the fraud side than on the actual like you know, Deepin and other mining machines being actual securities. I'd love to hear any takes though. Like I don't know that you could, could really steel man or make the argument that like a computer or generalized device that can mine a cryptocurrency would be viewed as a security. I mean your phone could be a security at that point.
00:07:47.997 - 00:08:47.851, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean I actually skimmed the, the ruling, the actual ruling by the judge just to see like is, am I, are they misunderstanding something? Was it really clickbaity? And I think it was like you said, just for the clicks. Because in the ruling it was like the SEC has clearly showed that this investment contract combined with the mining offering of mining devices and investment contract is a security offering. So I think, you know, I think the better headline should have been in this case, like SEC gets one. Right. Because this was just blatant fraud. And I don't know, this is the kind of thing I would like to see more from the SEC like these instead of like going after the actors who are trying to do good by the industry. So, you know, I, I'm all for, I'm all for the SEC on this one and yeah, but maybe, maybe the clickbaity title made it so that we actually got some coverage of something the SEC did.
00:08:47.851 - 00:08:48.435, Speaker A: Right?
00:08:48.595 - 00:09:51.135, Speaker D: Yeah. And at least for the Howey test, for it to be an investment contract, the expectations of profits must be derived from the efforts of others. But to the extent you're a customer buying some hardware and that hardware derives the tokens or the expectation of profit and I guess you own that individual enterprise, that doesn't really seem like a security to me. That being said, we have this problem in the space where there are a tremendous number of instruments that are sold to the market communicating some expectation of profit. And it's highly inconvenient to the industry. But a lot of those instruments very much do look like unregistered securities offerings. So I think ultimately, like crypto enables Rails to.
00:09:51.135 - 00:10:11.375, Speaker D: Novel Rails to bring to market a lot of things that look like securities that, that don't have history or case law behind them. So I ultimately think, you know, with the 2024 election, we might get better frameworks for clarity on what these things look like.
00:10:11.795 - 00:10:42.353, Speaker A: I think in this case it was more so the common enterprise definition too for the how we test. Because I think they were selling the boxes but not actually delivering it to the end clients. So they were operating it on behalf of them. Like it's okay to buy a helium device and set that up yourself, run your own node and you are the one in charge of how much profits you make to some, to a certain degree. But because that they were operating all of this for you under one entity, like that's more so an investment contract or security offering than anything else.
00:10:42.489 - 00:11:45.485, Speaker C: Yeah. At that point you could almost, you know, you could, you could take away the kind of obfuscation of the hardware and it's essentially like you're paying money to receive, you know, then tokens directly at that point versus the alternative where, you know, you've got the hardware, you're Mining on the, on like a network per se and you're receiving those tokens from, you know, the rewards of the network. That makes total sense. I think back to your point as well, Luke. I recall years ago, like in 20, in the 2021 kind of market cycle, even like meme coins and other shitcoins, if you want to call them that, on Binance, Smart chain, other chains, there was this tendency earlier on to make explicit statements of we are going to do this, we will achieve this, the token will do this. And there were, I think there were some rulings during that year that, you know, led to some slap on the wrists in regard to like explicit language likely due to that, you know, kind of that measure of what is a security or not. And we saw that language change very quickly on lots of projects, websites as a result.
00:11:45.485 - 00:11:50.065, Speaker C: So I think that's something that's kind of been continuing onward over the past few years as well.
00:11:50.645 - 00:11:59.113, Speaker D: Yeah, almost better to scrap the roadmap and any plan of a business and just call a coin for what it is.
00:11:59.209 - 00:13:18.065, Speaker C: So it's funny too because I think, you know, with memes with, with NFTs, I think we often the, the advent of utility is, is usually has been seen as like the death of that thing. So it's a bit ironic the way that that has played out. But I guess since we're on the the topic of, of meme coins, I wanted to highlight the Solana dashboard, the Solana Dex activity dashboard that our data team recently put out. And speaking of memes, I think there's some few interesting things to highlight specifically on those. For one, Solana as we all know, I think has been kind of the meme Coin hub of recent, I guess maybe the past year or so you'd want to say at this point, Pump Fund, the advent of that platform and kind of the proliferation of that kind of idea across different chains as well, we saw this pretty significant rise in, in Meme Coin Dex volume dominance on Seoul, upwards of what, 70% at some points here. And actually with the kind of advent of Pump fund that contributed to an overall rise in that percentage. So there was like some kind of net increase in, in total meme activity.
00:13:18.065 - 00:14:09.417, Speaker C: You know, in, in recent weeks and months it's been down. I think as you know, the market has kind of chopped a bit. But it's interesting to see this trend and I think if you extrapolate to other chains, you know, Base, likely Ethereum, probably Binance, Smart Chain, the others where this type of, you know, meme activity Happens I, you know, it would not be surprising to see similar, like high ratios of activity. There's some pretty strong pmf I think. In other, other exciting thing and interesting thing, Dam Dan Smith on the team frequently talks about active addresses, low value active addresses. It's, it's a bit of, it's a common rant point for him and I think it's interesting to see that broken out here where we've got Dex active addresses with less than $10 in volume. Radium has kind of overtaken that.
00:14:09.417 - 00:15:02.515, Speaker C: And I think, you know, upwards of 99% of active addresses in that less than 10, $10 lifetime volume bracket. I think likely a result of that being, you know, Meme Coins maybe coming from Pump Fun, getting their liquidity on Radium and then seeing, you know, you know, attempts by community members maybe to distribute that token to as many addresses as possible, maybe get people thinking that, that lots of people are buying in what have you. But the other met the other metrics for radium have been interesting. I know Mark, you wrote a report on Radium. Their overall kind of share of Solana Dex volume has been, you know, was growing into the beginning of this year and still remains quite strong. Like they, they've sort of hovered near this 50% kind of margin of all soul activity. Is there anything else super interesting I guess about maybe the case for radium?
00:15:03.595 - 00:15:42.923, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean for sure. So just want to caveat. What like, okay, that was interesting. How much Meme Coins or like less than $10 meme coin activity is on Radium? I did a report last month or maybe it came out earlier this year and it was based on last month's data, most recent data as in August. And in August I was looking through the data and 13% of all of their, of their volume was from Meme Coins. So I mean it's, you know, it's still predominantly used for other things. And I mean like Solana Dashboard here says like, you know, if you were to break it down into users who traded over half a million in volume, they're still like market leader.
00:15:42.923 - 00:16:19.239, Speaker A: Maybe Orca is coming up with that too. And you know, Carlos who also works on the research team with us, has a report on Orca as well. But I think the, I mean, I think the thing about Radium that really stuck out to me was how much revenue that they're making from all of this trading activity. And then you know, I mean they've done 460 million in fees alone and a 35 million of that. 35 million of that has just been spent on repurchasing their token. And you know, I annualized it and it's a 12.2% buyback yield.
00:16:19.239 - 00:17:07.437, Speaker A: And I mean that's, that buyback yield is like something that's unheard of and tried like Apple and Microsoft. None of these companies have anywhere near that kind of buyback amount. I mean that's, I think that's a great value accretive mechanism for the token, especially in that level. And they still have enough put aside to add USDC to their treasury and grow their balance sheet. And because of this they have such low emissions, they don't need to incentivize and anybody, I think their annual emission rate when I did it last month was less than 1%. So I mean combined with those high revenues, those low emission rates, you know, we get a pretty attractive valuation. And besides price to fees, price to sales, there's also price to earnings which you can do with it now.
00:17:07.437 - 00:18:27.415, Speaker A: And I mean with radium because there's no other expenses, you know, like for tradfi companies net income is typically the bottom of the line. But it's not really necessarily what the cash flow is because there's other things like amortization, depreciation, maybe there's stock expenses, whatnot. So like even from a cash flow basis, this earnings that Raydium has is actually just pure cash flow. And so I think when I did it last month they had low single digit PE ratio which is attractive. But then even when you do it, when you look at it from a price to cash flow ratio, it's even more attractive. And if you put it in line with some of its other pairs in the industry, from a price to earnings ratio, I think it had like a 100 on or 270 upside potential if it were just to trade in line with some of its pairs, which I don't know why it's not, but maybe, you know, these, I think the markets take longer to price in fundamentals than they do hype in this industry. So I think maybe as maybe as the financials of radium become a little bit more known as a part of just their volumes, I think the market might start to realize like there is a growth and value play here.
00:18:27.875 - 00:19:08.051, Speaker C: Yeah, I love it. I, I think maybe the one other point, and I think we'll talk about it a little bit later when we get into details around the conferences is like you're saying it does seem like maybe radium goes under the radar a little bit. You know, Jupiter kind of stands out as like the dominant hub of activity really on Salana. Even though you know, the trades get routed to places like Radium, for example, to trade, you know, memes, etc. So like you're saying, you know, it could just be people aren't really looking under the hood maybe quite yet, they haven't seen those relationships and, and maybe just Jup is kind of doing a good job at continuing to keep people's eyes on them.
00:19:08.163 - 00:19:57.545, Speaker B: Hey guys. Permissionless, the event for crypto natives is heading west to Salt Lake City and we're bringing the biggest names in crypto together for an incredible can't miss event. Join me and the rest of block works on October 9th to hear from more than 200 industry titans including Nick White from Celestia, Fearon from Eigenlayer and Keoni from Monad. The conversations at Permissionless will be covering the hottest themes in crypto including modularity, restaking the bitcoin and Solon ecosystems, AI and crypto roll ups, L2s, institutional adoption, and of course the November election that will be right around the corner. We couldn't be more excited about this event and it's happening in one of the most beautiful places in the U.S. ticket prices will be increasing towards the end of June, so get your ticket today. Make sure to use their code so I get some credit and bragging rights from the rest of the team.
00:19:57.545 - 00:20:11.441, Speaker B: Use 0x10 for 10% off on your ticket. One more thing. We're also hosting the Permissionless Free Hackathon in collaboration with Bittlebox. The theme this year is a multichain future to build a better cross chain experience so I don't have to have a heart attack every time I bridge.
00:20:11.473 - 00:20:12.353, Speaker A: To a new chain.
00:20:12.489 - 00:20:21.793, Speaker B: All hackathon participants will receive a free ticket to attend permissions. So if you're a developer, come join us in Salt Lake City, team up with fellow devs and build the multichain future.
00:20:21.889 - 00:21:00.925, Speaker C: In other news, the kind of more the other exciting stuff in recent weeks has been conferences. I know Mark, you were over there in Singapore. We had token 2049 and also Solana, Breakpoint. I guess let's, let's jump into Token and talk a little bit around what happened there or maybe some exciting things that that happened there. Ethereum versus Soul I think has been a big topic just generally within, you know, the crypto space. But I'm curious like how mentioned that was, how mentioned it was or how, how much, you know, maybe at Token that was focused on or what people were saying about kind of that relationship between the two.
00:21:01.385 - 00:21:29.459, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, Token. Token was the biggest crypto conference event I've ever been to. I think it was something like 20,000 people and like 600 side events. And like, I couldn't keep up with all of it. I had to pick which ones to focus my attention on or go to which talks. It kind of felt like picking coins out of the tens of thousands that they are in a very fragmented market and everybody's trying to shill you their own. And so it was kind of symbolic of that.
00:21:29.459 - 00:22:05.305, Speaker A: But, yeah, the ETH versus SOL debate was very hot. I think, you know, it was probably the plurality of the discussions I had with investors. And I'm not exaggerating when I say nobody chose ETH oversold. And, you know, I tried to steal money arguments sometimes and, you know, poke some holes in it, you know, just to get some kind of interesting, interesting debate. But, you know, Seoul was declared winner for the entire. For the entire conference. Everybody was building on SOL or, you know, in some case L2s, and in many cases L2s especially.
00:22:05.305 - 00:22:31.817, Speaker A: Especially the social apps on base. But, you know, for the most part, no, I didn't meet a single builder on mainnet. Ethereum. Right. Which I guess is their plan. But it still led towards this bearish sentiment, and in my opinion, probably overly bearish sentiment. You know, I like to see this level of bearishness when the prices are still holding fine.
00:22:31.817 - 00:22:39.325, Speaker A: So, yeah, I mean, from that perspective, Seoul was a clear winner in the 2049 token 2049 conference.
00:22:39.745 - 00:23:17.565, Speaker C: Yeah, I think great points there. I mean, we've. We've talked a lot on this podcast about eth versus soul, L2s versus, you know, monolithic chain designs. We don't have to get into that debate today. I'm curious, though. You know, it's not surprising that teams are not building on ETH Main net. I think, you know, like, you're saying that's sort of the plan, right? Push activity to L2s, maybe sort of subsidize the growth of, you know, the Ethereum kind of platform in that direction with, you know, basically the super low cost, nearly free cost of blobs today versus, you know, having everything or mostly everything.
00:23:17.565 - 00:23:49.927, Speaker C: There are a few L2 teams in the Solana space at this point, but having everything kind of running on SOL and accruing fees in that way. I'm curious, you know, you mentioned teams building there. Is there anything around, like, institutional focus or sentiment? Like, you know, if teams are not building on mainnet and they're, you know, all these projects are wanting to build in solana or on L2s, are investors thinking the same way? Like they need to be looking at the sole ecosystem versus, you know, eth or the L2 ecosystems?
00:23:50.071 - 00:24:18.949, Speaker A: Yeah, for sure. I mean, I think in terms of where projects are building, it seemed to be a common trend. So I'm just going to say with the L2s. So social apps base was the play for deepen apps. Solana was the play. And I'm, and I'm, and I'm talking to them and I'm asking them why, what was the logic? And you know, it wasn't too much of a deep analysis into the tech and this kind of stuff. And this is not what I would expect of entrepreneurs in this space.
00:24:18.949 - 00:24:44.701, Speaker A: Right. You shouldn't have to do a, you know, detailed analysis of AWS if you're deciding to launch your infrastructure there. And I think it was just more precedence. Like Farcaster, FriendTech, they launched on base. Other projects, other social projects have seen that. They think, okay, this is the best place to launch. When I think when Helium moved from its own L1 to Solana, that was seemingly a good signal, it worked better for them.
00:24:44.701 - 00:25:31.715, Speaker A: And I talked to these other deep end projects, they want to build on Solana because they see other deep end projects building there. But I think one of the big themes, maybe it wasn't super pronounced, but it was the institutions moving to Solano. So I mean, we had announcements from, you know, Circle, USCC is already there, they're expected to expand. Visa is announced that they're Planning to expand. PayPal Power USD is already there. Hamilton Lane, they and Frankel Templeton were talking about launching mutual funds on Solana, which, you know, which was one of the things that got me most excited. You know, I was there clapping like, yes, mutual funds on Solana, but I guess that's a little bit puma of me.
00:25:31.715 - 00:26:34.905, Speaker A: You know, Coinbase is trying to bring CBTC directly to Solana and I think a lot of the institutions are seeing the speed, how cheap it is. And I think, you know, there was a second room, they call it the right curve stage, where they had a little bit more workshops and were giving advice to teams of how to go to market a little bit better. And I haven't, hadn't. You don't really see that at some of the other like maybe Ethereum conferences or little bit more research focused as opposed to go to market focused. And I think that's why we saw a little bit more apps on Solana, a little bit more direct to Consumer stuff, I mean and the institutions I call out are mostly finance related but there was things like Travala announced that they're on Solana. That's a booking, a booking agency so you can book flights, pay directly in Stablecoin or Seoul directly on Solana, even Philippines stablecoins. You know, something I think might be, might actually be useful for remittances seeing as they're one of the largest remittances countries in the world.
00:26:34.905 - 00:27:24.147, Speaker A: They're launching their stablecoin on Solana for many of the same reasons all of these other institutions are doing it. You know we have Kane Warwick with Infinex coming, you know, put it, putting it in Solana. I know it's chain agnostic, but it's Solana. You know, right now Power Ledger, which I don't know if you remember was like an old Deepen Energy play back in 2017. You know, they, I, they were on Ethereum and they announced their move to Solana. But what I did think was interesting was that you know, the reactions from the audience for these OG DeFi Eth players moving to Solana weren't as enthusiastic as just the native Solana companies announcing their new products. Right.
00:27:24.147 - 00:27:55.259, Speaker A: So I mean there was a lot more applause for Camino announcing Spot leverage than there was for when Rune came on stage and said sky is coming to Solana. You know, but yeah, I think those, those are the large takeaways. But I mean just bringing it up, I wanted to get Luke's thoughts on this. I thought of you instantly when it was announced. Like, okay, so lending is bringing Spot leverage like it's trying to be a little bit more vertically integrated. Yeah. So love to get your thoughts.
00:27:55.427 - 00:29:19.045, Speaker D: Yeah, I think ultimately seeing like as you mentioned, these OG DeFi protocols or Athena, even just these EVM based killer apps moving their tokens to the Solana ecosystem. Athena is using a layer 0 route maker DAO or Sky is now planning on using a wormhole route. It ultimately shows that like these projects that have billions in value for their core tokens want to see their tokens proliferate on, on Solana as opposed to just the EVM side. So ultimately like Solana gets more non native assets, more assets that carry yield. The sky ecosystem tokens will be coupled with an incentive program in the form of sky token emissions to various defi projects that integrate. And we saw incredible success with PIUSD and their incentive program on Kamino in particular. And I can't help but think similar incentive program for sky and SUSD would see similar Success.
00:29:19.045 - 00:30:26.761, Speaker D: Camino in particular I'm quite bullish on. We've seen them basically hold multiples in deposits of their next two closest competitors combined. We see them bring Camino V2 onto the roadmap, will introduce market lending layer, vault layer for isolated lending order book lending to find a counterparty at a set rate. Spot leverage as Mark mentioned. So basically like seeing Kamino hold this incumbent status but also like such enormous separation from its closest competitors. I think sits on a tremendous number of assets to expand the product beyond just lend borrow as we're seeing with spot leverage. So this could include something like a protocol specific lst a protocol native stablecoin on all their assets.
00:30:26.761 - 00:31:01.665, Speaker D: They could go a sky or Ave go approach to their stablecoin design. Then also using their LST multiply product they could offer a delta neutral stablecoin kind of similar to Athena's stablecoin. So ultimately like we continue to see Camino separate itself from the pack but also continue to ship new products with more non, non native ecosystem tokens coming onto the market. Particularly optimistic.
00:31:02.445 - 00:31:40.327, Speaker A: That's interesting. On the, you know you said the maker coming across using wormhole trying to offer incentives. It kind of almost feels like good timing. Now I remember you talked about there was good incentives with PIUSD even on Camino I think and it was 14% APR. You were getting something like you know, low double digit deal. I noticed that the yields have come down by half like to maybe around like 7,8% still not bad. But then I also noticed simultaneously PIUSD's market cap on Solana has dropped drastically.
00:31:40.327 - 00:32:32.335, Speaker A: I think in the last month they've gone from 1 billion market cap to 700 million. It's, I don't know if it's, I think it might have to do with the incentives. It might have to do with maybe PayPal pulling some of the incentives. It might have to do with them like announcing this, this new feature for merchants to buy, sell and hold crypto and be able to send it to external wallets and maybe they want to add some incentives to there. So I mean yeah, maybe there is some, some opportunity for some of these Eth DeFi projects to come across and capture some, some, some market share with those yields. But I also didn't realize that Camino was expanding into so many different, let's just call it verticals. Do you think it puts it a little bit more in competition with Jupiter now? Because they seem to be doing the same.
00:32:32.335 - 00:33:09.451, Speaker A: They kind of want to be a one stop shop. You know they have spots they have perps soon with limited or like with limit orders. DCA capabilities, bridging. They announced a launch produced Ape Pro, you know they want to launch. They announced a mobile app that they're going to, that they're going to move to as well. They bought Solana FM and Coin Hall. They're integrating Google Pay, Apple Pay and credit card payments with like rebates like it seems like they're trying to also quickly expand into the different verticals and now that you've mentioned it, it kind of seems like Amino is trying to do the same thing.
00:33:09.451 - 00:33:13.413, Speaker A: So I'm kind of like wondering if there's a head to head there potentially in the future.
00:33:13.589 - 00:34:24.973, Speaker D: Yeah, I think they'll bump into each other eventually. But at this point the two dapps kind of have somewhat distinct niches. If we think of like Camino's original core product offering it was basic lend borrow. Then you also had their liquidity product which was automated concentrated liquidity management positions where you could deploy your position to a number of different Dexes, Orca, Radium, Meteora and the protocol would implement a concentrated liquidity management strategy and readjust your positions accordingly. So it effectively became a tool for users to deploy I guess a bit more of a yield optimized strategy for LPing across Texas. And they've had spot margin trading previously for long and short. Generally it was only up to 5x leverage margined by USDC on a select few assets.
00:34:24.973 - 00:36:27.545, Speaker D: So ultimately I think this, this coming upgrade expands that that market substantially more. And then they've also had their multiply product which is a looping strategy for LST yield using flash loans originated through the lend borrow market. So what you do is you'd supply your lst, collect the LST yield and the lending market Yield, you'd borrow SOL against that and then loop that strategy up to 5x and ultimately it would offer substantially more attractive yield for lst holders, sometimes 12 to 20% depending on the LST with pretty minimal risk of liquidations as Camino uses their Oracle logic to basically hard code to query the underlying stake pools balance of soul as opposed to using like a market or dex pool Oracle where a DPEG or price impact could result in liquidation. So like ultimately between Kamina and Jupiter I see, I see their products being differentiated enough that they can kind of compete in different verticals but ultimately like Lenbaro has demonstrated to be like one of the killer apps in EVM in terms of like the accumulation of the absolute value of deposits. And I think what Camino can do with those deposits in their protocol kind of gives it an advantage for subsequent product upgrades, whether that's things like the liquidity product or spot leverage as well.
00:36:27.625 - 00:37:35.605, Speaker C: So I like the level of depth on covering both of these and I think in the back of my mind what I'm thinking the whole time, hearkening back to Mark's comment about, you know, seeing the application focus like at Breakpoint specifically, you know, I know that at previous conferences or in over the past maybe year or so, that's kind of been a bit of like a negative point maybe for eth related conferences. Right. Too much infra. No app talk. I don't know if the Solana kind of ecosystem and foundation, et cetera, if they've just found that right mix, because it does feel like when I think about specific examples of infra development, it's like you've got things like dialect building blanks to make to put experiences directly within socials or web pages, bring crypto use cases to the users where they are. Other things like, you know, Fire Dancer where the focus is like, you know, improving TPS, you know, maybe improving latency, etc. Making the network better for users to kind of interact or, you know, enable, you know, greater trading venues, et cetera, you know, mass user adoption of social applications, et cetera.
00:37:35.605 - 00:38:30.031, Speaker C: And then the rest of the time is spent talking about, you know, what all these apps are doing to improve themselves for users. I think that's just a really interesting like maybe difference in feeling or sentiment that we're seeing. Where previous conferences have been like, oh man, it was like 50 infra projects and I don't know, just build an app, man, it would be sweet. And then you go to Breakpoint and it's like we're talking about Solana Seeker, we're talking about some play Solana gaming device potentially coming. Like you just mentioned, Mark Jupiter, trying to become this one stop kind of hub for, for users interacting on Solana. All of the kind of interesting offerings that Camino can build out and kind of grow as this bar lend platform. I think that's just like a really interesting takeaway when considering kind of these two like sort of giants at this point in time and where the focus is at.
00:38:30.223 - 00:39:21.053, Speaker A: Yeah, as you mentioned that, you know, the Solana saga, like I was surprised in Solana Breakpoints by how much of a focus it was on gaming. Not necessarily any talks, but in the booths there was a whole section just for gaming and people were playing games where they have the monitors, they have the external monitors on the outside. So you can see these enthusiasts play these games live and take a look at the AAA gaming action. Obviously Star Atlas was a very big one. I think they had a whole floor downstairs just for Starless that was very popular. There were like probably dozens of gaming projects in, in that, in that booths in the Solana conference. I don't know if you have any, I don't know.
00:39:21.053 - 00:39:30.145, Speaker A: Have you all ever played any of crypto games? How big you're into that? I mean I'm, I'm not. I think they're all pretty bad. But please, please tell me I'm wrong.
00:39:30.855 - 00:40:48.065, Speaker C: I've explored them. I think there's, it's difficult because I don't know that the industry has really figured out the right implementation in particular yet. I think there are maybe some specific examples or ideas that could work. Well, I think if you think about traditional MMO games like in game economies that are powered by real currencies, that's really interesting because I think a lot of the people that play those games, they treat the in game currency like real currency when they're playing are trying to like game the markets and like you know, be sort of like you know, the top clan or like top user in the server and like to put real value behind that is really interesting. Like Eve Online is kind of an interesting example of that that's kind of existed for a while where people are investing like real dollars into like these, these crazy fights. So there's, there's things like that. But I also think that, you know, there's the Magic Block team on Solana that has this, you know, interesting means of using like essentially a roll up to enable like much faster, higher throughput activity to where you could theoretically be doing all these actions like on chain in a way that doesn't like strain the network itself thanks to the, to the kind of roll up design that they're, that they're going with.
00:40:48.065 - 00:41:22.451, Speaker C: But you know, I think we'll need to see more experimentation. It's, it's not really clear whether like the benefits of just having all these actions kind of be recorded on chain or in transactions are going to be super meaningful for the user unless we find ways to make it. So at this point a lot of the games are the very early stage. It harkens back to 2014. Mobile apps on iPhone, et cetera. They're very simple designs usually because building games is difficult. You can't just spit out a AAA game in a year.
00:41:22.451 - 00:41:49.185, Speaker C: It takes a ton of money. It takes a lot of years A lot of developer resources and time to like make something that looks and feels nice. So with all the raises that have happened over the past year, few years, like it's not surprising that there aren't like games coming out, you know, one after the other because they pro, they just need more time to get themselves out there. I mean I think the Star Atlas example is an interesting one because I think you know, they've sort of been like an in development project for several, several years at this point.
00:41:49.725 - 00:42:30.975, Speaker A: Yeah, As a previous RuneScape player I can definitely attest to in game money is real money. You know, I sold my account payer to pay off for real cash. But yeah, I think I am a little bit more, I can see the vision more with idle games. And maybe for those who don't know, idle games is basically where you hop on your phone, you do one transaction, you do one thing and you come back and check it in eight hours. Like you say I'm going to build a cabin and eight hours later you build a cabin, you get some rewards. I kind of see that as a little bit more, a little bit easier stepping ladder into this, into this web. 3 gaming, you don't have to commit too much time to it.
00:42:30.975 - 00:42:55.851, Speaker A: You don't need that much speed. You can get rewarded in tokens for doing things that you might have been doing anyway. On a regular idle game, which I used to play but I got a little bit addicted so I had to remove them off of my phone. Too much hours spent on that. But yeah, the roll ups thing that you were talking about, that's the ephemeral roll ups that like can spin up and disappear. Okay, yeah, I've heard about that. I need to dive deeper.
00:42:56.003 - 00:44:05.561, Speaker C: Yeah, I do like your point on kind of the idle game design I think, you know, like Telegram mini apps, I think we've seen like a little bit of tapping into something there. Like there's this ability to, you know, I think if you think about those games as like mobile apps, like you know, micro microtransactions, micro payments and like doing like quick things to speed up, you know, the time to finish buildings and stuff like that, I think that's been a pretty successful business model. I think if you think of like clash of clans, like those have been pretty successful blockchains kind of bring an interesting mechanism to that where you can have microtransactions that are like you know, a few pennies or like a penny to send a transaction on Soul for example or on ton. I've seen game like some Games like Katazin and some of these others that are on Telegram implement that kind of design where it's basically an idle app but you have opportunities to like basically do like a you know, low fee, couple cent transaction to like get a quick reward for a few hours. I do think that's interesting. I think it taps into something like you're saying and then the people and the kind of feeling around those types of games. But yeah, the ephemeral roll up design is an interesting one.
00:44:05.561 - 00:44:49.945, Speaker C: I'm curious to see where it goes. We're hopefully we'll see some, you know, maybe some early games or prototypes launch with that design and get to see like you know the interesting things that having kind of the, all of the, you know, maybe movement or you know, individual like user player data being kind of shot through like this ephemeral roll up validator and then you know the state being stored on chain. There could be some interesting designs that come out of it. I guess I, I think we've kind of touched on all of the major highlights I guess from the conferences. Anything else? Any other points that you guys want to get out before, before I shill our next upcoming conference?
00:44:50.685 - 00:46:01.819, Speaker A: I guess the only last thing is the Fire Dancer announcement. Like day one they were like we are live on testnet and everybody was very happy with that. And then day two they were like well actually we've been live on mainnet two for the past couple months of very select teams and I thought that was pretty awesome too. And I just wanted to bring it up because I do think that you know like Solana started from a different path to Ethereum and you know, they didn't have the multi client approach but like now they're finally getting there and this might finally eliminate one of the biggest criticisms with the Solana blockchain which is Liveness and totally did say that he will remove the beta label from Solana if when Fire Dancer reaches a third of the network. So you know, finally, you know, no beta, potentially less liveness issues. Like I'm looking forward to that. I'm looking forward to multi client architecture Solana and then like maybe a converging design, something closer to Ethereum and what they've done, lucky that they've been around to kind of set the lead on that.
00:46:01.867 - 00:46:27.357, Speaker C: But yeah, I think everyone is excited to see what that looks like when Fire Dancer finally comes to mainnet. You know the million TPS tests, I don't know that we'll see those numbers. Those are kind of ideal situations. Right? But we've got other new chains coming up. There's the Monets, there's the mega ETHs. They're touting big throughput numbers, 10,000 TPS, et cetera. And obviously Aptos and SUI, like, they're pushing those boundaries as well.
00:46:27.357 - 00:46:58.675, Speaker C: So it's clear that, you know, Solana, this is something that they need to get out to kind of continue that upward momentum in terms of, like, network throughput, network stability, liveness, kind of all of the above. And I'm sure that Ethan Solana talks, I think, will probably be a big point and part of permissionless. Permissionless three. That's coming up October 9th through October 11th. Get your tickets. We do have a special code for you guys that. That tune in ox 10.
00:46:58.675 - 00:47:22.685, Speaker C: So please, there are, you know, get yourself out there, join in on the. The Eth soul debate. If. If you feel like it. I think we should have. There should be some exciting, you know, pickleball tournament going on, a fight night event going on. So plenty of entertainment to kind of mix in with the maybe heated debates or interesting, you know, discussions and talks.
00:47:22.685 - 00:47:30.113, Speaker C: Anything else you guys want to highlight or anything specific coming up at Permissionless that you may want to call out.
00:47:30.249 - 00:47:37.045, Speaker D: Yeah. Come for the mountains, fresh air and great food. And stay for the best conference in crypto.
00:47:38.505 - 00:47:47.315, Speaker C: Heck, yeah. Awesome. Well, thanks guys, for coming on today and appreciate you, everyone, for listening in. See y'all Sa.
