00:00:00.840 - 00:00:27.132, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Gui refuel, where we recap the last 24 hours in the ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Susano, and today is the 1 December 2020. Alright, let's get into it, everyone. So price eighth's been doing some really fun stuff. The last day or so, we got back over 600. We are, looks like we are heading higher. I mean, I'm recording this before the ETH two genesis.
00:00:27.132 - 00:01:02.156, Speaker A: So, you know, many people in the ecosystem are expecting a kind of like Genesis pump or ETH two pump, for example. And we might see that, right, but it might just be a short term thing. I think the general uptrend is the general trend is still up, of course. I mean, you know, bitcoin's basically at all time highs and, you know, there is some debate over what the all time high actually is, but generally it's accepted that it's 19,500 or above. And that's where bitcoin is sitting out right now. As you can see here, you know, it went even higher than that overnight. It went like, you know, over here it went to 19,840 on, on Bitfinex.
00:01:02.156 - 00:01:29.064, Speaker A: You know, that's almost 20k. So we can, we can pretty much say that BTC is at all time high, which is providing some amazing tailwinds for ETH as well, of course. So, yeah, we have ETH two, we have the, the bitcoin all time high. We have December, which is generally a really great month for ETH performance wise. So, yeah, that's why I said yesterday, I think December is going to be, going to be really fun. So, yeah, good to see ETH above 600 again. Nice to see, you know, bitcoin up here in the all time high area.
00:01:29.064 - 00:02:06.044, Speaker A: You know, maybe we break through and then it comes back down to kind of like test the lows, test some, some sort of support again, but remains to be seen what happens there. As for DeFi, I mean, you can see the DeFi pulse index here is still trending up. I think December is going to be a really great month for DeFi tokens as well. You know, they tend to follow kind of ethanol when eats bullish. DeFi is bullish as well, which makes sense from, I guess, a market sentiment perspective. And for those of you wondering if you're watching, you can see these big, you know, kind of like dump in the chart here on the DeFi pulse index and then like, it basically goes back up, you know, instantly. This is actually not a bug or anything.
00:02:06.044 - 00:02:32.022, Speaker A: This is, this is real price action here. But what ended up happening was a whale decided to just market sell like millions of dollars worth of DeFi pulse index, right? Which. Which tanked the price and the price went back up. Now, the price of the DeFi pulse index isn't actually set by the secondary markets. It's set by the value of the DeFi tokens in the DeFi pulse index in set protocol. So we know. We refer to that at set as net asset value.
00:02:32.022 - 00:03:09.626, Speaker A: So basically, the value of all the real assets in the DeFi pulse index and not the secondary markets. And the reason why the secondary markets correct so fast is because when this happens, it creates an arbitrage opportunity between the, you know, the net asset value on, on set, where you can mint new DPI or redeem existing DPI, and the secondary markets where it's trading. So that's why you see these kind of like random. I guess it's not a pump and dump, but these random, like, you know, huge dump and then like a pump back up. It's. It's not, you know, real price action or anything like that. It's just, you know, it's better to follow the net asset value than it is secondary markets.
00:03:09.626 - 00:03:40.244, Speaker A: But. But they both influence each other to an extent as well. So, yeah, if you're curious about that, that's why. That's why that happens there. So, I think the biggest thing happening today, other than, you know, the anticipation of the ETH two launch, is this announcement from Coinbase that basically, you know, they announced that early next year they're going to be doing ETH two staking. And on top of that, they're actually going to be issuing an iou token called ETH two for people that want to basically have instant access to liquidity. So as.
00:03:40.244 - 00:04:43.794, Speaker A: As everyone knows, you know, if you're staking on your own, you send Ethan to the deposit contract and, you know, you stake on the beacon chain that ETH is locked for potentially one to two years until transfers are enabled on the beacon chain, or until we have the merger between ETH one and ETH two. Now, what Coinbase is offering, and what I expect every exchange to offer is, you know, a flavor of this iou, this. This kind of like, derivative token that represents ETH on the beacon chain. Now, there's a lot of discussion around this today on Twitter, and I do want to clarify something. I think, you know, a tweet here that I have summarizes it best, where Hasu kind of asks is like, you know, so does it follow that ETH deposited on exchanges is no longer ETH but something else. Or why is self stake e self staked ETH considered ETH but delegated ETH is not ETH. And this is around basically saying, you know, is the ETH that Coinbase is giving you, the ETH two token, is that like an IOU or a derivative or actual ETH? And I argued that, that it's an iou, right? It's a derivative product.
00:04:43.794 - 00:05:05.476, Speaker A: It is not the ETH in the beacon chain. It is a representation of that. Now, due to this, you know, the iou that the exchange produces called ETH two token or whatever, you know, there could be one. There's going to be one on Kraken that they're going to have their own one, Bitfinex going to have their own one. Finance will have their own one. Every exchange will have their own flavor of this. But this is not ETH.
00:05:05.476 - 00:05:39.084, Speaker A: It is a derivative. Now, the ETH that the custodian stakes on behalf of users is real ETH. But this belongs to the custodian, right? Even though the users purchased this, and it's kind of in their account, and they have this iou, the actual keys to this ETH. So when that. When the merger happens or when transfers are enabled, the only individual, or, I mean, the only entity that can withdraw this real ETH from the beacon chain would. Will be coinbase. So, you know, and then I go on to say stealth, self staked ETH where belongs to the individual since they have the keys.
00:05:39.084 - 00:05:57.604, Speaker A: So that's the key difference here. Right. And, I mean, I don't understand why this is so hard for some people to, to kind of like, get their head around. The iou tokens are nothing new. Right. We saw this play out for things like Filecoin. So Filecoin had an iou take the token trading for a long time before the real one went live.
00:05:57.604 - 00:06:16.314, Speaker A: Right? Before the network went live. Same with Polkadot. And even back as far as, like, the ETH ICO, I've seen that hit. BTC actually had an IOU on ETH right before it traded. So these are not real real ETH. This should not be considered real ETH. It is an iou slash derivative.
00:06:16.314 - 00:06:42.938, Speaker A: And that's it. Right. There's no, there's no more arguments here. Like, I think that that is as simple as it is and as it gets. So, yeah, I just wanted to clarify that point for people who might have seen the discussions on Twitter today. But back to Coinbase here, I think it's really positive to see this, you know, staking in ETH two right now as it is, is still very involved and very technical. I'm not going to expect anyone that, you know, is new to crypto to get involved with this on their own.
00:06:42.938 - 00:07:15.718, Speaker A: They're going to do it through exchanges. And, you know, I'm fine with that. I think that exchanges are just one party. You know, there's going to be staking service providers, there's going to be individuals, there's going to be funds, there's going to be all these different parties. And I mean, you know, there's worries that it's going to centralize to exchanges and I actually don't think that's going to happen. I think that the Ethereum community is so big and so vast and so, so dynamic and differentiated from other communities that that centralization probably won't happen. I mean, there's still a risk and obviously people are going to be monitoring it.
00:07:15.718 - 00:07:50.900, Speaker A: But I'm, I think, you know, enabling this and letting more people get involved and have instant access to liquidity on their staked ETH is important and it's inevitable. There's, you know, there's nothing we can do here to check to change it. We're not gonna, we can't control these exchanges and said, hey guys, can you not do this? You know, and even doing that would be disastrous, right? Like no one, no one can say that. And if anyone even attempted to, you know, the exchange is not gonna listen. I mean, I guess that proves how the centralized ETH is as well. But yeah, some exciting news. I think we're gonna see more exchanges come out with more news around this, you know, in the future.
00:07:50.900 - 00:08:32.144, Speaker A: And coinbase is one isn't actually going live till early next year. So it's not live, you know, today, it's not going to be live with the beacon chain, be live early next year for those of you interested in that. But I do encourage you to check out the decentralized alternatives that will probably be live earlier than that. Like rocket pool, for example, is a very popular one. I think there's maybe, maybe one other that I can't remember, but, and even better, I think, you know, staking on your own, if you have the 32 ETH and you're willing to lock it up for a period of time, is much better. But, you know, if you don't have 30 ETH and you're not willing to lock it up, even if you do, staking through an exchange and getting an IOU token is the next best thing for you? I think so, yeah. Don't feel bad about taking on exchange or anything.
00:08:32.144 - 00:09:10.754, Speaker A: You know, that's just, that's just the model that east to have to design around is, is these exchange staking things and, you know, and not everyone's going to be able to stake on their own, which is. Which is fine, I think. Right. Really cool news out of chain link today as well. So Chainlink has brought this product, proof of reserve product to defy. So basically what it is, it's been designed to ensure the end to end transparency of the defi ecosystem with the proof of reserve reference feeds that provide smart contracts with the data they need to calculate the true collateralization of any on chain asset backed by off chain reserves. So, I mean, obviously everyone knows Chainlink.
00:09:10.754 - 00:09:46.852, Speaker A: You know, they're the Oracle Oracle network. They provide feeds for a bunch of different things. And proof of reserve is actually something that Nick Carter Nicot is a bitcoin. I has had kind of coined the term, I think it was maybe a couple years ago at this point where he wanted exchanges to prove their bitcoin reserves. Right. Because you can do this on chain, you can sign it as an exchange, say, okay, this is my address, you know, or this is the exchange address, and this is to prove that we have as many bitcoins, you know, you know, as we say we do. This is the proof we're not doing fractional reserve kind of banking within our exchange.
00:09:46.852 - 00:10:25.910, Speaker A: And I think this is kind of what chainling wants to do with proof of reserve for assets like raft bitcoin that are kind of like, you know, centralized kind of custodians. Like raft bitcoin is in bitgo. You have like trueusD, which is a stable coin, obviously. I think they've got like a tokenized gold here and other kind of cross chain assets as well. So, yeah, really cool to see this out of Chainlink. I'll, you know, it's a pretty detailed blog post here, so if you want to learn more, I'll leave a link to it in the show notes and the YouTube description so you can go check that one out. All right, so we've seen, seeing a lot of these lately, right? These, these Wyrn mergers, partnerships, acquisitions, whatever.
00:10:25.910 - 00:11:21.292, Speaker A: I think I've spoken about it on every single daily refill I've done so far, and today is the biggest one yet. So Andre announced that Wyo and Sushi are teaming up now on the other daily refuels. I said that I think these are more like partnerships than anything else. And I still believe that this isn't merge. Our acquisition, the sushi token still exists. You know, these, these aren't going to be kind of like absorbed into, into Wyome. But what I think is interesting and what I've kind of changed or kind of like I guess honed in on how I think about these things is basically what Wyan is doing is it's building an ecosystem similar to what aetherium has done, right? So you can think of ethereum as like the Nexus, the center and then around it you have all these different kind of things, right? You have like defi apps, you have daos, you have nfts, you have gaming, you have, you know, all these other things like infrastructure or all this stuff, right, where theorems at the center and these things are surrounding it.
00:11:21.292 - 00:12:09.090, Speaker A: Why earn is at the center of their own ecosystem and then they have all these other things around them too. So they have sushi cover cream, they have this probably other projects that I'm forgetting and they're gonna basically work with those projects very closely and bring everything in house to iterate really, really quickly and to build their own kind of like, like defi ecosystem within the wire, under the wire and umbrella. And what I think they're doing is they're basically, I mean, I wouldn't call these things distressed assets, but what they're doing is they're going for the underdogs here, right? So sushi is obviously the underdog to uniswap. Kava is the underdog to Nexus mutual, right? Cream, underdog to Aave compound, right? Wine couldn't merge with these other bigger ones. They just wouldn't do it. Right. But the smaller ones, yeah, sure they can.
00:12:09.090 - 00:12:39.144, Speaker A: They can get them on board and I think what they're going to do is they're going to try and basically create a parallel ecosystem to one that basically includes, you know, maker compound, Aave, synthetix, you know, the bigger players, which I think is actually amazing for end users. Right. The more competition the better. But again, not mergers, not acquisitions, partnerships. The sushi one's actually quite detailed. There's a lot of dot points here going through the synergies. So you have basically the usual stuff.
00:12:39.144 - 00:13:25.954, Speaker A: Sushi and Wyun is going to merge development resources. TvL, the keeper network that Andre launched is also going to be playing a big part here. There's going to be some sushi rewards paid out to, to, you know, pairs like Keeper ETH and things like that. So there's a lot, there's a lot going on here. Right? And, you know, after seeing all of this, I've also been asking the question to some of my friends. I'm like, you know, where does the value accrue here, right? You know, does it accrue to the Wi Fi token? Does it accrue to the individual tokens of all these projects? You know, if these projects are relying on wire and to success succeed, then wouldn't their tokens kind of like bleed out or bleed into wifi? Basically, and I don't actually know the answer here. There are people on both sides.
00:13:25.954 - 00:13:57.052, Speaker A: There's people saying that all these other tokens are now worthless because they are just like, they're nothing without Wifey. So Wifey is going to kind of like, get all the value. But then if we want to make a comparison here, think about Ethereum and ETH, right? And think about the apps built on top. The apps built on top accrue value for their own ecosystems. So, for example, Aave has, the Aave token has accrued all the value of the Aave ecosystem. And it's hard to argue if ETH has accrued that or not. Now, ETH is much bigger than Aave and market cap, right? So it's a lot harder to move.
00:13:57.052 - 00:14:37.586, Speaker A: I think ETH is like 50 or 60 times bigger in market cap than Aave, right? 70, 60 billion. 70 billion compared to 1 billion. So taking that into account as well, right. It's hard to say that ETH hasn't been a beneficiary of all this usage. You know, not directly, but just from a kind of, like, investor perspective, being like, okay, you know, if all these apps are, like, generating all these. This activity on Ethereum, I'm gonna buy ETH because I want exposure to that. Even though you actually don't get fundamental exposure right now, because if you did, you'd basically have EIP 1559 in where every time an app, you know, makes a transaction, every time there's a transaction, some ETH gets burnt and then fundamental value actually flows to ETH.
00:14:37.586 - 00:15:23.628, Speaker A: But in saying that, you know, you have ETH being used as collateral in these apps. So as these apps grow and offer more products to people, people put their ETH and people are using ETH more, there's higher demand for ETH. That plays a part, but bring it back, you know, is wifey going to play the same part? You know, are each of these protocols going to have to pay a fee to the yearn? Do I own treasury? Which goes on, like, buys wifey or whatever, or wifey has a claim on those assets in the treasury, I. I think that we might actually see that. And then what? Okay, and then if that's the case, why do the individual tokens accrue value from that point? So that would accrue value from their own ecosystems, just like, you know, all these other protocols on ETH accrue value for their own ecosystems. So, yeah, remains to be seen. I'm not as bearish as some other people are.
00:15:23.628 - 00:15:39.216, Speaker A: I actually think, and this obviously is an investment advice, I actually think a lot of these tokens will go up in price simply because they are now under the wire and umbrella. Right. So they have the. The Wyoming mean power. You know, that's. That's actually a big thing. It might sound like a joke, but mean power is a big thing.
00:15:39.216 - 00:15:59.352, Speaker A: When, when you're investing in these assets, especially the smaller cap ones that are easier to move, their TVL is going to increase because they're under the umbrella. They have direct kind of like, interactions with all the other protocols surrounding it. There's like a bunch of other stuff that's going on here that is going to increase those. Those prices. So, yeah, let's. Let's. So let's see how this goes.
00:15:59.352 - 00:16:42.184, Speaker A: You know, wifey's actually, if we look at the chart here, right, the mergers went through, I guess, like over the last week. So if you look here, Wifey's just been ranging, right? I mean, it went up to like 27k, came back down to like seventeen k, and then, you know, is marched back up. And it's about basically where it was when these mergers started happening, I think. So it's hard to say if this is just normal recovery with the rest of the market since the rest of the market is pretty bullish right now, or if Wifey's actually getting bought by people who think that it's going to accrue value because of these merger, not mergers, these partnerships. So it's. It's difficult to say, though, I do think that Wifey's going to go up regardless, regardless of their. Of.
00:16:42.184 - 00:17:05.664, Speaker A: I guess, like the. The partnerships, because they have their own ecosystem as well, right? They have the. The vaults and. And the v two vaults coming and a bunch of other things that they're building around this. So, yeah, it's going to be interesting to see how the wifey ecosystem or the Wyoming ecosystem continues to play out. I think Andre and the team are pretty ruthless. They really want to win, which is really great.
00:17:05.664 - 00:17:32.064, Speaker A: You know, full disclaimer, I own. I own wifey. I think it's pretty obvious from my, from my tweets about it over the last few months, but really bullish on the project in general. I really think it's, it's great. But as I said, no investment advice or anything like that. Just me speculating on where I think these things can go, you know, and it's a bull market, right? We won't know the fundamental value maybe, until the market comes down a bit. Maybe everything just grows up with bitcoin, which seems to be the case in bull markets as well.
00:17:32.064 - 00:18:12.954, Speaker A: So going to keep an eye on that for sure. All right, so Ryan Watkins from Masari put out this great ETH two thread where he basically says, you know, ETH two is finally here. It's going to transform Ethereum as we know it. And he goes through a few of the things here we've got to do with Ethereum and ETH two in general. So he has a really great description of Ethereum, like a one liner here where he says, ethereum is a global public good that is open, borderless, neutral, transparent and censorship resistant. Ethereum provides a system of property rights rules and economic opportunity for anyone in the world with an Internet connection. I think those two sentences basically sum up what Ethereum is and why it's so exciting.
00:18:12.954 - 00:18:42.834, Speaker A: And then he's got like a funny little picture here of this, I guess, like this kind of. I don't know what it is. It's, it's, it's funny. It's like a photoshop with 8th on ETH on its face, ruling over this kind of town here. But, yeah, anyway, as we scroll down here, we can, we can see, you know, he's got his thread, basically. I won't go into detail about the thread here, but then he links to this, the road to ETH two kind of Masari research report done with bison trails. It's quite dense, I think.
00:18:42.834 - 00:19:09.618, Speaker A: I actually think it's. I don't know if it's free or if it's paid. I think it might be paid, but you can, like, start a trial here and get it for free. But basically, you know, he's got the, got the kind of like, breakdown here. So they go through the philosophy of ETH, to the history, and then goes through, like, each of the phases and how they're going to work and then the conclusion. So it's a 68 page report. I haven't read it yet, but Masari is their research arm, is amazing.
00:19:09.618 - 00:19:34.744, Speaker A: I read a lot of their stuff. So I can only assume that this report is going to be great. And like, you know, as I said, it was co authored by Bison Trails, which is a kind of like, staking company. And they're amazing as well. Victor Bunin from there writes some really great Eve two posts and he really understands what's going on in the ecosystem. So definitely I'm going to check this one out, and I suggest you do as well. Link will be in the show notes and the YouTube description, of course.
00:19:34.744 - 00:20:04.100, Speaker A: So definitely go check that one out. So real vision. So for those who don't know, real vision is this kind of education platform for not just not crypto, it does all the finance business and like the economy in general. But they've got a crypto arm as well. So they started with bitcoin, of course, educating people about bitcoin and things like that. But now they're moving into other kind of chains, specifically Ethereum. And recently they released a 95 Minutes documentary on Ethereum.
00:20:04.100 - 00:20:32.058, Speaker A: And this was basically, you know, with Vitalik. They had Joseph Lubin on board, Kane from Synthetix, Hudson Jameson from the Ethereum Foundation, Alex Saunders from Nuggets News, Paul Brody, those of you might know him from EY. They did a bunch of privacy work as well. Ash Bennington from. He heads up real vision crypto, Raul, who is the founder, CEO of Real Vision, basically. So, yeah, I haven't watched this yet. I'm going to.
00:20:32.058 - 00:21:14.484, Speaker A: I think it's free. I'm pretty, I'm pretty sure it's free. And basically what this does is it tries to break down aetherium ETH, two ETH, all this sort of stuff for the newbie investor or newbie kind of like person who's interested in this, because that's what real vision is all about. I mean, I heard Raul in a podcast say it's about democratizing access to this kind of knowledge and information around finance because so much of it is actually, you know, usually like behind paywalls or, you know, you have to dig through a lot of different complex things to find the information, and it's hard. So that what they're trying to do is kind of democratize the access here. I've heard this is for people that have watched this documentary that's actually really great. It's a really great intro for new people to a theorem as well.
00:21:14.484 - 00:21:42.224, Speaker A: It gives a bunch of different perspectives. So definitely go check that out. I mean, I'm going to check it out regardless. Like, obviously, I'm not new to Ethereum, but I think that it's always good to watch these things to hone in on your own knowledge. And, you know, there's probably things in there that you've, you've missed or haven't thought about. Um, you know, and the people that they have on board in this interview are great, right? Like, not just Vitalik, obviously, but Joseph Lubin has a lot of context he can give from the consensus side of things. Kane from Synthetix and Defi in general.
00:21:42.224 - 00:22:05.344, Speaker A: Hudson, a lot of, you know, Hudson does a lot of core developer stuff, Ethereum foundation stuff and things like that. And Alex Saunders, obviously, from nuggets news. He's really great in the ecosystem as well. He does a lot of education there, too. So definitely go check out this documentary. As I said, it's free, will be linked in the show notes. Find a little tweet from, from Banteg or Bantaji.
00:22:05.344 - 00:22:23.692, Speaker A: I don't know how to say his name exactly. Basically he's a core dev. He or she. I don't actually know if their identities is known. So it could be a she, but basically they're a core dev at Wyvern. And they put out this funny tweet today. It basically, it reads, I probably used bitcoin twice since the last all time high.
00:22:23.692 - 00:23:24.266, Speaker A: Once to buy a ledger and another time to wrap it on Ethereum, like to bring it to Ethereum, which I thought was quite funny because really, I mean, what else are you going to do, right? Like if I had, if I held bitcoin, then I would literally put it on Ethereum to earn yield on it in defi, I wouldn't put it on like blockfi or one of these other centralized lenders because I don't trust them, frankly. And, you know, why would I do that when I can do it on Ethereum? You know, in saying that, you know, when you bring BTC over to, to Ethereum, most of the solutions are centralized, like route to bitcoin and things like that. And the quote unquote decentralized ones still have, I guess you can call them admin keys or central points of failure. But yeah, I thought the tweet was funny because it just shows that Ethereum is this, I've written about this before, but Ethereum is this economic nexus of value, basically. So all these assets are just flying through Ethereum. You know, they come to aetherium and then they basically stay there and do all different things. You're on decentralized exchanges in lending apps, earning yield, all these things.
00:23:24.266 - 00:23:47.890, Speaker A: And a fun fact about BTC on Ethereum, I haven't actually seen the, the chart go the other way. So the chart that I look at is actually at btc on ethereum.com dot. Maybe I can bring it up here for you guys. Sometimes it takes a little, little bit to load here, but, but basically while that's loading, so I monitor this, you know, I watch this. The bitcoin doesn't seem to be going back to bitcoin. It stays on a theory.
00:23:47.890 - 00:24:11.630, Speaker A: And once it's on aetherium, hey, here we go. You can see the chart here. So it's just straight up, right? There's this. It hasn't gone down at all. It's gone straight up. And you know, it's flattened out a bit here, I think, because obviously, you know, as you, we had such a meta meteoric rise. I mean, for those that aren't watching and just listening here, it was 1000 BTC on Ethereum in basically at the start of this year.
00:24:11.630 - 00:24:49.976, Speaker A: It is now 148,000 bTC on Ethereum. That's almost $3 billion. And as I said, none's gone back. Right? It's all, I mean, some would have gone back, but like a very small percentage has gone back. You can see on the, you can barely see it on the chart and most of it stays on Ethereum again, Ethereum being an economic nexus, having this massive gravity pool on other assets outside of it. We see more assets coming to Ethereum now. It's going to be wrapped, file, coin, I think, wrapped, dot wrapped, everything, right? Just bring it all on Ethereum because most people don't want to even speculate on these things if they're not on decentralized exchanges, you know, and people want to use these assets to generate yield.
00:24:49.976 - 00:25:31.000, Speaker A: Like I don't want to hold an asset that I can't actually use as collateral or generate yield on because it's just a dead asset, right? Like why am I holding this? To get price exposure. Yeah, sure. But you know, it's, it's, it's, it's better off me holding like ETH getting price exposure to that and using it as collateral to, to do even more things like yield farm with stable coins or some people use it for leverage to, to leverage bet on things. So yeah, definitely really cool to see that playing out. But speaks to Bantag's tweet here about there's really nothing to do with your bitcoin, on bitcoin. Just bring it to a theorem and you got a whole world of options there. Alright, last thing that I don't see basically anyone in the Ethereum community talking about which.
00:25:31.000 - 00:26:15.132, Speaker A: And it's quite funny that this has happened, basically, as we're about to launch proof of stake. So Ethereum's mining difficulty and hashrate are at new all time highs, which is quite insane because you can see on the chart here that Ethereum's hash rate actually was flat. Flat or like a little bit positive for basically 2019 and half of 2020, and only recently has it shot up. So it went from, basically in July, it went from 177 terahashes to 265 terrahashes, which is an all time high. The last all time high was 242 terahashes in July of 2018. So it's been quite a while since we've seen these, this hash rate go up. And this is obviously because the price has risen and also the fees have risen.
00:26:15.132 - 00:26:54.768, Speaker A: So miners are actually earning a lot more from fees now than they once were. So there's been like a renaissance in Ethereum mining, which is funny because we're on track to kill Ethereum mining. Right? To kill Ethereum proof of work. So I'm wondering what's going to happen to all these miners once, once that happens, right? We're going to do that in, in the merger, which could happen in a year, year and a half, maybe. So what happens to all these miners? They can move to another chain, but there really isn't that many other chains that actually share the same kind of mining algorithm as Ethereum. I think maybe zcash does from memory, Ethereum, classic, things like that. But they're, you know, they're nowhere near as lucrative because their prices of those assets are much, much lower.
00:26:54.768 - 00:27:24.986, Speaker A: So, you know, I guess we'll see where this hash rate ends up after, after the merger. You know, maybe we have like, a minor fork where the miners, like, we're just going to fork ETH one and continue it on as like, you know, ETH one classic or something, just so we can milk some money out of it, which I fully expect to happen, by the way. I fully expect minus to do this. And it's not, you know, that's not going to be the real kind of ETH one chain or anything like that. The real ETH one will be merging to ETH two. But there's always opportunists whenever you have something like this. We saw this play out with all the other forks as well.
00:27:24.986 - 00:28:02.850, Speaker A: Like, Monero had a bunch of forks as well. When Monero bricked Asics on the network, they had, like, other forks that spawned off of it, and they accrued some tiny amount of value. So this isn't new, right? So yeah, but just something I wanted to point out for people that may or not have been paying attention to this, that the hash rates are at all time high on the day that we're launching proof of stake, which is obviously the aim to get rid of rid of this. So just a funny observation there. All right, that's it for today, everyone. I've recorded this about 2 hours before ETH two has gone live. So you will either be watching this just before ETH two has gone live or after it.
00:28:02.850 - 00:28:29.804, Speaker A: I'm going to focus most of tomorrow's episode on ETH two. Of course, I wanted to get this out before then because I thought there was a lot of other interesting things to talk about today rather than ETH two. So definitely subscribe to the YouTube channel if you haven't to catch to catch tomorrow's episode. I, you know, I assume it's going to be a really fun one. And definitely go subscribe to the newsletter, the Daily Way newsletter, and check out our discord channel. So, yeah, thanks everyone, and see you tomorrow.
