00:00:00.330 - 00:00:00.782, Speaker A: You.
00:00:00.916 - 00:00:31.170, Speaker B: Hey y'all. Before we begin, a couple quick announcements. First, I'm doing an end of your show with crypto predictions for 2022 by you. Please make a video or at least an audio recording of your 2022 crypto prediction or predictions and email it to hello@unchainedpodcast.com by end of day, Tuesday, December 28. Please include your name and where you're from. Unfortunately, I need to give a forewarning that if you excessively promote anything, we will not be including your prediction.
00:00:31.170 - 00:00:54.062, Speaker B: If you just want me to read on air a prediction that you just send in by email, that's okay too. It's just a little bit less fun. Don't forget, the deadline is Tuesday, December 20. Eigth. And the email address is hello@unchainedpodcast.com. And please put crypto prediction in the subject line. Also, a reminder, my book is coming out 222 22.
00:00:54.062 - 00:01:21.170, Speaker B: If you're looking for a holiday gift, you can preorder it now to deliver it later. Preorder sales really help the book that first week to help establish further demand and get it on any lists. I would so appreciate it if you would buy the book. The cryptopians has lots of news that has not been known before. I promise you, you will enjoy this. Read. Preorder the Cryptopians Idealism Greed, Lies and the Making of the First Big Cryptocurrency Craze.
00:01:21.170 - 00:01:45.066, Speaker B: Today at Bitly Cryptopians. That's Bit. Ly C-R-Y-P-T-O-P-I-A-N-S. Thanks. And here's the show. Hi, everyone. Welcome to Unconfirmed, the show that reveals how the market names in crypto are reacting to the week's top headlines and gets the its own scoop on what they say on the horizon.
00:01:45.066 - 00:02:19.254, Speaker B: I'm your host, Laura Shin, a journalist with over two decades of experience. I started covering crypto six years ago and as a senior editor at Forbes, was the first mainstream media reporter to cover cryptocurrency full time. This is the December 10, 2021 episode of Unconfirmed. Wish you could earn crypto, but don't want to spend thousands on hardware? Just download the Nodal cash app on your smartphone. Visit nodal. IO unconfirmed that's no D-L-E IO unconfirmed to start earning Nodal cash today. With the crypto.com
00:02:19.254 - 00:02:47.730, Speaker B: app, you can buy, earn, and spend crypto in one place. Download and get $25 with the code Laura link in the description. Tired of your exchange taking 25% of your staking profits? The Avato Blockchain computer allows you to stake Ethereum and other crypto at home and keep 100% of the rewards. Go to ava do. Today's guest is Jeff dorman, chief investment officer at Arca. Welcome, Jeff.
00:02:48.550 - 00:02:50.434, Speaker A: Hi, thanks for having me back.
00:02:50.632 - 00:03:12.730, Speaker B: So this has been a dramatic week for SushiSwap, culminating in CTO Joseph DeLong's resigning from the decentralized exchange. Before we get to that moment, why don't we give listeners some background and you can just tell us how it is that you came to start even working with SushiSwap and how you see your role there. Sure.
00:03:12.800 - 00:04:22.554, Speaker A: So Arca is a full service asset management firm dedicated exclusively to digital assets. We make investments in a variety of different strategies at Arca that some are early stage ventures, some are more yield generating, others are more long term equity like returns in the businesses and projects that are being developed within digital assets. And we're thematic, in the terms of there are certain areas of digital assets that we like better than others, and we are always pretty hands on. We really want to help the teams that we work with, and we want to be supportive of the projects that we believe in. So truthfully, Sushi is not unique or different than anything else that we've been involved in, in the sense that it fits a theme in a sector that we've been bullish on for a long time, which is DeFi and specifically decentralized exchanges within DeFi. It fits a fundamental tenant that we are big believers in, which is strong product market, fit real KPIs and metrics. Not something that's to be determined, has a real strong community and has real fundamental values.
00:04:22.554 - 00:05:07.150, Speaker A: This is a project that has anywhere between 600 million and a billion of run rate revenue every year, depending on the day. There's a little volatility in those numbers, but 600 million to a billion dollars of revenue is certainly nothing to sneeze at. It has a real dividend that is paid out to token holders in the form of ex Sushi, and it has billions of dollars of volume every day. So this is the kind of dream scenario for us, is fit a theme, fit a fundamental valuation framework, and then ultimately, like any project, they have certain things that are going really well and certain things that aren't. And our job is to help them with the things that aren't.
00:05:07.970 - 00:05:21.300, Speaker B: So that's the perfect segue to the recent events in Sushi. When and why do you think this recent trouble started? And I think I don't mean literally this week, I mean maybe starting even a month or two ago.
00:05:22.390 - 00:06:25.990, Speaker A: Sure. I mean, like most things, what is being communicated on the outside is probably the extreme compared to what's actually happening on the inside. And I know that's a strange thing to say when you're talking about decentralized projects and you're talking about fully transparent projects, but at the end of the day, there's a lot of people who are contributing to Sushi to make it what it is, right? You don't get to tens and hundreds of billions of dollars of volume and billions of dollars of TVL and almost a billion dollars of revenue without having really talented, successful people that are working on that. However, decentralized, autonomous organizations are still experimental, they're still new, and they're not perfect. A lot of people like to look at decentralization versus centralization as fairly black and white. The reality is almost none of them are. Almost everything falls along the spectrum somewhere between fully centralized and fully decentralized.
00:06:25.990 - 00:07:27.126, Speaker A: Fully centralized is rarely a good thing in the sense that you have single point of failure and you have one or two people in total control. I think that's largely what the entire digital asset movement is trying to get away from. Fully decentralized, on the other hand, is usually not that great either, in the sense that it's really hard to get consensus, it's really hard to get things done. Most projects, again, fall somewhere in the middle of that spectrum, usually starting somewhat centralized and moving towards decentralization over time. In fact, if you go back to SEC Commissioner Hester Pierce's three year safe harbor that she put out, I think over a year ago at this point, that still hasn't gotten any traction. That's essentially what she laid out, which is why don't we give these projects about three years to figure out if they can move from centralized to decentralization. And it actually makes a lot of sense because you have to have some leaders in the beginning to get to a point where then you can have it more decentralized and more autonomous and quite frankly, more automatic.
00:07:27.126 - 00:08:10.214, Speaker A: I think with Sushi it was a little bit of an interesting genesis in the sense that they forked the code from uniswap and you had a lot of different people come in and out of this project to make it work. And again, at the individual level, I think everybody has really made strong contributions to making it work. But like anything, if you don't have a structure and you don't have appointed leaders with any real control or real autonomy, eventually things just get sloppy. And I think that's where we are with Sushi today is they need some structure. There's no reason to take sides. I'm not even sure the two sides are really that even far apart. I think it's more it just needs some structure, it needs some leadership, and that's what Arka is hoping to know.
00:08:10.214 - 00:08:39.700, Speaker A: One of the calm voices in the room who can get us to a productive way to move forward. And we're not alone. There's a outpouring of people on social media and in Discord and in Telegram who also love the Sushi project, who are offering to help. But we ultimately need to do that within the constructs of what a Dao is, which means some things have to go to an external vote and some people are ultimately going to have to be given some of that authority to ultimately move this project forward.
00:08:40.710 - 00:09:39.702, Speaker B: So just to give a recap of some of the events for listeners who may not know everything, there was a core I'm actually even not sure if he was a core developer. I don't think he was a developer at Zero X Machi, but he was kind of part of the core team at SushiSwap. And in September he seemed to have resigned, but there was a leaked screenshot from a Sushi Swap Telegram group that showed that Joseph DeLong the CTO who resigned this week had asked whether or not sushi should ask him to leave. And according to the poll there, 91% of respondents voted in favor. And so people were saying he was forced out. It wasn't that he resigned. And later on, someone on twitter named Boring crypto who said that they were a former non core Sushi swap developer tweeted that zero xmaki was kicked out and said, quote, most of the good devs have left.
00:09:39.702 - 00:09:47.990, Speaker B: Seems like greed, sadly, has taken over from community. What's your take on that characterization of events?
00:09:48.830 - 00:11:35.990, Speaker A: Sure, we are an asset manager and we're a pretty hands on advisor, but we don't work there, right? If every single problem that any employee or customer had at every single company in the world was given a platform to put it out there publicly, you'd have the same conspiracy theories and the same dichotomy of he said, she said. As you're seeing with Sushi, in some ways it's unfortunate that some of these things have come to light. In other ways, it's great that some of these things have come to light in the sense that that's the spirit of decentralization is that we want to get as much information and facts out to the public in a transparent way as possible possible so that the stakeholders of Sushi can ultimately vote to fix the problem. If every screenshot from every company or every organization was saved and leaked out to the media, you'd be a very busy person, right? You'd be reporting on every wrongdoing that every single company and project has ever done in history. So I think it's hard to draw too many conclusions from screenshots without context or conversations in isolation without context. What I can say is almost everybody that we've ever come across at Sushi, whether they're still there or not, has had their heart in the right place and has been really a strong believer in what Sushi is trying to build. And I think the next group of people who come in will have the same attitude and ultimately that's pretty powerful and pretty awesome, right? Again, to me, as an investor, it's much harder to get product market fit and to get customers and to get a community and to get traction than it is to fix an internal structure, right? That's the history of distressed investing or the history of activist investing.
00:11:35.990 - 00:12:17.074, Speaker A: That's basically what you look for, right? You look for good company, bad management. You oust the management and you start over with the core business still in place, independent of who the right people are to ultimately lead this forward. It's a fixable problem, and that's what you gravitate towards as an investor. You look for fixable problems, right? You want things that are trading at values that are way undervalued. I mean, this is the cheapest thing on the planet under any fundamental valuations. It's now down to basically one times forward sales with a 15% dividend yield in a growing industry and a growing sector. I mean, you couldn't ask for anything better as an investor, but there's clearly problems that need to be fixed.
00:12:17.074 - 00:12:54.500, Speaker A: So again, on the one hand, you'd probably wish that some of these things were just addressed internally rather than coming to Led externally. On the other hand, it's great. It's pushing this to a head, right. It's forcing action. It's forcing the community to now get involved in governance. And I think when some of these things come to a vote and some of these recent proposals that have been written come to a vote, you're going to see record turnout and record participation. And at the end of the day, if you treat Sushi as a microcosm for what we're trying to accomplish with DAOs, it really has a chance to be a Harvard Business School case study for how to do this the right way.
00:12:54.500 - 00:13:46.526, Speaker A: I'd find it hard pressed to find anybody who's really rooting against this. You may see individuals attack other individuals, or individuals like some of the tweets you mentioned who are saying this is falling apart or this is sad, but if you actually backed up a little bit and said, do you want Sushi to succeed or not? Be hard pressed to find anybody who wants this to fall apart, I just wouldn't see the benefit of that. Right? This has a chance to transcend Sushi and transcend investors and community members of Sushi and really set the gold standard for how to get internal structures working properly within a Dow. And we really haven't seen that to date. Right. There's been some single entity Dows, I suppose, that have been really easy to run. Like, I guess Constitution Dow, since it's fresh in our minds, would be the interesting one, right? Constitution Dow had a single goal.
00:13:46.526 - 00:14:11.306, Speaker A: It's let's raise a lot of money and let's go buy a copy of the Constitution. Now, even though they failed to actually secure the copy of the Constitution that they're going after, it was a pretty simple Dow, right? It had a singular purpose give me some money, we're going to go bid on this. And that was easy. But now look at it. Right now the people token still trades. They didn't give back all the money. And now they have to figure out, well, what the hell do we do now with this Dow that we have? And we need to come up with some sort of a structure.
00:14:11.306 - 00:14:50.870, Speaker A: So I think we've proven that single purpose Dows are easy ways to attract capital and easy ways to coordinate and incentivize like minded people to do a single action. What we haven't proven yet is how to run quasi looking companies or quasi businesses with lots of different people contributing within a Dow. And for me, more philosophically even than as an investor, I'm really rooting for success here. I'm rooting that people can put aside their personalities. People can put aside their pride and everything else and recognize that this has a chance to be a win for the entire industry.
00:14:51.450 - 00:15:20.190, Speaker B: Okay, so in a moment, we're going to unpack some more of the problems and look to what this means for DAOs. But first, a quick word from the sponsors who make this show possible. There's a new cryptocurrency made for mobile that you can earn by downloading the Nodal Cash app. It's free, easy to use, and there's no hardware to buy. The Nodal Cash app allows you to earn crypto whether you're on the go, stuck in traffic, or even while you're sleeping. Nodal Cash is the crypto you earn 24/7. Go to nodal.
00:15:20.190 - 00:15:56.730, Speaker B: IO unconfirmed to get started today. That's? No D-L-E IO unconfirmed. Did you know that exchanges take up to a 25% cut on your staking rewards? But you don't need an exchange to stake. You can run a validator at home, join thousands of solo stakers, get an Avato device, plug it in, deposit your stake, and earn the full reward. Avato created the best hardware and specific software to stake and keeps your validator on the latest version through auto updates. Onetime investment, 100% profit. Go to Avato.
00:15:56.730 - 00:16:47.646, Speaker B: That's ava do. Back to my conversation with Jeff. So, just to finish out the story, joseph ended up saying that he took a pay cut to leave Dapper Labs to work on Sushi and that he was earning $300,000 a year doing that and said that actually, this sounds like a lot of money. But of course he had taken that pay cut. He proposed that via Sushi Swaps Governance, that all the core developers, minus himself, be compensated with 200,000 Sushi, which was about a million dollars each from the project's treasury with no lockups, and that would have totaled about 18 million. That proposal did not pass, and he tweeted, this was a test to show less than 1% of the issuance going to the core team is controversial. You failed, by the way.
00:16:47.646 - 00:16:53.570, Speaker B: So what's your take on how Dows can and should compensate the core developers?
00:16:54.470 - 00:17:08.338, Speaker A: Sure. Well, my first take is that informal Twitter polls by people who are overly stressed out because of a bad situation is probably not necessarily indicative of a failure or succeeding of a right.
00:17:08.424 - 00:17:10.770, Speaker B: It was a Sushi Governance poll.
00:17:13.450 - 00:18:03.362, Speaker A: I understand, but the genesis was there's been a lot of rants going back and forth on Twitter between current and ex Sushi contributors, and I think it's been more counterproductive than productive, regardless of who may ultimately be right or not. What I think is important from that, though, is, in our opinion, there's essentially three things that need to be solved here. First is a structure. Right. And Arca actually released its own proposal for a structure. A structure that would put real business leaders in place, that could basically be voted on by the community. But ultimately, once they're voted on, they can then make autonomous or they can make autonomous decisions within the organization in terms of onboarding and offboarding employees, understanding who works on what project, et cetera, right? Not everything needs to come to a vote.
00:18:03.362 - 00:19:08.934, Speaker A: There needs to be some line of delineation between what the community who isn't working there day to day is appointing and voting on as the board of Directors versus what the people in house are actually doing on a day to day basis to make a project work. So whether our proposal passes or someone else's, you need to set the groundwork first. You need to set a structure that says this is ultimately how this organization is going to work. Once that is completed, then the next vote needs to be, all right, well, who should these leaders be? Right? How do you bring certain people in to run the show you NFT platform or to run Trident or to run the Sushi decks and ultimately have different people across product lines, across marketing, who ultimately have a say in how those internal divisions work. And that could be contentious, but ultimately that's what the community and the board of directors is for, is to put people in place. Not everyone's going to agree on it. You're never going to get 100% consensus, but you're at least going to get something that is sustainable and that has market approval.
00:19:08.934 - 00:19:56.986, Speaker A: But that's not a lifetime guarantee. This isn't Congress where you're going to have 30 year senators because they just continue to spend the most money to lobby. We're going to have real KPIs and metrics that say these are the things that you're meant to accomplish. And every three months or six months, whatever that cadence is going to be, you're going to have to go through another reelection with the community and show that you've done what you said you're going to do. So if we solve for those first two, one is structure, two is leadership, the third one is easy. And that's compensation committee, right? There's no doubt that every single person who works on this project should be compensated. Now, whether it's what Joseph DeLong suggested, which is $18 million across the devs, or whether it's something different, again, these are little details that can be ironed out.
00:19:56.986 - 00:21:00.240, Speaker A: But ultimately, those are the three big decisions that the community needs to make. The community needs to understand what's the structure, who are the leaders, and how should people be compensated to ensure that they are on Team Sushi, right? You want everybody aligned in the same way. You want everybody to understand which way is north, make sure they all have the same goals and the same incentives for doing what's best for Sushi. And if the governance can solve for those three things, everything else should be handled internally, right? It doesn't have to be this community guided everything. It should just be the big decisions are guided by the board of directors or the token holders and everything else is guided internally, subject to them meeting certain KPIs and certain metrics and it's easier said than done. I'm not suggesting that this is an overnight turnaround, but again, you want to back a project that already has this much product, market, fit, success, passion, et cetera. You just got to get the right structure in there to make it ultimately run.
00:21:00.690 - 00:21:24.070, Speaker B: So the proposal that you're talking about was put forward by Alex Woodward on your team and Dean Eigenman of Dialectic and I noticed that in it they also suggest that Sushi create a legal entity. You know, obviously for a that's it's a little unusual, but I was know why do you think that's necessary or helpful for a Dao to have a legal entity?
00:21:25.530 - 00:22:28.390, Speaker A: I'm going to defer legal questions for the time being, but what I'll say is when we put proposals out, the idea is to get the community talking and discussing, right. The proposal that is out isn't necessarily the exact form that ends up in a vote. Ultimately, the part of the proposal is to get people with different skill sets and different backgrounds to Opine and try to come up with what the best structure going forward is. So with regard to Sushi, ultimately in order to do this again, this falls on how much centralization versus decentralization do you want to be along the spectrum. The legal entity we think, would be sort of a bridge to getting to where you need to be for the rest of decentralization. So I'm not going to go into too much detail there because there's a lot of lawyers out there who are going to end up opining ultimately on this. But in our opinion that was the best way to bridge that gap from starting bridge that gap along that spectrum.
00:22:28.550 - 00:22:59.160, Speaker B: And just to clarify, Joseph DeLong himself had also suggested in a tweet that SushiSwap move to a model that he called a Uniswap Labs style model. And by know what I took to mean was that there be a legal entity that is then in charge of developing this decentralized protocol. So for the legal entity that you put forward in your proposal, is it the same type of idea?
00:22:59.770 - 00:23:10.060, Speaker A: Similar, yes. Like I said, I think the details were lacking intentionally around that because I think there's some discussions that need to be had with lawyers. But yes, similar idea.
00:23:10.430 - 00:23:41.620, Speaker B: Okay. And last quick question. So I noticed also that Alex and Dean in their post said that a flat structure was not scalable. And as you've described here, you're suggesting kind of more like a hierarchy that be put in place. Know, obviously that's kind of a model that's more associated with a centralized entity. So I wondered how you felt that that kind of fit with this model of a decentralized autonomous organization if there is this clear leadership structure in place.
00:23:42.310 - 00:25:16.180, Speaker A: Well, again, I think you're getting back to that black and white description of centralized versus decentralized. And I think that's what we have to get away from across this entire industry is that it can't be fully decentralized or fully centralized because it just doesn't work, right? You have to self fall somewhere on that spectrum. So just because you put some team leaders in place and you have some hierarchies, doesn't mean that it's still not decentralized in the sense that bigger decisions would still come to a vote, to all stakeholders. So when you think of somebody who let's take a company, for example, like an Elon Musk or like a Michael Saylor, where they are the CEO, they make all the internal decisions, they also own all of the shares and control the board vote. There's literally nothing you can do to usurp power there, right? It is as centralized as you get and there's almost no solution other than basically the court of public pressure where somebody steps down, right? You can still, err closer on the side of decentralization, where more things come to a vote and you have a deeper, larger, more diversified board of directors who gets to vote on things more frequently, but still have some decisions that are internal, where there is a hierarchy and there is a clear, top down delimination to get things done. It's really hard to get things done in any flat organization, right? I mean, somebody has to essentially guide strategy. So this is just Arca's idea.
00:25:16.180 - 00:26:19.574, Speaker A: We have a lot of experience both investing as well as restructuring, as well as working with companies as board directors and things like that. We think this is the best path forward, but ultimately it's not our decision either. This is going to come to a vote in some form and the community will vote on whether or not this makes sense. So in some ways it's ironic, right? Let's say we put a proposal together that said we want a centralized structure, but we left it up to a vote, to the community to vote on that. Well, by definition that's actually still decentralized, isn't it? In the sense that that's ultimately not our call, right? There's no one person who can make any call other than propose something that everyone gets to vote on. So this is why for us, this is so important to use as an example on how to get these structures right. This is not going to stop with just Sushi, independent of the success of Sushi or not, the things that we learn from this, not just in this proposal currently and what's happening, but you could go back six months ago, twelve months ago.
00:26:19.574 - 00:26:52.000, Speaker A: The things that we're learning from Sushi, which is the largest Dow in this industry, are going to be a trend setting for all Dows in the future. So I think it's really important. I'm actually sometimes amazed when you see how you lose the forest through the trees, sometimes on Twitter, and everyone's attacking and everyone has their personal agenda. But if you actually asked any of these people, hey, what's your goal for this? They'd be like, actually I'm fine. I like Sushi, it's a good product, I'd like to see them succeed. Yet all the toxicity comes out in Twitter. And the whole point of governance is to end some of that.
00:26:52.000 - 00:27:23.420, Speaker A: I come from a distressed background myself, and I've sat on numerous bankruptcies and restructuring processes. And the first thing that happens in a bankruptcy process is you split everybody into committees. You have your equity committee, you have your creditors committee, whether that's unsecured or secured. And basically what you're doing is you're getting representation across each of the different stakeholders depending on what they're lobbying for, right? Equity holders want something. Unsecured. Bondholders want something secured, bondholders want something. Employees and unions want something.
00:27:23.420 - 00:28:15.174, Speaker A: In my opinion, that's where Dows are headed, right? Everybody needs to be represented. So maybe you end up having a core developer committee and you have a passive investor committee and you have a heavy user committee, power user committee. Ultimately that's probably where you're headed. Because what's really unique and interesting about digital assets is it's just one token. We all own the same token, right? So if you measure the success of a project ultimately by the success of the token, which is debatable, but let's say that's where we're headed. Well, in theory, if everybody owns the same token and they're all incentivized in the same way, to have that token go higher. But at the same time, there are little nuances that each different group might want, right? Users might want something a little bit different than developers, who might want something different than passive investors.
00:28:15.174 - 00:28:40.020, Speaker A: Well, then ultimately you just need to make sure everybody has a seat at the table to be a part of those discussions. And I think we'll get there. I think, again, this is probably the easiest turnaround story you could imagine in digital assets because it already has so much success and we're just trying to figure out how to fix the internal happiness and structure and alignment and incentives. But hopefully it does in fact succeed and it sets a really good precedent for other Dows in the future.
00:28:40.710 - 00:29:01.770, Speaker B: Yeah, well, we'll have to see because the token price is down about 50% from a month ago. It's at like roughly $6 now. So we'll see what happens because certainly this has been a drag on the perception of Sushi in the public opinion. But anyway, this has been such a fascinating conversation. Thank you so much for coming on Unconfirmed.
00:29:02.270 - 00:29:03.866, Speaker A: You're welcome. Thanks for having me.
00:29:03.968 - 00:29:26.626, Speaker B: Don't forget, next up is the weekly news recap. Stick around for this week in Crypto after this short break. Join over 10 million people using crypto.com. The easiest place to buy, earn and spend over 150 cryptocurrencies. Spend your crypto anywhere using the Crypto.com Visa card. Get up to 8% cash back instantly, plus 100% rebates for your.
00:29:26.626 - 00:29:55.834, Speaker B: Netflix, Spotify and Amazon Prime subscriptions. Download the crypto.com app now and get $25 with the code Laura link in the description. Thanks for tuning into this week's news recap. The second worst selloff this year, the total crypto markets were at roughly $2.6 trillion on Friday night. By Saturday morning, the market had crashed to a low of $2.1
00:29:55.834 - 00:30:40.650, Speaker B: trillion, marking a 19% dip in less than 24 hours. Bitcoin dropped roughly by $10,000 during this period, to a low of $45,032, which amounts to a 34.5% price decrease for bitcoin since its November 9 alltime high. It appears a massive round of liquidations fueled the wild price action. In a blog post, Glassnode explained that high open interest in bitcoin futures markets could lead to an extremely volatile event. Glassnode wrote legacy market weakness on Friday weighed on all assets globally, holding bitcoin's price around $53,000 and near pivotal technical support. When price failed to hold, sell pressure triggered a cascade of long liquidations.
00:30:40.650 - 00:31:11.060, Speaker B: And cascade it did. Data from Coinglass shows that over $2 billion worth of long positions were liquidated on December 3. Overall, $5.4 billion in contracts from the bitcoin futures open interest market were flushed out between Friday and Saturday. This accounts for a 24.5% decrease in the total value of the crypto markets, according to Glassnode. The analytics firm calculates that this was the second largest single day change in futures open interest this year.
00:31:11.060 - 00:32:30.090, Speaker B: The block's Frank Chaparro reported that trading executives believe large institutional selling was also a factor. Chaparro cites one executive saying that a single institution sold more than $500 million in bitcoin on Friday morning, which resulted in the aggressive liquidations. While the dip was bad news for those who got liquidated, it also left the opportunity to buy the dip, as El Salvador did, scooping up 150 extra coins at a sub $50,000 price. In a turning point, Congress gives crypto a positive reception on Wednesday. Circle's, jeremy Alair, FTX's sam Bankman, Fried Bit, Fury's, brian Brooks, Paxus's chad Cascarilla, Stellar's Danelle Dixon and Coinbase's. Alicia Haas appeared before members of Congress to discuss digital assets and the future of finance in House Financial Services committee Hearing According to the bloc, the crypto execs and Congress covered topics such as stablecoin regulation and issuance, the idea of a crypto focused regulator, and the overarching theme of consistent crypto regulation across government regimes. Overall, outside of a few straight comments from Representative Brad Sherman, the crypto execs were met with apparent curiosity from most members of Congress.
00:32:30.090 - 00:33:13.466, Speaker B: Web three can empower anyone, said Representative Anthony Gonzalez. For example, the meeting, which took nearly 5 hours, seemed to be a success. Bankman Free, the CEO of FTX Tweeted I came in expecting some hostility and grandstanding, but instead found the discussion to be, by and large, productive and helpful. However, not all is rosy with regulators. Coinbase, whose CEO, Brian Armstrong, has expressed unhappiness with us. Crypto regulation and who did not attend the hearing, is launching a DFI platform that will allow users to earn yields on Dai deposits. Customers in 70 countries will have access to yields fluctuating between 2.83%
00:33:13.466 - 00:34:16.986, Speaker B: and 5.39%. However, the US Will not be one of those countries, as the SEC recently threatened to sue the exchange if it were to launch a yield product. In related regulatory news, William Burns, director of the Central Intelligence Agency, told the Wall Street Journal this week that the CAA has multiple projects keeping track of the cryptocurrency industry. In response to a question about ransomware, Burns revealed that his predecessor had set in motion a number of different projects focused on cryptocurrency and trying to look at second and third order consequences as well, and helping with our colleagues in other parts of the US. Government to provide solid intelligence on what we're seeing. Polygon acquires another ZK Platform Polygon, a sidechain working to scale Ethereum, announced the acquisition of Mir Protocol, a zero knowledge proof project, in a deal worth $400 million in Polygon's native token Matic. The move comes after a similar deal with Polygon and ZK project Hermes, which was a $250,000,000 merger.
00:34:16.986 - 00:35:09.034, Speaker B: Overall, Polygon has pledged to spend $1 billion on scaling Ethereum. What happens after a Dow hack? BitMart and Badger Dow take two different approaches. BitMart, a centralized exchange, lost $196,000,000 worth of various cryptocurrencies. On Saturday, Sheldon Zia, BitMart's CEO, tweeted that the security breach was caused by a stolen private key that had two of our hot wallets compromised, which led to the loss of $100 million in Ethereum assets and $96 million in finance smart chain assets. According to Zia, BitMart will use its own funds to compensate victims. To protect against a future breach, BitMart replaced all of its deposit addresses for all tokens. The aftermath of last week's Badger Dow hack, in which the DFI protocol lost roughly $120,000,000, is a bit more complicated.
00:35:09.034 - 00:35:59.290, Speaker B: The exploit was a front end attack that allowed hackers to change user transactions made on the website to steal funds. Celsius Network, a centralized lender, was one of the addresses affected by the Badger Dao hack. We are working with Badger to recover all those funds. We are collaborating with them on the investigation, CEO Alex Machinsky said in a live stream last week, confirming Celsius's involvement on Twitter. There is speculation that Celsius lost roughly $50 million in the exploit. The insurance protocol used by Badger Dow Nexus Mutual will most likely not pay out funds to compensate users, as its insurance coverage does not cover front end attacks. That being said, Celsius Network's Twitter account claims that no Celsius client and user assets were affected.
00:35:59.290 - 00:36:51.166, Speaker B: The account also says the Celsius network has traced the attacker and reported that information to Badger. OpenSea is not IPOing In an interview with Bloomberg on Monday, Opensea's newly hired CFO Brian Roberts made a comment about the NFT marketplace holding an initial public offering, or IPO. When you have a company growing as fast as this one, you'd be foolish not to think about it going public, explained Roberts. He added, I've seen a lot of P LS profit and loss statements, but I've never seen A-P-L like this. Community backlash on Crypto Twitter was swift, as many had speculated that OpenSea will be the next big AirDrop to be released. On Tuesday, the CTO set the record straight on Twitter, writing there was inaccurate reporting about Opensea's plans. There is a big gap between thinking about what an IPO might eventually look like and actively planning one.
00:36:51.166 - 00:37:34.778, Speaker B: We are not planning an IPO, and if we ever did, we would look to involve the community. Roberts previously worked as the CFO for Lyft, where he led the ridesharing app to a successful IPO. A salana bug was patched, saving $27 million an hour in the process. A bug in the Salana Program library, an integral collection of open source code for salana programmers, was patched this week after sitting unnoticed for months. According to Neodime, an auditor, the bug could have resulted in $2.6 billion in total value locked being at risk, with hundreds of millions in potential profit for hackers. In a blog post, Neodyme explained that one of its auditors initially found a seemingly innocuous bug in June.
00:37:34.778 - 00:38:32.262, Speaker B: However, on December 1, neodym noticed the vulnerability was still not patched. The team then calculated that the seemingly small exploit, which looked like a tiny rounding error, could be harvested at a rate of seven $500 a second, or $27 million an hour. neodym quickly contacted the at risk Salana projects and got the bug patched, a task that proved tougher than originally thought due to many Salana projects being closed. Source crypto Adoption Roundup Everyday Web Three crypto, Blockchain technology, whatever you want to call it, seems to move another step toward the mainstream, as evidenced by five well known companies making crypto moves this week. First, the tokenization of reddit. On Wednesday, Reddit expanded its Community Points program, opening up a list for subreddits who wish to mint their own token. These points, which are awarded to users for being active in the community, are currently distributed through an ethereum testnet.
00:38:32.262 - 00:39:21.866, Speaker B: Looking forward, Reddit is exploring Arbitrum, an ethereum layer. Two solution need a crypto consultant? Call Visa. Visa, the financial payments giant, unveiled a new initiative to help clients navigate the wild world of crypto. Dubbed Visa's Crypto Advisory Practice, the new arm plans to offer expertise in crypto related activities like NFTs or CBDCs. Kickstarter Disrupts Itself Kickstarter, the Web Two crowdfunding OG, announced plans to build an open, decentralized protocol that offers the same services as the centralized crowdfunding platform on the cello blockchain. Kickstarter's first step is to build an open source version of its core crowdfunding functionality on which anyone, including competitors, could build. WhatsApp enters the metaverse.
00:39:21.866 - 00:40:19.810, Speaker B: A new WhatsApp? Pilot. The Meta owned messaging app allows users in the US. To send and receive crypto within a chat. Disclosure I write a newsletter for Meta's Bulletin, the pilot is being powered by Novi Meta's Digital Wallet and uses Paxos'stablecoin USDP this mainstream game developer is launching playable NFTs Ubisoft, the major gaming company behind Assassin's Creed and Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Breakpoint, unveiled plans for an in game NFT integration through a platform called Ubisoft Quartz. The NFTs dubbed digits will be hosted on Tezos. To start, digits will be playable on Ubisoft's Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Breakpoint PC game. However, the Ubisoft community was unhappy with the announcement with its YouTube trailer about courts receiving a 96% dislike rating over 22,000 votes.
00:40:19.810 - 00:41:19.974, Speaker B: Time for Fun Bits Mongoose Coin Brad Sherman, a California representative, was the most dissenting voice regarding the crypto industry during this week's aforementioned Crypto Meets Congress meeting. At one point, Sherman said the number one threat to cryptocurrency is crypto. He added, bitcoin could be displaced by ether, which could be displaced by doge, although I think he pronounced it dodge, which could be displaced by Hamster coin. He didn't stop there, continuing down the crypto food chain. And then there is cobra coin, said Sherman. And what could Mongoose Coin do to Cobra Coin, this being crypto the home of Memes, a slew of Mongoose themed coins popped up shortly after the session on finance smart chain Polygon and Avalanche, with Decrypt reporting the BSc version jumping as high as 61,000%. All right, thanks for tuning in.
00:41:19.974 - 00:41:31.650, Speaker B: To learn more about Jeff Arca and recent events at Susie Schwab, be sure to check out the links in the show. Notes. Unconfirmed is produced by me, Laura Shin Webell from Anthony Yoon, Mark Murdoch and Daniel Ness thanks for listening.
