00:00:00.650 - 00:00:41.354, Speaker A: Hi, everyone. Welcome back to this online short course on incentives in computer science. And congratulations, you've reached the last module, the 6th module. Last but not least, we will be talking about Bitcoin, the world's most famous blockchain, the world's most famous cryptocurrency. So an exciting topic on which there's still lots that we don't understand. But let's start with some of the stuff that we do understand, namely just how the Bitcoin protocol works. So digital currencies, they've been prototyped actually for a long time, for many decades, but it's really just the last ten years, just this last decade that they've really sort of taken off.
00:00:41.354 - 00:01:22.118, Speaker A: And the first one that really kind of grew and gained large scale adoption is the Bitcoin protocol. Now, you maybe have heard of some other cryptocurrencies as well, like maybe ethereum. Much of what we'll say will also be relevant for those other cryptocurrencies. But let me just keep the discussion concrete and let's just talk about the most famous of the cryptocurrencies, namely Bitcoin. So what is the point of Bitcoin? The point is to enable digital payments between parties who do not trust each other. Now, this in and of itself is not so impressive. We didn't need a digital currency like Bitcoin to solve this problem.
00:01:22.118 - 00:02:06.686, Speaker A: For example, you know, systems like PayPal or Venmo, they already enable two parties who don't necessarily trust each other directly. They allow them to transact because PayPal acts as a trusted intermediary in a transfer of funds from one of the untrusted parties to the other. So the point of a cryptocurrency like Bitcoin is to enable digital payments between untrusted parties without any centralized authority, without any point of trust, analogous to PayPal or Venmo or a credit card company or a government. Nothing. Literally nobody's trusted. And yet still you're going to wind up with secure payments from one untrusted party to another. So this is a much more ambitious goal.
00:02:06.686 - 00:02:55.714, Speaker A: And indeed, until Bitcoin came along about ten years ago, it really was not clear that this was possible at a large scale. So that's a big deal that in the last decade we've realized that actually this can be done at scale. So your next question might be, well, why does anybody want this? What problem is this solving? And to be honest, the killer application of blockchains and Bitcoin specifically the jury is still out. It's not totally clear. To put that in context. Let me remind you that the Internet has been around a long time. So the first version of the Internet, called the ARPANET, dates back to the late 60s, whereas meanwhile, the World Wide Web, that came along only around 19, 90, 23 years later.
00:02:55.714 - 00:03:47.170, Speaker A: And then it was another five years before you had good browsers that really made the World Wide Web sort of become very popular. So it was 25 plus years after the invention of the Internet that you had sort of all of the killer applications that we think about, you did at the beginning of the internet, already have things like email and file transfer. And so maybe the analog of those early applications for bitcoin would be that of a cheap and fast international money transfer. So currently the normal way, the traditional way of doing a wire transfer between different countries is you go to your bank, your bank talks to their bank. At some point the money gets wired to that bank, and then finally it goes to the person you actually want the funds to go to. And usually you have to pay for an international wild transfer. Like $20 would be kind of a standard fee for an international money transfer.
00:03:47.170 - 00:04:27.598, Speaker A: And you also usually have to wait a while, like multiple days. And so with bitcoin, on the other hand, you can do that same transfer without using any banks, and you're going to save about an order of magnitude both in the transaction fee that you're going to have to pay and in the delay before the funds are received by the other party. So that's nice. Is that going to change the world? Maybe not, but that's kind of an initial prosaic application of bitcoin. And in recent years, many, many different proposed applications are out there. We'll see which ones really take off at the moment of this recording in late July. So called DeFi or decentralized finance.
00:04:27.598 - 00:05:00.620, Speaker A: That's what's all the rage now. There's tons of people trying to get financial instruments on blockchains. We'll see if that takes off. If not that, maybe it'll be something else. It's early days, which makes it kind of very exciting, but also a little hard to predict exactly how things are going to unfold. Now let's stop speculating about the future and let's return to something concrete, which is bitcoin and how it actually operates. So the key primitive in bitcoin is the notion of a transaction, which is really a transfer of funds from one party to another.
00:05:00.620 - 00:05:23.778, Speaker A: So let me tell you about the ingredients in a bitcoin transaction. I'm going to talk about those ingredients kind of in a conceptual level. I'm not going to worry about sort of nitty gritty implementation details. So first of all, you need to know who's sending the funds and who is receiving the funds. So you have a sender and a receiver. So it turns out you can actually have multiple senders and multiple receivers if you want. Let's just sort of ignore that detail.
00:05:23.778 - 00:06:11.534, Speaker A: It's just for simplicity. Think of a transfer as being from one party, the sender to another party, the receiver. So how do you specify who the sender and receiver are? Well, in bitcoin, you do not write down your name or your Social Security number or anything else which could link your bitcoin account to a real world identity. Rather, on bitcoin, users are identified only through sort of a long inscrutable sequence of bits, sequence of zeros and ones, which is called the user's public key. So the term public key comes from cryptography. I'll say more about that sort of at the bottom of this slide. But for now, just imagine that everybody has their own unique name, which is just a sequence of zeros and ones that, while unique to you, has no obvious link to any real world identity.
00:06:11.534 - 00:06:45.470, Speaker A: For the moment, just think of a public key as a long sequence of unique zeros and ones. So a transaction, of course you're transferring funds, so you should also specify exactly how much funds you're transferring. And now for a bitcoin transaction. What are those funds? Those funds are in the native currency. They're in the currency of bitcoins. And so when you're talking about the currency of bitcoin, the abbreviation is BTC. So just like you'd use USD for a us dollar, you use BTC to talk about the number of bitcoins involved.
00:06:45.470 - 00:07:22.458, Speaker A: There are exchanges out there where you can trade in your bitcoins for us dollars or vice versa. So at any given time, if you look at the exchanges, there's some going price for what a bitcoin costs. As you may have heard, that's been very volatile over the years. It's been all over the place. At the time of this recording, which is in late July 2020, bitcoin has been hovering around $10,000 per bitcoin. I don't know when you're going to be watching this, but whenever it is, I wouldn't be surprised if that 10,000 had turned into 5000, or if that 10,000 had turned into 20,000. Really have no idea how that's going to go.
00:07:22.458 - 00:07:55.218, Speaker A: At the moment, they're around 10,000. And if you're thinking that, whoa, it's kind of weird. If you can only send people funds that are in multiples of $10,000, you can split a bitcoin up into little pieces. So, in fact, the primitive currency unit is something known as a satoshi. And it's, I believe, ten to the 18 satoshis make up a bitcoin. Why satoshi? Well, that relates to the alleged inventor of bitcoin. So it's actually a big worldwide mystery who the inventor of bitcoin is.
00:07:55.218 - 00:08:41.998, Speaker A: There is some mysterious figure known by satoshi nakamoto who published the white paper describing bitcoin back in 2009 and also wrote the software and put it out there for people to use. And nobody knows who satoshi nakamoto is. It may be one person, it may be multiple people. If you search around the internet, you can find lists of who speculated to maybe be satoshi nakamoto, but we don't know. Anyways, that's why the smallest unit of bitcoins is called satoshi, after the unknown inventor. So next, the sender has to justify that they really do possess the funds that they are aiming to transfer to the receiver. So they need a proof of funds.
00:08:41.998 - 00:09:28.226, Speaker A: And the way they prove they have the funds is they point to some previous transactions, spending those exact same coins and giving it to the sender. So the sender says, I'm sending one Bitcoin. And that Bitcoin is the bitcoin that I was paid in this transaction in the past. And then the final ingredient, which will probably become increasingly important with time, but now we can largely ignore for this lecture is there's a transaction fee? And this transaction fee is paid from the sender to whoever it is who authorizes this transaction. And we'll say a lot more about who authorizes transactions and how did they do it. But that's what the transaction fee is for. The sender says, hey, transaction authorizer, this is something I'll pay you for.
00:09:28.226 - 00:10:05.982, Speaker A: You doing the work of authorizing the transaction. Now, in Bitcoin, it's important to check that transactions are legitimate, that they're valid. So, for example, that the sender really is spending coins that they own. So, validity of a transaction, it involves various things. It has to be formatted just so according to the specifications of the protocol. But what's interesting for us is that to be valid a transaction, first of all, it has to be cryptographically signed by the sender of the coins. And secondly, it should check out that the sender still owns the coins that it's purporting to send.
00:10:05.982 - 00:10:42.282, Speaker A: Right, now, let me elaborate on each of these two points a little bit. So the first one that it must be cryptographically signed by the sender. So what does that even mean? So I mentioned earlier this notion of a public key associated with each Bitcoin account, which is this big sequence of zeros and ones. So actually what each Bitcoin user has is they have a pair consisting of, on the one hand, a public key and on the other hand, a secret key. The secret key, as it suggests, that's known only to the user themselves. That's something they do not publicize, they don't share that with anybody. Whereas the public key is something you can go ahead and post on the web.
00:10:42.282 - 00:11:30.870, Speaker A: That's something you want everybody to know. And these two keys are coupled and through the magic of cryptography, you can implement what are known as digital signatures. So, for example, if I generate a coupled public secret key for myself and then there's some electronic message. So I'm saying making some promise and I want to sign it so that everybody would be convinced that, yes, it was really me who made that promise, then there's something called a digital signature which allows me to append to the statement of the promise a bunch of gobbledygook. So again, it's going to be a bunch of zeros and ones tacked onto the end of the message that I'm sending. And that's going to be the signed version of this message. It's going to be the message plus the gobbledygook.
00:11:30.870 - 00:12:16.262, Speaker A: Now, what prevents someone else from just impersonating me and sort of alleging that I signed this thing I didn't actually sign? Well, here's the thing. Anyone else using my public key? And again, my public key is just posted on the web, anyone else can use my public key and verify that indeed, I did use my secret key to generate that. Gobbledygook I did use my secret key to generate those zeros and ones that are tacked onto the end of the message. And at that point, you can safely conclude that I really did sign the message. Or if not, it's because someone stole my secret key. But as long as I'm the only one who knows a secret key, I'm the only one who could have generated that particular idiosyncratic. Gobbleygook and you can be convinced as such, just using my public key, I'm not going to talk at all about how to implement this.
00:12:16.262 - 00:12:47.940, Speaker A: That's some beautiful computer science, but that's worthy of its own course. So maybe someday you'll take a cryptography course and you'll learn about the really cool, usually number theory behind how these are done. So this is really important, these cryptographic signatures, because these prevent someone from forging a transaction in your name. So if I don't know your secret key, I am incapable of generating some transfer that looks to be signed by you. I just can't do it. So I cannot forge transactions on your behalf. So that's extremely important.
00:12:47.940 - 00:13:24.406, Speaker A: Secondly, of course, even once I am convinced that the claimed sender in the transaction is in fact the actual sender, even once I know that from verifying the digital signature, I still need to check that you have that much money in your balance. Just like you would when anybody writes a personal check. Kind of in the real world. But with the way bitcoin works, it turns out it's sort of easy to verify that people have the funds that they're trying to send. And the reason is, is because literally every transaction ever in bitcoin is broadcast to everybody. So there's a big peer to peer network. Remember we talked a little bit about peer to peer network.
00:13:24.406 - 00:13:44.002, Speaker A: Stop group talking about BitTorrent in the prisoners dilemma module back in module number two. So there's a peer to peer network. There's sort of thousands of computers. They're all talking to each other all the time, and everybody tells everybody about every single transaction. So there's just 100% knowledge about every transaction that's ever happened in the past. It sounds like it's sort of a lot. It is.
00:13:44.002 - 00:14:27.810, Speaker A: It's currently around, I think, 200GB and growing. But that's something all of these computers participating in the peter pin network are keeping track of. So everybody knows the entire history of all transactions in the world. And so then, of course, from that you can deduce everybody's current balance, and from that you can deduce whether or not a given transaction is valid, whether or not the balance of the user of the sender is in fact high enough that they can get away with transferring what they're trying to transfer to the receiver. So that's what we mean by transaction being valid. It really is being sent by who the alleged sender is. And that sender really does have the coins in their bank account or in their bitcoin account that they want to send to that receiver.
00:14:27.810 - 00:15:07.180, Speaker A: And it's kind of funny, actually, because peer to peer networks, they were sort of a really hot area in computer science in the early 21st century, and they certainly have applications. We talked about BitTorrent and sort of peer to peer file transfer, and there's other applications as well. But now, from the vantage point of 2020, it kind of seems that cryptocurrencies might actually be the true killer application of peer to peer networks. And again, they're used in bitcoin to make sure everybody's on the same page as far as what all the transactions are. So that's what you need to know about transactions. Next, I want to tell you about how these transactions are sequenced, which will bring us to the blockchain. So.
