00:00:01.920 - 00:00:25.264, Speaker A: You. My name is JK. I'm the operations manager at stake. Fish. Thank you. Stake Fish is a validator for different preos blockchains and node operators for projects that use staking mechanisms. I'll get into that a bit later, but we're all excited.
00:00:25.264 - 00:01:17.332, Speaker A: For Ethereum 2.0, POS is going to be enabled, but there have been plenty of other POS protocols that have been in operations for a year or slightly less than that. And there are already good data points to take from there. And having been in this space for about a year now and a bit over a year, there's plenty of lessons that we've learned throughout our operations, and we wanted to share a few of those with you today in the hopes that once Ethereum 2.0 launches, we don't have similar problems we've seen in other POS protocols. So just a very short introduction about Steakfish was founded by Wang Chun, who co founded F Two Pool, which is one of the, of course, largest bitcoin and ethereum mining pools. And he wanted to contribute something similar in the proof of stake space.
00:01:17.332 - 00:01:56.292, Speaker A: And of course, naturally that meant creating validators and staking pools. And so, so far, we have validators or nodes on various projects. We have EOS, we are a validator on BIOS, Cosmos, Tezos, Loom network, iris network boss, a node operator for chainlink algorand, and a storage node provider for storage as well. And so right now, roughly, we're facilitating around $30 million in stakeable assets. So, first of all, just a quick reality check. I know that everyone will be able to run an Ethereum 2.0 validator node as long as you have 32 E.
00:01:56.292 - 00:02:33.812, Speaker A: But the reality is not everyone will be able to either. You don't have the equipment, we can't assume that everyone will have a PC at their home or even a laptop. And we can't assume everyone will have the technological capabilities of parsing through GitHub or even using command lines to actually run a validator node. And so that's where I believe validators come in. We're trying to help lower the barriers to staking even further by making staking easy for retail. And so there are two main service offerings that validators offer so far. One is validator as a service.
00:02:33.812 - 00:03:11.724, Speaker A: This is where we run a validator and people delegate their coins to us. Delegate is where people don't give up their ownership, but rather they provide the power of the coins to validators. So it's a pretty special type of transaction. So therefore, we're able to run a validator, but we don't have custody over the coins that are staked with us. Also, there's a fair amount of validators that run a node as a service. This is where imagine, like, AWS, right, you're trying to spin up a validator node for any customer that wants to stake. And I think in the US.
00:03:11.724 - 00:03:51.624, Speaker A: There are two big players in this space. There's Block, Damon and Bison Trails, and largely node as a service, you could really imagine it to look similar to just an AWS. But of course with E 2.0 there's no such thing as delegation. You're not going to be able to delegate your coins. So unless you have custody of the funds, validators of Service is probably not going to be a viable business for Validators. So I won't go too much into detail because of time constraints over what Validators are considering on what other businesses that could be provided.
00:03:51.624 - 00:04:41.724, Speaker A: But rest assured that Node as a service will probably be one of their more strong business lines that Validators will pursue for east 2.0. But of course, personally, there's other avenues that are exciting, such as I'm giving a shout out to Rocket Pool, of course, which I'm really looking forward to. For E 2.0, the Validators are losing probably one of their main business lines and Node as a service seems to be one of the more viable options. But why are Validators then here at all in this space? Right now, there's around about $5 billion of stakeable assets in the market, so it's a fair amount. And I estimated roughly that in a year or so this number is going to balloon to $30 billion. And of course, Ethereum 2.0
00:04:41.724 - 00:05:26.484, Speaker A: is going to be the majority of that with $8 billion. And so not to say that this is the exact revenue opportunity, but this is the size of the market. And so therefore there's a reason why the Validators are here. They want to either facilitate something here, they want to do something here, they want to help facilitate Staking of $8 billion when east 2.0 launches. And so that's sort of a short intro on who Validators are, how they're approaching east 2.0. But let's go into the reason why I'm here today to talk about some of the lessons, the key lessons we've learned by Validating on other POS protocols.
00:05:26.484 - 00:06:17.536, Speaker A: And I've really summarized it down to five. There are far many, but these are the five key ones that I believe the Ethereum community needs to focus on. So I don't know if any of you were at the first speaker session for today. Adam from Live here actually gave a pretty good presentation on one of the key bottlenecks of Staking right now, and it's the user interface right now, Staking is insanely hard, even for a network like Tezos, for example. It's very difficult to understand where I need to go if I have Tezzies in my ledger. Is there an interface I could use to stake? It's very hard to find that I recommend you trying to Google it, you'll come up with very different explanations on where you could go. It's not really clear on Cosmos, similarly.
00:06:17.536 - 00:06:53.316, Speaker A: So when Cosmos launched, there was only one mobile wallet available and one web wallet available. And obviously people were confused whether that was the only ones they could use. But the most safe one was actually using the command line. And so some of the validators started telling people to use the command line. And obviously, as I mentioned when I first began this talk, we can't expect everyone to understand how to use the command line. So therefore there was a lot of confusion. So it's important that some form of staking interfaces or multiple staking interfaces are available when the E 2.0
00:06:53.316 - 00:07:35.884, Speaker A: launches. If not, it's going to cause a lot of confusion and you're just basically limiting the opportunity to stake to very limited set of people of community members. Now, another important part is making staking trackable. And of course you want it for bookkeeping, you want to see how much income you have, how much you stake. But more importantly, there are tax reasons for this. There's a lot of regulatory unclarity on how staking should be considered tax wise. But eventually people will need to pay their taxes, most likely on staking rewards.
00:07:35.884 - 00:08:19.692, Speaker A: And the only way they'll be able to do that is if they're able to track how much rewards they've been receiving, how much assets they've been staking. So far, there aren't that many of such dashboards. Many of them are launching right now. But this is another key tool that needs to be provided when Ease 2.0 becomes available. Number one key theme here is try to make interfaces for users, for retail such that they're able to stake easily and also track their staked assets easily. Number two is so slashing has occurred on Cosmos, especially recently.
00:08:19.692 - 00:09:40.844, Speaker A: Not recently, I guess in July 1 of the validators, their Validator was down for a while and then they tried to bring it back up and accidentally their backup node and their main validator node came back up at the same time causing a double signing. So as a Validator, when I talk with retail or other funds, the number one question they always ask us is how are you going to insure me in terms of slashing risk? It's all in their minds. But with this double signing event, this risk is becoming bigger in their minds and it's become a key them that they constantly ask for insurance or some way that some off chain contract we could sign such that they're able to then somehow recoup the slashed amount. And so therefore, this is definitely another pain point. And there needs to be some method to let people hedge their slashing risk. And most likely I believe this will come in the form of DeFi in terms of like insurance markets, most likely. And so these sort of DFI products needs to be thought of in advance and created not after east 2.0
00:09:40.844 - 00:10:19.588, Speaker A: has launched, really. Also another thing is another way of actually reducing slashing risk is by diversifying who you stake to. For example, if I'm trying to stake on Cosmos rather than staking with one validir, it's better to spread out your risk. And just similar to how you would diversify your portfolio. This concept is sort of not really being considered too much. We see way too many just all in staking going on in various protocols. But probably the main reason why that's occurring is because it's very inconvenient to diversify your stake when you're staking.
00:10:19.588 - 00:11:13.976, Speaker A: So providing an automated option or service such that people could automatically diversify the Validators that they're using is also a pretty important method of hedging their slashing risk and probably a very important product that will be needed close to when east 2.0 launches. Another key thing that we've seen constantly come up in other POS protocols is centralization debate. So on the left here you could see sort of the graph of the stake power basically distribution. This is in Cosmos by the way, so for Ethereum there's no delegation. So you won't see this stark of a distribution graph. But in E 2.0,
00:11:13.976 - 00:11:47.056, Speaker A: how this is relevant is in two ways. So exchanges definitely will have so much in their custody, so they're going to be big players. So there will be some debate over their role in the staking economy in the E 2.0. But second of all, remember I said that validators will probably enter into E 2.0 as node as a service. Well imagine if any of these node as a service providers become big like they control like 50, 60% of the market. Imagine that they find a very critical bug in their infrastructure.
00:11:47.056 - 00:12:35.780, Speaker A: What that means is then every single user staking using their node as a service are probably likely going to be compromised. So it's another point of failure in that case. So that's somewhat not going to be as forefront as seeing an exchange gain like 5% of a network's power. But this is also going to be a very crucial centralization failure point that we'll need to be vigilant about. So I actually took this out, I've put it as a separate point because this is very crucial. So exchanges are finally entering staking. I'm quite sure many of you have seen how Binance announced that they're providing staking operations.
00:12:35.780 - 00:13:37.864, Speaker A: And the reason why staking is so exchanges are entering to staking is crucial is because they're able to provide instant liquidity and they actually bypass any unbonding periods. And imagine that if you're trying to stake on a east 2.0 and you don't need to lock up your ETH, you just keep it on an exchange wallet and you instantly get east dropped to your wallet. How convenient is that? And so therefore this is really problematic, especially for independent validators like us because we're not really able to compete with these exchanges that are able to bypass these liquidity issues. Oh yeah, and there's three points on how exchanges are entering. Please come up to me if you want to understand more about how exchanges are entering right now. So as I mentioned, the important part about tackling this is that independent validators like us need to be able to compete with these guys.
00:13:37.864 - 00:14:27.924, Speaker A: And the only way we could do that is if there's a way where we could offer people who delegate to us, who stake with us, have similar liquidity when they're staking. And so therefore, I see staking derivatives again DeFi playing a key role here. There are a few players right now trying to tackle this. And so once staking derivatives are alive, that will then help us validators actually compete with exchanges. And that's key here. I think that's how I don't expect validators to be treated more favorably compared to exchanges, but at the very least, we could level the playing field by providing staking derivatives. And so this is just one way of sort of tackling the exchange centralization issue regarding staking.
00:14:27.924 - 00:15:13.616, Speaker A: But I welcome anyone to think of any alternatives to try to see where we could compete better with exchanges when it comes to staking. So finally, this is a topic that no one likes to talk about, but that we seriously need to. There needs to be a working group around this. It's regulation and taxation proof of work. Mining has been around, so there has been some framework constructed around how mining and mining rewards should be considered. But we can't assume that proof of stake, staking and staking rewards will be considered the same way. Like as an example, let's say proof of staking rewards will eventually be taxed.
00:15:13.616 - 00:16:27.868, Speaker A: Will it be taxed once I get the staking rewards in my wallet? Or will it be taxed once I liquidate it into another coin? These are questions that are still up in the air and no one knows the answers to. So there is a POS alliance, proof of stake alliance that has been created with a few key players in the staking world. I also do encourage the Durian community to think about how we could engage policymakers and regulators around how staking should be considered. Because if this stack is not figured out, validators stakers, everyone alike is going to be in a heap of regulatory issues. So I think it's important that we take a proactive approach and try to talk with policymakers on what they're thinking and how we could make it comfortable such that they make reasoned and logical decisions on how staking should be taxed, how staking should be regulated. Those are sort of the five key lessons I wanted to share with you guys and hopefully that once these 2.0 launches we have some answers to.
00:16:27.868 - 00:16:48.470, Speaker A: We might not have answers to all, but hopefully most of them. I love talking about staking. I'm happy to share any knowledge insight on how we've operated so far. So please feel free to reach out to me on Twitter by email. I think that's it. I guess I'll take questions if there are any.
