00:00:00.410 - 00:00:30.722, Speaker A: Hello and welcome back to Chainlink Research reports. This week, we'll be discussing all things stablecoin with Dr. Ganesh Viswanith Natraj, an assistant professor of finance at the Warwick Business School. I'm Dr. Jason Anastasopoulos, an assistant professor of public policy and statistics at the University of Georgia and a researcher at Chainlink Labs. In this research report, Dr. Ganesh Viswanath Natraj discuss discusses three types of stablecoins, how they maintain price stability and how they mitigate risk.
00:00:30.722 - 00:00:35.430, Speaker A: I hope you enjoy this as much as I did and also that you learn as much as I did as well.
00:00:35.580 - 00:00:36.280, Speaker B: Enjoy.
00:00:43.070 - 00:00:49.382, Speaker A: Welcome to Chainlink Research Reports. I'm here with Ganette, not Raj. Did I pronounce your name correctly? Ganesh.
00:00:49.526 - 00:00:50.250, Speaker B: Yep.
00:00:51.470 - 00:00:58.958, Speaker A: And he's going to be talking about what keeps stablecoin stable. And Ganesh, could you tell us a little bit about yourself and some of.
00:00:58.964 - 00:01:43.470, Speaker B: The research that you do? Sure. Thank you, Jason, for inviting me. So, yeah, so I'm an academic at Warwick Business School in the UK, and my research interests are in international finance and cryptocurrencies. And so for today, I'll be talking about my research on stablecoins. And stablecoins are essentially a cryptocurrency pegged to the US dollar. So in this area, I'm very interested in stability mechanisms. So what keeps the value of the currency pegged to a US dollar? Thinking about arbitrage design and sort of market efficiency of these currencies.
00:01:44.370 - 00:01:44.954, Speaker A: Excellent.
00:01:45.002 - 00:01:45.674, Speaker B: Thanks, Ganesh.
00:01:45.722 - 00:01:48.590, Speaker A: So whenever you're ready, we'd love to hear your presentation.
00:01:51.360 - 00:02:58.992, Speaker B: Okay, so let's begin with kind of an overview of stablecoin systems and properties. So, stablecoins, their main role is to provide vehicle currency in the crypto market. So this is the idea that as a crypto investor, you want to buy bitcoin. And a lot of these crypto exchanges, like binance, offer mainly stablecoin, bitcoin trading pairs. So naturally, as an investor, you will be using stablecoins to buy and sell bitcoin. And the reason why they're so popular is that relative to the US dollar, they're much easier to trade in, and mainly because they operate on the blockchain, so they avoid a lot of the intermediation costs that are required when you use dollars to buy bitcoin directly. They're used in many DeFi protocols.
00:02:58.992 - 00:03:58.470, Speaker B: So this includes decentralized exchanges like uniswap lending protocols like compound, and that essentially increases kind of the applications in which stablecoins can be used, and they also can be used for payments in the real world. So countries often use cryptocurrencies for remittances. They can use it for cross border payments. You can also think about emerging market economies. They try to use stablecoins precisely when there's a lot of high inflation in their domestic currency. And so stablecoins can provide a store of value in that case. So there are many different reasons why stablecoins are used, but I would say the primary reason is their use as a vehicle currency in the crypto market.
00:03:58.470 - 00:04:41.564, Speaker B: Now, this graph is essentially showing the evolution of the stablecoin market. So since then, it's grown even more. But you can see a lot of the growth in stablecoins market happened in 2021. And the leaders in this space are USDT tether, USDC finance, USD, and DAi stablecoin. And the top three stablecoins are centralized stablecoins. And so I will briefly discuss some research I've done on centralized stablecoins. The fourth stablecoin, Dai, is a decentralized stablecoin.
00:04:41.564 - 00:05:47.400, Speaker B: So I will also showcase some research I've been doing on Dai as well. Now, these designs are important to differentiate, because they each rely on kind of different mechanisms to keep the peg right. So if the idea of the stablecoin is to be valued at one USD, then there are three ways you can design a stablecoin. You can either have a centralized stablecoin, and a centralized stablecoin is essentially when each stablecoin token is backed by a dollar in reserves. And in this way, all of these dollar reserves is held by an issuer off chain. Right? So tether is the main example of a centralized stable coin. And so every tether token in principle is backed by a dollar.
00:05:47.400 - 00:06:45.310, Speaker B: And this is all held by banks that tether uses, but outside the blockchain. So there's what we call a centralized stablecoin, because essentially all the funds are with one issuer. And over collateralized stablecoins, which we also call decentralized stablecoins, are stablecoins that operate on the blockchain. And they essentially have this system of smart contracts where every stable coin in circulation is backed by some crypto collateral. And typically the value of the crypto collateral is greater than the amount of stablecoins in circulation. So that's why it's over collateralized. So Dai is a leading example of that.
00:06:45.310 - 00:07:48.636, Speaker B: Now, the advantage of decentralized stablecoins is that the issuer is the individual investor. So the individual investor creates the stablecoin and they hold their collateral in a smart contract. And in this way, the issuance is not centralized like tether, right? So individual investors have the ability to issue Dai through their collateral. So that's why it's a decentralized arrangement. But because it is over collateralized, the drawback is that it's less capital efficient, right? So you might need say, 1.50 worth of ethereum collateral to borrow one dai token, so it's less capital efficient. The third stable coin is algorithmic.
00:07:48.636 - 00:08:28.328, Speaker B: Algorithmic stablecoins are also decentralized, so individual investors can create and issue stablecoins, but there may not be any collateral backing the coin. So essentially we call algorithmic coins unbacked. So they're very capital efficient. So you might only have for dollar of the stablecoin in circulation, you might only have like say $0.10 in reserves. So it's a very under collateralized coin. And because of that, they're very prone to speculative attacks.
00:08:28.328 - 00:09:13.740, Speaker B: So that's why algorithmic stable coins are capital efficient, but then they generally do not satisfy peg stability. So these are broadly the three designs. So here I just summarize these properties. So tether is the main stable coin, and they're backed by dollar reserves. So one important point to note is that not all of the dollar assets they hold are reserves. So there is some commercial paper and less liquid assets that tether holds. And so this is the subject of much concern, particularly for regulators.
00:09:13.740 - 00:10:13.160, Speaker B: How liquid are these assets? Are these assets, say, vulnerable to sort of market forces? And then, so there's a lot of concerns about the backing of Tesla. So if we move to the decentralized stablecoin, so DAi is the leader in this space. And so in contrast to tether controlling all of the reserves, now individual investors deposit collateral and then issue DAi tokens off that collateral. So that's why it's a decentralized arrangement, because every individual investor is essentially an issuer of DAI. Right now, it's over collateralized. So in order to borrow one DAI token, you may have to deposit say 1.50 or $2 worth of Ethereum collateral.
00:10:13.160 - 00:11:06.960, Speaker B: And so it's over collateralized. The reason for that is because there's a chance that ETH may collapse in the future. So you need to over collateralize your position as insurance against default. Right. So this is a way to kind of try to ensure peg stability is to increase the amount of collateral that you need to post. But of course, if you are depositing a lot of ETH collateral and then borrowing only a fraction of die, then it's very capital inefficient right? So you're not able to generate that much stablecoins if you have a very large collateral ratio. So algorithmic stablecoins are the third one, as I mentioned, they're typically unbacked.
00:11:06.960 - 00:12:05.680, Speaker B: And the drawback is that if there's no reserves, then a speculative attack can lead to a collapse of the peg, right? Because essentially the issuer does not have guinea dollar reserves to be able to meet redemptions. So in terms of my research, I'll first start off with centralized stable coins. So here we posit a very simple arbitrage mechanism. So if we think about the tether price, let's say it trades above one dollars, right? It trades at say 1.5 cents. So that would mean an investor can make an arbitrage profit if they deposit one dollars with the treasury, obtain one tether token, and then sell it in the secondary market at 1.5 cents.
00:12:05.680 - 00:14:10.580, Speaker B: So this generates an arbitrage profit. And what this arbitrage does is that it increases the supply of tether in the secondary market, and that will drive the price of tether down until it's one USD, right? So what this is, is an arbitrage between the primary and secondary markets. So the primary market is essentially the tether treasury allows an investor to deposit dollars and obtain tether tokens at one for one, right? So the primary market rate is one USD equals one tether. The secondary market is what you can get on an exchange, say like binance or some other exchange in the tether USD market, right? So if the exchange sells tether at a different price to one USD, then the arbitrager is basically doing a trade between the primary and secondary markets to make profit. And this profit should be stabilizing in the sense that if the exchange price is above one USD, an arbitrager will be depositing one USD with the treasury obtaining one tether and then selling it in the secondary market. And that will drive the secondary market prices down toward one USD, right? So that's what the left panel is illustrating with the diagram. The right panel is essentially some data where we look at the flows to the secondary market of tether, and then we look at the flows against the price of tether and USD.
00:14:10.580 - 00:15:44.340, Speaker B: So when the price of tether and USD is above one, then we find that there is positive flows to the secondary market. And this is consistent with tether being sent to exchanges when tether trades at a premium. So that's consistent with the arbitrage story. So given that arbitrage is central to keeping the peg at one USD, then what sort of factors can increase the efficiency of this mechanism? So, clearly, one factor is access to the treasury, right? So if the treasury is kind of a monopolist or like, it's very little access to the treasury, then it's difficult for essentially an investor to deposit dollars with the treasury, obtain tether, and sell it in the secondary market, right, to do an arbitrage. So you need access to the treasury in order to do this. So we argue that decentralization of issuance is critical to this arbitrage design. And we exploit this change of the tether protocol, where tether was initially issued on the Omni protocol, and then it changed to the Ethereum protocol or Ethereum blockchain.
00:15:44.340 - 00:16:49.020, Speaker B: So this enabled increased access to the tether treasury, and this in turn led to an increased ability of investors to deposit dollars with the treasury, which makes it easier to conduct arbitrage. So we reason that this change led to an increase in peg efficiency, and that's what we find empirically. So when we move from the Omni on the left to Ethereum on the right, more investors can directly transact with the treasury. So it makes it easier to conduct arbitrage and makes the peg more stable. So this is essentially following on from that slide. We have like a network chart which is showing kind of the difference in the network between the omni and Ethereum blockchain. And so in general, I just want you to take away that the Ethereum blockchain has a lot more investors transacting with the treasury.
00:16:49.020 - 00:18:02.264, Speaker B: So the treasury node has a lot more investors, and Bitfinix is no longer the primary investor. So the fact that the access to the treasury is more decentralized leads to an increase in peg efficiency. And that's what we find empirically. So other things we've looked at is kind of what explains these peg premiums and peg discounts. So we have that on the Peg premium side, we have that there are a lot of positive price pressure during downturns in the crypto market. So the peg premiums we see here, there's one in 2018, there was one in March of 2020. But there are many events where if investors want to liquidate bitcoin into stable coins, then this positive price pressure on these stablecoins.
00:18:02.264 - 00:19:00.900, Speaker B: So we call that like a safety premium. The speculative attack is the idea that an investor can believe that the PEG is unsustainable or there's insufficient reserves. And so investors can start trying to redeem tether. And if there's not sufficient reserves, then tether trades at a discount. So there was a brief period of a speculative attack in 2018 in this graph where tether traded at a discount. And that's mainly because the investors have concerns about insufficient reserves and potential run risk. So, another type of stablecoin is the decentralized stablecoin.
00:19:00.900 - 00:20:15.008, Speaker B: So here, DAI is essentially issued through ethereum collateral. So since the initial version of DAI, multiple collateral types are allowed. But when it started off, it was only ETH collateral, right? So here, if we start on the left in this diagram, an investor opens a collateralized debt position, which we, in short, is a CDP. So they deposit one ETH of collateral, and from that ETH collateral, they borrow a fraction as die, right? So if one ETH is, say, 100 die, then they can only borrow up to two thirds of that ETH collateral. And so they borrow 66 die in this case. Then with that die, they can obviously use it in DFI applications, they can use it to buy and sell cryptocurrencies and so on. Then, once they want to close their debt position, they redeem their DAI tokens and they extract the collateral that they deposited.
00:20:15.008 - 00:21:48.884, Speaker B: Right. And that way they close their debt position. But this means that individual investors can now effectively issue DAi tokens right through their ETH collateral. So that's why we call it a decentralized stablecoin. So, in terms of risky collateral, the main point that we make in some research on the DAI stablecoin is that when the collateral is more risky, so if the ETH volatility is high, then that results in a higher level of die volatility, right? So here we essentially say that the risky collateral acts as a limit to arbitrage, and stable collateral increases the ability of arbitrage to stabilize the peg. So what do I mean by that? Well, if we think about the arbitrage for tether, the same thing applies for dai, right? So if the Dai price is very high, then an investor can deposit some ETH collateral, borrow dai, and then sell dai in the secondary market. But the problem with depositing ETH collateral is that ETH collateral is very risky, and so it can fluctuate a lot.
00:21:48.884 - 00:23:01.500, Speaker B: And so that means that even if the die price is, say, 1.5 cents, if ETH collateral fluctuates a lot, then all of your returns are dependent on the fluctuations of e from the arbitrage. So instead, you want a stable collateral to conduct the arbitrage. And so when the dai moved to having a stable collateral type, then that increased the stability of dai tremendously so. Essentially, the movement from risky collateral to safe collateral increases efficiency of the peg. So in my work, I would say the main kind of takeaway is that for a stablecoin to work, you need some sort of backing, whether it be centralized through tether or decentralized through Dai. And of course, each of these designs have their pros and cons, and I'm happy to kind of go more into the risks of stablecoins, as well as we discuss some of these topics.
00:23:01.500 - 00:23:02.910, Speaker B: Thank you.
00:23:04.480 - 00:24:15.556, Speaker A: All right, thank you so much, Ganesh. I really appreciate it. That was really fascinating presentation, and it's also very illuminating in terms of how stablecoins work and what allows them to maintain their value. So I have a couple of questions here for you, and they're not super deep dive questions, but I hope that you'll find these questions interesting as well, as much as I found the presentation interesting. Now, the first question I have is a basic one, and that is what really got you interested in crypto in general and stable coins in particular. So, as an economist, I know a couple of economists I've worked with some of them, published papers with them, and many of them are, they tend to be kind of stuck in their ways, so to speak, in terms of the topics that they're interested in. And when they see new technologies come up, they might be a bit hesitant to kind of do research on them and jump into that.
00:24:15.556 - 00:24:27.320, Speaker A: So what got you interested in crypto and stablecoins, especially given some of the more, I guess, conservative environment of economics?
00:24:28.780 - 00:25:24.052, Speaker B: Yeah, my traditional background is more in international finance. So I guess the bridging of the two topics for me was more about fixed exchange rate regimes. So obviously, there's a very large literature, international finance, that studies fixed exchange rates. So the closest analog to a stablecoin there would be like the Hong Kong currency board. So that has some similarities with a centralized stablecoin. And so that was the starting point, was trying to draw parallels with big six change rates. Now, as we started to dig deeper into stablecoins, we found that there is a fundamental difference between fixed exchange rates and stablecoins, where fixed exchange rates obviously are administered by a central bank.
00:25:24.052 - 00:26:44.580, Speaker B: So a central bank is like an aggressor in this system, where if the fixed exchange rate goes above target, then the central bank wants to accumulate foreign reserves. So buy foreign reserves and sell the domestic currency. If the domestic currency is overvalued relative to the valued above target. And likewise, if the fixed exchange rate is below target, then they want to sell foreign reserves and buy domestic currency. But so essentially the central bank is actively intervening in FX markets to maintain the fixed exchange rate. Now here we posit a different mechanism where we are saying that, no, it's not the treasury of the stablecoin, say the tether treasury that's doing this. It's more private investors are actually coming in and doing trades to actually target the one USD price, right? So if the price goes above one USD, then the investor will deposit dollars with the treasury, obtain tether tokens and sell it in the secondary market.
00:26:44.580 - 00:27:36.832, Speaker B: And so they are essentially doing the arbitrage. And so it's now changed to a more private investors. What's driving the peg toward one USD as opposed to the central bank? So it's kind of a change of model. And so in this instance, it's a bit like an ETF. So exchange traded funds basically try to target like an index. Say you've got, say an S P exchange traded fund tracks the S P index. And so if the ETF price is above the index price, then investors can sort of buy shares from the fund and then sell them at the higher price until they track the index.
00:27:36.832 - 00:28:32.880, Speaker B: And so in some sense, the ETF arbitrage is what we are saying is relevant for stable coins. So that's kind of something that we found in our research, which is interesting. So in some sense, there's the stable coins, because they're kind of a new innovation, it's hard to place them. And so you have a lot of people saying they're obviously fixed exchange rates, ETFs, money market funds. There's also people say they're like banknotes of like say the 19th century. Like there are similarities with free banking. So narrow bank has been tossed around, fractional Reserve bank.
00:28:32.880 - 00:29:11.410, Speaker B: So there's so many different analogies for stablecoins. I think they are a bit of everything. So they have some fixed exchange rate properties. They also have some ETF like behavior. They're a bit like a money market fund because tether invests a lot of its assets in commercial paper and so on. So they are a bit like a money market fund from their portfolio aspect. And they also have both narrow and fractional reserve banking kind of as well.
00:29:11.410 - 00:29:19.910, Speaker B: So they're kind of a unique mix of financial applications we have seen before.
00:29:23.320 - 00:30:07.430, Speaker A: Can you talk a little bit more about arbitrage and what it is? So, more specifically, arbitrage is something in your paper that is extremely important in terms of keeping stablecoins stable, and it's involved in many different parts of each type of stablecoin. And I'm sure many of our listeners know what arbitrage is, but I'm sure many don't. So would you be able to explain kind of what arbitrage is at a very basic level and why it is so important in the stablecoin world, in the stablecoin value, if that makes sense?
00:30:08.040 - 00:31:47.792, Speaker B: Right? So arbitrage, essentially, think of it as some sort of round trip, almost risk free transaction that an investor can make to make profit. And the simplest type of arbitrage is like a goods arbitrage, right? So let's say you've got like a big Mac in two countries, and let's assume that you can trade them without worrying about transportation or anything like that. And so if there is a difference in the big Mac prices in two countries, let's say they're identical big Macs and they can be traded for one another, then investor can take, say, a big Mac in UK, let's say it's cheaper in UK than the US, then they can buy the Big Mac in the UK and then sell that same Big Mac in the US to make a profit, right? So essentially, when you do this arbitrage, what will happen is that you are buying it where it's low. So you're buying it in the UK where it's low, and then you're selling it in the US where it's high. And so in doing that, you will drive the US Big Mac price down. And because you're buying it in the UK, you'll drive the UK Big Mac price up until they meet. And so the arbitrage is kind of stabilizing, right? Because you're essentially kind of equalizing the price of the big Mac in the two countries.
00:31:47.792 - 00:32:44.544, Speaker B: So that's obviously very stylized example. But the same principle applies when we think about stablecoin prices, right? So you've got an exchange that sells stable coins or buys and sells stable coins, let's say 1.5 cents. So one tether is equal to 1.5 cents, for example, on an exchange like, say, finance or Coinbase, then the tether treasury is willing to buy and sell tether at one USD, right? So the primary market rate, which is what we call the rate that the treasury gives, is one USD, whereas the secondary market rate, which is a binance coinbase, is 1.5 cents. So the same principle applies.
00:32:44.544 - 00:33:24.740, Speaker B: You buy the lower price and then you sell at the higher price. So here you would buy tether at one USD from the tether treasury, and that's equivalent to depositing dollars with the tether treasury, and you obtain tether, then you sell that tether at the higher price on say, coinbase or some exchange, and then you make a profit, and that will, again, what's that doing? So you are now selling a lot of tether on coinbase on exchange, and that will drive the tether price down until it goes back to one USD. So that's why the arbitrage is stabilizing.
00:33:26.600 - 00:33:56.620, Speaker A: So you mentioned three types of stablecoin designs. Here we have centralized, right, decentralized and algorithmic. Of the three, which do you think kind of hold the most promise in terms of providing a long run solution, stablecoin solution, and then which do you think have potentially the most risk?
00:33:57.760 - 00:35:01.244, Speaker B: Yes. So algorithmic is clearly the most risky, so you need some backing. And of course, the question then becomes a centralized or decentralized optimal. And I think that they both have pros and cons. So centralized stablecoins, even if they're fully backed, they have still, like, custodial risk issues where with tether, as people know, there's been some litigation history, so there's always some probability of an issue absconding with funds, right? And so that's, I guess the custodial risk run risk is also a problem. So that's like your classical bank run, where there's a mass redemptions and there's not enough liquid reserves. And so this is especially a problem if there's a lot of illiquid, like commercial paper on the assets of these issuers.
00:35:01.244 - 00:36:28.860, Speaker B: So if these issuers hold a lot of commercial paper that becomes illiquid, then they do not have enough liquid reserves to meet redemptions, and then that's your run risk problem. So those are the two main risks for a centralized issuer, for a decentralized stablecoin like DAi. They avoid these risks because individual investors are issuing the DAI tokens through their collateral, and it's all regulated through these smart contracts, which are essentially like computer code on the Ethereum blockchain, right? So this computer code is basically regulating the collateral of these debt positions. And these collateralized debt positions also force liquidation if your collateral falls below some threshold. So this typically happens when, say you deposit some ETH collateral, you borrow a fraction of die tokens, and then all of a sudden the ETH collateral collapses in value. Say there's a big downturn, then now you have too little collateral backing your die, and then it forces your position to liquidate. And that basically is a way to preserve the stability of the peg.
00:36:28.860 - 00:37:07.000, Speaker B: And so all of this is inbuilt in these smart contracts. So it's very transparent. So investors know exactly like, this is what will happen if the collateral falls below this amount. So I think there's a lot of positives about decentralized stablecoins. Of course, the problem is that ETH collateral is risky. So the peg used to be quite volatile. And what happened was that to get rid of the peg volatility, they had to introduce stable collateral types.
00:37:07.000 - 00:38:45.880, Speaker B: So that meant that you could now deposit USDC as a collateral and then borrow dai off that. But that's almost like going back to a centralized stablecoin, right? So it's almost like in order to preserve stability, the DAI stablecoin has had to allow investors to use USDC as a collateral. And so now there's still some risk of USDC collapsing. And then that would have implications for DAI. But in some sense, even if USDC collapses, you could say DAI would then move to other stable collateral types, or it would find some way to anchor itself to another stablecoin, for example, that did not collapse. So there's a way to mitigate some of these risks, but there's still a spillover effect, right? That if DAI stability hinges on USDC, then there is by necessity, like a link between the centralized stablecoin and a decentralized stablecoin. So you might just distribute some of the risks a bit differently, where if individual issuers deposit USDC as collateral, then they bear the risk if USDC collapses.
00:38:45.880 - 00:40:28.680, Speaker B: If there's another way to do it, which is the peg stability module, or PSM for short, and the Dai peg stability module allows investors to swap USDC for DAI at a one for one rate. And this is very much like a primary market rate, right? So that allows you to conduct this primary secondary market arbitrage if the DAI price deviates from USDC a lot. So what this meant is that if investors swap a lot of USDC for DAi, then now the Dai makerdao, which is kind of like a Dai treasury, will hold a lot of USDC surplus. And so they will hold all the risk of USDC collapsing, because essentially they hold a bunch of USDC reserves that could collapse if USDC does have like a custodial risk run risk type. So I guess my point is that DAi, in trying to become more stable, has essentially tied itself to a centralized stable coin. And so that leads to some risks from centralized stablecoins. But if you want dai in its purest form, which is if it just uses ETH collateral, then the drawback is that the peg is more volatile because you don't have any arbitrage when the die price moves around a lot because your collateral is very risky.
00:40:28.680 - 00:41:22.620, Speaker B: I guess my answer is there's no clear cut way to say is dai better or tether better? They both come with different sets of risks. You could argue that DAi is more short term volatility. Like if you look at dai in its purest form where you just use ETH collateral, in the short term there's more volatility. But the good thing with Dai is it doesn't have the custodial risk and run risk problems, which you could argue is more of a long run risk. Right? So like tether, I think in the short term it could have really great price stability, but there's always in the long run some potential for a run risk episode.
00:41:28.640 - 00:41:52.790, Speaker A: Thanks for those great responses, Dinesh. So that's pretty much all I have for you today. For Chainlink research reports, I'm Dr. Jason Anosteopoulos. Don't forget to subscribe and share share this content with folks in your circle. And so thanks so much, Ganesh. Great speaking with you and good luck with your future research.
00:41:53.320 - 00:41:54.930, Speaker B: Thank you. Thank you for having me.
