00:00:00.330 - 00:00:49.020, Speaker A: Thank you. Whatever we expect, it's not going to be it, I promise. Right. So, yeah, very, very briefly, I'll talk about how so started what eggs is, and in general, what we do. Many, many years ago, three years ago, we had idea of building something that we've seen an empty nation in the space. My experience, my background is in tech, but also I used to trade, and it's my hometown, so I know how to identify problem when I see one. And the problem that we've identified, the problem we've seen, is when we talk about DeFi in general or any decentralized exchanges, it's difficult.
00:00:49.020 - 00:01:30.250, Speaker A: You always have problems with Ux. It's cumbersome. It's not, it's not ideal in comparison with central exchanges or normal tradfi. The assets offering within the Dex and DeFi is general tricky, but also on ramping and off ramping is super tricky because that's defined. And also for initial users, for DJs, for original users and traders, the decentralization is one of the key decisions in terms of where they want to go, where they want to trade. And if you think just an empty words. We've seen what happened with FTX.
00:01:30.250 - 00:02:13.270, Speaker A: Everyone thinks that blockchain is decentralized. Everything that, if you say DeFi, Dex is decentralized, but it's not. At the same time, when we work in the trading, the AML models are okay ish for some retail users. But when we talk about institutional investors or high frequency trading, because of the slippage, because of the liquidity issues, that's always a problem. On top of that now, I think everyone recognizes the importance of self custody. I don't think it was important for everyone else a few years ago, but now everyone knows. And in general, Dexs and DeFi, we always say that we are too early in the space.
00:02:13.270 - 00:02:50.878, Speaker A: But Defi and Dex, for a very long time, used to be almost like a toy, rather than in comparison with Stratfi or central exchanges. So three years ago, we identified that there might be a solution that we want to try on. And the initial idea for GKX was that we want to build the decentralized limit order book. And I will explain a few things here. Decentralized because it has to be decentralized limit order book because that's the only way to trade without massive slippage. And no institutional investor will ever trade on Amm on scale. It has to be multi assets.
00:02:50.878 - 00:03:24.030, Speaker A: So not your traditional crypto, not your traditional chain pairs. It might be real world assets, it might be something new. The UX has to be on par with big boys. So we talk blockchain, we talk binance. The UX of TBil binance interface is incomparable with any Dexs or defi. And I'm not talking about UI, I'm talking about UX. The experience you have to go through in order to start trading.
00:03:24.030 - 00:04:03.734, Speaker A: What else? High frequency trading. You talk on chain, you talk blocks. Not really possible, but it has to be there if you want to compete with traditional exchanges. Obviously, initial idea for us was to build everything under the governance of Dao, because we want to build a protocol that can just fly without us. That was our perceived solution for the problem. So what exactly we had to have, we have to be trustless. Trustless means that whenever you trade, whenever you have your funds, you don't need to trust to provider to platform to exchange.
00:04:03.734 - 00:04:46.534, Speaker A: You have to rely on something that's trustless, decentralized. Whatever you do, it's not a server that someone can plug in, plug out, switch off, throw away. So it has to be decentralized in a way that no one is in full control of the system, of what's going on in the system. Permissionless here means that if we work in DeFi space and we say that we are actually decentralized finance, it means that any trader can say, well, you have these 50 assets, but I want to bring something new. So the things that are happening with the platform, they have to be permissionless. So anyone can bring something on the platform and everyone can start trading on that. And it comes with the additional requirements of limit order book.
00:04:46.534 - 00:05:16.062, Speaker A: So it's very clear what we want to have. And then 2021, we've hit a massive wall. What do we want to have? We know exactly what we need to do. We need to have decentralized, permissionless, limit order book. But when you work with order books, they have to be fast. Decentralization is not always fast. You have issues even with basic things like liquidation, because there is trust issue, there is basic execution.
00:05:16.062 - 00:05:53.110, Speaker A: So idea in principle is great, let's do binance, but in truly decentralized defi way, that is brilliant. The problem that the tech did not exist, still doesn't exist. What I mean here is smart contracts. Let's say, let's start with smart contracts. We want to do the high frequency trading. In principle, you have smart contracts, but if we work in traditional ones, the smart contracts won't give you required density of a trade, the block minting time, or the limitations, not really possible. Then we've figured out that, well, potentially l two is a good idea for us.
00:05:53.110 - 00:06:52.506, Speaker A: So we start building on stocknet. It has better Ux in terms of the transactions, lower cost, which is again important if you want to be food on chain. So good start. Smart contracts. Let's tick the box kind of already the limited computation when you work with why most of the Dexes have very limited amount of assets, because if you bring a new asset, you cannot guarantee the liquidity for this asset, but also you can guarantee the volatility of this new asset, which means that traditional things like for example, funding rate won't be sufficient in order to calculate these new assets. But if you say, well, fundamentally we are permissionless, which means a asset, which means that some assets won't fit within the funding rate criteria, which means that we need to bring something new and we need to do a lot of calculation for this new asset. But also we say, well, it's not amm, it's not less limited.
00:06:52.506 - 00:07:37.754, Speaker A: Order book limit order book has a lot of data, has a lot of matching, a lot of computations that simply either doesn't fit into the paradigm of normal systems, or it will be super expensive because well, imagine putting every position on chain. First of all, you won't be like that community, because isn't blocked on chain. But on top of everything, that's generally not a good idea. And the last but not least, everything that you work with today, apart from smart contracts, is actually not decentralized. That's a big statement, but think about it. Indexers, RPCs, other decentralized. Do we know anything that is truly decentralized about automatic contracts? Front end is to some extent even react.
00:07:37.754 - 00:08:18.700, Speaker A: You can compile the static files, you can run the static files, but anything that needs a calculation is not decentralized. So if you build something right now that requires a backend, it will be centralized. If you work with any third party provider, it will be centralized. So even when you say, well, every defi is decentralized, realistically speaking, there is always a third provider that sits somewhere on AWS, at some server that can be switched off. So effectively it makes your system not really decentralized. So that was the state of the ecosystem in 2021, and then we start building. That was roughly two and a half years ago.
00:08:18.700 - 00:09:00.774, Speaker A: What have we started with? Trustless, permissionless and decentralized application layer. We need to have a lot of, a lot of computation, it needs to be proof somewhere. So we've decided that it should sit on top of the stacknet. We need a lot of computation power, and we need to have some here. I use word off chain as something that is not executed in traditional on chain like L1 and L two. I'll explain what I mean later, but again, we need to have ability to compute something that doesn't sit within the traditional L1 and L two. Also you want to have public setup for the trading.
00:09:00.774 - 00:09:41.794, Speaker A: Sometimes you want to have private setup for the trading. So these were the initial agenda for the engineering team, for the business, for everyone. And then we start building what exactly that was the initial idea of the architecture we've decided to introduce and we've decided to build on the base layer. We have starknet as our single source of truth, as the way where we store the data, where we have the liquidity. On top of that it has the ZKX upchain. Again, I'll talk about Upchain a bit later. On top of ZKX Upchain we have design limit, order book, we have different data layers.
00:09:41.794 - 00:10:27.030, Speaker A: Because again, if you say that you're permissionless and you won't be able to bring any type of asset to your trading platform, it is very difficult to trade without a price. I've tried, not easy. If you need to bring a price for a new asset, it means that you need to procure this data somewhere. Normally you use data oracle, but when it's unknown asset, even when it's known asset, it's difficult because again, two years ago we came to Chainlink and said, guys, we want to have access to every asset. Well, it's not really possible because that's not what we provide on chain. And for assets that we do provide, that we want to provide for you, it will take two, three months. So arbitrary data procurement doesn't exist.
00:10:27.030 - 00:11:48.686, Speaker A: On top of that, we need to have some governments because again, we are ideally fully driven by Dow and because we sit on the starnet somehow we need to have the liquidity bridge between different networks and start net and Starkway, that's our universal l one to L two bridge. Apart of Starkway, there is only one official bridge on Startnet, only supposed ethn USDC. We are universal Bridge and we have to build Universal Bridge. Why? Again, because it can be any asset that you might want to trade and on top of that you have for digits, you have metamask for l one, you have architects and prowess for l two, but also you have what we call a ZKX account. That is the integrated account abstraction account that sits on top of ZTX and gives you access to everything you do in the system. And then we've started building and releasing, we start with release of the adaptive ballot rate, that is our version of funding rate. And then again we launched the testnet in March this year we had little over 65,000 traders, we've generated 1.2
00:11:48.686 - 00:12:42.506, Speaker A: billion, demonstrated very good CPS in the system. And then we released again with ZKX account. And then again we've announced the upchain. So two years of building something and through these two years we've been talking, we're giving this talks about ZKX and upchains and ability to defy and Dex and we've talked and we've talked and we've talked and we've talked. And the thing is that every time when I'm on stage explaining what we've decided to do and how we do this, every time we have someone coming to us and saying whoa, that's super cool, I want this as well, can I have it? Because I want to be decentralized. So I want to have something that is not centralized. I have a game and basically I want to have the front end that's decentralized.
00:12:42.506 - 00:13:19.254, Speaker A: So I want to have the image generation that is decentralized. Can I have it or. Well, I know these guys, they really want to be the protocol completely run by Dao, but it's not possible because if they leave, no one will pay bills for the AWS, so it will die. What do we do? And it's always AWS and there's always Google cloud and everything else. And effectively every defi we have right now, they are in one way or another actually are centralized. So the title of this talk is decentralization. Because on a paper, on the surface everything is decentralized by default.
00:13:19.254 - 00:14:25.090, Speaker A: But realistically speaking nothing is, and this is a problem and smart contract is only part of that. So for these two and a half years we always been talking about this problem we always building, and we always had developers coming to us and highlighting that it's not just us. I'm not being mental, it's not me trying to build something that no one actually needs. It's apparently a well recognized problem. However, when I said that DeFi is not fully decentralized and nothing decentralized, I had few smirks in the audience here because they, by default reactions, yeah, everything is decentralized. So at some point we have realized that maybe there is a bigger picture and we had a new problem that we managed to define. That dependency on centralized cloud computing like AWS, like Google is known and well recognized within the community, it's no one really talking about, but it does truly, truly limit whatever everything that happens with the DApps and in general within the blockchain.
00:14:25.090 - 00:15:15.954, Speaker A: At the same time, Ethereum and variation of have fundamental limitations of what can you compute? It's either impossible or it's prohibitively expensive. If you put any intense computation, it's just not doable. On top of that, if you need to work with big data like orderbook, or you want to build a date lake for analysis, for your tailwinds, for the prices of assets, it's not actually possible. And this is really mind boggling because we live in a world where everything is possible, and if there is an issue, there are requirements, it will be served. There's the demand and supply. Yet the industry for cloud computing is $600 million globally per year. And yet we have AWS, we have Google Cloud, and we have no alternatives to that.
00:15:15.954 - 00:16:09.630, Speaker A: I'm not even talking about censorship, persistence and stuff like that. It's just not there. So solution we propose is a verifiable cloud computing that is shared between different participants that will utilize it. The results are validated and verified with CK proofs. Effectively, we're trying to extend the Ethereum to become, to have a layer for Ethereum where you can compute it so the big data. So now what we do, and that shouldn't be my business, because my business is defiant Dexes. Right now what we do, we're building a thing where we're trying to build a new role of architecture that will provide verifiable cloud computing for any decentralized applications for Ethereum.
00:16:09.630 - 00:16:57.090, Speaker A: Right? We're trying to use the ZK proving for that, to verify computation. And effectively, we want to give developers way to scale their solutions and to have something to replace AWS, lambda or GCP. And we want to give something that can be run on permissions clients so anyone can come run the nodes. And then this will be created in a fully, completely decentralized, permissionless way. So ultimate goal is to have something where you can run arbitrary computation, any arbitrary computation, any sort of application can run it with this set of parameters. There are free things. We obviously have the computation, we have consensus, or we have proving, and we have two and a half minutes left somehow.
00:16:57.090 - 00:17:26.598, Speaker A: So I'll try to be either. I'll try to stay here for another hour. I'm really sorry. In general, three things are computation, consensus, proving computation, cross network computation, put verification of results. We have the multiple protocol computation as an option. So you can run massive computation on top of the system consensus here used. We have our own house consensus guild on top of not on top, but it's our take at raft.
00:17:26.598 - 00:17:55.490, Speaker A: So leader selection that basically prefers to have the fast leaders. We have zigbee proofs to store either within our system or outside of it. The overall architecture is relatively simple. You have request either from L1 or from any l two. It gets to the node network. It is taken by the dispatcher. Dispatcher nodes and dispatcher cluster are defined in the dynamic wafer over epoch.
00:17:55.490 - 00:18:40.046, Speaker A: You have the nodes that do the computation. This computation is provided back to the consensus nodes. They are validated, verified, and put back to the original requester as well as the internal network. I have no idea what's happening this time. Good. So in general, what we're trying to do is we're trying to build something that would enable every application to be truly decentralized and permissionless. We're trying to create if DKX in my mind is competing with binance, and I'm not sure they know that, but in my mind we do, because it's not interesting to compete with just the DeFi.
00:18:40.046 - 00:19:36.770, Speaker A: We want to have the same experience as big boys, then this thing kind of trying to replace AWS and gcp in a very interesting and weird way. But if we succeed, then basically we'll have a layer where any application RPCs indexes, front ends. Some computation for any type of internalization can run in a way where it sends a persistence and its permission is, and it's important because obviously we privilege to be here where we can work with any data, but there are lots of places where it is limited, either by the government or by the framework, or by the legal structure, or got no flow. So why I'm here because I believe that it is possible to do it, and I believe that the thing that we are creating now became bigger than ZKX itself. ZKX is a good business. It's a good. There's still 20 minutes to run, don't worry.
00:19:36.770 - 00:19:57.194, Speaker A: ZKX is a good business. And we continue to build ZKX. And there are lots of things, and the roadmap is massive. But I believe that the thing we're trying to create for the computation there is even bigger, and we are looking for co founders. And that's a twist that's no one expected. I'm not here to push ZKX. ZKx doing all right.
00:19:57.194 - 00:21:09.230, Speaker A: I'm here to talk about the problem. We have to talk about the solution we have, and I want to say that, guys, if you think that this is important, if you think that decentralization, sensor persistence, ability to run any application in this way is important, if you think that this potentially might do next wave of apps. But what's even more important, it will give the power, computation power to unlock blockchain for the next 1 billion viewers, probably 1 billion of users, then maybe there's one thing that needs to be done, and I believe that it is doable because, well, when you set your python on targets, everything is doable. So if you think it's interesting for you, if you think there is something else, I know we only had 20. I think it's like, what, five minutes? But if you think that is something that you might be interesting in, if you have interest in digitalization, in permissionless, in computation, please do talk to me. Email, Twitter, whatever. You know me probably as Paxon with you in any netherminds or stocknet groups.
00:21:09.230 - 00:21:20.900, Speaker A: Yeah, I think that it needs to be done, and hopefully it will be. Thank you. Our.
