00:00:00.330 - 00:01:10.740, Speaker A: How's everybody doing? So, my name is Robbie Greenfield, the CEO of emerging impact emoji is the product of emerging impact. Bit of background on myself, worked at consensus for a few years leading their social sector practice, where we really focused on how do you leverage blockchain technology feasibly, like to actually help people that don't have a whole bunch of money to buy nfts in the real world, right. And may not even be digitally or financially literate. And so throughout that experience, really focused on developing Dapps, deploying them in the field, usually with UN agencies or major ngos. We've worked with Oxfam, Red Cross, US State Department, UN ops to see and test. Okay, how sustainably can you deploy dapps in the field and help real people? And so today I'm going to really look at the world of DFI as it is and how it applies to attending to one of the biggest issues that the world has, which is the agro finance gap, which we'll get into. So, yeah, it's $450,000,000,000.
00:01:10.740 - 00:02:10.934, Speaker A: So oftentimes when you hear, and you hear the statistic a lot, it's like all the 2 billion people that are underbanked or unbanked, usually those people are agri workers, right? Meaning they work in some form of agriculture, and their entire livelihood is based off of their crop yield, how much they can create via their crop, how much they can sell, and their entire income is based off of that. The biggest issue with this population is that they don't have any access to financing to expand their farm, right. So if you are growing rice and you don't have any extra money to grow more rice, you're not going to make any more income. And so it's not the lack of financial tools or financial accounts or having a bank account, that's really the big issue. The big issue is that there are too many pay gates or paywalls to people accessing more capital so that they can increase their own income. And oftentimes when they are provided that access, it's usually very predatory, right. That the interest rate is like 120% a year.
00:02:10.934 - 00:02:48.670, Speaker A: And so that's the problem that we're facing. And so again, why is this a problem? Farmers need to expand. To expand they need to buy things. To buy things, they need access to finance. And the only way that you can increase the income of this population, much of which is that 2 billion people, is to give them that access. So a great deal of this demand is focused on the continent of Africa. So I don't know if you all knew this, but 60% of all subsaharan Africans are agri workers, which is insane.
00:02:48.670 - 00:04:01.850, Speaker A: Like, that's crazy. Yet with all the agricultural resources that the continent has, it is currently unable to feed itself, given the agricultural outputs of their farms. They have all the resources, but they don't have the infrastructure necessary to produce the food to feed their own countries because of a lack of financing. And so this is obviously a huge problem. And right now, about 1% of all the people who need financing actually have access. And so this kind of opens up a lot of different questions, like, okay, what's the state of DFI today? How could it help? How do you put protection measures in terms of even giving them access? How do you make sure that people don't default? And obviously, dapps and blockchain are not going to answer all of those questions. So what I'm proposing today is to take DeFi, if that's the foundation, right, for all the applications that could be built in social finance, and propose decentralized microfinance, which is really looking at the DeFi, at a protocol layer, but then looking at, okay, what are the other things that you have to do? You have to build to actually make that finance accessible, because it just existing does not mean it's accessible.
00:04:01.850 - 00:04:42.114, Speaker A: And so, starting with little lesson on where is DFI today? So there's about $254,000,000,000 in total value locked across most major chains. Apologies if your chain is not included on the DFI llama dashboard, but that's where I got that from. And when you look at, okay, what is happening with all this capital? $250,000,000,000. That's insane. That's more than half of the total financing demand for agri workers globally. So it's incredible that we could amass that much money in a single place. And if we look like almost 90% is lending and borrowing.
00:04:42.114 - 00:06:02.602, Speaker A: And so we need to ask, okay, are people borrowing for real purposes? In what context are they lending? Why are so many people, 90% of that volume is in lending and borrowing? And we start to see that it's because of a lot of these incentive mechanisms that a lot of protocols have put in place as to the reason why people are lending and borrowing. So it's much, much more often that somebody is lending or borrowing because they want to generate yield than it is that they are borrowing for a mortgage or borrowing for any other pragmatic reason that a non crypto literate person would borrow money for. And that presents a problem, because effectively we're posed with, you know, as great as it is, but it's not solving any pragmatic issues. And if you look into actually case studies of people trying to apply defi to pragmatic borrowing, you'll see that it oftentimes fails because of the incentives for generating yield. They're no longer there because they can't exist forever, right? There's a certain token allocation for each protocol to provide that yield for. And so this is a pretty big issue. Another pattern in this is that for mainstream usage of defi, you're starting to see a lot more people use decentralized exchanges than lending completely.
00:06:02.602 - 00:06:56.926, Speaker A: And so this provides kind of a different perspective in terms of how applications are being used versus protocols, in terms of what mainstreamers are finding actually usable. And so that's also very important to note. And so I've just looked at Ethereum because there's hell of layer ones now, so we just need to look at one. And so if we look at all of the users across Ethereum, and let's just say every address is a unique person, although we all know that probably is not true, but 4.3 million users, right, most of them are using dexes, whereas only 10% borrow and lend. So you're seeing a great amount of TVL actually being deposited by lenders and borrowers, but very few users actually use lending protocols. Most users are using decentralized exchange applications.
00:06:56.926 - 00:07:39.726, Speaker A: And we break it down to yield protocols to derivatives as well. So that would be your curve or your yearn. And that's kind of how it's broken up. And if we wanted to kind of break that down in terms of, okay, what amount that's being lent or borrowed, how does that map back to the average person? Like, let's create a Persona as to who is the average DFI user and what they're doing. And it's about 32,000 lent per user. So that also shows you not only is there a discrepancy in terms of how mainstream users use Dapps, but also there's a discrepancy in terms of who is actually borrowing and lending. Right.
00:07:39.726 - 00:08:48.200, Speaker A: If you have $32,000 in cash, likely don't need to borrow anything unless you are trying to make another money move. And so we're talking about a community of individuals who really don't need to lend or borrow at all. And the reason that I point this out is because that metric, the TvL per user, that's what we should look at in terms of whether this defi capital is having any actual social impact in terms of enabling real people who actually need to borrow money for pragmatic purposes. And so if we want to look at this in terms of like, okay, how do we enable decentralized microfinance? You probably want to lower the TvL per user, right? You want that to be $100 or $20 per user instead of $32,000 per user. And obviously as an outcome of that, you want to increase their income. And so what is decentralized microfinance? And so really it's taking D five fundamentals, right? All of the protocols that we see and creating an application layer that can interface in very hard to reach areas. So when I say hard to reach areas, not an iPhone application, not going to work.
00:08:48.200 - 00:09:40.018, Speaker A: We are talking about USSD applications. USSD is unstructured supplementary service data. So that is a communications protocol that can operate on a feature phone like a Nokia. We're talking about Android applications, right? Because there are far more Android users than there are iPhone users, iOS users, and we're also talking about interfaces that completely abstract all blockchain anything. And I know that you already know this, but leveraging metatransactions, paying for transaction fees, and not using any technical terminology at all. So not even showing a public address in most cases is all going to be really important. But even beyond that, decentralized microfinance requires partners to be in place to ensure that people are financially educated and to also mitigate the risk of default.
00:09:40.018 - 00:10:54.794, Speaker A: So in the context of a smallholder farmer in Tanzania, they don't only need just the tools to be able to accept that loan and spend it, but they need the context as to how they should spend it and how that's going to relate to their increase in income, how that's going to increase their productivity yield. And so all of this, I say, is decentralized microfinance, an entire framework built on top of a DeFi protocol that enables normal people, typically in underserved circumstances, to actually borrow from a lot of these areas. And so on the side here, I kind of break it down in terms of what that model looks like. So you have Goldfinch finance, you have Ave, Arc, you have Moolah, you have compound, you have Ave, Ave, arc and Ave, obviously being differentiated in permission borrowing versus just open borrowing, right? Which would be Ave. And how you can take all of these different protocols which effectively set the financial terms for these farmers and actually give them access in a predictable way. And then the second stage is creating compliant debt facilities so this looks at, okay, we know we have all the protocols. We know we can get a hell of a lot of money into these protocols.
00:10:54.794 - 00:11:54.638, Speaker A: How do we actually take that money into a legal entity and legally distribute it to people? Right, which you are aware, sec not the best partner in enabling this in the United States. And so imagine that same regulatory ambiguity in every single geography that you look to create this or implicate this. And then last, capital lent to a merchant or ngo. So we found that a great way to mitigate risk is actually to partner with organizations that are on the ground, that understand the local context. So that could be in an agro worker context. It could be the Red Cross, it could be an Oxfam, it could be a one acre fund that already have microfinance programs in place and already have a methodology of educating people of limiting their rate of default, and then, of course, distributing the capital itself. And so what could this bring? So traditional microfinance, pretty damn exploitative.
00:11:54.638 - 00:12:25.798, Speaker A: I mean, it's actually incredible how high the interest rates are in a typical microfinance loan. Oftentimes, microfinance institutions are located in urban centers. So they are not typically giving any financing to people who do not live in the city. Right. And so that's a delimiter as. And that's called spatial exclusion, like excluding people who wouldn't otherwise be in the city. And there's also, of course, a lot of limitations in terms of the financial literacy.
00:12:25.798 - 00:13:12.742, Speaker A: Oftentimes, in a lot of MFI programs, farmers typically feel like they were not educated to the point at which they could actually take on that loan and take the responsibility of paying it back. And that typically creates higher default rates. And then you have asset based lending. So this is something that an organization called one acre fund does, which is, I'm not going to give you the money. I'm going to give you the seed or fertilizer, and then you're going to use that in your farming operations to do what you need. But, of course, the issue with that is that if you want to be a little bit more self determinate or autonomous with your capital, it's extremely limiting to give somebody seed when they need fertilizer or vice versa, or a completely different agricultural input that might expand their farming operations beyond what you're actually giving them. And so it's very limiting toward what the people can use it toward.
00:13:12.742 - 00:14:03.640, Speaker A: However, there are some benefits. It's much better default rates, right. Because they're educated, they can only use the capital for a single purpose. And so it actually does provide some guardrails as to how money is being used. And so what we're proposing is that decentralized microfinance can get around spatial exclusion if you allow digital wallets to operate on feature phones, or you provide NFC cards that can receive money digitally, which is very easy to do. But of course, you also have flexible repayment terms as well, right? Because if you use a goldfinch finance or an Ave arc, for example, in a permission borrowing protocol scenario, you can continue to pay that loan off for as long as that maturity date is set. And you can set that maturity date, which is going to be a lot more flexible than what farmers usually have to do, which is pay every 30 days, which if you're in a seasonal market, right.
00:14:03.640 - 00:14:38.598, Speaker A: I could not be able to pay you back for another 60 to 90 days. And so that flexibility that protocols bring actually is very helpful. But of course, without the partners on the ground, it kind of falls short. So it's a combination of those two that allow you to get around a lot of these barriers. And so there's a lot of different funding models. And this is super, super important for anybody who's thinking about building an application on DeFi protocol is that sets the economic parameters for your application. So you have to understand how that protocol works in terms of the collateral that's used, which is incredibly important.
00:14:38.598 - 00:15:08.686, Speaker A: I'm going to tell you now, there's no small holder farmer in the world that could borrow on ave or compound alone. They can't do it. Why can't they do it? Requires 80% collateral. That's why there's no point in borrowing if you have to put 80% collateral down. And that's why Ave has created partnerships like Ave ArC to create permission borrowing pools rather than collateralized borrowing pools. That just doesn't work. But there are also other things that don't work as well.
00:15:08.686 - 00:16:06.878, Speaker A: You want to have a form or a sense of credit that's usually not tracked by traditional protocols. So that's something that your application might need to take over and you need to be able to communicate what credit even is in a way that's approachable. And then beyond that, you also need to have payment terms that are fixed. So variable payment terms in rural areas just causes more anxiety for the person that's borrowing. And so these are really important things to take into consideration when you're building an application on top of these protocols, because there's not much you can change once you start distributing the loans. And so that's another note. And so what we've done is that we've taken these different models and we're like, okay, based on these different models, what are things that we would want to see? What are attributes we'd want to see? And I've looked at collateral apy the protocol that fits those and the limits.
00:16:06.878 - 00:17:20.774, Speaker A: And right now I really do think it's probably a race between credit delegation and permission borrowing tools, permission borrowing pools in terms of what you can pragmatically use in the real world for people who are underserved, you can't really use lending pools as they are today unless the collateral restraints are lowered, right? Like lowered from 80% to like 10%. Another thing that's important on this is that for credit delegation, usually credit delegation schemes, they don't require the person to pay back the money. Right. It's kind of an option. Moola is a perfect example of this where I can delegate you $100, I can lend that to you, but there's no crypto economic parameter that really enforces you paying me back. And so it's really important to have, if you don't have those within the protocol, then you have to recreate those risk mitigation techniques in the real world as well. And so what do the building blocks look like? So if you were to go all the way from the top to bottom, things that you're going to want to consider outside of collateral constraints are going to be high transaction throughput.
00:17:20.774 - 00:18:10.658, Speaker A: Obviously, looking at cross chain initiatives like Allbridge and others is going to be really important because you're going to want to create a foundation where they can access wrapped assets that may not even relate to lending at all, may relate to things like micro investing. And as you all have seen, people are kind of pushed into this decision of selecting a single chain and all the assets and liquidity that comes with it. And the problem with that is that it's greatly limiting to what you could provide that in person. And so I'll probably end there. But as a further introduction to kind of what we do. So mocha is an application interface to effectively take liquidity from DeFi protocols and lend it in microfinancing programs. And so we focus more on the applications and interfaces built on top of these tools.
00:18:10.658 - 00:18:34.240, Speaker A: We are always looking to partner. So if you are a Dex, a DeFi protocol, or a layer one chain that's looking to find social impact, use cases for your ecosystem. We love partnering with entities and very typically work with multinational ngos to do these programs. And so certainly reach out to me if you want to do that. Cool. Yeah.
