00:00:00.200 - 00:00:31.318, Speaker A: Hello everyone, welcome to another episode of the deli Gray refuel, where I cup the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Dan Denis Asana, and today's the 5 September 2022. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So halpress here shared a screenshot from the kind of like Ethereum discord here that shows that Mainnet Shadow fork twelve went perfectly. There were zero issues found. So this was basically a perfect shadow forked or a perfect merge. You can actually see exactly what was said here by parathos, who said Mainnet Shadow Fork twelve merged 1 hour ago.
00:00:31.318 - 00:01:08.342, Speaker A: This is on the third 31 August. We used versions advertised in the Ethereum foundation blog post. So far we found zero issues. There are no missed proposals. Attestation rate didn't change pre to post merge and the network seems really stable. Great job to all the client teams. This is a massive milestone, as you guys probably know, as you've been following along with the Shadow forks and with the Testnet forks, or I guess like the Testnet merge transitions, you'll know that none of them have been 100% perfect, right? There are configuration issues here, there were test station issues here, the validators being offline here and there, and you know, some clients would just wouldn't produce blocks or produce invalid blocks and things like that.
00:01:08.342 - 00:02:05.630, Speaker A: But apparently with Mainnet shadow fork twelve that is not an issue at all. It just went completely perfectly, which is crazy to me because I mean, when you really think about it, it requires all the clients to work together, to talk to each other for there to be no issues during the merge transition, and we haven't seen that before. And you know, even I said that I expect there to be at least kind of like some issues with some clients, with the mainnet merge transition, just because there's so many kind of moving parts to it, and especially when it comes to configuration issues, especially for people who may not have configured correctly because they haven't done it with the test nets and they haven't done it on the shadow forks or anything like that. I'm expecting some kind of turbulence with it, with the main net merge fork in terms of some of the validators, but in terms of like it going smoothly, I expect it to go smoothly. We're probably going to see a participation drop off of a few percent or even potentially more than that. I'm not, you know, 100% sure how much it's gonna be. Obviously I don't know, but I think that the fact that the shadow fork has gone perfectly means that there wouldn't be an issue with kind of the clients or anything like that.
00:02:05.630 - 00:02:40.978, Speaker A: It more be an issue with the configurations or with people's, you know, their own setups. Right. If they're a solo stake, maybe they've set up something wrong. Maybe they haven't actually set up the execution client right. Maybe they haven't set up their JWT token correctly and all that sorts of stuff there which is easily rectified and quickly reclif rectified once the, the merge transition happens and their validators stop kind of attesting and they start losing rewards. And you know, on that note as well, I actually got all of my merge ready the other day and it's actually pretty easy, pretty straightforward and I'm doing it all manually. I'm not using DAP node or anything like I'm doing mine totally manually on my own setup so.
00:02:40.978 - 00:03:02.194, Speaker A: But a lot of solo stakers I know are using DAP node which makes it super easy to do and also super easy to change clients. So I don't expect there to be any major issues there. And we are so close now to the merge, guys. I mean what, it's like ten days, like if you go to bulldoze WTF. Here it says that the merge is expected around September 15 at 02:00 p.m.. Or. Sorry, 02:00 a.m..
00:03:02.194 - 00:03:20.736, Speaker A: UTC. And then. Yeah, I mean, even the other website that I was showing you guys last week, 797 IO, still says September 14. That set it I guess like 05:00 p.m.. UTC. But because the hash rate's been going up and down, it's kind of hard to get an exact measure. But it's going to happen on September 14 or 15th, basically.
00:03:20.736 - 00:03:52.394, Speaker A: So around ten days from now, which is just insanely close. Like I actually took a little bit of a break over the last few days, as you guys know. I didn't, I missed a couple of refuels last week. So I've just been taking a break because I think that leading up to the merge and around the merge is going to be a lot of insanity. Not, not particularly with prize, but just with like a lot of information out there, a lot of celebrations, a lot of things happening. And you know, I'm kind of like thinking that this merge call because there's that merge call that we're doing, main net merge call that we're doing myself, bankless and Eastaker is going to end up happening like 04:00 a.m. 04:00 a.m.
00:03:52.394 - 00:04:04.634, Speaker A: My time or something like that. Right? Like just, it's just going to happen that way right now. I don't think it's scheduled for that. I think it's scheduled for around 01:00 p.m. Depending on which scheduler you look at. But as I said, it's hard to kind of know exactly when that's going to happen. But we're close.
00:04:04.634 - 00:04:32.056, Speaker A: We're very close. And it's just amazing that this mainet shadow fork twelve was a perfect run. There wasn't any issues with it. Now, I haven't checked back in since this tweet. I don't know if there was other, there was any issues that sprung up later on, but at the time of the merge transition there wasn't kind of like any, any issues with it. And it seems like everything went perfectly. But if you want to keep up to date with the merge timer, you can go to these two websites, Bordell WTF or 797 IO slash the merge.
00:04:32.056 - 00:05:17.164, Speaker A: I'll link them both in the YouTube description for you to check out as well. So speaking of the merge, there's another update here on the merge NFT so you can see here from the state fullworks account. Another week brings us closer to the merge and the new home of the Heart exhibition. Go live alongside JPEG Sofia Garcia, we can't wait to share with you all 14 share it with you all 14 artists contributing work proceeds to benefit the protocol guild core devs that made the merge possible. And you can see here that the, the artists are listed on the right hand side and the art exhibition benefits, you know, all the proceeds from that are going to the protocol guild here. So just wanted to remind you guys that this is still happening, this is still coming and these are the merge nfts to get your hand on if you want to be part of history here. I think.
00:05:17.164 - 00:05:36.524, Speaker A: I don't. I think that these are the main nfts. I think there will be other ones out there. I've seen some floating around that are fan made. But in terms of kind of like minting something or minting an NFT that's part of the main NFT set. I think this is it. And this is the, the funds are going to go towards core devs here as well, which is, which is very awesome.
00:05:36.524 - 00:06:06.532, Speaker A: And last thing about the merge is I will be doing a Twitter spaces with superfizz and itemar from Argent here in less than 24 hours from when this video goes live. So this is happening Tuesday, 6 September 02:00 p.m.. UTC very much. Looking forward to it. We're going to be talking all things the merge and you know, I can't wait to talk alongside super Fizz and it am I here two people that have been around in the Ethereum ecosystem for a very long time here. I think they have a lot to say, especially super fizz. I mean, I talk about him a lot on the refuel, but that guy is awesome when it comes to everything.
00:06:06.532 - 00:06:32.444, Speaker A: The beacon chain, everything Ethereum staking. So I can't wait to do this. Twitter spaces in less than 24 hours. I'll leave a link to that in the YouTube description below for you. All right, so Mario Havel here from the Ethereum foundation announced, or at least shared a blog post announcing the Ethereum protocol fellowship. This is the fast track to becoming an Ethereum core dev, and it's now open. It's a fellowship program for anyone who's interested in diving deeply into the core protocol research and development.
00:06:32.444 - 00:07:35.096, Speaker A: And you can kind of like check out this blog post here to see all the details. Now, I believe they've done one or two of these in the past, the Ethereum Foundation, I remember covering it on the refuel and you can see here the past cohorts that they've kind of worked to. Yeah, they've hosted two successful cohorts, and past cohort members have gone on to work on alternative method of documenting and specifying the Ethereum protocol, researched how we can modify or remove the self destruct opcode, helped build ZK sync, built out new peer to peer networks for the portal network, which has got to do with statelessness, wrote their own implementation of the EVM and ten cohort alumni now work full time on core protocol development and five others work in adjacent areas of the industry. So if that interests you, if you want to be involved with things like this, and you want to be able to work on some of the most interesting and bleeding edge stuff within Ethereum, then this is the program for you. You should definitely go check it out. You should definitely go apply if it, if, if it's something that you're interested in. I mean, honestly, from kind of like my point of view, I, I'm not a developer or researcher or anything like that, but if I was, this is the thing I'd be going for.
00:07:35.096 - 00:08:23.770, Speaker A: I don't really consider there to be anything else as interesting as working on the Ethereum core protocol. Maybe the L2s, because they're closely related, I think, to core protocol work, and they can kind of work alongside the core protocol. But for me personally, app level stuff, like, I don't know, it just doesn't interest me the same way protocol level stuff does. Even though I've been a big advocate for the app layout, I'm obviously a big advocate for us having better app layered products being launched because of the fact that there's no point building on the core protocol stuff if the app layer is lacking. I just personally am much more interested in the core protocol stuff, but I'm interested in it as an educator. Right? Like, I haven't done any research, I haven't published any research, I haven't done any kind of a core development itself. I haven't done really any development as I'm not a developer, but I do a lot of education around it.
00:08:23.770 - 00:09:11.424, Speaker A: And that's just personally what I find most interesting. But there are a lot of people out there who are the complete opposite of me. They don't really care for educating, but they definitely want to get into the weeds, propose new research or do research, help, help with core development and be part of the Ethereum history that way. And that just speaks to how many different ways and how many different opportunities you have to be involved with Ethereum. Because you don't have to just settle for one small corner. You can do everything, or you can just do, you know, something that really, really resonates with you. Like, I consider myself a generalist as an educator, but you can just dive headfirst into Ethereum core protocol development and spend all your time on that or core protocol research and not really have to pay attention to anything else, right? Like, you don't, as a core protocol researcher and developer, you don't have to concern yourself too much with the app layer.
00:09:11.424 - 00:09:54.150, Speaker A: Like what you're building should just allow the app layer to proliferate. But you, you yourself don't have to get into the weeds of every single project, right? You just work on what you work on and that's it. So if this, if that sounds like something you love doing or want to do, you should definitely go check out this fellowship. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so, and you can go get all the details there. So the Ethereum foundation blog has had a major overfall and is now available in 16 languages. I've spoken about my view on the Ethereum, I guess, like language support, generally across the ecosystem. I've often talked about how I think that it's kind of weird that we still don't have a lot of multiple language support on the app layer, but the ethereum.org
00:09:54.150 - 00:10:14.016, Speaker A: website has a lot of different languages supported there. And now the Ethereum foundation blog has been translated into 16 different languages. And I'm sure there's more ongoing. There isn't all the blog posts from the Ethereum foundation blog translated. I think it's kind of like an ongoing effort here. But this is great. At the end of the day, I've said it before, and I'll say it again, we way over index on English in the Ethereum community.
00:10:14.016 - 00:10:46.892, Speaker A: Even though we're supposed to be a global, distributed, decentralized community, we over index on English just because that's just the way it is. Right. English is a very dominant language. It has incredible network effects. And there definitely is a divide between, guess, west and east, as they're traditionally, is just generally. And it's funny because I was looking at kind of, I guess, like, the alt l one space the other day, and I was thinking to myself, what's the most successful alt l one after all the dust has settled what has actually had staying power? And funny enough, it's BSc, right? Binance smart chain. I think that this is for two major reasons.
00:10:46.892 - 00:11:18.048, Speaker A: The first reason is obviously binance support, like, the world's biggest crypto exchange, putting all their weight behind the BSc, allowing people to bridge in and out very easily for, you know, very cost effectively, and not caring about decentralization at all, and just basically having, like, a centralized on chain casino, essentially, for people to play with. Right. The second thing is that a lot of the people using BSc are actually not from the west. They're not English speaking. They're more so from the east, because binance has always had a very big presence in Asia. I mean, it was born out of Asia. Cz himself is from.
00:11:18.048 - 00:11:53.400, Speaker A: From Asia. So that is a huge kind of driver of their traffic there. And I think the Ethereum community has, I mean, intentionally or not, ignored that whole cohort there because we don't have a lot of language support at the end of the day. Yeah, you can do, like, auto translations and stuff like that, but with language comes the culture, too. And I think in the Ethereum community, we are very westernized and, you know, very us and Europe centric, whereas BSc. But, you know, binance and I think there was a couple of other chains out there, you know, tried to appeal to the asian market. I remember the.
00:11:53.400 - 00:12:38.944, Speaker A: There was neo in 2017 and 2018 called the. The Chinese Ethereum. That never caught on. But it's funny because BSc seemed to seem to catch on as, like, the asian etherium, so to speak, because BSc really is just an EVM chain at the end of the day, but it is appealed to a completely different cohort and also a different cohort in terms of people being able to afford to use the chain. Right. So in saying all of that, we definitely need to keep pushing on more language support, not just for, obviously, asian speak, the different languages in Asia, but also in the Middle east, you know, in Eastern Europe as well, like all these places that we've traditionally not appealed to and not actually been in. We need to do that because Ethereum can't call itself a global network if we're just appealing to english speakers.
00:12:38.944 - 00:13:13.946, Speaker A: Like, yes, okay, English is spoken by billions of people, but it regardless, like, we're still leaving billions of people excluded from it because they don't speak English and they have no plans to, to learn how to speak English, and they shouldn't be expected to learn how to speak a completely different language just to be able to use the things that we're building. So I think that the Ethereum foundation has done an amazing job on both the ethereum.org site for language support and also on, on the blog now. And I just wanted to give them a big kudos for doing that because I think it's extremely important. I wish more of the app layer kind of projects did this on their front ends. But, yeah, I mean, we can't force them to do it. Right.
00:13:13.946 - 00:13:34.290, Speaker A: They have to do it through their own accord. But it all happened probably slowly over time. Some of them do have it, but I think, I'm surprised it hasn't happened more. I think that's just maybe because a lot of them don't realize how much of their user base they're living on the table by not supporting the non english speaking countries. And maybe they just haven't really thought of it at the end of the day. So. So, yeah.
00:13:34.290 - 00:14:18.768, Speaker A: But anyway, kudos to the Ethereum foundation for pushing along here. All right, so Sam, Calder Mason here announced something called checkpoints with a z over the weekend. So this is an ethereum beacon chain checkpoint sync provider. So what the features that come with this is that it reduces the operational burden of providing a full checkpoint sync endpoint web UI for users to cross reference against and light mode for home stakers. So what can you use this for? Well, because the main emerge is quickly approaching and the window to get your beacon node synced in time is closing. The, this checkpoint sync lets, you know, download, download a finalized checkpoint that is close to the head of the chain and then once complete, you verify that the sync went as expected. So in reality, it's hard to find an endpoint for you to use the initial download and just as hard to find somewhere to verify your sync.
00:14:18.768 - 00:15:35.520, Speaker A: Checkpoints aims to help with both of these problems, and it has two modes of operation, light mode and full mode. And you can read the rest of the details in this thread here. But yeah, I mean, if you are a solo staker and you need to, or if you want to become a solo staker before the merge comes around and you want to sync the beacon, you know, your beacon node, you can, I guess, like sync from scratch, which is very, I guess, intensive and very time consuming, or you sink from one of these checkpoints, and I mean, in the future, or at least even, even these days, like exclusively this, you'd be sinking from a checkpoint because there's something called weak subjectivity where it, the chain will become too heavy, it'll take too long to sink, that you need to be able, that you will be using these checkpoints always to sync. But the reason why you can have guarantees around these checkpoints is because you can actually check, and you can see here, you can actually check the state route and the block route to make sure that you're on the right chain. And the reason it's called weak subjectivity is because it's still subjective where you're getting the head of the chain from. You're choosing it from either checkpoints or some other provider. But it is not a strong subjective because, sorry, it's not strong subjectivity because of the fact that you can actually verify it yourself with the stateroom and the block route here and have pretty good guarantees that you're on the, the right chain.
00:15:35.520 - 00:16:22.798, Speaker A: Right. You're on the, you're at the right head of the chain. So yeah, this is really cool. I think this is just in time, obviously for the merge here. So if that is you, if you are someone that is merging, or so I should say sinking from, from scratch for the merge as a solo staker, or if you're changing clients and you accidentally corrupted your database, or you're kind of like you deleted your database, something like that, then this is something you should definitely check out. And I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. And just on that note as well, just a friendly reminder, I kind of mentioned it before, but I want to remind you again, if you are a solo staker, if you're running any kind of staking software, make sure, like, this is the most important thing going into the merge that you essentially run a local execution layer client.
00:16:22.798 - 00:17:08.464, Speaker A: It can be geth, it can be nethermined, it can be base ooh, maybe Aragon, but Aragon's, that's the kind of like similar to get. If you're going for client diversity, you would go for Nethermind or base ooh. And also you need to get your JWT token generated and linked all that up. Now the easiest way to do this is to go to the merge readiness checklist. You can google that and it walks you through it all. And then there's the optional extras like mev boost and stuff like that, which you can do as well. But just make sure that you have all of that set synced and ready to go for the merge because if you don't, if you're not running your own execution layer client, you will not be able to go through the merge transition from, and from my understanding, your validator will just simply go look offline to the protocol and you'll start inactivity leaking out after not, you know, after a few kind of like missed, missed asset attestations.
00:17:08.464 - 00:17:44.008, Speaker A: There, here's another reminder for people out there that are running these things, running validators for solo stakers. If you are staking with a third party provider, like if you just bought Ste or if you just bought rethy, then you don't have to worry about that. The people running the nodes will have to worry about that. It, I mean you can have relative certainty that it's all fine on their end, but you would probably want to, I don't know, double check for yourself and maybe asking the discord and the rocker pool discord if everything's up to date. And I expect it to be fine even in the lighter discord, but I expect all of it to be fine. And as I said, if it's not, they're going to quickly course correct because if they don't they're leaking value and it's not good for anyone. So.
00:17:44.008 - 00:18:28.908, Speaker A: Yeah, but anyway, you go and go check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so ens announced over the weekend that in collaboration with Cloudflare, they've set up another alternative gateway on ETH domains, meaning you can add either dot de domains or dot limo to your ens name to reach it via the web. And they're continuing to work on recovering access to ETH link. Now for those of you who don't know, ETH Link access is currently in limbo because the name is earned by owned by Virgil Griffith, who as I guess like an s Dow said, is currently unavailable, which is putting him lightly. He is in prison right now, right? He was prosecuted for his involvement in going to North Korea and, and breaking us sanctions. So obviously as he owns f dot 8th dot link is in prison.
00:18:28.908 - 00:19:07.950, Speaker A: He can't access that. So right now it's, it's unable to, to be accessed and I'm unable to be obtained to renew the, the name f dot link here. So as an alternative you can use dot domains or limo for your ens name to reach it via the web. Just wanted to give a shout out there for that in case you were confused as to why ETH link isn't working and why it's offline. This is kind of, I guess, a really shitty situation here. I wonder how this is going to go. Like will Virgil be able to give instructions to someone he trusts to get that domain kind of transfer, sorry, that, that, that no matter that domain name and transfer ownership or renew it or anything like that, I'm not sure.
00:19:07.950 - 00:19:41.666, Speaker A: We'll have to see how that goes. But that was August 26 when that was announced there. So maybe something has been rectified since then, but I haven't seen it. But there are still these alternatives that you can use regardless, and you can see them on the screen here and it's dot domains and limo for you there. All right, so an announcement out of Inkonyama today. They've introduced something called Cloud ZK, which is a toolkit for developing zero knowledge proof experience acceleration in the cloud tail doctor. Today we open source a new way to accelerate ZK using FPGA in AWS cloud easy, accessible, cheap.
00:19:41.666 - 00:20:21.640, Speaker A: Read on or check out the blog post thread. So there's a thread here announcing exactly what this is for a refresher for you guys ing on Yama is building zero knowledge asics and I am an investor in them. Just want to disclose that there. But this is the kind of bleeding edge stuff that we want to be seeing in the ZK space. That is on the hardware side of things. It is a piece of software, but to power the hardware that will be able to generate these ZK, Zkp or zero knowledge proofs. Because without, I guess, speedy generation, zero knowledge roll ups are quite limited because the cost, from my understanding, the biggest cost of a zero knowledge roll up is the time and the resources to generate the zero knowledge proof.
00:20:21.640 - 00:21:30.042, Speaker A: Now if we can get them down as much as possible, then we kind of get, get, what's the word I'm looking for get closer to realizing that reality of the holy grail of scaling solutions for Ethereum, which is full ZK roll ups with cheap ZKP proving here. So you can read this blog post for exactly what this is. This is more geared towards, I think, developers and more technical people of course, but it's great to see that there are a lot of things happening in the ZK acceleration space here and the ZKP proving space, because as I said, it is definitely very very needed and in your is completely focused on this. This is like their whole jam and I'm glad that there is a company that does this. I was actually extremely excited to back them when I was given the opportunity because I'd been talking about it for a while on the refuel before I even knew about them, about this hardware that we would need and also the software to power that hardware. And I think it's going to be one of the most important companies going forward as we get into, you know, get further down the L2 scaling roadmap that ethereum is going down right now. All right, so finally here, speaking of L2s, Stocknet Alpha version 0.10.0
00:21:30.042 - 00:22:07.510, Speaker A: has been released to Gurley. So this version is another step towards scaling Ethereum without compromising on security and decentralization, as Starkware says here. And you can read the blog post about. Sorry, you can read the blog post. I'll link in the YouTube description, but the main features are that there are account obstruction improvements in the spirit of EIP 4337 validate execute separation transaction uniqueness is now ensured in the protocol. The fever mechanism has been extended to include l one to l two messages and declare transactions, and there's also a few Chiro syntax changes. So as I said, you can read the blog post for a further breakdown here with links to even even more breakdowns on all of this.
00:22:07.510 - 00:22:38.656, Speaker A: But great to see Starknet Alpha, a new version of Stocknet alpha rolled out to girlie here. Not on mainnet of course, but on a testnet. I'm sure this will be pushed pushed to mainnet sooner rather than later. And I actually really like this artwork here. This is really cool. It's got like stairs on the left, mountains on the right, and then like a galaxy, sorry, mountains in the middle, and then a galaxy on the right really speaks to, I guess, starqued branding around voyaging out into the unknown as a zero knowledge or a stark scaling infrastructure here. So very cool image there.
00:22:38.656 - 00:23:12.746, Speaker A: But yeah, I think that's going to be it for the updates now, I've left a bit of time here at the end today because I have something that I want to discuss, particularly leading up to the merge, which I said before is happening in around ten ish days. Right. I think what's on everyone's mind right now is what the markets are going to do. And I've spoken about this before, and you guys know I don't think the merge is priced in. But as I said on my podcast with Hal Press, and as Hal said himself, there are different levels of priced in, right, depending on your timeframe. My timeframe is very, very long term. Whenever I say I don't think something is priced in, I'm talking many, many years.
00:23:12.746 - 00:23:31.770, Speaker A: I'm not talking like 612 months, I'm talking 510, 1520 years. That's my time horizon. So I think people miss that whenever I say it. And it's fair to miss that. I mean, it's not something obvious, but I want to talk short term for a second, not something that I normally do, but I want to talk about it because I think it's important. I'm seeing a lot of people make comments about it. So I think it's important for me to give my two cent here.
00:23:31.770 - 00:24:28.174, Speaker A: It's probably going to be a volatile time, right. Even in a bear market, there are players out there who are trying to take advantage of information asymmetries, trying to play PvP matches with other traders out there, and basically also positioning themselves for any possible forks that are happening. There's a popular trade right now where you long spot, which basically means you buy ETH, like actual ETH, you withdraw it to your wallet or something or have it on an exchange so that you can have exposure in case there is a proof of work Ethereum fork. And you get that airdrop, but then you short the futures or contracts, sorry, you short futures for ETH, so that you're basically in a neutral position. So essentially it doesn't matter what way the ETH price moves, you're not losing money on that. Right. That's, that's kind of like the strategy because obviously, if you are only trying to capture the forked coins and then you don't want to open yourself up to losing money on longing ETH, just in case ETH went down, because that would just negate the profit you can make from the coin.
00:24:28.174 - 00:25:10.376, Speaker A: So that's a very popular trade right now. And you may have seen some charts out there of open interest, which measures, measures this leverage in the system for ETH going up and up and up. And I think that's a big reason because of it. Now, what does this mean for the price post merge? I think that what we're going to see is we're going to see volatility, but I think because we're in a bear market, it's going to be way less volatile than it otherwise would have. You could imagine the merge happening in, like, the peak bull markets say the merge was happening in April 2021, just before we peaked in May 2021. It would have been extremely volatile. Right? Like, we were probably still going to peak, but it would have been even more volatile because of the fact that we had this massive catalyst of the merge basically right there.
00:25:10.376 - 00:25:48.592, Speaker A: We had this issue introduction. We had all the positive stuff coming with it, but we had also run up a lot. I mean, people often forget that we went from about $90 in March 2020 to 4400 in May 2021 in, like, 14 months, we went up over 40 x on one of the largest market caps in crypto. I mean, ETH was number two, right? So when you think about it like that, even if the merge was happening around then, I think we still would have topped out. Maybe we would have gone higher than 4400, but we still would have topped out. It would have been extremely violent. It would have probably been similar to the bitcoin, bitcoin cash thing that happened in late 2017, where there was a massive catalyst around that there's tons of volatility.
00:25:48.592 - 00:26:07.944, Speaker A: It was just crazy. But given it's happening in a bear market and given the price has really just been going sideways for weeks now. I mean, yeah, we came off the bottom, but we haven't really done anything special. We went to two k, we came back down, kind of gone sideways. Now, it's not really anything special. There's not really any new entrants in. I mean, NFT volumes is one of the things that I look at the most.
00:26:07.944 - 00:26:29.422, Speaker A: They've basically collapsed from their highs a lot. The on chain activities still very much down. Layer twos are growing, but I feel like that's just layer one users migrating to L2s at this point. Not really net new users yet. Which means, yeah, we're basically in the depths. I feel like we're in 2019 personally. So there will be volatility, but I don't expect it to be anything as violent as it would have been.
00:26:29.422 - 00:26:48.790, Speaker A: And if you're trading around this, I mean, that's your prerogative, but I don't know, I feel like trading around this is extremely risky, especially on leverage. So for me personally, I'm. You know, you guys know I'm just stacking 8th long spot as I normally. And I don't plan to trade around. I don't plan to sell any ETH or anything like that. I don't care about any forked coins. Like, doesn't really bother me if I get them or not.
00:26:48.790 - 00:27:11.466, Speaker A: Honestly, I don't probably won't because most of my ETH is in staking. So I don't think I'm gonna get any if my ethers in staking. Which again, as I said, I don't really care about that. But if you want to position yourselves for that, you can. But as I've mentioned before, there are risks associated with that too. Depending on what fork you use, there could be no replay protection and you want to be aware of that. So I think just leading up to the merge, we're very close now.
00:27:11.466 - 00:27:23.066, Speaker A: Within the next ten days, things are going to get a bit noisy, I think. Not as noisy as they would have been in a bull market. Thankfully. Still a bit noisy. So just keep your wits about you. Just try and stay level headed. Try and stay grounded.
00:27:23.066 - 00:27:42.582, Speaker A: If the ETH price starts going up a lot because of the hype, I mean, I could see us going above two k just. Just because of the hype, right. It's not that far from here. Just some people trying to play the trade. My advice is always the same. Like, I don't think that leverage is healthy, right. And I think that getting caught up in that sort of stuff is a one way ticket to rect.
00:27:42.582 - 00:28:00.846, Speaker A: But at the same time, I don't try to give financial advice on the refuel. I don't try to talk short term markets. I'm always a long term guy. I know most of you, you are as well. But I just want to put that warning out there because we are just ten days away. Like, it's crazy. I'm still kind of a disbelief that we're just ten days away from this event.
00:28:00.846 - 00:28:20.284, Speaker A: And things are relatively quiet. And as I said, I think that's just solely because it's a bear market and people are trying to fade it. They're trying to be like, oh, you know, the merge, you've heard about it forever. Okay, cool, let's just get it over with. And because the price isn't doing anything, people aren't really too excited about it. But us hardcore Ethereum to be waiting for this for a long time. Or maybe you're a new Ethereum.
00:28:20.284 - 00:28:39.160, Speaker A: It's just something that excites you and we're all super pumped for it. We're just ten days out. It's happening. So the market stuff is pretty much irrelevant. Like, I don't even care what the ETH price does. I just so happy that Ethereum is going to be a foolproof of stake network in just ten days. I mean, I've been waiting for this since the first day I heard about Ethereum.
00:28:39.160 - 00:28:59.136, Speaker A: The first thing, one of the first things I read about Ethereum was that it was going to transition to proof of stake. That was one of the first things that got me excited about it. I've been waiting for this for over five years now. So for me it's a, it's a big deal. I think for a lot of other people it's even bigger deal that have been in it longer. Um, and yeah, I just can't wait for it to happen. But just some, some words of caution there.
00:28:59.136 - 00:29:11.844, Speaker A: But I think on that note, I'm going to end it for there, for today. So thank you everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone. Bye.
