00:00:00.490 - 00:00:41.770, Speaker A: We expect to get through a lot today. So let's get started with digital assets. Under your leadership, the Shares Exchange Commission has brought nearly 50 separate enforcement actions against digital asset firms. And now your agency is requesting an additional $78 million to expand your enforcement agenda. At the same time, you have refused to provide clarity on whether digital assets offered we expect part of an investment contract are subject to securities laws, and, more importantly, how these firms should comply with those laws. You're punishing digital asset firms for allegedly not adhering to the law when they don't know it will apply to them. It's nonsensical.
00:00:41.770 - 00:01:13.646, Speaker A: The administration said it. The Fed has said it. And I'll say it again. Congress must provide clear rules of the road for the digital asset ecosystem because the regulators cannot agree. Regulation by enforcement is not sufficient nor sustainable. Your approach is driving innovation overseas and endangering American competitiveness. The ranking member and I have worked for more than a year on this issue, and we'll continue to work this Congress.
00:01:13.646 - 00:01:53.630, Speaker A: But let me be clear. Our goal is to make law. We expect you to play a constructive role in that process. Now, next up, we'll discuss your overly aggressive and very expensive rulemaking agenda. In the past two years, the Commission has proposed 53 new rules at a breakneck pace. That's twice as many rules as your predecessor, Mary Joe White and Jay Clayton, in the same amount of time. This raises serious concerns that the rulemaking process is being rushed undermining the quality of our securities laws and risking negative, unintended consequences.
00:01:53.630 - 00:03:06.550, Speaker A: These concerns have been echoed by senior personnel at your own agency, and they are similar concerns raised while you were at the CFTC. Time and time again, you have cut the public out of the rulemaking process with unreasonably short comment periods, even for major rules like your disastrous climate disclosure proposal and equity market structure overhaul. You failed to justify these significant rules with thorough evidence, careful studies, and even cost benefit analysis. I look forward to hearing why the Commission is rushing to make such dramatic changes in our public markets based on paltry economic analysis and limited public input. Finally, it appears you've been so busy weaponizing the securities Exchange Commission to push your agenda that you've forgotten a key pillar of the Commission's statutory mission capital formation. Unlike you, this committee is working to strengthen public markets, help small businesses and entrepreneurs, and increase market access for all investors to ensure the long term growth and prosperity of this country. I'll close with this chair? Gensler.
00:03:06.550 - 00:03:54.200, Speaker A: Your responses to congressional inquiries have been unacceptable. You have a constitutional duty to conduct your business and your agency, but we too have a constitutional duty to conduct oversight of your agency under our jurisdiction. We intend to do that, and we will continue to do so aggressively. But it is your duty to respond and comply with congressional inquiries. If you continue to thwart this institution. By ignoring our requests and providing incomplete responses, we will be left with no choice but to pursue all avenues to compel the information or documents we need and the American people need and deserve to see themselves. So with that, I yield back.
00:03:54.200 - 00:04:39.650, Speaker A: The Chair now recognizes the ranking member of the Committee, the gentlewoman from California, for four minutes for the purposes of an opening statement. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good morning and welcome, Chair Gensler. Right now, our financial system is still recovering from the sudden collapse of Silicon Valley Bank and Signature Bank. Our nation's affordable housing cris is worsening, and we are on the brink of a Republican imposed debt default that will create unprecedented and untold levels of harm to the United States and global economy. But unfortunately, today's hearing is not focused on addressing any of those looming crises.
00:04:39.650 - 00:05:42.322, Speaker A: Instead, we're here this morning because last Congress, Republicans threatened to do a big number on the SEC and Chair Gensler, and today is the start of them making good on that promise. This playbook is new. Committee Democrats and the American public have seen it all before. Under the first Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Director Richard Cordray, republicans worked around the clock to harass the agency with sham investigations, baseless subpoenas, and non stop hearings, all in hopes of delaying or impeding the important work of the agency. This is the same exact strategy they plan to use on the SEC, and unfortunately, everyday people will pay the price. The SEC has, on average, provided over twice the legally. All right, Bankless Nation, welcome to this live stream of Gary Gensler's testimony.
00:05:42.322 - 00:06:05.434, Speaker A: This is an experiment for us. This is not something that we've done before, but I think it's pretty fun. I'm already having fun. I hope you're having fun. So thank you for tuning in. I'm going to take this time to talk over Maxine Waters because she is clearly just making it political about Republicans versus Democrats. I'm assuming this is going to be a reoccurring theme that happens as people are given some of their time to stand up on a podium.
00:06:05.434 - 00:06:59.758, Speaker A: Instead of going after Gary Gensler, they're going to make it partisan, which is what Miss Maxine Waters seems to be doing. So I'm going to have to give Maxine Waters a solid two out of ten points on her criticism of Gary Gensler. While she did address the issue, she has totally ignored the main point of why we are here today. Anyways, I will return to Maxine Waters in transparency and I will heckle later and address issues that arose during the GameStop, events and identified by investigations this committee led. Additionally, the SEC has proposed rules to require greater transparency for private equity and hedge funds, which are opaque, even though they have significant impacts on our economy and society. These reforms are not being rushed. They are long overdue.
00:06:59.758 - 00:08:01.954, Speaker A: And this committee held several hearings and considered legislation addressing all of these issues. Meanwhile, Republicans are eager to rush forward with measures that would deregulate our capital markets we just witnessed that trump's deregulation means in the banking sector and financial stability as the collapse of SVB and Signature Bank threaten confidence across the banking system. I can't believe that this committee is rushing to take off more guardrails when we should be adding them. I would also like to applaud Chair Gensler and his staff for the forceful actions the SEC has taken and dedicated more resources to go after crypto. Whoa. Taking away the points. She's at zero now to mask non compliance in crypto.
00:08:01.954 - 00:08:39.666, Speaker A: In fact, under Chair Gensler, the SEC has nearly doubled the size of the unit responsible for protecting investors in crypto markets and from cyber related threats since the recent bank failures and the fall of XTX in various crypto platforms. With that, I'm going to yield back the balance of my time because the Chair did not go over his time. Yeah, please do. Please yield your time notion here for me too. The chair recognizes Mrs. Wagner, chairwoman of the Subcommittee on Capital Markets, for 1 minute. I.
00:08:39.666 - 00:09:37.086, Speaker A: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Chair Gensler, it's been 18 months since you've appeared before this committee. My colleagues and I look forward to discussing your agency's overly aggressive agenda that is in fact rushing through rulemakings at a frenzied pace the likes of which we haven't seen rough to a great response to the Eight financial crisis. However, your agenda is neither driven by congressional mandate and let me underscore congressional mandate, nor a widespread market failure like we saw in Eight. In fact, it remains to be seen what actual deficiencies the commission seeks to address with its 53 new regulations. Even when a very brief or half baked cost benefit analysis is provided, it fails to consider the aggregate regulatory burden on retail investors, small business and capital markets.
00:09:37.086 - 00:09:54.406, Speaker A: The bread and butter of the United States of America, Mrs. Wagner proposing will cause death by 1000 cuts to US capital formation and I yield back. Well done. Solid seven out of ten. Performance Committee and Capital Markets. Mr. Sherman for 1 minute.
00:09:54.406 - 00:10:23.486, Speaker A: Chairman Gensler, thank you for working hard and getting things done. Well, he's just like sitting there given to you by the 33 and 34 securities Acts and bringing them up to date. It for the 21st century. Thank you. Brad Sherman, enemy of the people, like the big banker guy. We don't like this. Thank you for standing up to the crypto bro billionaires who we're an area where the multibillion dollar frauds are just the beginning of the societal harm.
00:10:23.486 - 00:11:10.270, Speaker A: Investor protection is not the antithesis to capital formation, it is the necessary antecedent. If we don't protect investors, capital will go to other markets. The private placements cannot swallow the whole idea of companies being public and the idea that 2000 shareholders should become 2000 shareholders of record through a phony math that allows companies to have perhaps 10,000 beneficial shareholders and not consider themselves public is something that needs to change. I yield back. Today we welcome the testimony of Gary Gensler, chair of the securities and Exchange Commissioner. Chair Gensler, we thank you for taking the time to be here. You'll be recognized for five minutes to give an oral presentation of your testimony.
00:11:10.270 - 00:11:23.442, Speaker A: And without objection, your written testimony will be made part of the record. Chair Gensler, you're now recognized for five minutes. All right, here we go. Morning. Thank you. Chair McHenry, ranking member Waters and members of the committee. Thank you for inviting me to testify.
00:11:23.442 - 00:11:57.726, Speaker A: As noted in my written testimony, my views are my own. Walking into the Rayburn building, I couldn't help but stop by the statue of Sam Rayburn, longest serving speaker of this great House. His colleagues used to call him Mr. Sam. Well, you see, as Chair of the House Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce, he worked closely with President Roosevelt to establish the nation's first federal securities laws in 33 and 34. In fact, that 34 act was called the Fletcher Rayburn Bill. Rayburn and Roosevelt were motivated by the lack of market integrity and disclosure.
00:11:57.726 - 00:12:53.070, Speaker A: The markets were ripe with fraud and manipulation and they knew that market integrity and disclosure help protect investors, builds trust in our capital markets, and yes, lowers cost of capital for issuers. This foundational work has been part of our nation's economic success and global standing ever since. But we can't take it for granted. Congress, built on Rayburn's work in the again in the 90s, demanded our agency also consider efficiency and competition, as well as capital formation in formulating our rules as amended. This led to our often stated three part mission around protecting investors, promoting fair, orderly and efficient markets, and facilitating capital formation. In essence, it's about ensuring that our markets serve investors and issuers alike, but not the other way around. Investors and issuers don't serve the markets.
00:12:53.070 - 00:13:38.894, Speaker A: It's about the issuers and investors. And much of our work is basically focused on the middle, the markets, driving efficiency, integrity and resiliency in the market. And with regard to efficiency and competition, we have multiple projects, including as further detailed in my written testimony, around equity markets and private funds. As relates to integrity and disclosure, we also have multiple initiatives. The technology that I think is most transformative in our time is artificial intelligence. It's not crypto. As much as we're going to discuss crypto influencer, gary bringing up AI, we've got to have some projects in that area around robo, advising and brokerage apps, and the conflicts that may be in predictive data analytics.
00:13:38.894 - 00:14:29.502, Speaker A: But as to crypto, which I know will come up, simply put, investors in the crypto market should benefit from the compliance with the same laws that Rayburn and Roosevelt laid out. It's the law, it's really not a choice. As to disclosure, the SEC is designed by Rayburn and Roosevelt is merit neutral. But we do have an important role with regard to ensuring for full, fair and truthful disclosure about material risk. And thus we have disclosure projects, including regarding climate risk, cyber risk, stock buybacks, and lastly, as to financial resiliency, lest we forget, risk in one corner of the market can spill out and hurt regular folks. 8 million Americans lost their jobs, millions of families lost their homes. And yes, small businesses shuttered after the Eight crisis.
00:14:29.502 - 00:15:13.582, Speaker A: Recent market events are just the most recent reminder of this. That's why we have a number of projects around our US treasury markets, around investment funds and private funds. In summary, much of our work is about making the markets more efficient, more fair, more resilient for the benefit of investors and issuers. We greatly benefit from public input and use it to make adjustments that staff and ultimately the Commission think appropriate. Coincidentally, my dad was also sometimes called Mr. Sam, first of his family born in this country. And he ran a small business, never went to college, small business, a vending machine business.
00:15:13.582 - 00:15:42.074, Speaker A: And the bar owners would call him Mr. Sam. I think. My dad, he was never a public figure. I can't believe I'm saying in the same words sam Rayburn and Sam gensler. But he was a believer in this system, this system of democracy that we have, even things that we're going to go through today in this hearing. But he was a believer that the American system could help him as a small business owner and as an investor, the little bits of money he put to the side.
00:15:42.074 - 00:16:06.740, Speaker A: So I hope that both Mr. Sam's would think about the SEC's work to ensure that the markets serve investors and issuers alike, but not the other way around. It's not that the investors and issuers serve the markets or the market intermediaries in the middle. I thank you. I yield back my time. That was uncharted. I'll now recognize myself for five minutes.
00:16:06.740 - 00:16:49.934, Speaker A: Ether is one of the most popular digital assets and powers of the Ethereum blockchain. Officer great. Back in 2018, then SEC Corporation Finance Director Bill Henman stated that he believed ether was not a security. Last month, CFTC Chair Benham expressed his view that ether is a commodity. The State Attorney General of New York asserted in a court filing last month that ether is a security. Clearly, an asset cannot be both a commodity and a security. Do you agree? Actually, all securities are commodity under the Commodity and Exchange Act.
00:16:49.934 - 00:17:42.558, Speaker A: It's that we are excluded commodities. But I would agree that a security cannot be also an excluded commodity and an included commodity. I'm sorry, Chair, just to talk about the Commodity Exchange Act more precisely. Okay, so do you recognize how would you categorize Easter, then? I think that the general sweep of what Congress did, not just in the 30s, but as amended, I'm asking you, sitting your chair now, to make an assessment under the laws as exist, is ether a commodity or a security? Without speaking to anyone, I know you repeatedly said you're not going to speak to one except you've spoken to one Bitcoin. So I'm asking you to speak to a second one. The second largest market cap here. And speaking to the tokens, there's 10,000 if there's a group of entrepreneurs in I'm asking about one.
00:17:42.558 - 00:18:07.062, Speaker A: Is anticipating a profit based on the I'm asking a specific question. Chair Gensler, I said this in private. This should be no shock to you. I'm asking this question. Is ether a commodity or a security? And again, it depends on the facts and the law. And if there's a group of I'm asking about the facts and the law sitting in your seat and the judgment you are making, he's not going to give an answer. So, Mr.
00:18:07.062 - 00:18:35.342, Speaker A: Chair, I think you would not want me to prejudge because I'm also but you have prejudged on this. You've taken 50 enforcement actions. We're finding out as we go as you file suit, as people get Wells notices on what is a security. In your view and your agency's view. I'm asking you a very simple question about the second largest digital asset. What is your view? And my view is if there's a group of individuals in the middle that the public is in. All right, so let me just ask a second question.
00:18:35.342 - 00:19:28.242, Speaker A: Do you think it serves the market for an object to be viewed by the commodities regulator as a commodity and the securities regulator to be viewed as a security? Do you think that provides safety and soundness for the product? Do you think it provides consumer protection? Do you think it serves the value of innovation? I think no. Should be a very simple answer for you here. That uncertainty is bad, is it not? And I think that Congress has said that there's one agency, the securities and Exchange Commission, under this commission you won't answer my question and you're the head of that agency, so give me a break. Come on. Oh, right. I'm answering, Eric, because you would not want me to speak about any one set of facts and circumstance. Okay, but you've already spoken have you said anything about Bitcoin? My predecessors and the agency itself has spoken to them.
00:19:28.242 - 00:19:45.030, Speaker A: Okay. But you're not willing to do the same about ether. Okay, so let me just step back. There's a lack of clarity here in the marketplace. Can you at least agree to that? I think that the clarity is there. The law is clear. Let me be explicit about this.
00:19:45.030 - 00:20:19.022, Speaker A: The market doesn't see it. Your regulatory actions and the CFTC's regulatory actions say that there is a great deal of uncertainty here. It is the intention of this committee to fix that uncertainty and actually provide sound legal basis for this. So let me get into your rulemaking process. So you've proposed 53 rules in two years mary Joe White proposed 23. Jay Clayton proposed 26. At the same time, your agency has consistently provided less comment period than either of your predecessors.
00:20:19.022 - 00:21:14.174, Speaker A: Just as one example, when the SEC made significant changes to the US equity markets in 2005 for Regulation NMS, the Commission broadly solicited public feedback, held numerous roundtables, issued white papers and concept releases. Fast forward to today. You've proposed four equity market structure proposals that would impact millions of retail investors, and you provided a mere 60 days of comments on 1600 pages of regulations. So let me ask you this. Do shorter comment periods and less public interaction improve rulemaking we actually put out the equity market structure rules had 105 days of comment from the time we voted it out through March 31. But I think robust public input helps us greatly, and we take comments on our rules. Our average has been about 70 plus days overall.
00:21:14.174 - 00:21:37.402, Speaker A: But we also get and I want to get into the cost benefit analysis, but my time has expired. With that, I'll recognize the ranking member. Thank you very much, Mr. Gensler. I'd like to give you time to give your answer to Mr. McHenry and explain to him exactly how you define securities and commodities. Please, go right ahead.
00:21:37.402 - 00:22:24.518, Speaker A: So a security by Congress's will has about 30 plus terms, and one of those terms is an investment contract. And the Supreme Court has addressed this multiple times over the years, and we as a Commission have addressed this. And in these 100 plus actions that the Chair mentioned, I think there's 130 or so actions we've taken. And it's basically, if the public is putting their hard earned funds with entrepreneurs, promoters and anticipating a profit, there's a four part test. It's a broad sweep. Thurgood Marshall said that Congress painted with a broad brush to protect the public. And the SEC is an agency you all set up years ago, is a disclosure based agency.
00:22:24.518 - 00:23:46.786, Speaker A: We're merit neutral, but we're not neutral to full, fair, and truthful disclosure in crypto or elsewhere. And that's really the core. And so is there a group of entrepreneurs in the middle that are working on that project, promoting that project, have a website that the public looks to? Do they have Twitter accounts and handles? Do they upgrade the software? And is the public sort of reading about them anticipating a profit based and in fact, is there somebody that's even visiting you and they're hiring lawyers and sending them in to talk to us and so forth? Is there something there that the public is anticipating a profit based upon those efforts? Thank you very much. Chair Gensler, I'd like to ask a few questions about crypto. You've often suggested that we're witnessing mass non compliance with our securities laws by crypto firms. However, crypto firms often suggest that their coins and activities are different and need a new statutory framework. Do you agree? And does the SEC have the authorities it needs to bring crypto issuers and intermediaries into compliance with the investor protection and market integrity framework built over the past 90 years.
00:23:46.786 - 00:24:26.882, Speaker A: Yes, I do believe that we have the authorities we need and the laws to protect the investors. Would you say that one more time? Yes, I do believe that we have the laws and we have the authorities to oversee the crypto intermediaries, the crypto exchange. Are you exercising that authority now? Yes, we are. Would you describe for this committee how you're doing? That, I understand. Is she just underhanding him engage with a number of crypto? She's like the Gary, correct? We have. We talked to the crypto firms, some tokens to how they can register, but also these platforms. I've been around finance for over 40 years in one way or the other.
00:24:26.882 - 00:24:56.118, Speaker A: I've never seen a field that's so non compliant with laws written. Asshole. Congress, you make us non compliant, affirmed over and over by the courts. But this is a largely unfortunate for the investing public, non compliant field. Thank you very much. I'm going to move on to a question about deregulating capital markets. As you know, this committee cares about increasing access to capital, particularly for small businesses.
00:24:56.118 - 00:25:44.230, Speaker A: I, for example, have worked with Chair McKinnery to pass legislation on crowdfunding and other innovative ways for startups and small businesses to raise capital. These are targeted approaches to supporting business growth and creating jobs. Some on the committee suggest, however, that deregulation is needed. But I don't see how deregulating capital markets is good for small business. I'm sure you don't. Innovation or equity regulating capital markets. Would you please explain whether or not you believe deregulation is needed? I think that we've benefited in this country by the markets and that small businesses can raise capital in a well regulated market that protects against fraud and manipulation.
00:25:44.230 - 00:26:13.746, Speaker A: And the reason small business benefits is because it lowers the risk in the markets when you can lower the amount of fraud, manipulation, and you promote good transparency. Thank you very much. My time is almost up, but I just want, like, the video to end her time. If you like the video, her time ends faster. I promise authority to do what is necessary in dealing with the crypto markets. You said it twice. Say it a third time, please.
00:26:13.746 - 00:26:34.314, Speaker A: Oh, my God. She's just the shill. She's the Gary Shill. We have the authorities. Have you indicated what resources you need? We have in congressional testimony to the House Appropriations Committee, and it's included in this testimony as well. Thank you very much. I yield back the balance of my time.
00:26:34.314 - 00:26:43.146, Speaker A: We'll now recognize the gentleman from Arkansas, Mr. Hill, for five minutes, the vice chair. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And Mr. Gensler. Thank you for coming to be with us.
00:26:43.146 - 00:27:04.782, Speaker A: She's the one that blew the kiss for SBF. She is the one that blew SBF. The kiss. Chair. Henry's questioning. Yeah, this is Maxine waters blowing SBF a kiss. In November 2021, the President's Working Group on Financial Markets released its report on stablecoins, which recommended that Congress enact legislation to establish a federal prudential framework for stablecoins.
00:27:04.782 - 00:27:53.330, Speaker A: Do you remember that report? I do, sir. Is the SEC a member of the President's working group? We are, sir. And do you believe that? Did you support that recommendation of the President's working group? I did. And do you think that Congress has been inactive on this? As best I know, Congress is engaged with the administration throughout the two years. You would call that active? Yeah, we're looking for that framework. And you support us drafting a regulatory framework for stablecoin payment stablecoins. If I could say on stablecoins, I think that it's important to ensure that there's safety and soundness there.
00:27:53.330 - 00:29:02.806, Speaker A: And that if this committee and Congress were to address this through legislation to ensure that we don't undermine our 100 trillion dollar capital markets we don't inadvertently, somehow undermine what money market fund operate in this country or how other parts of the financial markets. Lastly, that we don't undermine both the CFTC's and SEC's authorities to go after fraud manipulation, because right now these stablecoins are being used in the crypto ecosystem. And I think you really do want that cop and the SEC on the beat in the crypto ecosystem. Well, I'm glad to hear you support a regulatory framework. And I think those issues you raise have to be taken into account by the President's Working Group. And I think they have I mean, I think those are addressed in their reports and I think that's certainly the focus of so I'm glad to hear, and I don't think I'm putting words in your mouth, that you do support Congress attempting to create a regulatory framework for payment stablecoins. Is that fair? I think with the guardrails of not undermining the 100 trillion dollar capital markets.
00:29:02.806 - 00:29:33.406, Speaker A: And remember, I got your checklist. We've got that also in the recent events in the markets, one of those stable coins actually had over $3 billion at Silicon Valley Bank. Understand terrible decision. Terrible decision by Silicon Valley Bank. We've already had a hearing on that subject, and I know we'll have some more follow up on it. Let me ask you about the consolidated audit trail. Was a terrorist plague my existence for the eight years I've served in Congress.
00:29:33.406 - 00:30:44.140, Speaker A: I've already on record not a supporter of the Cat. Has the SEC issued the final rule on the consolidated audit trail, to the best of your knowledge? The rules are in place. We're still working on parts related to filings in front of us on funding and some amendments. With regard to data security. Would it surprise you that some people in the brokerage community weren't aware that the Cat is actually already being collected as of December 31? And are you aware that that data is already being collected? We are actually, as a regulatory agency, aware that it's being collected, transaction data is being collected, and we benefit from that. Are you concerned about the encryption of that data, that it's inadequate? I think as a government agency, we should always be focused on data security, and data encryption is one of the pieces of data security. I'd like for you to respond to me about the if you would respond in writing about the encryption of that and the protection of anything that would be considered personally identifiable information.
00:30:44.140 - 00:31:26.886, Speaker A: Let me turn to a different subject, which is the treasury market. We have a time right now where the Fed is shrinking its balance sheet and where there's an unprecedented amount of treasury issue because of the avalanche and spending by the Biden administration. Is the SEC. A member of the Inter Agency Working Group on the treasury market. Yes, we are, sir. And yet you have this proposal, as I read it, that would say that people who are buyers of Treasuries could somehow be swept up and become dealers. Why are you proposing that someone who might be a dealer, I mean, an investor in Treasuries, suddenly become a dealer? It's really under a law Congress passed in the 1980s.
00:31:26.886 - 00:32:22.090, Speaker A: Okay, so we've moved on from the crypto markets he was originally talking about. The bad decision was that it was terrible risk management for SVB to be one of the banks that Circle uses to bank with. Ironically, it was SVB that went under and Circle that had way more solvency than SVB. So if you want to account for the risk between these two things, even if Circle did F up and choose SVB as a bank and the FDIC did not step in, circle would have still been, like, orders of magnitude more solvent than SBB. The fact that they oh, my God. Simultaneously running their banks into the ground. Since becoming chair, can you briefly explain the actions you have taken to address executive compensation issues amongst publicly traded institutions? I thank you.
00:32:22.090 - 00:32:48.690, Speaker A: I'm proud that we were able to complete two mandates from Congress in this area. One was with regard to executive compensation needs to be clawed back if it's built upon erroneous financials. And number two, disclosure about paid for performance. And then also, I don't think we care about this. Okay. So I've got some other tweets I've got pulled up. I'm going to let this non crypto talk progress.
00:32:48.690 - 00:33:29.326, Speaker A: But we are watching Gary Gensler, his hearing in front of the Senate Finance Committee, I believe, and this has all been about specifically his unfair treatment, right? His unfair treatment of the crypto industry, among other things. So there's other things in this agenda here today that they want to talk about that's not just about crypto. And then also, each one of these people gets their own five minutes or so to talk about what they care about. And so just a comment from Reuters here. Having won control of the House of. Representatives last year. Republicans now have a pulpit to try and constrain president Joe Biden's administrative oversight of key financial issues.
00:33:29.326 - 00:34:41.750, Speaker A: Some in the finance industry have joined in the criticism, saying the SEC is going too far in its reforms and not taking time for industry feedback. So this is like a hybrid hearing definitely arisen by his treatment of the crypto industry, but it's also the Republicans chance to kind of go after Gary and the SEC as both what he should be going after from for all the ways that he's treated crypto, but also as a proxy way to target the Biden administration. So sometimes we're going to hear very good comments like McHenry's questioning of Gary Gensler and Ether and security, and sometimes we're going to hear just political soapboxing and positioning and influencing. And so that is my take on this matter. I've got some other tweets that I can pull up, but I don't know how. I don't want to keep on talking in case something good is said with the five sorry, the four bank agencies and the one FHFA, sir. It has been publicly reported that Greg Becker, the disgraced CEO of Silicon Valley Bank, sold 3.5
00:34:41.750 - 00:35:44.140, Speaker A: million of silicon stocks less than two weeks before the bank's collapse, raising question about whether he ran a fall of insider trading loss. What actions has the SEC taken to investigate stock trading by bank executives leading up to the bank's collapse? If I could step no, they have not talked about FTX yet. Brian. Circumstances say it's against the law to trade on material non public information. That's whether you're at a company or whether you're in just a private have you guys seen this Gary influencer video? Do you guys want to watch this video? If you want me to play this video very serious, tell me in the chat and I'll play this video. It's pretty. What action has the SEC taken under your leadership to address insider trading generally? Well, over the course of the last two years, we've brought over 1500 law enforcement actions and we could get back to you and give you a list of those related to insider treading, but unfortunately, more than one.
00:35:44.140 - 00:36:29.766, Speaker A: Mr. Gunsley? The S 2021 55 legislation that passed in 2018 contains legislation here we go. I can't believe I've had the privilege to be part of the securities and Exchange Commission for two years. Two years. Gary Gensler, year two at the SEC. He's a sophomore agency serve investors building for a better future and issuers raising money while overseeing the 100 trillion dollar capital markets that allow them that's stock footage. Why do capital markets matter? It's because investors and companies large and so much stock footage them every day.
00:36:29.766 - 00:37:07.694, Speaker A: Every time you invest in a 401K trade through a brokerage app, take out a mortgage or auto loan, you place your trust in our capital markets. For 90 years, our capital markets with the benefits of securities regulation have been the finest in the world. At the SEC, we're working for you to keep it that way. First, we serve as a cop on the beach, stamping out misconduct and making markets fair. In the last, you missed SPX alone, we filed 1500 enforcement actions. This is not something to celebrate against Ponzi schemes and pump and dumps. You missed Terra Lumina.
00:37:07.694 - 00:37:51.186, Speaker A: You missed FTX disclosures and, yes, Rampant nine. You missed blockfly until after the fact. Did they list blockfly? In overseeing the markets, we engage with over 40,000 registrants, asset managers, brokers dealers, exchanges, fund companies, public companies raising money from you and many more. When investors have fair access to markets and full, fair, and truthful disclosure from those raising money that builds trust in our financial system, we cannot, though, simply rely on the rules of the past to face the market challenges of today. Technology and new business models are dramatically transforming our markets. Thus, we're working to update rules to best meet our times. No, that's what he's not doing.
00:37:51.186 - 00:38:26.282, Speaker A: That's what we want him to do. Efficient and competitive, that means better returns for you and lower cost for issuers. We've made proposals to do so in the stock market and the ever growing private funds market. Further, we're working to strengthen market integrity and transparency. We recently adopted rules to guard against insider trading and to claw back executive compensation when based on Fausty Financials. We're also striving to make our markets more resilient. Lest we forget, risk in one corner of the market can spill out and hurt regular folks.
00:38:26.282 - 00:39:02.090, Speaker A: The market events of the last month are just the most recent reminder of this. So we're working on multiple projects in the treasury markets, in money market funds, and in cybersecurity to better protect you from future financial instabilities. I am so honored to be part of the SEC's remarkable team here at the SEC. They don't like you that we have the investing and issuing public's back. Employees at the SEC have called him like a tyrant. All right. Every filing that companies make are public filings.
00:39:02.090 - 00:40:09.418, Speaker A: They already are already is known. And once again, I find you trying to hide behind things for either a lack of willingness to be candor about it, or you're trying to obfuscate your oath of office, which was well and faithfully. This committee is not happy with that attitude or performance. I was told by you after we had had numerous discussions with your staff about a company that had a capital formation issue with millions of dollars at risk at the last minute based upon their public filings. No, that's not that you would not respond at all or even discuss the matter with the company to try and alleviate a problem for the average number of days that it would take your agency to respond. In other words, the agency had to respond. You were simply a placeholder.
00:40:09.418 - 00:40:45.238, Speaker A: You have no real responsibility. You have your own views, not the views of the management of the organization responsible. So I would say to you today that there's a corollary you talked about your father. I'm going to talk about my father. And my father, who served as a federal judge for 14 years, became director of the FBI for President Reagan. He recognized that the agency had a problem that probably emanated from the Department of justice. I'm not going to blame the FBI.
00:40:45.238 - 00:42:04.526, Speaker A: I'm not blaming the Department of justice. I'm saying the circumstance was there that they would not give credible information or deal with people who they were indicting and charging. And my father changed that and said, if you are or if you have reputable counsel that stands at the behest of a court, that a court could punish them for incorrect or unlawful behavior, inappropriate or unethical behavior. If you had a counsel who was of extreme confidence, then the bureau would deal with you even on the most sensitive issues. I will tell you that one of the clients that I referred to you has extremely important and valuable confidence in their counsel. And you as an agency have chosen to stonewall, obfuscate and not do your job. And I've sent you a letter, and I'm asking you to respond back to this Committee and me about whether you're going to look at that when confronted by this Committee, because I strenuously believe that you should have some authority and responsibility in that effort.
00:42:04.526 - 00:42:25.100, Speaker A: Mr. Chairman, I yield back my time. Gentlemen, from California, mr. Sherman is now recognized for five minutes. Mr. Chairman, Chair, gensler, I am very pleased with your attitude and your performance, but my views are my own. I'd like to speak for the gentleman from Texas, but he hasn't authorized me to do so.
00:42:25.100 - 00:43:45.998, Speaker A: The Chair of the Committee says that we ought to have absolute clarity in this issue, and I agree with him. And we can achieve that if the Chair will work with me on legislation to say that all intangible investment assets, including all crypto, are securities. That way it would be very clear that investors in crypto get the same protection as investors in stock bonds and other intangible assets acquired for an investment purpose. The definition of accredited investor that we have now relates to the wealth of the investor or their income, which may have nothing to do with their sophistication and knowledge. And I look forward to working with others on this Committee to have a definition of accredited that discards the idea of wealth and looks instead at knowledge, but also specifies that if you're going to participate in that kind of private placement, you don't put more than five or 10% of your assets in any one basket. The definition of an accredited investor we have now is based on wealth levels set in the 1980s, which means they're completely out of date and probably should. So here's a coinbase, Mr.
00:43:45.998 - 00:44:47.550, Speaker A: Chairman. The public policy page about. You said to the Banking Committee a couple of years ago, to the extent there are securities on these trading platforms, under our laws, they have to register with the Commission. So assuming that a particular crypto token is a security, if that's true, is an exchange where that security is traded, a securities exchange under the laws, if you meet the definition of an exchange and you have securities on that exchange yes, you have to come in and comply and register and protect the investing public. Well, I heard you earlier say that no field in finance is so rampant with non compliance. If there are those who are not complying with our securities laws, please shut them down as quickly as you possibly can. And I point out that the most famous crypto exchange was FTX.
00:44:47.550 - 00:45:40.698, Speaker A: It is now, of course, the most infamous exchange. Congress expanded from 500 all the way up to 2000. The number of entities that can be beneficial owners and still have the company thought of as a private company. I mean, that's a lot, 2000 owners. But we've got a huge loophole here where you could have dozens or hundreds of beneficial ownership entities counted as only one. If they list the stock in street name, do you have the authority and will you move toward a definition of 2000 that reflects 2000? I think you raise a good point. And I've asked staff for recommendations for the Commission's consideration, really to ensure that Congress's will about these numbers.
00:45:40.698 - 00:46:24.754, Speaker A: The 2000 number you reference and the Jobs Act really means 2000 and how to look at, as you say, street name ownership that a broker might hold for. I think you'll find companies calling themselves private that have many thousands of beneficial owners. And that's not what the securities law calls for. Companies, when they file their ten KS every year, they list their risk factors. One risk factor that's increasingly important is the risk of a disruption in the US. China relationship or economic relationship. If investors got explicit information about that, that would protect investors.
00:46:24.754 - 00:47:20.530, Speaker A: If companies had to fight for capital by demonstrating their resiliency, their ability to withstand such a breakdown, then our entire country would be more resilient and Taiwan would be more secure. Can you move forward to be more explicit and clear with companies that they need to disclose the risks to the company and hopefully what they're doing to ameliorate that risk of a possible breakdown in the US china relationship? Under current rules, companies need to disclose material risk. And if they have operations and there's material risk related to any geopolitical area, not just the one you mentioned, they're obliged to disclose that. The gentleman from Oklahoma, Mr. Lucas, is now recognized for five minutes. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
00:47:20.530 - 00:47:29.994, Speaker A: And Mr. Chairman, it's good to see you again. It's good to see you. If I could call you Mr. Chair as well. Absolutely. And as always, like to remind my friends here.
00:47:29.994 - 00:48:11.334, Speaker A: We spent a great deal of quality time together at your previous posting at the CFTC when I was chairman of the committee. That said, I'd like to begin by focusing on a proposed rule pertaining to security based swaps. There is a consensus for market participants that the SEC's proposed rule to publicly disseminate large security based swap positions would deeply harm liquidity, particularly in the credit market. Okay. And I'll note, standing up a large position reporting this isn't about crypto. And just fill it in with more crypto things. If you want to go back to the stream, let me know in the comments and I'll go back to the stream.
00:48:11.334 - 00:48:56.550, Speaker A: Again, this is an experiment for us. I'm actually thoroughly enjoying this. I'm having fun. I hope you guys are having fun. And so just like, restreaming, gary Gensler's public lashing by half of the House by the Senate Finance Committee, I think is pretty cool. So just to have some context about what's going on today, gary Gensler dropped this yesterday, this Cringe influencer video, one of his many that just does the whole public propaganda PR thing, oddly timed right for today. This morning, he tweeted out this thing, like, on my way to testify before the finance services, the GOP finance services, I stopped by Sam Rayburn statue, and this was like, in his opening statements.
00:48:56.550 - 00:49:21.134, Speaker A: And so this is our SEC commissioner. This guy is regulating securities in our capital markets, and he's doing this whole influencer campaign. I mean, we all know that this is what's going on, but it's so crazy that it's like, this is the timeline. This is absolutely nuts. And so some more recent news. We haven't talked about Algorand. I doubt Algorand is even going to come up.
00:49:21.134 - 00:49:43.350, Speaker A: This guy's still talking. I'm sure it's not about crypto. We haven't talked about Algorand, but this is the big news that dropped as of recently. When was this? Yesterday? Yeah, yesterday. The crypto exchange. Bitrex fun fact was my first crypto exchange ever because it was based in Seattle, where I'm from. It was the first time I bought any crypto.
00:49:43.350 - 00:50:31.794, Speaker A: It hasn't been the best exchange. It hasn't really won out in the market forces. It's slowly been declining in volume. But they decided to go after Bitrex in this enforcement action that charges Bitrex with being an exchange of unregistered securities. And so in this complaint, they listed certain crypto assets that this is like the first time that they actually named as securities. And so this is the first time we actually got some specific assets listed as securities. In late 2022, Bittrex Global made available for trading on its platform approximately 148 of the crypto assets that are available on the Bittrex platform, including crypto assets known as OMG omiseiko Dash, which were offered and sold as securities.
00:50:31.794 - 00:50:58.750, Speaker A: Which is funny, because this, for me was a real throwback in time. This was like, what year is this? OMG Dash. These are 2017 tokens. Dash is a monero hard fork with this whole master node system. I owned both of these, so I apparently owned securities at one point in time. Also, I'm pretty sure OMG is on coinbase. OMG, Coinbase.
00:50:58.750 - 00:51:34.314, Speaker A: I'm pretty sure this is listed on Coinbase, and I'm pretty sure Dash is, too, which implies that Coinbase is a securities exchange, at least according to this ruling. Yeah, you can trade OMG on Coinbase right now. What about Dash? Can you do dash? I mean, these are super old current crypto assets that probably had decent volume at least in 2017. I'm sure Dash has. Yeah, you can also do Dash. Okay, so implying that Coinbase is also an illegal securities exchange. Let me make sure.
00:51:34.314 - 00:52:29.686, Speaker A: Okay, that guy's still talking. And so this is when I tweeted out, let me pull up Twitter if you don't hate me for pulling up my own tweets. But this is how I think about things. This is when I tweeted out something along the lines of, like, gary Gensler is too spineless to go after the major exchanges like Coinbase, who are, by extension, doing the same thing, basically saying all of these decently common coins are securities exchanges, but he's going after Bitrix, the exchange that has just been limping along since 2017. But it probably looks pretty good to the outside world because, like, oh, he's going after he's doing the thing that he's saying he's doing. He's doing the thing that Brad Sherman is like, yeah, bring them and rein them in, and yay, boomers. This is what happens when Ryan's not on the stream.
00:52:29.686 - 00:53:49.878, Speaker A: I get so, like, this is some of the more recent news. Let me tap back in here to make sure that I'm not missing anything. And then in the same breath, they criticized the SEC's rulemaking efforts, which arguably would provide that clarity that they desire. Chair Gensler, in your testimony today, you mentioned that there have been over 130 enforcement actions brought by the SEC against crypto firms that have either engaged in marketing securities without providing the necessary disclosures or failed to submit audited, financials or investor protections that would allow investors to actually make a meaningful and informed decision regarding the crypto products or the underlying business. Chair Gensler, based on current law, of those 130 cases, those 130 enforcement actions, how many have you won? How many has the SEC prevailed on? Many of them are settlements, but those that we've taken to court, we've won on the Howie analyses, these token issues, six or eight times, we've won on other matters in front of the courts as well. And so we've been quite successful throughout. Okay.
00:53:49.878 - 00:55:12.742, Speaker A: Am I correct in asserting that in each of those cases, each of those cases went through a regulatory or legal process and or maybe even judicial appeal? And that actually there are decisions, written decisions, on each of those cases, either by an administrator or by a court of law that do provide explicit guidance based on current law to other crypto and stablecoin firms to provide clarity. And that actually lay out some rules of the road that should, you would think, guide other crypto firms in their actions. You raise a very good point. Every one of them is a vote of a five member commission, sometimes run by Jay Clayton, sometimes I'm honored to chair, but always a five member commission and always with a written public document, an order or a charging document. And there's also a joint statement on crypto asset risk to the banking organizations. That's a January 3, 2023, which lists eight key risks associated with crypto assets that banks should be aware of. So there's a fair amount of guidance out there and clarity.
00:55:12.742 - 00:55:57.418, Speaker A: It's just not the clarity that the crypto industry wants. Absolutely. We've also been clear and we've been public as a five member commission with regard to the custody of crypto assets, about the exchange definition in crypto assets, we put some of this also out to public comment. But I agree with you. It's not a matter of lack of clarity. I think this is a field that in the main has built up around non compliance and that's their business model. And they have chosen, even though it's not the law, they've chosen to be non compliant and not provide investors with confidence protections.
00:55:57.418 - 00:56:44.234, Speaker A: And it undermines the 100 trillion dollar capital markets. If there's one field of you undermined the future 100 million dollar crypto capital markets, then it's going to undermine those small businesses and everybody else raising money in the capital. Everyone in crypto is a small business. We all are startups. That's great. One of the things I worry about in this area is that crypto firms offer an amalgam of services that in the traditional banking system and securities area are ring fenced. So they do a lot of things like they have exchange function, broker dealer functions, custodial and clearing functions, and lending functions.
00:56:44.234 - 00:57:20.394, Speaker A: And we've seen commingling of investor funds. Can you talk about the risks that arise from that structure? We separate these everywhere else. The New York Stock Exchange is not running a hedge fund. Trump, he's very supportive of crypto people trading on that New York Stock Exchange. And here we have a field that commingles this and trades against their customers and doesn't give the proper disclosures. And we've brought a number of cases, one settled, one litigated matter with this regard. Thank you, Mr.
00:57:20.394 - 00:58:26.602, Speaker A: Chairman, I yield back. The gentleman from Florida, Mr. Posey, is now recognized for five minutes. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Speaking of crypto and commingling of funds, while we're on that subject, prior to the collapse of FTX, did you have any concerns with the company or question if they were breaking any securities laws or harming investors? I think, if I might I had, since I've been in this job a general concern about the field and as expressed here today about the non compliance of this commingling of these various functions and that they should come into compliance by separating exchange from broker dealer from what you might call a hedge fund function and other functions. So with those concerns, did you direct your staff to look into FTX? I want to stay at a little bit higher level, but I directed the staff to look to the crypto intermediaries and a wide range of crypto intermediaries.
00:58:26.602 - 00:59:33.442, Speaker A: Yes, sir. Okay, so what do they find? Well, we filed an action late last year, a number of actions, which are public actions with regard to Sam, Bankman, Fried, and FTX that are on our website. But what we found in those actions, as they show, is we allege a number of violations of the securities laws. Yeah. When did you think FTX was problematic? At what point? Well, again, we filed these actions in December, and I think we followed follow up actions in January because it takes time to develop an investigative file, and we follow the facts and the law where they come. But I've given speeches, and I've been clear with many members of this industry that right now they need to come into compliance. We have one goal is to bring them into compliance and to stop commingling all these functions, stop using customer funds as if they're their own.
00:59:33.442 - 01:00:22.814, Speaker A: It's like somebody who's got their hand in the cash register because they say, I want to take some money out of the cash register for the weekend. I'll put it back later. And that's just not proper. How long after you met with FTX and investigated did you notify the public and investors that there was? Again, as we've chatted earlier today, we protect anything we do in our examination function, our investigative function. We protect that information and hold it confidential because it's important for the integrity of any investigation, but also for people's privacy. And often we find that we close investigations without bringing action. So there's a time tested reason that you, of course, would want us to keep things confidential.
01:00:22.814 - 01:01:07.246, Speaker A: So we only make them public when and if we either settle or bring charges. Sad to hear that the Inspector General found that your SEC is facing the highest attrition rate in ten years. How's the attrition rate affected your agency's ability to regulate digital assets? No, it's a very dedicated workforce. We've moved up to about six or 7% Attrition. That's consistent with other financial regulators across the US. Government. I'm really pleased to say that last week, we Partnership for Public Service, we went up in the overall rankings.
01:01:07.246 - 01:01:37.114, Speaker A: We're now employee surveys. These are employee surveys done by outsiders. I think we're now third out of 27 midsight agencies. But in terms of digital assets, we could certainly use more. Definitely, there are more things to look at and investigate than we have people on the staff to do. Yeah, because you're a megalomaniac. The gentleman from Missouri, Mr.
01:01:37.114 - 01:02:11.320, Speaker A: Cleaver, is now recognized for five minutes. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, thank you for your April letter, which I interpret to be a gentle reminder to Congress that we needed to raise the debt ceiling. And I appreciate the fact that you clearly understand and recognize the importance of this. We've raised the debt ceiling 78.
01:02:11.320 - 01:03:14.700, Speaker A: Coinbase has him against 1968 and both parties 49 times under Republicans and 29 times under Democrats. It is something we have to do. My first question is, do you think that the mere suggestion that we're not going to deal with the debt ceiling create a problem for us economically? One of your responsibilities maintain some level of order in the markets. So what do you think? Just a mere suggestion, just the mere threat. What does that do? It puts a dose of uncertainty into markets, but it becomes particularly problematic the closer one might get to whatever deadline that is. And that's not our jurisdiction. That's others.
01:03:14.700 - 01:04:02.330, Speaker A: And then if we were to go, do we care about this X Date chat? Let me know if you care about this. Otherwise, the other half of the business, it would be one heck of a mess in capital markets, that's for sure. But it would undermine the base of our capital markets, us. Treasuries, or the risk free part of our capital markets that everything else is built on top of that. I was here in 2011 when there was a stalemate. We're not going to do anything. And so we ended up, of course, averting the cataclysm, but we still did a damage to the economy.
01:04:02.330 - 01:04:14.140, Speaker A: Okay, I'm listening to the chat. Mr. Cleaver. Sleepy. Mr. Cleaver. Quiet him down a little bit, and we'll come back as soon as they start to talk about crypto again.
01:04:14.140 - 01:04:56.460, Speaker A: If you don't like that choice, yell at me in the chat and we will return. Okay, so where we left off here is that bitrix, and all of these assets that were on other exchanges were listed as securities, and in particular, this one very interesting crypto asset called Algorand. Algo? Algo. I don't know too much about Algorand. I think it's like a stable Coin layer. One I can't remember, but people immediately found these very old Gary Gensler videos about Gary promoting governance. You could create Uber or Lyft on top of a blockchain technology today.
01:04:56.460 - 01:05:29.934, Speaker A: Well, maybe in five years you could. It would have the performance. Sylvia Mcalley's Algorand, who's a touring award winner at MIT that I work with, sylvia's got a great technology that has performance you could create. So he's not like he's, like, promoting it like a crypto influencer. But he talked about it a number of times in all of these MIT talks. Hypothetically, the bitcoin or some crypto aline would tell us it would be some other crypto. Maybe it's algorand.
01:05:29.934 - 01:06:01.738, Speaker A: Or maybe it's Algorand. What's up, Ryan? Okay, so here's what I've been doing ryan is we've been restreaming this, but every once in a while, a Republican or a Democrat comes in and makes it political and not about crypto. So I've just been putting it on mute in that time and just to talk about what else is going on, just to fill in the gap. Sometimes they just, like, throw poo at each other. How's he doing? How's old Gary doing? He's being Gary, man. He's like but if we were to they only have five minutes to pressure him. X date, you're perverted.
01:06:01.738 - 01:06:26.326, Speaker A: I don't think he's talking about crypto in the very moment. Visual that you just okay, McHenry, who is leading this whole thing? What's McHenry's first name? Less liquidity. Patrick. Patrick McHenry. Yeah. And so the other thing I've been doing, if you type in are we talking over Gary? Can you lower him while we talk for a second? Yeah. Too many voices in my head.
01:06:26.326 - 01:06:53.038, Speaker A: I already have enough voices in my head. If you type in the congressman's name and then type in their name and then crypto into Google, who Patrick McHenry? Yeah. And so anyone this is what I've been doing. So I've been to whoever's talking. I've been going and typing their name into Google and then pulling this up. You see this window right, of me? Yeah. So, like Coinbase, their whole public policy program tells you exactly how positive they are.
01:06:53.038 - 01:07:30.460, Speaker A: So Coinbase lets us see who they are as they're talking, and then we go back to it. So let's see Patrick McHenry as an example. Hang on, I just muted it. Gensler, we certainly appreciate you. Oh, he just passed it on. Let's see what they have to say. The APA director, and we've all chuckled about that, but it makes the point, it seems as though your agency has taken on a different mission, that you seem to be pushing an ESG agenda, which is, in my mind, something is not in the best interest or under your purview of the SEC.
01:07:30.460 - 01:07:48.100, Speaker A: So I'll let my other colleagues get into that a little bit deeper. But I want to put something on record with regards to that. My first question deals with mortgage insurance. Linked notes. According to the National Association of Realtors, the average first time home buyer's down payment is 6%. Okay. In an environment of elevated interest rates and home price.
01:07:48.100 - 01:08:05.686, Speaker A: Let's see. So I have this one window open. I'm going to drag it in front of the stream. So you see this Patrick Mchenie from Coinbase thing, right? I mean, I do, but I'm looking at your Zoom chat. I'm not looking at the stream. I don't think the stream people can see it. I think the stream should see it.
01:08:05.686 - 01:08:18.538, Speaker A: I think that's right. Dave's saying he can't see it. Oh, cannot see it. Oh, that's a shame. I've been doing that a lot. Okay, well, here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to do this, okay? Now, you.
01:08:18.538 - 01:08:29.550, Speaker A: Can see it. Right. So here's Patrick McHenry. Yeah, very supportive. Very supportive. Right. And so I've been pulling these up one by one as, oh, that's cool.
01:08:29.550 - 01:08:42.414, Speaker A: Yeah. This person is how about this guy not talking about crypto. This guy. Luke Meyer. Luke Meyer. It's probably if he's not talking about crypto, he's probably like a neutral or unknown. Right? Yes.
01:08:42.414 - 01:09:12.590, Speaker A: Let's see. Blaine luke Meyer crypto is unclear, but it's nice that we can just look this up really quickly. Yeah, it's unclear towards crypto. Yeah. So that just plays he's not asking about it. There's no questions related to crypto because he just doesn't care. So far, this whole thing has been, like, 50% crypto, 50% political other things, singing and adjacent things.
01:09:12.590 - 01:09:44.950, Speaker A: Like Maxine Waters. Both Brad Sherman came in and Maxine Waters came in. And just like, softballed gary Gensler so he could just hit home runs and then tell us all the great things you are doing to protect us against scary crypto. Gensler brad Sherman was like, I just support everything you do in bringing all the non compliant I'm your biggest fan. Crypto bro billionaires. All the non compliant crypto bro billionaires is like, non compliant crypto bro billionaires. He didn't say in that specific string of words, but he said crypto bro billionaires.
01:09:44.950 - 01:10:07.118, Speaker A: Okay, back up. I think it's an instructive moment from the standpoint of things that we maybe were not thinking about before. We saw with this crisis where somebody got on social media, we're talking about the what, the bank run? The banking crisis. Yeah. Tweet and the follow up. Social media. It's social media.
01:10:07.118 - 01:11:05.886, Speaker A: I think that's interesting. The CEO for Charles Schwab, Ball Bedinger, voiced the same concern that I've been talking about for the last several days, which is about short selling. It would seem to me that if we have a situation where we have a lot of banks that are not very liquid right now, that there's some concerns about that somebody could play some funny games with not just the banking industry, but our economy as a whole. It could be somebody trying to make money. It could be a foreign actor who wants to do something different to our economy. So the question becomes, I guess what my question really is, is two parts. Number one, do you have the ability to stop a short sale problem that arises within the banking industry, for instance, based on its threat to the entire industry, both buying a security going long, it's called, and shorting a security and important parts of our capital market.
01:11:05.886 - 01:11:41.814, Speaker A: Are you talking about parts of the influence of social media and legal security price long and to go short, it's a way to express and help capital markets work. And so we facilitate that. What we guard against is people trading on material non public information, and we guard against people doing manipulative acts in the market. My question is very simple. Do you have the authority to keep this abuse from happening, this manipulation from happening for the wrong reasons. Understand that. It's part of the market structure.
01:11:41.814 - 01:12:16.694, Speaker A: It's part of market investing. But if people are doing this to try and cause a run on the banks to undermine our economy, undermine the industry for their own profit or as a foreign actor to do something, do you have the ability to stop that? That's my question. We most definitely have the authority cause of run on the banks. If the banks are shitting the bed, you got to press that sell button and manipulation and capital market my question across the board ban on short selling so you could stop this from happening. That's not a good idea. We'll continue to tweet. I don't believe that Congress has given us that authority, sir.
01:12:16.694 - 01:12:27.974, Speaker A: We've given authority to deal with individual acts of manipulation and chasing after fraud. Do not give Gary that authority. Please, gentlemen from Connecticut, mr. Heims recognize for five minutes. Thank you. How about this guy? David. Chairman.
01:12:27.974 - 01:12:56.770, Speaker A: Look him up. And welcome Chairman Gensler. I don't have Blazing Saddles today, but I've got Lionel Trilling. Lionel Trilling was an American critic, an intellectual who, in a book in 1950 called The Liberal Imagination said that American conservatism is not so much about ideas. It is, quote, a series of irritable mental gestures which seek to resemble ideas. That was true in 1950. It's certainly true here today.
01:12:56.770 - 01:13:34.634, Speaker A: And to illustrate that, the head spinning irony of where you're sitting right now is that less than three weeks ago the Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the treasury were sitting in for in a hearing about give me 1 second. Crumbling of Silicon Valley bank. And to hear the majority at the time, it was all their fault. They had done too little and they'd done it too slowly. Something you might remember as you get accused of doing too much too quickly. I promise you that when something goes wrong under your jurisdiction you'll be sitting back in that seat having done too little too slowly. Now, never mind that Silicon Valley had one banker on their board of directors and zero bankers on their Risk Management Committee.
01:13:34.634 - 01:13:52.502, Speaker A: Never mind that the vast majority of their deposits were unguaranteed. Never mind any of that stuff. It was their fault. And I promise you, when something goes wrong under your jurisdiction you will have done too little too slowly. You've been a I don't even know what he's asking. David. Have been now in the majority for 100 days.
01:13:52.502 - 01:14:27.294, Speaker A: You were here on day 100. Did you receive an invitation from the Republican majority prior to the invitation that brought you here today? We worked with the chair to come when he wanted me to be here. Have you said no to a majority invitation to testify? We'll work, and whenever the chair wants me here, I'll be here. Okay. All right. Having gotten that off my chest, I do have a serious question. I've long been concerned by the fact that an awful lot of our capital markets are migrating to private markets.
01:14:27.294 - 01:15:07.710, Speaker A: You mentioned it in your testimony. You point out that the amount of liquidity in the private markets now exceed, actually the banking system. It's a valid concern. If you look at public versus private market offerings since 2009, registered offerings are more or less flat since 2010 anyway, and exempt offerings are really skyrocketing. The challenge there, of course, is that individual retail investors, by and large can't invest in private offerings. I worry that profitability and good deals will migrate to those private offerings that accredited investors and institutional investors. That's a term of art for people with substantial amounts of money can invest in.
01:15:07.710 - 01:16:02.334, Speaker A: And retail investors will be left with an increasingly small set of opportunities to invest in the American capital markets. So with my two minutes remaining, Mr. Chair, I think it's fair to consider the possibility that the regulatory structure which I have long supported around public offerings creates some arbitrage for issuers versus the exempt market. So I just want to give you two minutes to reflect both on the proposals that you've made with respect to market structure, but also overall big picture. Are there things that we can be doing along the lines of the Jobs Act or anything else that would hopefully reduce some of this arbitrage between the public and private equity markets? Good question. This guy's neutral in crypto, right? Am I right about that? Let me start by I think that the American economy is benefited by migrant robust. I can see that too.
01:16:02.334 - 01:16:41.610, Speaker A: Public markets and private capital markets. My dad never had to tap the private capital markets of like today. But he talked about his dad like a handful of times. He ran a small business with 30 or 40 employees and he didn't tap the public markets. I was at Goldman Sachs for many years before it was a public company and that was a big company that tapped only private markets. So I think both have a role to play in terms of our regulatory agenda. What we're trying to bring is greater efficiency and competition in the asset management of private capital.
01:16:41.610 - 01:17:40.766, Speaker A: This 2020, $5 trillion of assets under management by hedge funds and private equity and the like, and through greater transparency of their fees, their performance, and their side letters where they might be having different deals. And this is really going to help the retirees in all of your states because most of your states are invested in private equity and in hedge funds as the limited partners. It helps the state treasurers, it helps the endowments, it helps the people behind that. If we can bring greater competition in a field that probably has just 2%, it would be half a trillion dollars a year in revenues to the asset managers. This is what I meant earlier. It's important that our capital markets work for investors and issuers, not the middle, maybe. Is that an answer I was expecting? Thank you, Mr.
01:17:40.766 - 01:17:56.130, Speaker A: Chairman. We'll now go to the gentleman from Michigan, Mr. Heizinga, for five minutes. Thank you, Mr. Chair. And I'm glad to see you here, Chair Gensler. And I do want to congratulate you on finally appointing a permanent inspector General.
01:17:56.130 - 01:18:42.002, Speaker A: Yesterday a little late coming, in my opinion, but in late February I'm going to jump right in. Late February, Chairman McHenry, Senator Scott and I sent you a request for documents and information on your climate disclosure rule. The fact is, other than neutral towards criminals that were private, you have produced only publicly available documents in response to that request. I'm going to highlight a couple of those. This is probably not any crypto questions here, then. This is probably nothing about crypto. Okay, so at the very first question, Ryan, the thing that started this whole thing off, patrick McHenry, which is the guy, like, doing the traffic bullish, crypto people came in so hot about, hey, Gary, is ether a security? And that was no way.
01:18:42.002 - 01:19:21.694, Speaker A: That was the first question. And Gary would start to talk, and then he would cut him off and be, no, no, don't talk. Just say, Is ether a security? And he did that most of his time they had. So Patrick McHenry, can we get him on bankless? Hey, Dave, can we get Patrick McHenry on bankless? Okay, so Patrick McHenry and he came out and I'm sure coinbase under Coinbase, I'm sure he's in favor. Right? I can't imagine he's very supportive of crypto. Supportive? Yeah, he's member of the blockchain Caucus. Oh, yeah.
01:19:21.694 - 01:19:48.798, Speaker A: Okay, great. Yeah. That's, like, as supportive as it gets. And so grilled him on it, and then he got Gary in a little bit of a trap, but then he ran out of yeah, yeah. There's no huh, there's no overtime. Five minutes. You're then, like and then it went to Brad Sherman, and and so I'm now realizing that I pulled up the Waters, uh, window in front of the window.
01:19:48.798 - 01:20:41.178, Speaker A: I'm screen sharing, so it didn't actually make it to the stream, but I was pulling up the Maxine Waters video of her blowing SBF a kiss while giving Gary Gensler, like, T balls to just slam out of the park. Oh, my God. Been pretty cool, but it's cool. But do you think it'll get anything will get done as a result of this? I don't know if there's no needles because lines are being drawn, though, right? Lines are being drawn. Some people are coming in hot and asking very good questions that rile up the crypto people and make me excited. And then it's like, ten minutes of just, like, political circle jerking, and nothing really moves because this is not a session on crypto specifically. It's just oversight of the SEC.
01:20:41.178 - 01:21:22.946, Speaker A: It's like all of the things that we're upset at the SEC for doing, we're just going to talk about them in this. It's not it's not explicitly about crypto, although he was summoned to testify for the actions of the SEC. And so he is here because the Senate Finance Committee thinks the SEC is off on the wrong track, largely because of crypto. There's some other things as well. There's some climate environmental concerns that have been brought to the table, but crypto is a main theme here. Okay, so who is the guy who called know I was out yesterday, David. I had jury know civic duty there Warren Davidson.
01:21:22.946 - 01:21:46.282, Speaker A: I'm done. I believe congressman called Warren Davidson here. You? Oh, yeah. This is what I saw. So he said this? Yup. To correct a long series of abuses, I'm introducing legislation that removes the chairman of the Secretaries and Exchange Commission and replaces the role with an executive director that reports to the board where authority resides. Former chairs of the SEC are ineligible.
01:21:46.282 - 01:22:09.686, Speaker A: And he is quoting a tweet from, I think Paul from Coinbase. From Coinbase, who is quoting another dissent. I dissent post from hester Purse, who should be the SEC chair, by the way, but basically what this lawmaker is doing. So go back to the lawmaker tweet for a second. Who is this guy? Warren Davidson. Warren Davidson. Okay.
01:22:09.686 - 01:22:30.182, Speaker A: Warren Davidson, former Army Ranger, Ohio's 8th District in Congress, working towards a government small enough to fit within the Constitution. Okay, that sounds very right leaning Republican. Right? Yeah. Also follows bankless, by the way. Follows the bank. Follows bankless. But he's basically saying, I don't want Gary Gensler or any other SEC chair to be emperor king.
01:22:30.182 - 01:22:52.642, Speaker A: Right. It should actually report to this board like one individual chair shouldn't get to make all of the decisions in this regulatory body. I don't know what the chair would actually mean. Would the chair be all of the commissioners? The chat saying that they're talking about SDF. Let's tune in. Keep investigative matters confidential. Hold on a second.
01:22:52.642 - 01:23:07.506, Speaker A: Don't hide behind the DOJ, because then it sounds like I need to send letters to the DOJ and not to the SEC about the SEC charges. So we'll be following up with this after this. My time has expired. Damn. I think we must have missed something. Sorry, guys. Response to our questions would be appropriate.
01:23:07.506 - 01:23:22.058, Speaker A: We'll go to McHenry with Ohio for five minutes. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, ranking member. And thank you to our witness today. Mr. Gensler.
01:23:22.058 - 01:24:00.326, Speaker A: Thank you for also responding to us and taking the time to talk to me about the SEC and meet with our team and being here today, kind of staying in this same questioning with the climate rule. As you know, and many may know, I'm a former business owner myself, so I think I know as well, if not better than most of the unique challenges I'll mute. Small business. Where were we talking about? We were talking about Warren Davidson. You're muted. Yeah. So he's just saying remove the yeah.
01:24:00.326 - 01:24:36.390, Speaker A: And put the power back in the board. And I believe that the board is that all of the collective commissioners is that what the board is that reports to the board? I don't know where he means by the board. Yeah. I don't know exactly what this entails, but it does seem to entail, like, get rid of Gary, that's for sure. Yeah. And make sure that a chair doesn't have this much power moving forward. It's a bit more distributed because my whole take is like, what's the point of all the other SEC commissioners if it's just Gary's way or the what's? What's? Hester purse's job? What's? She badass.
01:24:36.390 - 01:25:02.750, Speaker A: Yeah. Other than badass descent posts, which has to be the most frustrating thing. Yeah. Anyways, we've gone through all of the recent Gary tweets about all this stuff, and so now it's kind of like we're more or less I'm assuming we're more or less into the long tail of this hearing. Like, maybe somebody comes in with some crypto conversations, some crypto takes. There's not too many people here. There's, like 20 people in this hearing.
01:25:02.750 - 01:25:44.490, Speaker A: And have they talked about SBF, FTX, and SBF? Yeah. So there was a moment in which Gary had to say, without really being too specific, that, yeah, we totally filed charges against SBF and FTX. And then that's when I pulled up the fact that he did it in December, not November. And then also pulled up the fact that he met with SBF, like, six months prior. But everyone already knows all this. Mean they should be taking him to a task on that, though, right? Yeah, some people are. I know there's other interests, and other Senate members want to talk about other things, and crypto is not the center of the world.
01:25:44.490 - 01:26:09.380, Speaker A: But I'm feeling a little blue bald about what could be said to Mr. Gensler here in this setting of your mission. And I want to take a moment to highlight some of the investors. Oh, we can go back in time. Oh, I can show you McHenry. Oh, you want to see McHenry and firefighters. Well, okay.
01:26:09.380 - 01:26:43.920, Speaker A: We expect to get through a lot. Your assets offered as part of an investment contract are subject to securities laws and more importantly, how these firms should comply with those laws. You're punishing digital asset firms for allegedly not adhering to the law when they don't know it will apply to them. It's nonsensical. The administration said it, the Fed has said it. And I'll say it again. Congress must provide clear rules of the road for the digital asset ecosystem because the regulators cannot agree.
01:26:43.920 - 01:27:11.880, Speaker A: Regulation by enforcement is not sufficient nor sustainable. Your approach is driving innovation overseas and endangering American competitiveness. Nice. The ranking member and I have worked for more than a year on this issue, and we'll continue to work this Congress. But let me be clear. Our goal is to make law. We expect you to play a constructive role in that process.
01:27:11.880 - 01:28:16.390, Speaker A: Now, next up, we'll discuss your overly aggressive and very expensive rulemaking agenda. In the past two years, the Commission has proposed 53 new rules at a breakneck pace. That's twice as many rules as your predecessor, Mary Joe White and Jay Clayton, in the same amount of time. This raises serious concerns that the rulemaking process is being rushed undermining the quality of our securities laws and risking negative, unintended consequences. These concerns have been echoed by senior personnel at your own agency, and they are similar concerns raised while you were at the CFTC. Time and time again, you have cut the public out of the rulemaking process with unreasonably short comment periods. Even for major rules like your disastrous climate disclosure proposal and equity market structure overhaul, you failed to justify these significant rules with thorough evidence, careful studies, and even cost benefit analysis.
01:28:16.390 - 01:29:18.778, Speaker A: I look forward to hearing why the Commission is rushing to make such dramatic changes in our public markets based on paltry economic analysis and limited public input. Finally, it appears you've been so busy weaponizing the securities Exchange Commission to push your agenda that you've forgotten a key pillar of the Commission's statutory mission capital formation. Unlike you, this committee is working to strengthen public markets, help small businesses and entrepreneurs, and increase market access for all investors to ensure the long term growth and prosperity of this country. I'll close with this chair gensler. Your responses to congressional inquiries have been unacceptable. You have a constitutional duty to conduct your business and your agency, but we too have a constitutional duty to conduct oversight of your agency under our jurisdiction. We intend to do that, and we will continue to do so aggressively.
01:29:18.778 - 01:29:52.680, Speaker A: But it is your duty to respond and comply with congressional inquiries. If you continue to thwart this institution by ignoring our requests and providing incomplete responses, we will be left with no choice but to pursue all avenues to compel the information or documents we need compelled and the American people need and deserve to themselves accountability. So with that, I yield back. Okay, so that was his opening statements. That wasn't chair. Now I want to go back and go back to last. I think he might be talking about some stable represent these let me zoom backwards a little bit.
01:29:52.680 - 01:30:10.350, Speaker A: Four proposals. Thank you. Narrative as well. Okay, there we go. I have about 35 seconds. Is there anything you'd like to share with us? If I yield my last 30 seconds to you. Let's see what he says.
01:30:10.350 - 01:30:35.238, Speaker A: Well, if I could just note something about you mentioned you're hearing about the recent events in the markets. And I would note there were three banks that failed in those handful of days, those four or five days, and two of those banks, the first and the third that failed. Silvergate and signature. He's about to blame crypto engaged in the crypto business. I mean, some would say they were crypto banks. Wow. Third.
01:30:35.238 - 01:31:01.546, Speaker A: The biggest Silicon Valley bank, actually. When it failed. You saw this country's, the world's second leading stablecoin, had $3 billion involved there. DPEG so it's interesting just how this was all you asshole. That's what he used the time 35 seconds for. General. Woman right in a wrong fashion.
01:31:01.546 - 01:31:44.490, Speaker A: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Wow. Chair Gensler, you've publicly stated that, and I quote, our markets are the finest in the world and that, quote, retail investors have greater access to markets than at any time in the past. Yet despite these statements, which I wholeheartedly agree with, you still released four proposals last December order competition, best regulation, best X, tick size rules 605. That completely upend those markets and remake them from top to bottom. There is a strong possibility that these four proposals could make equity markets more costly, less efficient, and overall worse for retail investors.
01:31:44.490 - 01:32:33.370, Speaker A: Throughout these proposals, the curtain, or, quote, uncertainty represent these retail in our equity markets are not okay. You want to go back to no answer for the SEC to amend or change FINRA's rules, which would include its current best execution rule? Yes or no? Yes. I'm aware we have that authority. Yes or no? Do you believe FINRA is incapable of maintaining and enforcing an adequate best execution rule? I think this is an important rule that we should have at the commission level. Yes or no? Thank you, Chair Genzer. I'll now recognize myself for five minutes. Ether is one of the most popular digital assets and powers of the Ethereum blockchain.
01:32:33.370 - 01:33:18.582, Speaker A: Back in 2018, then SEC Corporation Finance Director Bill Hinman stated that he believed ether was not a security. Last month, CFTC Chair Benham expressed his view that ether is a commodity. The State Attorney General of New York asserted in a court filing last month that ether is a security. Clearly, an asset cannot be both a commodity and a security. Do you agree? Actually, all securities are commodity under the Commodity and Exchange Act. It's that we are excluded commodities. But I would agree that a security cannot be also an excluded commodity and an included commodity.
01:33:18.582 - 01:34:12.540, Speaker A: I'm sorry, Chair, just to talk about the Commodity Exchange Act more precisely. Okay, so do you recognize how would you categorize Ether then? I think that the general sweep of what Congress did, not just in the 30s, but as amended I'm asking you, sitting your chair now to make an assessment under the laws as exist, is ether a commodity or a security? Without speaking to anyone, I know you repeatedly said you're not going to speak to one except you've spoken to one bitcoin, so I'm asking you to speak to a second one. The second largest market cap here. And speaking to the tokens, there's 10,000 if there's a group of entrepreneurs I'm asking about, one public is anticipating a profit based on the I'm asking a specific question. Chair Gensler, I said this in private. This should be no shock to you. I'm asking this question.
01:34:12.540 - 01:34:46.674, Speaker A: Is ether a commodity or a security? And again, it depends on the facts and the law. And if there's a group of I'm asking you about the facts and the law sitting in your seat and the judgment you are making. And so, Mr. Chair, I think you would not want me to prejudge because I'm also but you have prejudged on this. You've taken 50 enforcement actions. We're finding out as we go, as you file suit, as people get Wells notices on what is a security, in your view and your agency's view. I'm asking you a very simple question about the second largest digital asset.
01:34:46.674 - 01:35:30.966, Speaker A: What is the question? And my view is, if there's a group of individuals in the middle, that the public is. All right, so let me just ask a second question. Do you think it serves the market for an object to be viewed by the commodities regulator as a commodity and the securities regulator to be viewed as a security? Do you think that provides safety and soundness for the product? Do you think it provides consumer protection? Do you think it serves the value of innovation? I think no. Should be a very simple answer for you here. That uncertainty is bad, is it not? And I think that Congress has said that there's one agency, the securities and Exchange Commission, under this commission, and you won't answer my question. And you're the head of that agency, so give me a break. Come on.
01:35:30.966 - 01:35:56.950, Speaker A: I'm answering it in the generic because you would not want me to speak about any one set of facts and circumstances. We would. Okay, but you've already spoken have you said anything about Bitcoin? My predecessors and the agency itself has spoken to them. Okay. But you're not willing to do the same about ether. Okay, so let me just step back. There's a lack of clarity here in the marketplace.
01:35:56.950 - 01:36:12.978, Speaker A: Got them. You at least agree to that. I think that the clarity is there. The law is clear. Let me be explicit about this. The market doesn't see it. Your regulatory actions and the CFTC's regulatory actions say that there's a great deal of uncertainty here.
01:36:12.978 - 01:36:54.490, Speaker A: It is the intention of this committee to fix that uncertainty and actually provide sound legal basis for this. So let me get into your rulemaking process. So you've proposed 53 rules in two years. Mary Jo White proposed 23. Jay Clayton proposed 26. At the same time, your agency has consistently provided less comment period than either of your predecessors. Just as one example, when the SEC made significant changes to the US equity markets in 2005 for regulation NMS, the Commission broadly solicited public feedback, held numerous roundtables, issued white papers and concept releases.
01:36:54.490 - 01:37:22.946, Speaker A: Fast forward to today. You've proposed four equity market structure proposals that would impact millions of retail investors. And you provided a mere 60 days of comments on 1600 pages of regulation. We're on equities now. Let me ask you this. Do shorter comment periods and less public interaction improve rulemaking? We actually put out the equity march expired with that. I'll recognize the ranking member.
01:37:22.946 - 01:37:31.338, Speaker A: Wow. More than a third in West Virginia. Okay. We're talking about real estate now. Yeah. So that was like the highest of this whole thing. It was awesome.
01:37:31.338 - 01:38:01.698, Speaker A: Yeah. And we haven't really had any moment like that since. I don't know what we just missed, but the comments didn't say that we missed mean that was worth the live stream, just that Patrick McHenry grilling him on. The question that all of us have asked about is Ether a security? And you're not answering the question yet you say there's clarity. How can there possibly be? You stumble and stutter and then your next answer is like, oh, yeah, there's clarity. There's complete clarity and it's clarity. Yeah.
01:38:01.698 - 01:38:30.670, Speaker A: If there's clarity, tell us what the second largest market cap crypto asset actually is. And by the way, he said I love his comments like this should not come as a surprise to you. I told you I was going to ask you this privately before we got in the public stand and now I'm asking you this and you're just waffling you have no answer. Absolutely. He started to say when there's like a group of coordinated actors implying that there's a group of coordinated actors around Ethereum. He wants to say Ether is a security. He totally does.
01:38:30.670 - 01:39:00.370, Speaker A: Yeah. It could not be more clear. As if all of his actions weren't clear. I mean, when he got 30 seconds, that other member of Congress asked him a question. Here's free time. What's on your mind, Gary? What do you want to talk about? I just want to remind everyone that Signature and Silvergate were crypto banks and they almost let a major stablecoin fail and it's their fault for the banking run. That's what he used his 35 seconds for.
01:39:00.370 - 01:39:24.074, Speaker A: Incredible. It tells you a lot. Tells you a lot. David, are you going to continue monitoring this? There is a go to that starts in two minutes. Bankless Nation. How badly do you want this stream to continue? Tell us. I've been thoroughly enjoying because you just add commentary when it's time and you can fill in the gaps.
01:39:24.074 - 01:39:43.190, Speaker A: Wait, is that McHenry again? Anytime. He's just passing it from person to person is what he's he is the chair of this committee. Then it seems this is this is not crypto related. This one for Mr. Barr. Yeah, I got to go, though. David so shift.
01:39:43.190 - 01:41:20.930, Speaker A: As Chairman Powell recently noted, in historical practice as custody assets have always been treated as off balance sheet, SAB 121 changed that. And I'm concerned about the consequences because banks have capital liquidity and other Prudential requirements that nonbank custodians do not have. Meaning that banks cannot offer digital asset custody services at scale without significant balance sheet. Implications. If banks cannot provide digital asset custody services at scale, they simply will not offer those services which could lead to market participants not having bank grade custody solutions to pick from and will turn to offshore solutions like in the Bahamas, diminishing American competitiveness and compromising investor protection. Chairman Gensler, has it occurred to you the irony that at the same time you pursued SAB 121, which has effectively precluded highly regulated banks from offering customers the safety and security of segregated digital asset custody Services? Not a single one of the 4500 employees under your supervision at the SEC noticed that FTX was allowed to commingle customer funds, allowed FTX to trade, settle custody lend and borrow digital assets without institutional grade custody. I'm actually quite proud of the staff that put out that staff accounting bulletin because what they said is that public companies, not just banks, but that public companies needed to put on their balance sheet if they had their customer crypto.
01:41:20.930 - 01:42:20.162, Speaker A: And it's what we subsequently found in bankruptcy court, celsius bankruptcy and others, that in bankruptcy, investors just stand in line. Well, reclaiming my time. Reclaiming my time. Did you or your staff consult with prudential bank regulators? Was there any interagency interaction on SAB 121 before after this was issued in March of 2022, given the ramifications that this effectively prevents well regulated banks from providing digital asset custody services? Thank you. Yeah, there was significant dialogue beforehand with accounting professions, the Big Four and others because this question kept coming up. But there has been consultation about this with the bank regulators subsequently. Well, again, I find it very interesting that nobody at the SEC under your supervision noticed that FTX, a one time $32 billion company, was run on QuickBooks Private Funds rulemaking.
01:42:20.162 - 01:42:50.622, Speaker A: You have repeatedly stated that increasing competition in the private fund market is one of the primary objectives of your proposal. But last week, the Committee on Capital Markets Regulation issued a competitive analysis of US private equity fund market. Its key findings concentration is very low and four times lower than the concentration of the public mutual fund industry. The number of fund advisors and funds is steadily growing. The range of investment strategies available to investors is increasing at a significant rate. Barriers to entry are low. Effective management fees have been declining.
01:42:50.622 - 01:43:34.298, Speaker A: Performance net of fees and portfolio diversification benefits outmatch that of public markets. Demand from investors is growing. This analysis directly refutes the entire of your rulemaking. Why can't we have banks custody crypto, right? Did Gary have an answer? I heard the question, but I missed the first part of his really I don't really trust Gary's answer. Like and this is actually something that is weird about the crypto industry is that we have exchanges that are also custodians. You deposit to coinbase, so you can trade on coinbase, right? You deposit to Kraken, so you can trade on Kraken. In normal trad world, you have custodians and then you have exchanges, and those are actually separate entities.
01:43:34.298 - 01:44:09.178, Speaker A: We haven't had that ability to have segregated checks and balances in the system that we've had, which we've determined is good because banks can't custody crypto or they don't want to because of either compliance or fear of regulation or extra scrutiny. And so we don't have that. And so that's what that line of questioning was about. This is interesting from Andy Barr. Congressman Andy Barr, who is unclear on crypto, according to I didn't get that. Could you try again, siri? Just triggered what's that, siri? Sorry. Why is she here? Is she listening to this? Siri's hanging out with us? Yeah.
01:44:09.178 - 01:44:17.822, Speaker A: Okay. Yeah. So, like, that guy is actually unclear on crypto. Okay. I found this on the Web for type. Siri, hanging out with us. Check it out.
01:44:17.822 - 01:44:34.578, Speaker A: Stop. Shut up. Siri, was I just mean to a robot? Yeah, you were. Yeah. And broke David's rule. All right, well, I'm sure there's a few more things, but I do have to go for real this time. I just wanted to get that.
01:44:34.578 - 01:44:45.862, Speaker A: Okay. All right. Goodbye, Ryan. Say everyone say bye to Ryan, everyone. Bye, guys. Enjoy. Okay, I'm really sorry, Bankless Nation, but I'm going to have to also go because there is a talk I need to go.
01:44:45.862 - 01:44:54.214, Speaker A: Whoa. Wow. Holy wow. Look at that outfit. Whoa. Oh. I was not expecting that, mrs.
01:44:54.214 - 01:45:13.934, Speaker A: Presley. Okay, I'm going to drop the YouTube link in the chat. I'm also going to put it in the description of the video. I'm really sorry, guys. There's a polygon ZKE EVM talk that I got to go to, but I promise that talk is ultimately going to become Bankless content. So that's why I hope you can forgive me for ending this. I really enjoy all of you guys being here.
01:45:13.934 - 01:45:35.318, Speaker A: This has been a ton of fun. Anytime Gary Gensler gets into the hot seat, I think we will totally do that. Do this. Once again, if you enjoyed this live stream, please like the video, also subscribe to Bankless. We are not fans of Gary Gensler. And if that's your deal, you should definitely subscribe to Bankless, because we talk about that all the time. So thank you, everyone, for tuning in.
01:45:35.318 - 01:45:47.330, Speaker A: Again, I will put a link to the actual stream coming out of the GOP Financial Services YouTube account in both the comments and then also the YouTube description, like and subscribe. Thanks, everyone. Peace.
