00:00:00.170 - 00:00:25.382, Speaker A: There is a reason why an extremely low percentage of institutional money holds gold. You hear gold bugs bemoan this all the time. It's like the bane of their existence. Like, no one owns the gold, yet the opportunity is still so big. It's like, well, they've had a long time. They've had 5000 years if they wanted it, they've had 5000 years to buy this stuff. Like, clearly they don't actually want it that much.
00:00:25.382 - 00:00:53.562, Speaker A: And the reason why is this mental hurdle about yield, in my opinion, at least. Hey, everyone, wanted to give a quick shout out to the wormhole foundation. If you are a bell curve listener, you know that transferring across chains can be a massive pain. I certainly do. I complain about it on this program all the time. That's why we are super pumped to have partnered with the Wormhole foundation, the stewards of the wormhole protocol. The wormhole protocol connects over 30 blockchains and six different runtimes, including salana sui, ethereum, L2s and more.
00:00:53.562 - 00:01:26.802, Speaker A: And the coolest part about this particular partnership is that they have made custom bell curve nfts, which you can get and mint for free. You can claim that by just going down into the show notes and clicking on the link. All right, guys, on with the show. All right, everyone, welcome back to another episode of Bell Curve. Before we jump in, quick disclaimer. The views expressed by my co host today are their personal views, and they do not represent the views of any organization with which the co hosts are associated with. Nothing in the episode is construed or relied upon as financial, technical, tax, legal, or other advice.
00:01:26.802 - 00:01:39.050, Speaker A: You know the deal. Now let's jump into the episode. All right, everyone, welcome back to another roundup edition of Bell Curve. Today you got me and Miles O'Neill. Miles, good to be back.
00:01:39.120 - 00:01:39.706, Speaker B: Good to be back.
00:01:39.728 - 00:01:49.600, Speaker A: Good to be back, buddy. Good to be back. Yeah, this is going to be a fun been. We're making the executive decision to not talk about the bitcoin ETFs because.
00:01:51.330 - 00:01:51.598, Speaker B: I.
00:01:51.604 - 00:02:04.340, Speaker A: Don'T know how much more alpha there is to be analyzing these weekly flow numbers. Although shout out to Eric Balkunis and James Safert, who are basically the oracles of this. And yeah, I haven't seen someone brand themselves this appropriately in quite a.
00:02:04.790 - 00:02:11.960, Speaker B: See, I did see Bitwise posted their, you know, the crypto native ETf you can track.
00:02:13.530 - 00:02:44.878, Speaker A: I will just constantly root for Bitwise because one of the things that people don't see is they've got the nicest, just best team in crypto. If you've met their leadership team. Hunter, Matt, Teddy. It's really just an example of the good guys winning. And this is just the latest example. Oh, did you see, Miles? Someone donated 69,069 sats to the address. And so now the joke is that bitwise is the only over collateralized bitcoin ETF.
00:02:44.974 - 00:03:00.370, Speaker B: That's funny. I could totally see the crypto community just kind of cheering on the more crypto native provider, especially with such a likable team. Let's just send them a bunch of aum just for fun. But that's funny.
00:03:00.870 - 00:03:07.080, Speaker A: I could see people, honestly, I would even send them a tip, too, if I could figure out lightning, but.
00:03:08.970 - 00:03:09.298, Speaker B: That'D.
00:03:09.314 - 00:03:25.326, Speaker A: Be a whole project to get that figured. So also, while we're shouting out, shout out udi and Eric wall for fighting the good fight on, I'm very excited to see some of this change that's coming on bitcoin blockchain with ordinals and l two s. And it actually feels like there's some real innovation going on.
00:03:25.348 - 00:03:44.670, Speaker B: In there for the first time in a while. It does. We should do another episode on just bitcoin. What's new over there? Because I do feel like there's a lot going on between BitVM and a lot of ZK l two s. And you never know. Maybe the time is now to finally get this community off the sidelines.
00:03:44.830 - 00:04:35.700, Speaker A: It's kind of like that thing where, oh, I've been hurt before, and I was a little bit slow to believe this, but from what I hear, even at SBC and Columbia blockchain event that happened a little while ago, bitcoin had a very large representation for the first time in a little while. So we love to see that. Good to see if we have time. I think an interesting question to unpack as well, because it's even relevant for ETH roll ups, is to what extent is the performance of drive chains or whatever limited by the performance of the l one? And I think that would actually be a really interesting question. We probably have to get some experts on here who have a more granular understanding of what the limitations of drivetrains really are, but I don't know, I think that would be cool to look into.
00:04:36.310 - 00:04:37.620, Speaker B: Yeah, I agree.
00:04:38.630 - 00:05:01.706, Speaker A: I got to give it. But one quick thing before we get into today's topic. Thank you, wormhole, for sponsoring this. You can mint an NFT, which is specific to bell curve. Now, there's a joint competition right now going on between me and Jason over at Empire, and he got slightly more mints than me. So please help your boy win and go mint this bad boy. We'd appreciate so.
00:05:01.706 - 00:05:26.594, Speaker A: All right, Miles, what I want to get into. It's been sort of a slow news week. We don't want to talk about the bitcoin ETF. I thought we could have a little bit of a higher level discussion, and this was inspired by this next season that I'm doing with Hart Lambert. It's my co host on the multi chain endgame. And basically what that is is just trying to update my mental model on how multi chain is going to play out with. I haven't really thought about this very deeply for a little while.
00:05:26.594 - 00:06:13.294, Speaker A: There are kind of pockets that I end up focusing on shared security, chain abstraction, et cetera. But I kind of wanted to try to knit it all into one thing. And what I wanted to there was this great. So Chris goes is going to be the first guest of the season, which I'm super pumped for. And I read this paragraph in a blog that he put out on this intent centric topology that he's been really excited about, and it sort of made me think. I think it's very relevant for us, and I thought we could riff on this, particularly into how it pertains to Ethereum and one of the challenges that they're looking at today, or opportunities, depending on how you frame it. But at the end of this blog post, talks about the heterogeneous security between multiple different chains and the end of supply side blockchain economics.
00:06:13.294 - 00:07:12.402, Speaker A: And again, this is within the context of a larger blog post about, and we'll link it in the show notes as well, about intents versus transactions. And the idea being in a transaction paradigm, a lot of what generated value or the way that people thought about the economics of blockchains was very supply side oriented. And this is something we've actually talked about on the show before. I think a lot of the investment cases, I mean, it's the 21 million hard cap of bitcoin, right? And these are inherently supply side arguments for setting a clearing price for value. But the idea is that intense because that puts the choice, I mean, you're not mandating one specific output, so it's much more of a demand centric argument based on what users want. You're flipping that paradigm, and one of the second order consequences of that is that you're kind of unbundling the parts of a blockchain that had been bundled previously. And the way that Chris defines that is there's a protocol.
00:07:12.402 - 00:08:02.498, Speaker A: So this could be like the EVM which supports smart contracts, a specific security model. So that'd be gasper, the validator set, an ethereum, a history. So that includes the nominal asset, which would be etH, and then a community of people who self identify as members. And so one of the interesting things, I think an interesting meta question to ask is, let's just take two of those parts, which is the protocol. So let's just say ethereum itself as the protocol or the EVM, and then the asset Eth. And let's try to think through on this episode. What are some of the second and third order consequences of those things being unbundled? And I feel like where this is starting to even rear its head is the moneyness of eth conversation.
00:08:02.498 - 00:08:46.270, Speaker A: And I think you're starting to see a couple of camps of people align with different parts of what had previously been bundled together. And you see, let's call it like protocol maximalists. And these are usually app developers on Ethereum that want to see the actual protocol itself improve. So the two things that these people tend to ask for are shorter block times and cheaper gas. Right? So raise the gas limit. And that would be sort of a protocol centric view of the world of ETH. And then there's another group of folks who I think are very attuned to the asset ETh itself and its moneyness.
00:08:46.270 - 00:09:17.210, Speaker A: And what I'd love to unpack this episode is a how do you view the sort of dichotomy of these two points of view? And how are we just viewing the overall moneyness of ETH, especially in a world where we probably want ETH to be used as money on other chains, and so inherently it's going to be wrapped there. So what do you think about that, Miles? Is that a fair way to characterize kind of like a protocol centric approach versus an asset centric approach? And what are your sort of high level thoughts on the moneyness argument of ETh?
00:09:17.370 - 00:10:05.834, Speaker B: Yeah, first of all, it's like a super interesting argument in terms of thinking about intents this way and their implications on, say, broader blockchain dynamics. I think you have to be kind of specific about what chain or what ecosystem we're talking about. And with ethereum, I think we've talked about it. Right. It's kind of in an awkward spot in its roadmap where it is starting to push activity out of the platform. It's not trying to optimize for the, I would say, application activity on its protocol, yet there is still a ton of applications. It's still the center of really all blockchain activity.
00:10:05.834 - 00:11:34.090, Speaker B: Right. Even though trying to push things up to roll ups at this point. And so I think that is, you could argue that maybe with this roadmap, the main demand side driver of ethereum is no longer trying to attract apps directly to l one, but trying to basically export its asset, its moneyness, to be the main, I would say, base asset of all these protocols built on top of it, either that are inheriting security via being a roll up, or inheriting security via something like Eigen layer that's completely, a totally separate network, but connected through, I guess, the supply side of operators and staked capital. And then there's, I think, a different question here of if that is your goal, to export Eth the asset and have that serve as the base layer of trust and really the base money of all these ecosystems, then how do you think about the stake rate? Right. I think the original v one yield curve was built for the merge, which is still in place. I guess logic driving that was before there was even a ton of DFI activity. Right on l one.
00:11:34.090 - 00:12:20.166, Speaker B: The logic didn't incorporate things like Mev. It didn't incorporate, I guess, the incentives to stake and then mint a liquid derivative of that stake. And so I think the original target with the current curve is somewhere between ten and 30% max. And we're already at 25%. And we see that the majority, or at least a large portion of stake, is accessing this via lsts. And lsts, as we know, have very strong power laws. And so obviously we've already begun to see one dominant LST.
00:12:20.166 - 00:13:24.542, Speaker B: And so I can see from the perspective of Ethereum, just some general kind of concerns that a big refactoring needs to be done in order to kind of align, I would say, the roadmap of Eth the asset and what that looks like to, I guess, the roadmap of ETH, the protocol and really what they're hoping to do by having l one serve as more of a settlement layer and just maybe a place where you can export security. Right. And that's not the way things are going right now. It's looking like the stake rate is going to go very high to keep all those assets liquid. It's likely going to be derivatives will be minted from it. We'll see exactly what portion of ETH holders, I guess, would at this point, have no interest in staking. I think there is kind of an assumption that we're going to hit 50% and then it's going to go 75% 80% all the way to 100.
00:13:24.542 - 00:13:57.998, Speaker B: I think there's still kind of a big question right now of huge pools of capital that just say three, 4% for all this smart contract risk. What's this geth client risk thing? Just learning about that now, and that's not going to help. Right. So, yeah, a lot of thoughts there, but I think we are at kind of like a pivotal turning point in deciding how to realign the supply side economics to the roadmap and the realities of ETh.
00:13:58.194 - 00:15:12.234, Speaker A: Okay, so much to unpack there. So let's divide this moneyness topic into kind of the stake rate and this stake derivatives, right, from main chain. So that would be, what is the appropriate kind of stake rate from the perspective of Ethereum, the protocol. And then how should we think about the competing moneyness of something like steeth versus eth? And then I think another interesting meta question to ask would be, if the idea of, if the objective overall, from the perspective of Ethereum, is to export ETH as a currency, then what that implies is that most of ETH is eventually going to be a wrapped version in one way, shape or form. Even something that uses the bridge up to arbitram ends up being not canonical Eth. And we were talking about this, and we'll give you some analogy. It's just a shame, actually, that the ven diagram of people that have a deep understanding of global monetary plumbing in tradfi and crypto is so small because there are some extremely similar principles and tensions.
00:15:12.234 - 00:15:38.422, Speaker A: Like, for instance, the US is the issuer of the reserve currency of the know. We take our currency and us dollars are an export. And there is a tension in know you want that currency to be strong and trusted so that people want it. But if it's too strong, then it actually hurts domestic voters because we can't export stuff. So there's a constant tension. Anyway, there's a lot of. I think you're starting to see that pop up in ETH as well.
00:15:38.422 - 00:16:44.510, Speaker A: But let's talk about this from the perspective of, let's just zoom in on the issue of the stake rate and the existence of a derivative like steeth. I think one of the difficult questions is, how do you trade off? Here are the trade offs from the perspective at least that I see it. One, there's the idea of, would you rather have money or yield bearing money? And I think what you would learn if you again looked at tradfi is that people would prefer to hold bonds over currency, people with money, people with a large amount of assets would prefer to own yield bearing money as opposed to non yield bearing money, with the extremely important caveat that the security assumptions are the same. And actually within Tradfi, the security assumptions of holding bonds or holding assets in a money market fund are actually stronger than holding USD in a bank. So you got to assume that the security assumptions are relatively similar or ideally even better. And then there's the idea of kind of the issuance policy and what the target stake rate should be. And it might be interesting.
00:16:44.510 - 00:17:29.990, Speaker A: Miles, just as a thought experiment, what would you think about? Obviously there are many different flavors of how you could implement something that looks like a cap, right? Let's just say, for instance, the ethereum community or the relevant set of stakeholders said we'd like to favor ETH, the asset and we are going to implement some version of a cap at like 50%. Right. Just picking a number out of thin air, can we kind of play out some of the second and third order consequences? Do you think the result of that would be fewer people staking? Would that push people actually into more risk taking via eigen layer, opting into additional sources of mean? How do you see all that? How would you see that playing out?
00:17:30.160 - 00:19:25.860, Speaker B: Yeah, it's super interesting. So I'd say in maybe taking a step back, why would we even talk about something like this? And I do think it's driven by, okay, it's no longer going to be the global computer on l one, it is going to be this base layer of trust, a settlement layer that exports its security and its money. Right? Okay, so in that sense, if that's our main, basically value crawl method and our main product, we want to maintain a premium on, right. We want control, first of all, and we want a premium on liquid eth because the reality is yield bearing ETH that can be used in a liquid fashion does not have one to one trust and risk assumptions like treasuries do to non yield bearing cash, right. And so it's saying, okay, that's not really an option, or we don't want that outcome because of the implications of something like lido controlling the validator set, right. So let's actually put a target on what we want the stake rate to be that's a little bit more prescriptive than the original, I guess, curve. And so what it could look like is, again, you pick a target that's maybe sub 50% or 50% and just have the yield curve not fixed, but go to zero as you get to that number and potentially let it go negative once it goes past that number, and then it's a question of, okay, should that just be negative for the new balances that just entered, or should that be negative for everybody so that it's more of like a collective pain? Right.
00:19:25.860 - 00:20:53.600, Speaker B: And then that has some interesting implications around like, okay, how do you exactly do that? Do you just reduce balances? Right. And then I think you take into account, next question is, actually we can control issuance. The two other variables that play into this yield, the absolute yield number, are mev. And now eigen layer that's emerging, right? And so sure, we can target a stake rate of x through issuance, but if, let's say mev, it represents two to percent, three, and eigen layer represents anywhere from maybe 1% yield uplift, if you're really conservative, to three to four, maybe 5% yield uplift for the more degen risk on capital. Now, we're still looking at a effective staking yield of somewhere in between, I guess, three and 6% or 7%. Right. And so should the protocol be aware of that as well? I think that's also something to think about because sure, it can go like issuance can go kind of to zero and to negative, but you could potentially have well over that target if the rewards offsetting the negative yield are high enough.
00:20:53.600 - 00:20:59.310, Speaker B: So these are the different considerations that go into that. Maybe I'll kind of pause there.
00:20:59.460 - 00:21:59.742, Speaker A: So totally agree with all of that. Here's where I see this going, and I'm curious to understand if you also see the world this way, because let's imagine some sort of scheme that you just described where issuance tails off at some predetermined target, and what you're doing from the perspective of the protocol is lowering the amount of yield that gets paid out. And then there are these other separate market forces where yield is going to trend lower over time anyway. So, for instance, Mev, burned to me, is kind of pointless as a discussion. People like to talk about it. But there are other market incentives which are redirecting yield away from the proposer Hart just came out with this thing oval, which is attacking one pool of mev, which is Oracle related mev. This is happening on the level of Dexes.
00:21:59.742 - 00:22:46.978, Speaker A: So sex to Dex arbitrage, that ends up happening, that's getting redirected back towards the app layer. There are incentives, actually, both from the perspective of Ethereum consensus and the Dapps that are built on Ethereum to redirect that mev away. So these market forces, anyway, so the stake rate is getting lower and compressing. And I would just love to know what the objective of that is, because if you look at how traditional monetary policy is conducted, when you lower the yield, you are encouraging people to take risk, because the desire for yield, especially passive risk free yield, is essentially infinite. It's infinite. So when you lower the risk free yield, which I think people would consider, it's not risk free. It'silly to suggest that.
00:22:46.978 - 00:23:57.486, Speaker A: But the safest yield you can get in crypto is most likely Ethereum staking yield. If that goes lower, I don't think people will just say, oh, I can't get the same amount of yield that I was getting before. People will have already been anchored to that target. And all you're going to do is push them out along the risk curve into riskier and riskier sources of yield. And the easiest way to do that, probably, or looking like the dominant vehicle for that, is going to be a combination of eigen layer and liquid restaking. And ironically, I think if Ethereum were to go down this road, they're surrendering control of their monetary policy, in a sense, to a marketplace like Eigen layer, where Eigen layer can adjust parameters and have an influence on the liquid restaking protocols that are built on top of it to control the amount of yield that global investors are getting. That's the road that I see us going down here if we were to take this path.
00:23:57.618 - 00:25:07.040, Speaker B: Yeah. So you're saying that, I guess the downside is that you're basically putting a lot of control, or giving a lot of control to something like the dynamics of Eigen layer once you hit that 0%, and assuming it's just going to stay there, right? Yeah, I think that's fair. I think that the amount of security spend generated from eigen layer, it's going to take quite a while for that to be significant. I guess I just don't see a huge world where there's like 10% rewards coming from Eigen layer until there's thousands and thousands of ABS if they get there. So I do think that maybe it's a bit overestimated right now based off of especially how many deposits are in eigen layer, just the timeline, until that becomes as big of a factor as, say, something like MeV today, just in gross dollars.
00:25:08.130 - 00:25:21.534, Speaker A: Well, could I poke at that though, right now? But we're not really in a great market regime for that. Can you imagine during another bull market, there's going to be, I would imagine, an enormous amount of demand for something like this. Tons of new chains.
00:25:21.662 - 00:25:41.750, Speaker B: I think so but I think that is actual spend, right? That needs to come from somewhere. And there is billions, and I think there will be probably $5 billion of deposits by the time it launches anyways. I think over time, yeah, it does become extremely significant.
00:25:41.830 - 00:26:25.638, Speaker A: But just miles, just to underscore that important point, again, revisiting some episodes that you and I have done, the value proposition from the perspective of an avs is right now they have to pay an enormous amount in their native token to procure security or a validator set. The whole value proposition of Eigen layer and rehab propagating eth security is that you pay less. Right? So I keep doing this math and I have to keep reminding myself that I'm wrong about this. It's not the amount of emissions that these combined new chains would issue on LLC. They're expecting to get a massive discount, right? So they should only be paying whatever that is, much less.
00:26:25.724 - 00:28:09.270, Speaker B: Yeah, it's funny because Eigen layer depositors, they're there for extra yield and the AVss are there to give away less yield than they otherwise would. But I do think that's going to come in for a while. And I guess maybe the one concern there is that if you push it really negative, then that pushes incentives from the restaking side to basically take on a lot more risk than they otherwise should. And then by, I guess, solving one problem by having a ton of liquid eth out there, maybe you end up with a bigger problem of overloading Ethereum's consensus or basically the original concerns around Eigen layer, which I think has a lot of training whales for all of these reasons. So yeah, I guess I do think it's actually very realistic to see a 0% target at some point, just because I think people will basically bid at 0% to process or work on the consensus protocol because there is going to be that many ways to profit off of just being a proposer. We haven't really talked about a lot of stuff coming down the line on the MEV side yet, and I think as well as the Eigen layer side. So I don't think the protocol necessarily needs to be incredibly aware of all these out of protocol profitability drivers like MeV necessarily to still have this be kind of like an effective target stake rate that goes slightly negative after it.
00:28:09.340 - 00:28:40.162, Speaker A: Hey, everyone wanted to give a quick shout out to the wormhole foundation. If you are a bell curve listener, you know that transferring across chains can be a massive pain. I certainly do. I complain about it on this program all the time. That's why we are super pumped to have partnered with the wormhole foundation, the stewards of the wormhole protocol. The wormhole protocol connects over 30 blockchains and six different runtimes, including Salana, Sui, Ethereum, L2s and more. And the coolest part about this particular partnership is that they have made custom bell curve nfts, which you can get and mint for free.
00:28:40.162 - 00:29:19.390, Speaker A: You can claim that by just going down into the show notes and clicking on the link. All right, guys, on with the show. One more question on this before we get to the other question of what does exported ETH ultimately end up looking like? What do we think? Let's ignore what other people think. What do you and I think Ethereum, the protocol, should be optimizing for? And is there a tension in between the parameters around ETH block space or like the Ethereum protocol that makes eth the export more money, like, versus making the protocol itself more usable? Is that actually attention that exists?
00:29:20.450 - 00:29:58.250, Speaker B: Yeah. Interesting. It is attention. I really do think it is. And maybe one way to think about this is to compare this to, I think, celestia right now and Tia, which you can argue is like basically saying it started at the point of where, okay, we want to build where Ethereum wants to go as this base layer and its main product is exporting tIa. Right. And you can see right now that it is actually going a lot more smoothly in terms of they don't have activity on l one.
00:29:58.250 - 00:30:29.720, Speaker B: Their whole focus is basically to export Tia and get it used in all these different roll ups. Right. And they're building that narrative and it's very coherent. And everybody is kind of aligned on that in the same way that Solana, everybody is very aligned on Solana being the base layer of activity. Right. And I do think you find Ethereum is somewhere in between there, right, where they're looking at the money camp is saying, okay, this is kind of where the roadmap is going. We're pushing this activity out.
00:30:29.720 - 00:31:19.640, Speaker B: We need to export this asset. Right. And the protocols that are there still saying, like, wait, no, we're still here. Can we optimize the protocol a little bit more for applications? So I do think there is a tension there. And then, yeah, we can talk about like, okay, if the goal of Ethereum is to export this asset to be the base money and all these other activity hubs, that in itself is going to be a wrapped version of Ethereum, what are the marginal risks of, I guess, that being a liquid staking derivative that is then bridged versus that being something that is, you're only dealing with the risk and trust of the bridge. And if it's an enshrined bridge, usually it's not that bad.
00:31:21.370 - 00:31:59.246, Speaker A: Yeah, the enshrining. It's interesting. I mean, this is where something like the liquid staking module makes an enormous amount of sense as a way for the protocol to have greater insight and potential regulation around what's going on with liquid staking tokens. Ethereum here. It's just so funny. First of all, also to defend Ethereum, I mean, Ethereum is like pioneering all of this stuff. And there are these weird 2nd, third order consequences that end up coming down like the transition from proof of work to proof of stake.
00:31:59.246 - 00:32:44.486, Speaker A: We've talked about this ad nauseam on the show. That gap in between when people could stake and when they could ultimately take it out was what led liquid staking protocols like Lido to be so successful. There was such a gap in ux that being able to trade in and out, I mean, liquid staking was the only thing that really ended up making sense within that. I think it's. I don't know, I don't have a great answer here. I still think Ethereum is in probably the most enviable position to be in, just by virtue of the fact that more people do view it as a form of money that you'd like to hold than almost anything else outside of bitcoin. And they do have an extremely strong penetration of steath.
00:32:44.486 - 00:33:27.710, Speaker A: And I guess where I want to drive towards here is, I think that's inevitable. I think it's inevitable. Even if you just listen to. Again, you can look towards tradfi as an analog, and there's a lot of things that you should ignore about tradfi, but there are some things that you should not ignore. And I think the thing that you should not ignore about tradfi is people want yield. When large global pools of capital do not hold their money in the underlying asset, they hold their money in something that can generate yield. And what I think you could say is, look, if your economic system favors the underlying as opposed to the yield generating thing, that's more beneficial for everyone.
00:33:27.710 - 00:34:09.450, Speaker A: But I just think you're never going to get people over this mental hurdle of it's the greater fool's thing. I'm only holding this thing because I think someone else is going to buy it from me for less. And instead, if I can model this yield, be it a dividend or a coupon or whatever, people are just so much more comfortable with that I don't know. I sort of view this as inevitable. And it's coming for all crypto assets, actually. And it probably is a bit of a cap on. It's probably a little bit of a ceiling on bitcoin.
00:34:09.450 - 00:34:35.890, Speaker A: There is a reason why an extremely low percentage of institutional money holds gold. You hear gold bugs bemoan this all the time. It's like the bane of their existence. Like no one owns the gold yet the opportunity is still so big. It's like, well, they've had a long time. They've had 5000 years if they wanted it, they've had 5000 years to buy this stuff. Like clearly they don't actually want it that much.
00:34:35.890 - 00:34:41.922, Speaker A: And the reason why is this mental hurdle about yield, in my opinion, at least productive assets.
00:34:41.986 - 00:35:24.450, Speaker B: Yeah, productive assets. I agree. I mean, maybe if I had to push back on any of that inevitability. It's just that the risk profiles are not apples to apples between, again, like treasuries and cash versus staking, eth versus not. But I think those things do get worked out over time. And yeah, again, maybe just to look at Celestia, they can implement a liquid staking module which regulates lsts. And that's like another sort of second mover advantage that they have just by not having to go through this large migration and not having actually going with delegated proof of stake.
00:35:24.450 - 00:36:22.070, Speaker B: And so yeah, I do think that it's a combination of can you regulate the growth of lsts on Ethereum by targeting a more, I would say opinionated staking cap or like a staking target? Or do you need to just kind of accept the inevitability of lsts and people wanting to stake, especially with all these new ways to get yield that have nothing to do with issuance, right. And then say, okay, should we look at something like a bigger overhaul of the staking architecture beyond just the issuance curve and thinking about things like building native delegation into the protocol, making the protocol at least aware of some of the different types of staking that is going on and the risks that could potentially impose.
00:36:24.010 - 00:36:35.690, Speaker A: Yeah, I think that's a really good point. My own opinion is that it's inevitable, but I understand that that's an unpopular opinion.
00:36:38.270 - 00:37:07.400, Speaker B: Okay, then it's like, okay, if it's inevitable, what should we do about that? To maybe avoid some of these negative consequences that we see as pretty likely, right. If we just sit here and do nothing, like Lido can probably have a very large influence over how all stake is delegated across the validator set. Right? Not that they're not doing everything in their power to kind know, basically get off of that narrative. Right.
00:37:08.010 - 00:37:22.540, Speaker A: I actually think they've done a good probably Ethereum has probably wound up with a validator set that's slightly more depending on wherever your definition of decentralized is that Lido has. It's been a forcing function of.
00:37:24.830 - 00:37:36.670, Speaker B: Exactly. But which control point, basically, are you going to kind of target if you're in the shoes of somebody that is trying to figure out the future roadmap of Ethereum?
00:37:40.290 - 00:38:20.874, Speaker A: It's a good question, and I'm not sure that I have a coherent answer yet, but I think it begins with the community. This is a really important question, I think for the community and the various sets of Ethereum stakeholders that exist. People think that the Ethereum foundation is like the all seeing eye and they're in control. That's obviously not the case. They're diverse even within the organization and pretty distributed. But certainly there are folks there that have some influence. There are different the client teams that exist, the apps.
00:38:20.874 - 00:39:25.726, Speaker A: Ultimately we're going to need to come to consensus on this. And I think what makes it okay, let's ignore the idea of yield and being a productive asset. I think if you were to just look at, okay, ethereum the protocol and eth the asset are related, but increasingly diverging. And the idea is to export ETH as an asset and a money to other chains, then you kind of have to accept the idea that canonical eth as it exists on ETH main chain is going to not be the majority. And instead what you're going to have is you're going to have mostly wrapped versions with varying sets of trade offs and security assumptions. Maybe the worst version of that would be your canonical mint and lock bridge, where your eth is locked in a smart contract on main chain, and then you get some sort of obligation from the bridge. And that has historically proven to be a honeypot for risk.
00:39:25.726 - 00:40:10.746, Speaker A: But maybe it's much better if you have eth that gets bridged up into arbitram or optimism. That's a better version. So I don't know. I actually have a lot of empathy for the Ethereum alignment people, because even though it makes me personally chafe a little bit sometimes I'm like, yeah, you don't really have a mechanism here to get people to do what's in their long term best interest. And I think these are all really well intended people who want to see users that don't understand all these trade offs or are maybe a little bit short sighted like every human can be from time to time, not make bad decisions. So yeah, I can see why we've landed on alignment as kind of a way to do that, because I'm not sure if I've got a better solution.
00:40:10.858 - 00:41:17.720, Speaker B: Yeah, no, the solutions are always like, okay, let's build things into the protocol that mitigate some of these risks. But I think the challenge with Ethereum is there is such a plurality of visions of what Ethereum should care about and how to prioritize things, even not just money and exporting to other activity layers versus l one. It's like, okay, should we try to compete on DA or not? If we do care about competing on DA, then what should we be prioritizing versus? Are we really trying to compete more on the money side? If so, what should we be prioritizing? Maybe something that's more around like a supply side economic staking overhaul. Right. Versus activity on l one, and raising the gas limits and things like that. So I do think that a lot of this is, that's why Ethereum is beautiful. It's the only blockchain, the only ecosystem that actually supports this set of views and opinions on what to do.
00:41:17.720 - 00:41:56.354, Speaker B: Whereas again, maybe I just contrast that to Celestia and Solana, which know far more cohesive in kind of like the community's vision and priorities, obviously on opposite ends of the spectrum and what they're trying to do. But yeah, I do think that that's why things get pretty spicy from time to time, especially the fact that the EF and the core developers are a separate class, I would say, of developers than the application developers and maybe even the roll up developers. And I guess what they care about and what they're thinking about on a day to day.
00:41:56.552 - 00:42:48.702, Speaker A: Yeah. Well, let's talk about the, here's a question that I have for you. We were talking about this a little bit, but I'll be particularly interested to see what penetration of liquid staking in Celestia ultimately ends up looking like and where that shakes out. Because again, tail of two cities sort of thing are sliding doors where Ethereum historically lower stake rate, although that's clearly creeping up, very high penetration of liquid staking for a bunch of reasons. No native delegation, you had that ux, the Merp pre merge problem for stakers in the beginning, and then there's the money ness of ETH and a robust defi ecosystem. So all these things, and then for something like Solana or Cosmos, you have very high stake rate, very low penetration of liquid staking. So for Tia.
00:42:48.702 - 00:43:13.930, Speaker A: It'll be really interesting to see where that ultimately ends up shaking out. I think Celestia has the benefit of having learned the know, shall we say, of these three major ecosystems. They'll have more information than anyone else did at the time that they were sort of making these decisions for themselves. I'll just be really interested to see where it lands up.
00:43:14.000 - 00:43:51.590, Speaker B: Me too. And I actually push that even further to say, I'm very interested to see where lsts on ETH, actually, how they evolve in a roll up centric world. Right. Because I think part of the challenge with lsts in a roll up centric ecosystem is bridging and fungibility. Right. Even if it's the same LST, if it's coming from one route to a roll up, let's say it's coming from, like, osmosis to a roll up, and another one is coming from, let's say, another roll up to this roll up. Those two are not going to be fungible.
00:43:53.930 - 00:43:56.182, Speaker A: Miles, explain why that is for people.
00:43:56.316 - 00:45:13.406, Speaker B: Oh, it's just basically, whether it's a bridging route or an IBC route, basically what is minted on the other side is specific to the collateral that's locked on the source chain of where it's coming from. So the derivative minted of, say, like, steeth coming from arbitrum to optimism, that's been locked on, say, like the arbitram side versus steeth coming from starknet to optimism, which you need to basically have these canonical bridging routes to make sure that, okay, I went from ETH to starknet with my steeth, and I want to go to arbitrum or optimism. In this example, if you're arbitram, you want all the steeth coming in to go first back down to Ethereum and then come up the same route. Right. And so it does actually add, I think, another part of LST adoption. Why it's so high in market penetration is on Ethereum is also because you don't deal with any of these fungibility issues. And so, yeah, I agree with you.
00:45:13.406 - 00:45:54.480, Speaker B: I think it's very interesting to see how this plays out, because I would argue Tia is one of the only assets that really has a lot of the qualities of ETH in terms of moneyness and kind of that shared base layer asset that everybody has to use and hold for some reason, versus having, it's a cosmos chain that already has, like, a 59% or 50% staking ratio that's all native staked. And we'll basically see, I think a lot of it also depends on the roll ups themselves and how much they want to lean into this as a way to attract liquidity on their platform.
00:45:55.410 - 00:46:38.970, Speaker A: Yeah, it'll be interesting to see the other tension here that is unclear, at least in my mind, in terms of how this all plays out. And maybe you've got a much better. I mean, I know we agree on some parts of this and some parts less, but in a world where you have a couple dominant, let's just say the TIA or EtH sort of viewpoint ends up playing out here and there are a couple of monies that get used on all of these blockchains. What are we going to do with all these other tokens? What are we going to do with that? Even in the scenario of ETH roll ups where you've got why can't they just make revenue?
00:46:41.490 - 00:47:12.418, Speaker B: Why can't they just earn revenue in those base layer tokens from usage of their platforms? And once they have made enough revenue that there's no higher ROI, growth, investment other than paying capital back to users, we can do that kind of sounds like an equity, but I do think that's fine. Not every token needs to be, just needs to be money, obviously. Right, of course. But are you talking about the other l ones mainly?
00:47:12.514 - 00:47:57.026, Speaker A: No, I was talking about the L2s and even a shared sequencer. Let's assume that these shared sequencers are going to launch tokens as well. And there's a couple of different. A lot of this is path dependence of how regulation frankly, ends up playing out. So let's just say there's a world where these things are allowed to be valued based on their cash flows, then they start to look pretty equity like. And if you operated one of these protocols today, you'd say, hey, I get that this is the first principles way that this should operate, but the only way that crypto protocols tend to get users is through launching a token. And that's like solving the cold start problem.
00:47:57.026 - 00:48:50.070, Speaker A: I know you're going to push back on me, but a lot of. No, I'd be like, look, I get it, I get it, but I also have to do this if I want to compete, because my competitors are going to do it. So then if we can assume in that world that they're not going to be allowed to distribute cash flows back or even imply that because they shouldn't even be doing that just from a business standpoint at this point in their lifecycle anyway, then they need some other way to accrue value to the token. Here's one way that you could do that. Let's imagine this sort of chain abstracted multi chain world where you've got a couple of different where let's just say there's kind of an area where maybe this is a wallet, or this is what Nier is trying to do with their blockchain operating system. Some kind of front end where a transaction is originated. And let's assume that the destination, the state that you're trying to impact is on another chain.
00:48:50.070 - 00:49:25.058, Speaker A: And shout out to Sam Hart, by the way, for. Actually, I just got off a long call with him earlier. You know, basically the idea would be, there's a couple of things that need to happen. There's kind of a simulation that needs to get run about what is the optimal route. And when I say that was exactly what you were describing, which is not all routes are created equal. There's cost, there's speed, there are security assumptions based on the route that you take. Then there's this sort of transport layer, and then there's ultimately the chain where you want to impact things in a kind of shitty version of how this could play out.
00:49:25.058 - 00:49:48.540, Speaker A: You could imagine each hop being token gated, and in order to take that route, you'd have to essentially swap into that token and then swap back out again. There's a lot of reasons for that that we could all say that's not efficient, but I could see that playing out as an end state.
00:49:49.070 - 00:50:50.746, Speaker B: Why wouldn't have bridges done that already then, right? I don't know. If it can be that fluid and there's liquidity venues, and it's all abstracted away, then sure, maybe I agree, but I do think the less denominations there are, the more efficient these systems run. In general, it's less friction. You can honestly view those tokens as crypto native intermediaries that just add they are annoying rent seeking checkpoints. And I think they can be rent seeking, but not necessarily as annoying with making you kind of like deal with these token complexity issues. So maybe I'll say this. I know we go back and forth on this a lot, but there are cases where it really does make sense to lean into your token as money, because that's going to create the best, biggest version of both your service and the ecosystem that depends on you.
00:50:50.746 - 00:51:48.890, Speaker B: And I'll go back to Celestia. Right? I think it was Dan on your team did a great report being showing God the forbidden r word revenue of Celestia and saying, okay, it's like $76 a day, if we like 100,000 x this then maybe it's this. But the whole point again is to just keep scaling the band the amount of data. Right? So it's never actually going to be the revenue driver. So that said, exporting TIa and leaning into this TIA's modular money meme and what that actually means is getting Tia adopted on all these roll ups. I actually do think rising tides lifts all boats for the ecosystem. Number one, I think it makes as to my point on there like routing and things like shared sequencers far more efficient because we're looking at one denomination of a very liquid asset.
00:51:48.890 - 00:52:40.714, Speaker B: And then once you kind of hit exit velocity on the size of market cap and asset memability then you can start exporting your security and restaked assets. And like what Zachie was saying, I think we both pretty much expect and are already seeing the top at least this point. EtH, bitcoin, Solana and Tia all have projects that are either actively working on restaking or thinking about it. Right? So then that sense, that totally makes sense to give. That should be like the point of your token. But yeah, I just think if you're like a transport layer, I mean look at IBC. It's not great that we really just rely on relayer subsidies instead of actually enforcing some sort know fee.
00:52:40.714 - 00:52:57.320, Speaker B: There that might be that. So there, there's absolutely no rent seeking. And then with other bridges I think you're know for the most part taking a fee on whatever the asset you're trying to send from one place to the other is. Sorry, I was rambling there for a while.
00:52:59.690 - 00:53:51.830, Speaker A: Miles. That makes almost too much sense in the way that. And it probably will end up playing out something very similar to just, there's this very complicated thought and look, this could be solved. But will it even be solved? Because if you were to just say as soon as you say that these tokens get valued based on their cash flows, then kind of has to become a security at that standpoint. And even taking my crypto hat off for a second, it's like what rationale would I if this is just an equity, why can we distribute? Unless we as a society want to say, which I would be down to have this conversation. The frictions around issuing equity are far too high. I think that is the case.
00:53:51.830 - 00:54:32.450, Speaker A: And as an issuer of startup equity, I think there are pros and cons to I think there are pros and cons to having your equity, which is startup equity, wildly volatile, be liquid in a lot of cases it doesn't make sense. There are a lot of negatives that come across to it. But I think the pros outweigh the cons in general. And I would be a proponent of generally, maybe that would be a good end state for tokens or a good end impact for tokens is that they just make everyone see that the way that we issue and think about equity needs to get an upgrade.
00:54:32.790 - 00:55:27.480, Speaker B: I'd prefer that over bending over backwards and forgetting, trying to create new best practices or new principles just to avoid this maybe transitory issue of not being able to admit that it has properties of a security. And again, that doesn't apply to all tokens. And so yeah, I do think it's like, okay, either this is a better way to issue equity or some version of it, or maybe you hold off on it as we're seeing with Eigen layer now. Big part of the reason these Avs will have tokens is because it is a cheaper way to pay for security, right. They do have to go probably fundraise for these tokens to have any value. But typically when you fundraise, you're also able to mint a lot of the token, right. It's not one to one equity dollars into tokens out.
00:55:27.480 - 00:55:49.100, Speaker B: Yeah, I do think that it's helpful for bootstrapping costs and eventually, kind of depending on the project, it could potentially have non security like properties. But I wouldn't make that the focus of your mission. Right. Versus just the product itself.
00:55:51.310 - 00:56:50.122, Speaker A: I agree. I guess the only pushback that I would have to you, and it's not even real pushback, it's just how long is that going to take for us to come to that? I mean, coming to that realization could take a decade. And if you're an entrepreneur and you want to do something now, this is where the element of path dependence, I think, comes into play. And another aspect of this as well, is we've taken, whether we know it or not, an enormous amount of, we really copied a lot of bitcoin's architecture. And when I say architecture, I mean the amount of decentralization that's required, the ethos of the community and the construction of the protocol based on the intended use case, and broadly applied that to all of crypto. And I do think that in bitcoin's case, the token is the export. I mean, that is, it's like the property of the block space aligns very neatly with the token.
00:56:50.122 - 00:57:24.074, Speaker A: Bitcoin. Bitcoin is the product, it is money. The tokenomics of the protocol are based on the price of bitcoin going up. And that is what the protocol is trying to do. I think we've taken a lot of that and applied it to completely different structures which look far more equity. Like, the question is just how long is it going to take for everyone to come to this collective realization and for that to get translated into legislation that makes sense. I don't know how long that's going to take.
00:57:24.112 - 00:57:42.094, Speaker B: Yeah, it was funny because I was going to actually say, actually, I don't feel like most application tokens right now are really. They're trying to make revenue protocol. Revenue is good. People like that. Right. They like it even better when it's paid out as dividends. Right.
00:57:42.094 - 00:58:20.250, Speaker B: The real yield meme. But I would say if you were to say, pick one characteristic where we've just not thought from first principles whatsoever, and we've slapped something, a concept from bitcoin over to the way we launch these tokens, it is probably that fixed. Like, that's like the least. Nobody is going to be at the SEC looking at a token like, well, it does have fixed. Yeah, that's not very equity. Like, sure. No, it makes revenue and pays dividends out, but it has fixed supply and they haven't minted anymore.
00:58:22.450 - 00:58:23.358, Speaker A: Good on them.
00:58:23.444 - 00:58:32.846, Speaker B: Doesn't really move the needle in that conversation, but yet we're stuck to it. And for whatever reason, it's lower on the priority list of.
00:58:33.028 - 00:59:30.146, Speaker A: I would love to see that. You know what? I think with a high quality enough team, all it would take is for one blue chip protocol to break that mold. And I think the industry would change overnight because we are so. And by the is, I do know you talked about Solana and they're. I don't know how fair this is to draw. And I understand that a lot of this, I really think you can trace back to the original civil war of crypto, which is the block size wars of the small blockers versus the big blockers. This idea of scarcity or abundance, and the way that at least I see it is you've got ethereum and bitcoin on the scarcity side of things, which is totally fine and a good place to be on, but I think that maybe it's unpopular to say, but the big blockers had a lot of points.
00:59:30.146 - 01:00:06.640, Speaker A: They had a lot of good points. These weren't evil people. There was a totally rational argument on the other side of this that ended up losing in the bitcoin protocol. But most protocols that have played out since then are more in line with the big block than the small block vision mostly they are. And this idea of abundance versus scarcity, I think, is going to come more into the fore. And I would love to see more demand side arguments for this industry as opposed to everything being about limiting the supply, limiting the supply. Make some shit that's useful, people will want it.
01:00:07.090 - 01:01:26.840, Speaker B: Right? And maybe just to kind of. It's funny now we're seeing, I think, what a lot of the big blockers back in the day actually would have wanted, but just in a different form. Going back to what we were talking about with now we have roll ups right on top of bitcoin, and we have Babylon that is able to export the security of bitcoin. And those two things may not have happened if bitcoin was not still so pristine and dumb at the base layer, or at least like the security exporting. I think that's a perfect case where it's saying, okay, here are the choices we made for the objective we wanted, which was digital gold like pristine asset. And what can we do with that without breaking that original value prop? And I think Babylon is getting towards it with the ZK roll ups. Yeah, I'm very interested to hear, apart from community and all of this untapped liquidity on bitcoin, right? Is that like the crux of the value prop and the differentiator of why folks are building on bitcoin versus something that's maybe optimized to host roll ups like Celestia or even Ethereum for that example?
01:01:27.370 - 01:01:47.994, Speaker A: That is such a good question. I don't know. I have historically not been a huge champion of this. This was a narrative a couple of years ago, DFI on bitcoin. And people have been talking about things like drive chain since 2016, maybe even before that. Probably before that. But I'm with you, Miles.
01:01:47.994 - 01:01:53.040, Speaker A: I don't really know. I'd be in the camp where it's like, why aren't you building this on ethereum? Doesn't that make.
01:01:54.710 - 01:02:36.926, Speaker B: Here's the steel man argument is that the best tech doesn't always win. It's largely like we're seeing right now with even something like blast, like a liquidity game, right? So even if it's not necessarily suited, and you're bending over backwards, basically to make this a roll up work on bitcoin, you can't discredit the value of, or at least the promise of a trillion dollars worth of capital sitting there. That hypothetically, if you were to unlock 1% of. It's a massive roll up. Right?
01:02:37.108 - 01:03:05.240, Speaker A: Okay, Miles, so I have that exact, by the way, going into this year, my highest conviction, most out of the money sort of bet, is bitcoin nfts for exactly the reason that you just described. Because people want to do stuff with their assets. And once they lost blockfi and bitcoin, it's the largest pool of crypto native capital. There's no such thing. You don't get yield unless you want to kind of do the stacks thing. So this is my thesis. Like, people will probably buy nfts with that.
01:03:05.240 - 01:03:43.874, Speaker A: But let me ask you this, Miles. Do you think one of the big differences between the community of Ethereum and bitcoin and now every other blockchain and bitcoin is there's a general acceptance of tokens, tokens being built on that leverage, the Ethereum celestia salana platform. Bitcoin has historically resisted that quite a bit, and I think it's hindered more so even than the performance issues of ten minute block times, et cetera. It is the community that will push back and say, you're shitcoining. Muneb of stacks might have more patience than any human in this entire industry. I honestly think he does.
01:03:43.912 - 01:04:33.410, Speaker B: Yeah. I think that generally my skepticism is, I would say to my previous point, actually less around the viability of the tech to host these products and more around maybe call it not having product community fit. Like the user preference, the user preferences and demand drivers for why folks are on bitcoin in the first place, I think are very different. Right. That said, the promise of just 1% of converting 1% of those folks. But we'll see, man, we'll see. I think there's changes afoot over there and yeah, I think we should probably do an episode at some point.
01:04:33.480 - 01:05:07.166, Speaker A: I love bitcoin. Bitcoin is what that was the light bulb moment for most people, including me in this space. I think the architecture is beautiful. I love it. I've always liked it. I have chafed a little bit in recent years with what I think are very non scientific, not particularly well run, reasoned arguments that are coming out of that community that feel more religious than anything else. But one of the personal frustrations for me in that know bachler's been around for six years.
01:05:07.166 - 01:05:34.600, Speaker A: We've been talking about bitcoin for six years. And some of the people that are the loudest over there now I knew six years ago and they wouldn't say a word publicly about bitcoin. And it's like, oh, well, now you are. And I'm not bitcoin enough for you because I also like Ethereum and Celestia and Solana. It's actually a personal frustration for. Anyway, we can end it there. I think this was hopefully, guys, Miles and I just.
01:05:34.600 - 01:05:58.686, Speaker A: It was a slow news week. We thought we'd just get on and rip about something that was hopefully relevant for folks. And we're always just trying to explore these ideas. And I think these next ten years of crypto is going to be even more interesting than the preceding ten years. And it's going to play out in non obvious ways. So hopefully these episodes just make you guys think a little bit, is all. So I think that's the point.
01:05:58.788 - 01:06:07.514, Speaker B: Yes. Unscripted, unfiltered. Some of it was probably pretty dumb, that I'll regret saying, but always a blast, man.
01:06:07.652 - 01:06:21.890, Speaker A: Yeah, always a blast. And a shout out to everyone out there who's pushing the frontier. There are no answers in this space. A lot of this stuff is totally new. So shout out to everyone that's pushing that frontier. All right, Miles, this is a lot of fun. Cheers, budy.
01:06:21.970 - 01:06:23.202, Speaker B: Cheers, man. See ya.
01:06:23.266 - 01:06:44.942, Speaker A: Hey, everyone. Mike here. If you're a bell curve listener, you know that transferring assets across chains can be a massive pain. I certainly do. I complain about it on this program all the time. That is why we are incredibly excited to have teamed up with the wormhole foundation, the stewards of the wormhole protocol. And the coolest part about this particular partnership is that they have made custom bell curve nfts, which you can get and mint for free.
01:06:44.942 - 01:06:47.770, Speaker A: Click the link at the bottom of this episode. Take you get your free NFT.
