00:00:01.720 - 00:00:43.306, Speaker A: Hello. I don't see you. Okay. So pleasure to meet you all. Well, I'm a lot of time in this space. If you've been there before, you heard, since 2010, also working in the university, but also working in the industry, in various enterprises since always, basically. So the Ico time, I was there, the Defi beginning I was there, the Daos beginning, I was there, I saw and I experienced the first Dao that was developed.
00:00:43.306 - 00:01:26.540, Speaker A: And I'm writing my PhD and now in law about Daos and also working as a, or mainly working as a legal officer for a. For two major daos in the space. One is in the defense space, the other one is in the NFT gaming space. So I experienced the daily work of Daos in various aspects. And what I want to speak to you today is about a conceptual idea about Daos. So, one important thing is actually you wanna. As an entrepreneur, you are creating a Dao.
00:01:26.540 - 00:02:05.538, Speaker A: A DAO gives you the ability to work in the crypto space. There are many kinds of dao, but then. But then there are problems. And then you think, but how can I cash out? How can I get the money, how I avoid the legal risk, how I manage the daily work? A lot of questions. So the solution will be probably to establish an entity, legal entity, because with the legal entity you can open a bank account. Otherwise you are staying in the crypto. And with legal entity you can be compliant with legal entity.
00:02:05.538 - 00:02:55.412, Speaker A: You can feel free and certain with what you do. So there is always a struggle when it comes to how do I utilize this, those ideas into the real world. And daos are currently out there in the crypto space. So let's go. Let's speak about this framework. So Dao is normally, I call it usual suspect, because the reality of Daos is daos are a great mess, okay? We have many kind of daos in the space, different kind of daos. It could be guild dao, it could be vc venture dao, it could be art dao, it could be some community dao.
00:02:55.412 - 00:03:27.808, Speaker A: So many kinds of daos. When you work inside Daos, when you dig inside Daos. So Daos are. They are of course, decentralized, autonomous organization by definition. But in real life, when you dig inside, they are not so decentralized, okay? They are not only on chain. A lot of the Daos activity are off chain. The treasury is not always decentralized, okay? The treasury people control, people push the multisig.
00:03:27.808 - 00:04:05.292, Speaker A: Some people push the multi sig. Some people refuse to push the multi sig, okay? It can happen. And a lot of operations are also being down with their personal accounts combination. So if the DAO has a treasury, normally the treasury is not one. Multisig. There are several multisigs, plus a lot of personal accounts, eoas, externally owned accounts that people have to have in order to maintain the operations of the Daos. A lot of the processes are off chain.
00:04:05.292 - 00:05:21.706, Speaker A: A lot of communications between the Daos, dao to another dao, dao to the users. Support is done by people, done by people that are the DAO members or the DAO employees or whatever contributors, we call them contributors and contributors in a DaO. It's also a terminology we should dig inside because they told you it can contain a lot of different things. And the current challenges when you come to a DAO. And if the DAO is not a legal entity, the DAO has an exposure. If the DAO is a legal entity and is not managed as decentralized as it should be, it's also a great risk and a great exposure. And there are no answers to the question how you should structure a DAO, how you should operate a DAO, and what is the risk? When I'm doing a DAO, though? There are a lot of daos that are active in this space, holding a lot of TVL, great amounts of TVL, and major activity in the space, especially in the defi space.
00:05:21.706 - 00:06:00.562, Speaker A: When you go to the defi space, it's much more easy to operate with a DAO. Okay. Because you cannot, or most of the ids would not be constructed as an entity in the real world. So Dao gives you the option to create and maintain some defi operation. Okay. And when. So the structures that we currently have for daos are, we still have a gap, have a gap between the DAo to the real world and what I mean by that.
00:06:00.562 - 00:06:46.706, Speaker A: So the structures that we have today. So I don't know if you heard about the Wyoming dao or the Delaware bill for Dow. Those are legal considerations that try to have a grasp on the idea of a DaO and try to compare between the DAO to a partnership. The result is. The result is that Dao, according to those laws, are actually a partnership. So you can come and list the Dow under the Wyoming law, but at the end, the members of the Dow will have liability. They will have fiduciary rights or fiduciary obligations.
00:06:46.706 - 00:07:20.600, Speaker A: So it's a bit problematic when you speak about when we are dealing with the ideas behind DAos. So the ideas behind those are different. The ideas are to be decentralized, to be anonymous, to. Not to have liability. And to keep the off chain operations as the main focus. And so when you want to do something with the DAo in real life. And the first question that every Dao will have is how do I open a bank account? And I need a legal entity.
00:07:20.600 - 00:07:46.614, Speaker A: So how do I use it? Either I send. Send one of my members to open a bank account, it's just an example. Or I open another company and I transfer money to the company and the company is going to exchange. Sorry. The company is going to exchange. And then that's the way to cash out. So, problems, problems, problems.
00:07:46.614 - 00:08:13.232, Speaker A: And. And you can see, when you dig inside Daos, you can see a lot of structures, a lot of. So most of the Daos will not go to Wyoming or into Delaware and create a DaO, an entity, a specific entity for the DaO. So they are doing a lot of combinations. Okay. Combinations that are a lot of structures. And let's proceed.
00:08:13.232 - 00:09:05.064, Speaker A: The Borg. What is the Borg Id? The Borg ID is actually a paper wrote by an idea came from a paper that Delphileps wrote about the perception of Daos. So how DAos should be. What should be the concept of Daos? What should be the legal concept of Daos? And the idea of the Borg is to have a traditional legal entity that uses the dao. Traditional legal entity that uses the Dao. And so to create a structure that supports the Dao. To create a wrapper for the DAO in the real world and to separate between the off chain to the on chain activities.
00:09:05.064 - 00:09:54.914, Speaker A: And it's a revolutionary shift because it's the first 1st time that this conceptual idea is described. Because as I told you, when you go to the industry you can see many variations or I would say combinations. But now they give it a name, they give it a concept and they give it a direction. And it's actually going to the bottom of the DNA of the DAO. So the idea is to have to separate the decentralized activities. And the basic decentralized activity is actually the treasury management. So the treasury and the activities that will be on chain will be part of the DAO.
00:09:54.914 - 00:10:49.554, Speaker A: The legal entity will be the board. The idea is to have a foundation, normally not for profit foundation that will be the wrapper of the DAO, will use the DAo for activities. So foundations will have part of the treasury to represent the Daos in the real world. And normally with the foundation we have another company in the company. The DAO team members or the original contributors are actually an equity member. So they have equity in this company, and then they are free to give services to the DAO, but to other daos also. And this structure is enhancing, of course, security, transparency and scalability, because it allows the DAO to exist in the world.
00:10:49.554 - 00:12:12.544, Speaker A: It allows the DAO, it enables the DAo the ability to operate in the world using the foundation. The foundation will be the Borg, the foundation will be the specific entity, the Borg that will be using the Dao. And the foundation will be using VCDAO, git, Dao, gaming Dao, community Dao, and will extract all those operations to another entity, that will be the labs with the contributors of the DAO or another or another entities. This is actually taking the DAO decision making also to the next level, because nowadays when we look about governance, governance models or governance governance that daos have, so basically you cannot, it's not a real governance. If you will dig into proposals and decisions, you would find. So, first of all, normally the tokens holders are not decentralized, so you have some main token holders. So the power is concentrated, concentrated in specific token holders or wallets.
00:12:12.544 - 00:12:58.328, Speaker A: Second, the contributors of the daos are normally those who have the power of governments, especially in the beginning, so they can push proposals to some direction. The proposals are not always proposals. Decisions are not always decisions where you do those, where you, where you actually take those decisions. So if you will dig, you will see that a lot of daos are managing their decisions actually on discord. Okay. And then I have one proposal. Do you agree? Do you agree? Do you agree? I erase it and then I erase it and then I have to do this or I don't have to do this.
00:12:58.328 - 00:14:34.028, Speaker A: It's very complicated. The mechanism here will be different because the mechanism will separate the DAO and will release the power of the contributors from the DAO by contracts, by a lot of contracts that will decentralized their power, to decentralize their power to manipulate the DAO, or to direct the DAO to another direction. And it will allow, of course, a lot of scalability for scalability for the Daos to grow, because the Daos could operate as a specific entity and also to cooperate with other daos. So if you have open, open surface, open place for making governance decisions, and the power of the people is the power of the contributors is a lot more decentralized, then cooperations could come out. Then if I have a DAO, I can raise a proposal in another DAO and create cooperation between us, or pushing for different activities. And I guess we can finish here the challenges, maybe I would say of course the challenges are of course to make this shift the challenges. So when you come and you work with Daos, existing daos in this space, it's not easy for to contribute.
00:14:34.028 - 00:15:18.564, Speaker A: There's to to release the power. It's not easy to founders to release the power. So a founder of a Dao had a good idea in the beginning, but then a lot of time he has the money or it's hard for him it's hard for him to release to contribute the tokens to release the power of to release the power that he has about decisions to push things to be more decentralized. And there are different interests here in many, many verticals of the activity. I think I will finish here and I open. If you have questions about the practice, about the idea, about the theory, I would love to hear that and yeah, no thank you. Okay.
