00:00:03.160 - 00:01:03.275, Speaker A: Hey everyone. So most of you know Cube as a hybrid exchange, but it's not just an exchange. What we built over the last year is actually much more. We started with a decentralized NPC and we built a custody layer that allowed users to settle to multiple chains. Solana, Bitcoin, Ethereum and others. On top of that, we deployed to one of first Solana forks that's running multiple validators and we are calling it a guardian network that is used for our settlement layer. And that's what's used to settle the traits and net them across multiple layer ones.
00:01:03.275 - 00:02:24.125, Speaker A: On top of all of this, we are running a matching engine that we built that's high performant with crossbook liquidity. But I'm not here to talk about an exchange that we built. What I wanted to talk about is actually the next part of our journey, which started actually with intents. So when we started building Cube, we wanted everything to be an intent. So every single order that you submitted over the last year on Cube was an intent. And what is an intent is basically a signed object that you submit to a layer one that we are running that then executes through our network and then settles to layer 1s. And what's happening is we can then execute multiple complex strategies through that network.
00:02:24.125 - 00:03:54.635, Speaker A: But what we want to do next is actually open that network and we are going to call it isometric and it's going to be an intent network. Everyone will be able to submit intents to that network and use it to verify settlements on multiple chains. It will have two tier validator consensus. It will be using the decentralized NPC that we built, and through the decentralized MPC integration layer that we built, you will be able to actually use the value on those different layer ones without cannibalizing it. Which is pretty interesting because most people when they built layer 2s or additional chains, what's happening is they are cannibalizing the value on those chains and we want to avoid that. So how we are going to do this, we introduced this component called a composer that is going to take the intents from the user and route them through SVM on Solana and then push them to the npc. And then through the same layer that Cube is using right now, you will be able to execute the intents on the layer once.
00:03:54.635 - 00:04:52.837, Speaker A: So effectively, you will be able through the apps that you will be able to publish and build, execute and interact with all the chains that Kube exchange right now is integrating. Right now we support more than 10 different exchanges and through that network we executed more than 5 billion of volume. So now imagine you will be able to build apps on top of that and interact with that network directly. And how is it going to happen? Through our intent execution engine. And we built a couple of different things that actually proved that concept. So when we started building an exchange we wanted to make sure that that network is actually fairly robust. So other than starting with just the network and then proving that concept later, we actually want it to be the client of what we are going to build.
00:04:52.837 - 00:05:46.809, Speaker A: So recently we built this thing called implied order books. And that's what this diagram is showing here. And it's very complex crossbook arbitrage and order routing strategy that executes across multiple chains. You can use it right now yourself on the Exchange. But it's just an example of what you will be able to built on top of the network. So what we are doing there is calculating on chain an implied calculation across multiple order books that are running for example in this case on Bitcoin and Ethereum and allowing you to route orders through two different networks and then reifying that complex user intents and settling across three different chains. So how that on top of that what will be happening is we will be pushing intent verification.
00:05:46.809 - 00:06:44.941, Speaker A: So when user is joining that network they will be able to use non custodial wallets, open ID with zero knowledge proofs and passkeys to submit their intents. That will be going through the composition layer, through the verification and the reification of our network. And the MPC integration layer will be pushing all of that to different layer ones. And the MPC integration layer was built in a very interesting way because what we wanted to avoid there is building custom smart contracts and bridges that introduce additional risk of security. And what's happening there is the guardians are head selected right now. We select them for a couple based on a couple of categories. They need to use high availability strategies where they are running their hardware.
00:06:44.941 - 00:07:20.235, Speaker A: They need to be fairly security focused. We are selecting them from well known Solana validators right now. They need to become trusted and performance driven. But what we want to do is make sure that in the future anyone will be able to become the guardian. And there will be a couple of ways to do that. You will need to comply with all those different things, but you will be able also to perform like staking in order to become the guardian. And the rest of the validators will be able to vote on you to become a guardian of the smaller set.
00:07:20.235 - 00:08:22.705, Speaker A: And then the validators of the normal chain that will be running will be just acting as light clients that are fully permissionless and everyone will be able to join. Those will be just like normal validators that you see on the Solana network that are community driven participants that are validating and securing the network. The backbone of that network will be what you would expect, which is we will be launching the new token which is called ISO. What you will be able to do with it is you will be staking. The staking will be key component of becoming the Guardian that I mentioned before. It will be used for the governance and also the ability to change how we are building the NPC and all the code. So all the code that Cube is running right now will be open sourcing it and you will be able to participate in the development of it when all of it will be happening.
00:08:22.705 - 00:09:01.825, Speaker A: So Q1 and towards the end of this year we'll be opening the Guardian network to the participant new participants. So if you are a current validator of Solana or other chains, come talk with me after this talk and happy to figure out how you can actually start joining the testnet before the token launches. Then we'll be launching pretty soon after that the token and the Mainnet and after that the actual network will be moving to the full peritionless model where people will be able to actually build the apps just like Cube. Thank you everyone.
