00:00:00.320 - 00:00:25.086, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Way refuel, where we cap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today's 11 October 2021. All right, everyone, let's get into it. So I think this was the biggest news right over the weekend. This picture or these couple of pictures were shared by Ben Edgington on Twitter. I think it was maybe Saturday morning for me. When I woke up, I saw this, but basically the Ethereum 2.0
00:00:25.086 - 00:01:08.190, Speaker A: merge interop Devnet was confirmed. The devnets that I was talking about last week with regards to the merge and interoperability between them all, I think there were three or four execution layer clients or consensus layer clients and three execution layer clients, all talking to each other, which is obviously a huge milestone. You can see in the picture here a bunch, not all, but a bunch of the Ethereum one and two core developers and researchers all kind of like celebrating here. I mean, this picture, as I commented here, reminded me of like a space shuttle launch, right, where you see all the kind of like NASA scientist in the celebrating and clapping when a launch goes, goes, right. And that's exactly what's happening here. This is just absolutely huge. I mean, I'm pretty sure this Devnet is still live today.
00:01:08.190 - 00:01:40.094, Speaker A: Like it hasn't been shut down yet. It's, I think so. I remember seeing like there was a fork monitor that I was watching that kind of like had information about this, but essentially just absolutely amazing that this was all done. I'm sure you all saw the kind of like screenshots from last week that I was also sharing on the refuel of people putting on Twitter and I retweeted all of them. But it was culminated in this, essentially. And I remember saying last week that we see these devnets, we'd see these testnets going live. And, you know, I don't have any kind of like indication of when the merge is going to go through.
00:01:40.094 - 00:02:06.030, Speaker A: Still, I am still betting on late q one early q two next year. I'm not betting on an early q one kind of launch here. I just don't think that's realistic from where we are today. And I also think that there's still a bit of things or a bit, a bit of kinks to iron out with stuff from, from what I've read. But Tim Bico said that there would be more information coming this week. I'm sure he's probably going to write a recap of what happened, you know, what, what work is left to do, kind of like maybe a target window. You can see him in the picture.
00:02:06.030 - 00:02:42.598, Speaker A: He's front and center there taking a photo. And then, you know, we'll get more information from him probably this week, so I'll be sure to cover that. But how exciting, guys. Like, seriously, I was thinking about this today, actually. I'm like, how many things do ethereums have to look forward to, really, at the end of the day? I mean, we had 1559 go live, and that's all been well and good, and 500,000 ETH has been burned, which I'm going to talk about a bit, a bit later. But, you know, after that, it's not like, okay, what's next? You know, I always think about this with the bitcoin community. They get so excited about the harvening, and then once the happens, it's kind of like, okay, well, what do we do now? Right? There's not really anything else to look forward to in my eyes.
00:02:42.598 - 00:03:15.190, Speaker A: Whereas with Ethereum, we had 1559 go live, which was effectively like a halvening because the net supply is 50% less than what it was. So it, you know, it effectively was a halvening for Ethereum. But not just that. Like immediately after 1559 went live, like, everyone started talking about the merge and L2s were coming online. We had the kind of like arbitrary go live and optimism start onboarding more apps. And, you know, recently we've had Starknet or Starkware say that Starknet's going to go live on Mainnet in an alpha version very soon. So really, I mean, there's no shortage of things for us ethereums to look forward to.
00:03:15.190 - 00:03:55.496, Speaker A: And, you know, even outside of kind of like the, the core dev stuff, like all the kind of the core stuff, like obviously the merge and sharding and, and L2s and things like that, it's also the application layer that's, that just seems to be steaming ahead. I mean, for those of you who may have been paying attention, Defi is actually making a pretty big comeback. And it's not in the areas that you think it is. Like, there's kind of two segments of Defi right now. There's like the old Defi or gen one Defi, your makers and your urns and your kind of like uniswaps and sushi swaps and all that of the world. And you have like your gen two Defi. There's a bunch of these projects like Spell or Mim or I think was called abracadabra money or something like that.
00:03:55.496 - 00:04:29.600, Speaker A: Rari Capital, Olympus finance with the Om token. So there's seems to be a bunch of these kind of like, you know, going up in value, people getting really excited about them. And it's just funny because it's like, it feels like gen one Defi is apparently now boomer Defi, which is just hilarious to me that, you know, isn't even that old, right? And it's still like, it's not like these gen one protocols are sitting on their laurels doing nothing. They're still making lots of different updates, releasing lots of different things for their products. So it's just funny how that's kind of like happening there. But again, that's more stuff for people to look forward to. And then the NFT space, of course.
00:04:29.600 - 00:05:29.322, Speaker A: And you know, even beyond kind of like the next couple years, you have so much other stuff coming to a theory and stuff that we can't even think of right now. So this is just like super exciting for me, of course, and it's super exciting for the Ethereum community because this has been a super, super long time coming. If you really wanted to, you could stretch the development of kind of, I guess like the merge, or the event of the merge all the way back to late 2013 when Vitalik first published the Ethereum white paper, kind of like announced Ethereum. Um, I think it was at bitcoin, Miami, actually one of the bitcoin events. Uh, he, I'm pretty sure he was talking about proof of stake as early as then. So the fact that like the merge will officially get Ethereum as, as kind of like a network to proof of stake and proof of stake only because right now, obviously over the two networks, um, going side running side by side, that is a lot of like, by the time it goes live, 2022, say Q two, that will have been, you know, eight years or something like that, or probably more than that, actually, maybe nine years or. No, no, it'd be, it'd be about eight, eight and a little bit of years from when Vitalik started talking about it.
00:05:29.322 - 00:05:51.370, Speaker A: You know, Ethereum being full proof of stake to when it happened. And you know, you might think like, oh, wow, it took so long, like, that's bearish. I don't think so at all. I think what ended up happening was that proof of stake, you know, has existed for quite a while. I think Peel coin was the first one to do it. But there's been a lot of issues with proof of stake over the years. You had the nothing at stake problem, you had the long range attack problem, you know, you had, they had to come up with slashing for that.
00:05:51.370 - 00:06:25.614, Speaker A: Then you have the fork choice rule. Like how do you, how does the network decide which kind of like fork to follow? If there's a fork in the network and stuff like that and slashing and kind of like all these different mechanisms came into it with Ethereum's Casper design. So Casper, the friendly finality gadget, is Ethereum's proof of stake fork choice rule. But from there you also have the development that needed to happen. You needed testnets to go live. You needed people to be very confident that this thing that was going to hold billions of dollars of value and then once the merge goes through, secure like trillions of dollars of value each year. Uh, it needs to be right, needs to be correct.
00:06:25.614 - 00:06:48.182, Speaker A: So that's why it took so long to get to this point. And at the same time, it's a matter of kind of like human resources as well. Like think about how many people were working on Ethereum back then. Compared to now, it was barely anyone. Now you have thousands, tens of thousands of people working on this sort of stuff. And even if they're not working directly on the, on the core development side, they're still working within it. They're doing research for it, they're publishing research papers, they're publishing blog posts, education around it.
00:06:48.182 - 00:07:11.394, Speaker A: There's funding for it too. So, you know, you can't just kind of look back and say, oh, well, it's taken a long time. Yes. And think, that's bearish. Yes, it's taken quite a while, but I would actually say that it's happening much faster than I thought it would, to be honest. Like, I thought, you know, things, I mean, especially around, around sharding. Like, I actually think sharding could be delivered as early as like late next year, early 2023.
00:07:11.394 - 00:07:36.286, Speaker A: I thought sharding was going to probably take longer than that. And, you know, the L2 is obviously coming online. I spoke about the other day how stark, we're bringing Starknet to mainnet in November is like way quicker than anyone even anticipated. And it seems like the Starkware team has a point to prove here because people were like, oh, it's going to take you years to get there. You know, we're bearish on it in the short term. Whereas Stark was just like, no, it's not going to take us years to get there. We're going to do it very, very soon.
00:07:36.286 - 00:07:49.584, Speaker A: And they're doing it much sooner than anyone ever, like anyone predicted, which is, which is pretty awesome as well. So just so many things to look forward to. I'm pumped. I'm pumped as hell lately. Really. I mean, I'm not just pumped because of crypto stuff. I'm also pumped because I finally got.
00:07:49.584 - 00:08:13.166, Speaker A: I got double vaccinated after waiting so long because Australia's rollout has just been atrocious of the vaccines. But also, like, lockdowns are ending soon for me as well, so I get to actually go out and, you know, experience the bit of sunshine for. For a bit. Um, but. But, you know, I'm just excited in general that, like, this is all happening. You know, stuff in real life's happening and I get to travel again. And I haven't, you know, I haven't traveled since February of 2020.
00:08:13.166 - 00:08:43.153, Speaker A: And the funny thing is, is that by the time I get to travel again, it's probably going to be going to ETH Denver in February next year. And that's the last conference I went to in 2020. So it'll be like two years since I went. And it's just funny how it'll be a little reunion there. But yeah, I'm planning to travel a lot next year, so I'll keep you guys updated on that, too, because you can probably do meetups depending on where we go. And I really do want to do like a Melbourne based meetup once lockdown ends as well. With all the australian peeps that listen to this, I know there's a fair few of us, especially on the Discord Channel, definitely want to go and just go get a drink or something and talk Ethereum.
00:08:43.153 - 00:09:01.609, Speaker A: That'd be really cool. But anyway, I'm going off a little bit tangent there. Sigma prime put together a tweet thread about the merge as well, and kind of like the event that happened last week, the merge interoperability event. So you can go read this to get more context around it. I mean, it was pretty cool. There's links and screenshots and all that good stuff. It's basically a summary, so definitely go check that out.
00:09:01.609 - 00:09:41.454, Speaker A: Proto Lambda has built a experimental block explorer fork for, for the merge here. So you can check this out. I mean, you can see the screenshot here. It's pretty cool to see that these tools are already kind of like kind of being published and happening. And then finally, Ben Edgington also put together his latest what's new in ETH two update, which covers things like Altair, which is going live soon on the ETH two network, or the beacon chain network, if you haven't updated your nodes yet, or your clients or your validators, whatever you want to call them, definitely update them. And again, if you're in the capacity to do so, switch to a minority client. So if you're running prism, switch to something else to improve network health is probably the perfect time to do it when there's a major network upgrade coming along.
00:09:41.454 - 00:10:07.052, Speaker A: He also talked about rocket pools delay, which I mentioned last week, and also the merge as well because he was at the merge workshop, I believe. So he's got links to like so many, so much stuff here as well. So definitely go give this read. It'll be linked in the YouTube description. And finally, ETH Global is, is going to be hosting an ETH online finale plus merge scalability summit on Friday, October 15. So you'll be able to catch talks from Marios Vendee Widget. I don't know how to say a lot.
00:10:07.052 - 00:10:33.384, Speaker A: It's not widen. I think the Jay might be silent there. Sorry if I got that wrong. And Vitalik, bro, and Vitalik of course, and celebrate as they announce the finalists from over 1100 hackers that have participated in the ETH online hackathon. I'm going to be judging this this week actually, so I'm always really excited about seeing what people have built, but this should be cool to tune into on Friday as well. But anyway, that's enough about the merge. Super exciting stuff happening, of course, and really, really just great to see the progress being made there.
00:10:33.384 - 00:10:49.606, Speaker A: And I mentioned before, 500,000 ETH has now been burned. Half a million ETH. Like it just keeps going, guys. Like, I mean, right now I think it's like 8000 ETH a day being burned, which is crazy. I mean, if I look over at my little iPad here, it's 5.2 ETH per minute right now just being burned. Crazy amount.
00:10:49.606 - 00:11:16.394, Speaker A: I mean, just to contextualize that a bit, 5.2 ETH. So five ETH times what? 3600 right now, head, mouth, let's just say it's twenty k a minute being burned of ETH. Like that's crazy amounts of money being burned. And you know, this is just the beginning. I mean we also have obviously the merge bringing with it that supply shock with the 90% reduction in issuance and stuff like that. But yeah, I mean, the fact that we've already burned so much and it's been 66 days I believe, since 1559 went live.
00:11:16.394 - 00:11:47.108, Speaker A: So not very long annualized. This is like millions of ETH being burned. And the funny thing is, it's not just like obviously 1559 brought in the ETH burn. But it's not just that that people are excited about, it's also the fact that, I mean, I haven't had to speed up a transaction in a long time when I'm doing transactions on Ethereum now, which is so awesome. Like, it could just put the transaction through and it goes through. No worries. You know, most of the time, like, obviously there'll be some periods of time, I think five to 10% of the time, where you might have to speed up the transaction or you might have to wait a little bit for it to go through in a block.
00:11:47.108 - 00:12:22.122, Speaker A: But most of the time, mine seem to be going through really well. And I talked about last week how Coinbase published a blog post that said that actually saved, I think, about 9%, maybe something like seven to 9% on gas fees, thanks to 1559, which is, which is incredible as well. And they've burned a healthy chunk of ETH by doing that as well. So, yeah, super exciting that 500,000 ETH has been burned in such a short amount of time. And I'm sure, you know, we'll be seeing much more of this as time goes on here. All right, so more talk about the monolithic versus modular blockchains. I think I'm going to keep beating this drum.
00:12:22.122 - 00:13:08.912, Speaker A: So just a fair warning here, I'm going to be talking about this a lot on the refuel and on Twitter for the next probably few months at least, because I really think that more people need to kind of, like, clue into what's happening here. And I'm already, I'm, I think at this point, probably less than a thousand people actually know what's going on. And most of those people are probably the developers and researchers that have been working on this for quite a while. In terms of community members, I would say refuel listeners and watchers are the most clued in people when it comes to this sort of stuff because I've been talking about it recently, but, you know, don't, don't fret if you're not kind of like, sure, exactly what this is and kind of like what this is about and how this is all going to play out. I'm not going to claim that I know how this is going to play out. I'm just placing one of the biggest bets that I've placed in my time in this ecosystem. My biggest bet was buying a lot of ETH in 2019 when it was really, really not cool to do so.
00:13:08.912 - 00:13:40.026, Speaker A: But my next biggest bet is Betty is basically placing bets on the modular blockchain era. So I mean, this tweet I put out where I said the monolithic blockchain era was from 2016 to 2021. Now, what I mean by a monolithic blockchain, you, is a blockchain that tries to do everything at layer one. And we've seen plenty of these come out over the years. Right? Like, ethereum was one until recently. And technically, I mean, it still is kind of like one until sharding is in place, where sharding actually gets us to the proper kind of like, modular paradigm there. Um, but all the other l one s pretty much monolithic.
00:13:40.026 - 00:14:12.004, Speaker A: Blockchains, they can pivot to being modular if they want, but right now they're monolithic. Um, uh, and, you know, I don't think bitcoin is. I think bitcoin can be considered modular. It doesn't try to do, I mean, it doesn't try to do anything at layer one. It's pushing everything off chain, right? Everything to, whether it be a side chain or like the Lightning network, it's not doing anything at layer one, which I think, to be honest, like, I actually don't think bitcoin is the best design. I think ethereum is the best design because I think you should be able to do some stuff at layer one still, especially verifying proofs and storing core data. But they're just taking a different kind of, like, approach there, which is fine.
00:14:12.004 - 00:14:47.754, Speaker A: And then I said, like, then the modular blockchain era is 2021. Plus, like, from here on out, I just don't believe we're going to be seeing any new l one spin up. And if they do spin up, they're going to be very kind of like, very small l ones are not going to be anything serious. And then, you know, I go on to say in the tweet, we are quite literally witnessing a paradigm shift in blockchain architecture that will change this ecosystem forever. And I've mentioned plenty of times on the refuel that we're going to be seeing l two spin up instead of l one s. Because really logically, think about it for a sec, like, just to. Just to add more context here, because it's always good to think about it from first principles.
00:14:47.754 - 00:15:17.006, Speaker A: If you're a developer or if you're kind of like a team and you're. You want to start, like, a new platform, you want to have, like, people building on you, you think you can do it better than anyone or anyone else. Traditionally, you would have launched a layer one blockchain and that would have been fine. You get some investors, you know, you have a token, you set up like a bunch of like staking infrastructure, all that kind of stuff. You go, you build out a community, whatever. But like pretty much all the other layer ones are so far behind Ethereum, it's not even funny. I'm not even just talking about adoption.
00:15:17.006 - 00:15:52.464, Speaker A: I'm talking about security and decentralizations. None of them even come close, like besides bitcoin, but like excluding bitcoin. We won't even mention bitcoin in this discussion. None of the other smart contract chains come close to Ethereum in that regard. So if you're, if you're wanting to launch one of these new chains, what do you do? Do you pick a layer one which is much harder to bootstrap because you have to kind of like get your own security, you have to get your own consensus, you have to get your own kind of like data availability and all that sort of stuff? Or do you kind of think to yourself, well, I can just outsource all of that to Ethereum. I'll just build this l two thing. I can do whatever I want off chain with this l two.
00:15:52.464 - 00:16:11.872, Speaker A: I can do anything. I want an execution layer. I can have any smart contract, sorry, any programming language I want. I can have any virtual machine I want. I'm not limited by Ethereum anymore, but I still inherit all of Ethereum security and to an extent it's decentralization as well. So to me the logical conclusion is just to launch a L2. It is much easier.
00:16:11.872 - 00:16:39.988, Speaker A: It is a much, it has much less resistance than launching your own layer one. You, you inherit Ethereum security and network effect, you inherit Ethereum's community, and all you have to do is pay to put your proofs on the Ethereum main chain and you don't have to pay for it yourself. If your L2 is actually that good, people are going to come and use it. They're going to pay to use it and aggregate. You generate fear revenue, which then you use to pay for layer one security. So that's kind of like how I see this world playing out. And that's where I'm placing all of my bets, literally.
00:16:39.988 - 00:17:14.114, Speaker A: I have not been this bullish about something in a very long time since, since Eve, basically, and I have not been putting, you know, as much money into something as I have into this. Like I didn't even put this much money and time into defi or into NFTs. I'm putting as much as I can into this sort of stuff. And maybe some of you are wondering like how do you bet on this. Well, I mean, I mean, buying ETH is one way, and of course, this is an investment advice, but there's obviously buying ETH, and then there's kind of like investing in the infrastructure building around the modular blockchain era, that being bridges, because it's obviously going to be, we're going to need bridges in this era. Layer twos, I know a lot of them don't have tokens. I've been through this before.
00:17:14.114 - 00:17:42.190, Speaker A: I'm not going to rehash it there. But, you know, that's, that's kind of like another play. Um, and on top of that, also, you can kind of like farm airdrops, too, if you want. Like, uh, I know there was a lot of controversy around airdrops over the weekend about the ribbon finance airdrop, that insiders were basically farming it. Um, and basically they had information ahead of time that, that there was going to be an airdrop, and they farmed it all. And there was a, you know, so much drama around it. And if you listen to my Ama, I think it was, like, not last Ama, maybe the AMA before.
00:17:42.190 - 00:18:07.742, Speaker A: I did warn you guys that this sort of stuff is very prevalent within the crypto industry. There is insider trading dealings, stuff going on everywhere. So I wasn't even surprised when I saw this. I was like, yeah, I mean, I know this, this happens everywhere all the time, and people are taking advantage of it because why wouldn't they? This stuff isn't regulated. The SEC can't actually go after these people because it's not technically insider trading because these things aren't securities. Right. So, um, it was just public shaming from the community.
00:18:07.742 - 00:18:46.988, Speaker A: And, you know, I obviously don't agree with what the people did when they farmed this sort of stuff. But, you know, again, that's a tangent there. You can take advantage of this sort of stuff, like, just assume everything's going to have an airdrop and use the products. Don't try to game it by kind of, like, creating, you know, lots and lots of different accounts and then expecting a massive airdrop. You can, I mean, you can try to do that, but I think at this point in time, a lot of teams are going to be kind of, like, cautious of that, and they're gonna have different ways to kind of weed those people out. So it may just, you, it may just end up with you wasting money on gas fees to do this or wasting your time, but you can go and do it if you want. But I guess that's just another way to get exposure to these sorts of things.
00:18:46.988 - 00:19:24.190, Speaker A: And then really, I mean, it's funny because, like, I don't hold any other layer one tokens and I don't plan to in ever, really. I don't plan to, to buy any of them. I don't plan to speculate on any of them. But I can see over the next few years, the market may be wising up to the fact that these kind of, like, if modular blockchains become like a strong narrative, you know, wising up to the fact that this is the path forward, maybe there's a lot of value or a lot of kind of like, money that flows into these layer one networks that pivot to being modular blockchains. So I already know of a few of them. Again, I would never buy these tokens. I would never tell anyone to buy these tokens.
00:19:24.190 - 00:20:03.256, Speaker A: And I, and generally, I just don't think they're good investments. But there's, there's a bunch of them out there right now that are pivoting to this, or at least realizing that, like, the mod, the modular blockchain or the roll up centric roadmap is the best path forward. But again, I know, you know, it's hard to bet on these things, but there are ways to do so, and, you know, there's going to be more ways in the future to do it as well, I'm sure. You know, I mean, again, we're still so early with this sort of stuff, I expect the winning l two s to be $100 billion plus networks. I expect ETH to be a $10 trillion network. So, I mean, even if you just buy ETH, there's still a $10 trillion network that's more than a 20 x from here. I mean, like, come on.
00:20:03.256 - 00:20:29.686, Speaker A: I mean, you know, a 20 x is amazing. And if for something like ETH, which I consider to be the safest thing you can buy right now, you know, along with BTC. So, yeah, from that perspective, you know, if you're finding it hard to kind of, like, pick and choose winners, then, I don't know, I just buy ETH. But, like, again, that's not investment advice. But, you guys know, I buy ETH all the time, so I don't, I don't hide that. But, um, yeah, anyway, there's another thing that I want to talk about. Uh, that was from Pauline.
00:20:29.686 - 00:20:59.220, Speaker A: Now, that relates to this. But before I do that, if you want a full breakdown of kind of like the modular blockchain stuff, I did, I did a live stream with, with David Hoffman at bankless um, the other day, we actually didn't plan to talk about modular stuff the whole time, but we did. We ended up talking about it for most of it. Uh, and we talked not just about kind of like the modular blockchain era, but how ethereum fits into it and how kind of ethereum culture fits into it, and how this is what we've been working towards for quite a while. So go watch this. It's on YouTube, and it's also in podcast format as well. At the Bankless podcast.
00:20:59.220 - 00:21:33.920, Speaker A: I'm sure a lot of you have already watched to listen to it, but I highly recommend doing so because of the fact that it goes into much more detail about this sort of stuff. All right, I told you guys I had another tweet from polly now to go through continuing our streak of featuring polynar every single refuel. But anyway, they said the difference between monolithic and modular blockchains is greater than the difference between nineties era 56k dial up and gigabit fiber. Except you don't have to wait decades. It's happening right now and will accelerate over the coming years, not decades. 1 million x scalability. 1 million times scalability in less than ten years.
00:21:33.920 - 00:22:04.742, Speaker A: So nineties era 56k dial up is what ethereum layer one is today. It is super slow, super expensive, does not scale to the world. Lots of people complain about it even though they're using it. Right. They're complaining about it because of all the aforementioned stuff. Now, broadband would be something like, kind of like a step up from that. And I would say broadband might be optimistic roll ups where they're limited in scalability compared to something like ZK roll ups, but they're kind of like an interim solution, right? A short to medium term solution.
00:22:04.742 - 00:22:54.304, Speaker A: I think that they're going to be around for a while, and I think that they can actually improve themselves and get to a point where they're not equivalent to. Probably not equivalent to ZK roll ups, but, you know, good enough, right. And can offer things that the ZK roll ups can't, at least in the short to medium term. But the gigabit fiber is those ZK roll ups that can basically scale to, you know, millions of TPS eventually as, as kind of like Polynya has, has kind of gone through before, you know, by 2030, getting to 15 million TPs on chain with ZK roll ups. And then you have validiums and volitions that you throw into the mix that gets you even more TPS, at the cost of some security, of course. So again, people need to realize how big of a jump this is in blockchain architecture. I don't know how many times I can say it that I haven't been excited, this excited about something since I first discovered Ethereum.
00:22:54.304 - 00:23:46.570, Speaker A: Not many things get me going like this, really. I mean, I can't remember a time I've been this excited. And that's why I've put out plenty of tweets lately, just trying to hammer home this. I know you're probably going to get sick of me saying this, but I really just want you guys to kind of like take this in and realize what's going on here because, I mean, one of my goals at the daily way is to keep you on the forefront of not just, you know, what's happening within, I guess, the ethereum ecosystem day to day, but the larger kind of macro trends and how they're all going to play into things over the next few years. Because I want to be honest, I want to be able to look back on these videos in a few years and kind of like think to myself, wow, you know, I was able to kind of like get this right, and I was able to share this information with other people who were able to take advantage of this information and also improve themselves, whether that be socially, you know, financially, whether they got involved with this sort of stuff and kind of, um, you know, built it out. That's kind of like one of my main goals of the daily way. So, uh, again, like, Paulina, of course, is the pioneer here.
00:23:46.570 - 00:24:19.964, Speaker A: They're the one that brought it to my attention first. Uh, and I've just been enamored by the, you know, the stuff they've put out around this and just trying to like, you know, parse it myself and then pass it on to you guys so that you guys can kind of, um, I guess absorb it too. But anyway, I'm going to end that sort of stuff there. There's a few other updates to get through before today's episode wraps up. So polygon, I missed this the other day on the Polygon pos chain. You can now swap any, I think it's any token or kind of like some tokens for matic without having matic first. So this is kind of like gasless swapping on the polygon pos chain.
00:24:19.964 - 00:25:00.386, Speaker A: Now, I've run into this problem before where I've run out of matic tokens when, when I've been doing stuff on the pos chain and I had to basically go to a centralized exchange or go to my wallet on Ethereum and then bridge across matic tokens again. And it's expensive, bridging from Ethereum and then from a centralized exchange, it can be expensive too, depending how they charge you for fees. So now you can basically go here and you could swap. I think they're currently supporting ETH dial USDT gaslessly for matic tokens so that you can basically get some matic and go do whatever you want on the polygon Pos chain. This is really, really cool. I really enjoy this. Obviously, I would probably prefer if the POS chain just used ETH as a native gas token, but it doesn't right now.
00:25:00.386 - 00:25:34.974, Speaker A: And this is just like kind of the next best thing. So yeah, for any of those who use the POS chain, this is a really nifty tool. It'll be linked in the YouTube description. You can go check it out. Speaking of gas, there's a lot of people who asked me questions about this and wanted me to cover this. I spoke to the Polygon team and then they put out this thread because I said to them, hey, there's a lot of concerns around this recent change. You know, I'd love to be able to answer these questions for my community, but essentially what the change was was that the Polygon PoS chain clients were recommended to kind of like update their minimum gas price setting to 30 Gwei.
00:25:34.974 - 00:26:00.188, Speaker A: So that was, I think, 30 x the minimum before. This is an optional change, but I want to make that clear. This was not put into the core protocol itself. This was a client level change where the clients, you know, the validators could decide to do this or not. There are validators that could take cheaper fees if they wanted to. But you know, the recommended setting was to combat spam, was to basically have it at 30 gray. Now at 30 gray, this is way in Matic price.
00:26:00.188 - 00:26:35.024, Speaker A: This is not guay in ETH price. So 30 gray with matic at what, $1.30 I think right now is still much less than if it was 30 way with, with ETH, like in dollar terms, of course, because the matic prices is obviously, you know, much, much lower than the ETH price. So I just wanted to make it clear that this was only a client side thing. This is not putting to the core protocol itself, but this is why it was done. I mean, to combat spam as well, because I don't know about you guys, but I have so much crappy nfts being sent to my polygon addresses, it's kind of annoying. And there's a lot of this spam going on because transactions are really cheap and you know, people are just like doing.
00:26:35.024 - 00:27:02.514, Speaker A: And you know, the funny thing is like, gas fees are actually a way to, to have like civil resistance where it basically prevents people from spamming the network because it's too expensive to do so. But on these cheaper networks, it becomes much harder to do, to do that. So this is why this, this change was put in place. So, you know, I just wanted to kind of like shout that out there. So people, few people asking about this. And of course, you can kind of like read this full thread in this and this forum post. It'll be linked in the YouTube description for you to check out.
00:27:02.514 - 00:27:41.648, Speaker A: All right, so Alchemyx. I haven't spoken about Alchemyx in a little while, but they had a major update over the weekend where they posted their roadmap. So their roadmap is pretty cool. I really like it. So basically, they get kind of, kind of launching alchemyx V two soon, and they kind of go into detail about what's happening there. But they also go into the detail about how they're going to decentralize the Alchemyx dow what comes in the v two modules, as well as their kind of multi chain approach. So what other chains they're going to be kind of like deploying to, which is essentially all EVM compatible chains, you can see arbitrary, the polygon Pos chain and some other ones as well, like Phantom and Avalanche and stuff like that.
00:27:41.648 - 00:28:34.426, Speaker A: I'm sure optimism will be on there, too when they, when they can do optimism. As I mentioned before, Alchemyx has a lot of dependencies. So they can't exactly launch on networks that don't have the supporting infrastructure like Curve and yearn, for example. And they also have new synthetic products coming out like Al BTC and a bunch of others that they haven't kind of like revealed yet. So if you want to get the full details of all what's all that's going on, definitely check out this kind of blog post. It goes into more detail than I will on the refuel, but it's great to see Alchemyx pushing out this roadmap kind of like update because they've been a little bit quiet, I think I've just been heads down building for a little while here. And the fact that they're going kind of like multi chain and going to cheaper chains and L2s is really, really important for them because I think, you know, they definitely want to appeal to the smaller user as well, and give the smaller user a kind of like a way to essentially just take those self replaying loans, which is the main draw of Alchemyx.
00:28:34.426 - 00:28:58.534, Speaker A: But right now, a lot of that is, you know, a lot of these users are priced out of ethereum layer one. But because Alchemyx has so many dependencies, it's hard for them to move to different chains without kind of like the other projects moving there first. So, yeah, they're going to be just be slower than other projects are to, to go, you know, down this multi chain path here. But anyway, I think that's going to be it for today. So thank you, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up.
00:28:58.534 - 00:29:02.374, Speaker A: Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
