00:00:06.170 - 00:00:21.418, Speaker A: Without further ado, I like to welcome Daphne from Blue Dow to talk about how do we actually help more people get onboarded into Web Three through Dow participation. So welcome and excited to have you here at the summit.
00:00:21.594 - 00:00:50.106, Speaker B: Thank you so much for the intro. Hello everyone. I'm just going to get my slides shared here and presented and then we're ready to go. Everything is good. Hopefully everyone can see my screen. Welcome. So I'll be chatting about the Web Three balancing act, which is pretty common in Blockchain and Web Three to be balancing a bunch of different projects at once.
00:00:50.106 - 00:02:01.540, Speaker B: And I just want to talk a little bit more about why you might want to do that and how that can actually benefit you in your career in participating in DAOs or launching other projects in Blockchain. So just introducing myself, who am I, why am I talking about this? So I am Daphne and I'm a governor of Blue Dow and I'm going to talk a little bit more about Blue Dow later. But basically we empower women in web Three and we love to sponsor talented builders to attend hackathons and especially ETH Global hackathons. I'm also the co founder of Black Leaders Dow, so really passionate about diversity, equity and inclusion in the web Three space. I'm a startup founder of Keyweek, which I actually launched at the ETH Mexico City Hackathon and I'm a senior software engineer, a hackathon veteran. So good luck to everyone in their hackathon projects. I've been there before and I know how stressful it can be, but I think ETH Global does an amazing job with all the speakers and panelists that they're able to share knowledge with you.
00:02:01.540 - 00:03:22.286, Speaker B: And yeah, just some things like doing on the side is I love to travel and I'm a cat lover, so I have a cat named Baby. He's twelve years old and adorable and yeah, so you might be thinking that is a lot going on, like how are you doing so many things at once? I know it sounds crazy, how do I do this? And more importantly on that, why am I interested in doing all of these things? And yeah, let's dive right into it. So I just want to talk about the beauty of DAOs and participating in DAOs. So I think most people, maybe they've seen kind of the textbook definition of Dows, decentralized autonomous organizations on chain voting, governance, all of those things. And that's great, that's a great way to look at things. But I like to visualize Dows as being like living pieces of art and where every member of a Dao is contributing and putting the pieces together to contribute to the unity and to the overall mission of that dow. And I think that's a really fun way to look at it.
00:03:22.286 - 00:04:47.462, Speaker B: And in pieces of art you have all these different colors and textures and materials that went into creating that piece of art and that's how I look at Dows. Dows being a diverse community group where people can come together and rally around one specific thing that we want to solve in the world, one specific problem that we all really care about and that we all really want to see solutions to. And so that's how I think of DAOs. And there's a lot of different types of DAOs out there that you can get involved with there's dows more on the technical side of things, doing DeFi protocols, refi things. There's media dows focused on news and articles and podcasts which are super fun, like Bankless, there are social, you know, FWB board ape, of course, we know these communities quite well. And then there are more Dows on the social impact and philanthropy side of things, that is the category that I love, and I'm really passionate about making a real impact on people and communities and especially in local communities. And so that's the categories that Blue Dow and black leaders Dow fall under.
00:04:47.462 - 00:06:10.946, Speaker B: And so I definitely urge everyone who maybe hasn't already participated in a Dao to do some research and check out what's available for you. I think in joining a Dow, you really kind of have to see what is the best fit for you and are the values of that Dow aligned with yours? I Think That's A Really Important Part, because I'll Talk About This A Bit Later, but when You Join A Dow As A Member, maybe You Don't have that Much responsibility. But if you want to move upwards in the chain, the Dow chain, as becoming a contributor or a co lead or a core team, then you can really see how important having matching values is. Because sometimes at the bottom level, things seem okay, but further in the top level, things might get a little bit hectic and a little bit messy. So it's really important to find a community that you're passionate about. And so that is what I found, luckily, in Blue Dow. So diving right into that, what is Blue Dow? So, for those of you who are not aware, blue Dow is on a mission to empower women in web3 to achieve financial freedom by building their careers in this space.
00:06:10.946 - 00:07:01.380, Speaker B: And we're all about making the impossible possible. And so we believe if you have a goal, an idea, a project that you want to launch, we believe that it's possible and we want to help you out in any way to get you to that place. And we're an all inclusive and intersectional women focused owl. But everyone is welcome to participate in Blue. So allies are definitely very welcome, of course, nonbinary people, and however you identify, you are welcome at Blue. And with that, our three mandates are learn, earn, and play. So these mandates actually tie quite well with the programs that we're excited to be launching over this year and next year.
00:07:01.380 - 00:08:00.920, Speaker B: So some highlights of Blue dow just at a glance, so you can see how we're currently structured and the things that we're accomplishing. So we have over 850 Dow members around the world and growing rapidly, which is amazing. And we also have 40 core team members. And that is a mixture of what we would call Contributors and coleads. And we kind of divide our Dow roles up by the number of hours that you can or are willing to contribute to the dow itself. And so coleads is about ten to 20 hours a week and Contributors is around five to 10 hours a week at a glance. We have around 4K followers on social media, and we've sent over 150 women at this point to hackathons all around the world, which we are so ecstatic and proud of.
00:08:00.920 - 00:08:59.722, Speaker B: It has made a big impact on a lot of women, and we've been able to kind of get rid of the stigma that hackathons are only for developers and only for technical people and only for certain demographics of people. And that's simply not true. And that's definitely a message that we're trying to push out there. We've sent over 25 hackathon teams out there. Our hackers really love our program and our hands on mentorship and coaching that we're able to provide, and we are global. So we have communities and core team members all around the world in Latin America, Europe, Asia, Africa, and some really cool street teams in some of the major cities in the USA as well, of course. And with our mission, we're actually building out one main program, which is called our Blue Builders Program.
00:08:59.722 - 00:09:41.970, Speaker B: And I'll actually touch on that later towards the end. But this is meant to be our end to end ecosystem to support an individual's metamorphosis in web3. So Blue Dow, our mascot, is a butterfly. And we essentially want to help people grow from this egg phase where they don't really know what they're doing in web3 onto becoming a caterpillar and then into a cocoon and then to a butterfly. And we have programs to support each step of that. And so, yeah, we're really excited about that. And my participation in Blue Dow has honestly been a whirlwind journey.
00:09:41.970 - 00:10:40.874, Speaker B: And I wanted to share this with you all just so you can kind of see where Dow participation can actually take you and what Dows can help you with depending on what industry you're in. So Blue Dow actually we started just in February of this year and we've grown a lot since then. But my particular journey with Blue started in March, where I was selected to be a Blue Dow hacker at e 30. And this was my first time ever attending and competing into web3 hackathon. And I honestly didn't really know what I was doing. But the community at Blue kind of welcomed me with open arms and were able to teach and mentor me along the way. And I think what's cool is that our Dow recognizes that learning happens in phases, right? You don't just step by step, get to where you're going.
00:10:40.874 - 00:11:26.822, Speaker B: You might have to backtrack in some places. You might go forward and then hit a roadblock, and that's all okay. And Blue Dow is really understanding of that as well. And in March at Ethereum Rio, I was able to co found black leaders Dow, along with a lot of the amazing Brazilian community there. And that was my first time ever co founding a project in Web Three. And I learned a lot from that experience. And following that, in April, I actually decided to join onto the Blue Dow core team because I saw the work that they were doing and the impact they were having in different communities, and I wanted to be a part of that.
00:11:26.822 - 00:12:52.142, Speaker B: And one thing I did want to highlight is that what's cool about participating in Dows right now is dows are so new as an organization type that you can kind of be the leader of your story. The leader. Of Your Journey and in that, you Can Start to Become A Leader in that Dow Story As Well and Change The Direction of What That Dow Is Doing and What That Dow's mission Is. And I think that's a really cool opportunity that isn't maybe that well known in terms of Dows, but it allows you to become a leader in whatever respect that looks like for you. And in joining the Blue Dot core team in April, I was given the task to lead our ETH Amsterdam trip, and that ended with great success. And we had one of our hack teams be a finalist at that event, which was crazy and super, super exciting. And so every step along in this journey with Blue Dow and just individually myself, I'm kind of realizing that with every problem that we're solving, with every kind of mission that we're accomplishing for our community, for women in Web Three, a new problem arises.
00:12:52.142 - 00:13:34.598, Speaker B: So again, the journey is not linear. The journey is about going back and reiterating and seeing what works, seeing how you can improve on that and then going back at it and trying to solve those problems. And we've really been able to do that throughout this year. Later in May, we had another Blue Hacks program at activate wormhole. A lot more winning projects there. Moved on to Nftnyc and East New York in June. A lot of success there with our hackers, and then we hit a little bit of a pause in our dao structure in our Dao roadmap.
00:13:34.598 - 00:14:29.342, Speaker B: And we were able to kind of have a big core team meeting here in July where we reiterated on our roadmap and redefined what success looks like for our members. Because being part of a Dow core team is really about learning from your members who, if we were a product, our members would be our users. Right? But our product is our community, our product is our Dao. And so we want to learn from our members and their journeys and what challenges they're having. And a lot of the things that we learned throughout the first couple of months of this year is that people are excited to get into Web Three. They want to be on board to Web Three, but okay, now they know a little bit about Web Three. What are the paths that they can take, what are the final destinations that people can arrive at? And people needed more clarity in those areas.
00:14:29.342 - 00:15:09.214, Speaker B: And in discovering that, we decided to build the Blue Builders program, which I'll touch on later. So July was a big step to kind of redefine the path of our Dao. Then later in August, we moved on to ETH, Mexico City. Again, very successful program. We had quite a few teams being finalists and other teams winning multiple bounties. And then this is where I personally co founded my own startup called Kiwik. And that has been another journey all on its own.
00:15:09.214 - 00:16:03.822, Speaker B: And that has also provided a lot of great teachings and learnings. And we discovered that there's kind of two clear career paths in Web Three. You can kind of be more on the technical side, developer or just looking for a job at a Web Three company, right? Or you could be more on the founder's path, wanting to launch your own thing, or maybe you already have your own business or idea or project in Web Two and you kind of just want to transition that into Web Three. And so me, myself, I saw those two clear path defined and I brought that into Blue and I said, hey, this is what I've experienced. This is what a lot of other members in Blue Dot have experienced. How can we work this into the roadmap? And that is how our Blue Builders program has been accelerated since then. And now that brings us to September.
00:16:03.822 - 00:17:19.830, Speaker B: So our Blue Boot camp, which is the second step of our Billies program, is forming, secretly under wraps. We're iterating on that and we're really excited to hopefully launch that by the end of this year. And we're also going to be hosting blue merch parties around the world. So in New York, in La, in Ottawa, Mexico, Argentina, maybe a few other cities in there, definitely check us out and get involved if you would like. And then finally next month, we are embarking on a journey to ETH, Bogota and DevCon for another Blue hacks program, which our applications are actually still open for that program. And so with this journey, with my Dow journey in Web Three, with Blue Dow, what was the purpose of doing all that? What was the purpose of founding all these projects? Becoming a startup, founding, doing this in Dows, doing that? Well, the purpose is you get all of these amazing benefits by participating in Dows. And the number one benefit that I want to touch on first is the human capital aspect of Dow participation.
00:17:19.830 - 00:18:23.150, Speaker B: So as being part of a dow. Because, like I mentioned earlier, it's such a new category of business organization, it's still quite small. The web3 space is still quite small. And so by becoming a leader in a dow, you are carving out your space in the industry and basically allowing yourself to become industry leader by putting on all these amazing programs that help to support your missions, your dow's mission. And I have seen firsthand the power of human capital, the power of human connection. And where that can get you So meeting one person can kind of open so many doors for you in web3, and I definitely don't want that to be understated. So definitely join whatever community is calling out to you and see how you can make those connections work towards your personal missions and your personal career goals.
00:18:23.150 - 00:18:56.422, Speaker B: Second benefit of participating in a dow would be that you get to grow expertise and you actually get to grow expertise in areas that maybe you would never have considered. So. Like me, for example. I'm a software engineer. Mainly just been doing coding for the entirety of my career. But with Blue Dow, I saw an opportunity to actually lead partnerships. And did I know anything about partnerships before I decided to do that? No.
00:18:56.422 - 00:20:01.486, Speaker B: But I got to learn along the way, and I think that's such a cool thing that in your free time you can build expertise in a different role. And this is what I love about Web Three and Dow participation, is that in more traditional work environments, you're kind of siloed in your role. And what you do if you're a software engineer, you're a software engineer, maybe you transition to product management or engineering management, but you don't really go outside of that. That would take maybe going back to university or getting a certificate in order to transition into a different field. But because dows and the way they're organized are so flexible, you're able to take on ownership in areas that maybe you never thought you could. And I think that's really cool. So contributing to a dow is a little bit like building a startup, because you will wear many different hats and you will work with a lot of different teams and individuals who are trying to contribute to the same mission you are.
00:20:01.486 - 00:20:45.946, Speaker B: And you all have to come together and figure that out. And I think that coordination is beautiful. Another benefit of participating in a Dao would be token NFT and equity rewards. So at Blue Dow, we do have our own native token. We have our Blue OG tokens for people who are contributing to us early. And I think it's really cool that you're able to earn a type of income, a type of equity, type of stock in an organization that you really are passionate about and you really believe in. And so I think that is something that is really cool.
00:20:45.946 - 00:21:51.802, Speaker B: Tokenomics, certainly as a region needs a lot more research, but there are experts that can help in that respect. And one cool thing I wanted to mention here is that with Blue Dow, as we're taking on new contributors throughout this year, we have begun to open up spots on our co founding team to anyone who becomes a co lead by the end of the year. And our main goal with that is basically to have Blue Dow be owned by everyone who made it. Not just maybe the two people in the beginning who had the idea, but the people who were there in the initial stages that really made our Dao what it is. And so I think that's really cool. I think opportunities similar to that also exist in other Dows. Yeah, and then the last benefit I did want to touch on as well is participating in Dows can be quite crazy, quite hectic.
00:21:51.802 - 00:22:47.070, Speaker B: I will say it's not for everyone, but it's definitely worthwhile. And to me, the thing that makes it the most worthwhile is that you get to make lifelong friends along the way. And for me with Blue Dow, I think it's been incredible that now my closest friends are people who don't even live in the same city as me. They're people that I work closely with online trying to put together our programs. There are people I see maybe once every other month when we're putting on our programs in different cities. But I've been able to create really incredible and intimate bonds with people that I haven't experienced in Web Two, to be honest. And yeah, there's something about Web Three that makes people really want to connect on a deeper level with each other and I think that is absolutely fantastic.
00:22:47.070 - 00:24:02.170, Speaker B: So those are the benefits of contributing to a Dao and the benefits that I've seen throughout my journey with Blue Dow. And all of this effort, all of these benefits have culminated in what I would love to introduce to the crowd as our Blue Builders program. And this is the program that we are launching over this year and next year to again support an individual's metamorphosis in Web Three. And because we are so passionate and that we believing that anyone can accomplish whatever they put their mind to and that limiting beliefs should not exist as part of our Dao. So the first step in our Blue Builders program is our Blue hacks program and that is the program that we've been running throughout this year. That's kind of what we're known for, is being able to onboard and educate people who have no knowledge of Web Three but coach and mentor them during a Web Three hackathon and essentially enable them to be winners and finalists and bounty winners of that said hackathon. And so we have programs all around the world, mainly following the ETH Global hackathon schedule.
00:24:02.170 - 00:24:51.274, Speaker B: And we do have applications open for our ETH Bogota and Defcon open, so definitely check that out. You can find that on our Twitter as well. Now again, in building out our Blue hacks program, we felt that it was a great program. But what's next? What is after that? Our members were looking for more stepping stones to continue their journey in Web Three. And these are the programs that kind of hit all of our members needs and desires. And the second step, which is the caterpillar phase of our Blue Builders program, is our Blue Boot Camp. And this is something we're really excited to be launching by the end of this year.
00:24:51.274 - 00:26:14.894, Speaker B: It's going to be a four to six week, cohort based educational program for both nontechnical and technical individuals in Web Three to learn the basics of Web Three, learn the basics of blockchain and onboard into Web Three in a more academic way, and be able to earn certificates and NFT badges that serve as their proof of skill, proof of knowledge. Identifiers. Then after that we are launching our Blue Incubator program, which is where we really want to help support local communities who maybe they already have an idea that works in Web Two and they're now exploring how blockchain technologies and how cryptocurrency can integrate with their Web Two idea. Or it's an individual that maybe is just starting out in Web Three and wants to launch something in Web Three be a Web Three native project. And our Incubator program aims to turn those ideas into venture scalable products and companies. Because it's one thing to be passionate about web Three, passionate about your idea, but it's another thing to actually turn that into a product and idea that is attractive to the VC industry and investors. And that is what the Incubator.
00:26:14.894 - 00:27:08.614, Speaker B: Program is aimed at. And that is the little cocoon phase. Then our last phase of our program is our Blue Accelerator program and this is where Blue aims to be the provider of talented builders. First check, we want to highlight and uplift underrepresented builders and give them the capital that they need to keep building their projects and to also start putting together the details that would give them that really great opportunity to get investment. So helping, putting together pitch decks, cap tables, incorporating as a startup, all of those things. We want to be the helping hand with that and that is our Blue Builders program. So, definitely very excited to be launching this program this year and next year.
00:27:08.614 - 00:27:52.978, Speaker B: And yeah, with that I kind of just wanted to highlight a few things. So one, like I mentioned throughout this talk, our applications are open. If you would like to become a Blue hacker and attend ETH Bogota with us and DevCon with us, so you can go to Blue dow on Twitter to check that out. All of the links are actually in this QR code if you want to check it out. And blue dow is also live on Gitcoin. So if you want to support a lot of great communities in Web Three who are doing diversity equity inclusion work, you can go to Gitcoin and support Blue Dow. You can go on Gitcoin and support women in Web Three.
00:27:52.978 - 00:28:37.054, Speaker B: Surge women metagamma Delta minority programmers, 40 acres Dow. There's just so many incredible projects that are looking for the funding to be able to put on programs that help underrepresented builders, similar to what Blue Dow does with our Blue Builders program. So definitely contribute if you can. Even a dollar, $5, $10 helps. It's all about the power of community and how many people actually are backing your mission rather than the amount of the donation. So definitely check out Gitcoin and learn more about quadratic voting. And yeah, I am on Twitter at Daffichar if you want to talk more.
00:28:37.054 - 00:29:03.450, Speaker B: If you're interested in Blue, if you're interested in contributing to Blue, feel free to send me a DM and reach out. I'd be more than happy to talk to you. And yes, the road to DevCon is in full effect, so definitely join us in our journey to There where we have a lot of exciting events planned. So that's all I have for you today. Thank you all so much for having me. Awesome.
00:29:03.520 - 00:29:23.214, Speaker A: Well, thank you for that amazing talk. We had a couple of questions I think we have a little bit time for and then we can start with the next talk. But kind of speaking of coordination, can you talk about how decisions are made at kind of your Dow and sort of what the process is, how it's structured, how has it changed? We'll be just good to get a few more insights in there.
00:29:23.412 - 00:29:53.658, Speaker B: Yeah, absolutely. I think this is something that is continuing to change and evolve at Blue. But we do vote both off chain and on chain. We vote off chain with Snapchat and we vote on chain with Aragon. And the structure of voting in our Dao right now is for major decisions. It's for governors and core teams and our wider contributor team. But we are hoping to put public votes out to our entire community quite soon.
00:29:53.658 - 00:30:04.720, Speaker B: That's just something we haven't figured out on how to scale and definitely open to any tips there, but it's something that's evolving and we're excited to bring governance to the wider community.
00:30:07.250 - 00:30:31.560, Speaker A: Maybe a little bit digging, a little bit more. How big is the team that is usually voting on these things relative to kind of I think you said about 900. I may have misheard, but 900 were the members usually kind of how often are you doing votes and how often are what's the complexity of a decision that requires a vote versus people just kind of leading something?
00:30:32.250 - 00:31:07.698, Speaker B: Yeah, we honestly put things to votes when we can clearly see in our core contributor chats that there is some disconnect where people aren't agreeing and we're just like, hey, we're a dow. Instead of this back and forth, let's just put it to a vote, let's just see what everyone thinks. What is the consensus of this decision? And so our core team, like I mentioned on a slide earlier, we have about 40 main core contributors that are making bigger decisions for our wider community and we're definitely hoping to open up voting and governance to everyone else soon.
00:31:07.864 - 00:31:35.594, Speaker A: Awesome. And then last question. What are kind of some of the challenges that you're running into in terms of kind of growing the community? And you kind of talked about some of the things that you are doing, but overall how do you count what successful growth is? Is a number to get to 10,000 and that's what you would call good? Or is it consistently growing or the quality? What do you actually measure as you think about this community?
00:31:35.792 - 00:32:47.120, Speaker B: Yeah, that's a really interesting question because I think at the inception of our Dow we were thinking that we had this goal of sending 1000 hackers to web3 hackathons and then our mission would be complete and then maybe our Dow wouldn't need to exist anymore. That's honestly what we were thinking in the beginning. But now as we've kind of dived deeper into providing these programs for our members, we've realized that we would like the Blue Builders program to be a program that lives on and with that program has a lot of moving parts. And so we do require a large core team to be able to pull those things off. And so we're not trying to grow our Dow to thousands and thousands of members, but we are mainly trying to grow our core team and more people who are really passionate about leading our mission. And the main challenge with that is keeping people engaged after our in person events because people love our Blue Hacks program. They love coming in person to hackathons, but then after that maybe they fall off the wagon and they're busy and maybe the online method doesn't really work for them.
00:32:47.570 - 00:33:00.102, Speaker A: Absolutely. Awesome. Well, thank you so much again and that was an amazing talk. And if you're able to share Thus livedped, we'll also make that available for all of our attendees. And yeah, really appreciate this.
00:33:00.236 - 00:33:02.114, Speaker B: Awesome. Thank you so much. Cryptic.
00:33:02.242 - 00:33:03.410, Speaker A: See you in Bogota.
