00:00:00.200 - 00:00:28.786, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deli Gwei refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host and the Nissison, the 28 July 2023 alright everyone, let's get into it. So we're back into it. After being away for three days at that conference in Sydney, I had a lot of fun. So I'm gonna, I guess like spend the next few minutes just recapping my time there. Things that I learned, people I spoke to as well as obviously going through the news from the last three days. And there is actually a lot to go through, you can see from my tabs here.
00:00:28.786 - 00:01:08.860, Speaker A: So I'm going to assume this episode is going to run longer than 30 minutes, but you've been starved for a refill. So I guess like, let's just get into it. So I put out this tweet today, basically saying that, you know, nothing gives me more joy than being an Ethereum educator. Honestly, whenever I talk to people about Ethereum and they're genuinely interested in what I have to say, especially face to face, obviously it's different in front of a camera, doing the refuel, things like that, and on discord as well, and twitter, but face to face, just a different experience. And it honestly is an amazing feeling just having people actually interested in what I have to say, being excited about what I'm talking about, because it is really my bread and butter, it's really my life. Ethereum, right. So, you know, I spoke to a bunch of people at the conference.
00:01:08.860 - 00:01:46.018, Speaker A: Um, and I actually, uh, on the, um, the conference day on Wednesday, I ended the event. Uh, I was the last kind of like, um, a panelist, I guess you could call it. And I was talking about just Ethereum generally and the merge, things like that. Um, but maybe I'll take a step back and kind of explain what it was. So it was called the digital asset conference. Now, it wasn't a typical crypto conference at all, really. What it was was basically the one day on Wednesday where a group of, I believe 200 or so people got together from all different kind of walks of life and talked about the crypto ecosystem, specifically in Australia, and how Australia is not batting where it should be batting.
00:01:46.018 - 00:02:10.994, Speaker A: Basically, we are, we are definitely underrepresented globally and we need to be doing better on things like the regulatory front, on pushing innovation forward within the crypto ecosystem and things like that. Now, most of the people there I would classify as non crypto native, right. They're not on, you know, Twitter. They're on LinkedIn, for example. Right? They're not like DJ's. They're not gambling on meme coins. You know, they're not doing all the crypto native stuff that we do.
00:02:10.994 - 00:02:42.896, Speaker A: What they're doing is they're bridging the old kind of tradfi world into the new crypto world. So they're building applications using, I guess, crypto technology, using blockchain technology that enable the use cases of, you know, things that we don't really think about, like supply chain, for example. There were some bankers, they're talking about the stable coin pilot programs that they did their CBDC stuff, right? The, um. NAB did a stable coin pilot, I'm sure. I think I've spoken about it on the reefer before. NAB is the National Australia bank. So the big one of the big four banks in Australia.
00:02:42.896 - 00:03:11.112, Speaker A: So there was a bunch of that going on. So definitely not a crypto native crowd. But it was extremely interesting for me to get a view into this world because I really don't get exposed to this because I am a crypto native and I'm just involved with everything got to do with crypto native stuff every day. I don't usually get exposed to this sorts of stuff, and vice versa. These people don't necessarily get exposed to the things that I talk about every day on the refuel. Right. They're not worried about the Ethereum core protocol updates or L2s or anything like that.
00:03:11.112 - 00:03:40.594, Speaker A: What they're worried about is solving issues for businesses that they're involved with, right. Whether it's supply chain issues, identity issues, you know, stuff like that. And I spoke to a lot of people about this, and I spoke to people about regulation. I actually met a fair few people that were fans of the Daily Gwei that actually aren't, I guess, like working in crypto. They actually work in the regulatory space or for the government or otherwise. And I'm like, oh, wow, that's actually really cool. I felt like it was really cool to know that my voice has reached to those kinds of people.
00:03:40.594 - 00:04:08.128, Speaker A: And it was like we were in full alignment about everything, basically as well. Whenever I talked to talk to these people, and it was a mix, right? Like I said, bankers as regulators, there's people working at different corporations. It was a very varied mix. There were crypto natives there. There were actually a fair few of them, which was, which was nice. And people that I had met before and talked with before. And obviously people that listen to the Daily Gwei, but generally it was non crypto native.
00:04:08.128 - 00:04:36.512, Speaker A: So the whole day was just talks. It was more of a conversational thing where there'd be, like, panelists on the stage, and then people would be able to ask questions while the panel was going on from the, I guess, crowd, so to speak. So it was a back and forth, and you had breaks in between where you could mingle and things like that. So that was the actual conference day. Then there was the dinner on Thursday night, which is basically just really well put together. Dinner at a really nice venue where people could just do some more networking and some more socializing. And that was.
00:04:36.512 - 00:05:11.978, Speaker A: That was probably the highlight for me, to be honest, because I managed to sit on a table. There was. There was no kind of, like, allotted seating. You would just sit wherever you want, right. So I managed to sit on a table with mostly crypto natives, and we basically just kind of talked about Ethereum all night, which was obviously super exciting for me, but everyone on that table was just awesome. We're having great conversations, and I really loved interacting with everyone there. And actually, I told this story in the Daily Gray Discord Channel, but there was a top 50 kind of countdown that they did where they basically did a top 50 people in Australia making the most impact in crypto.
00:05:11.978 - 00:05:31.836, Speaker A: And someone told me that I was the top five, right? And I'm like, okay, top five. That's pretty cool. And then. So it counted down, right? It counted down, got to the top five. So what ended up happening is that they did the top 45. Well, the first 45, they just ran it in the background was like a presentation up on the screens, and then it counted down to the top five. And then they did a top five reading out live.
00:05:31.836 - 00:05:48.756, Speaker A: So I was like, okay, well, now it's, you know, my time to shine, so to speak. So they go through the top five, right? Five's not me. Four's not me. Three's not me, two's not me. And I'm like, wow, holy crap. Like, am I number one? Like, this is weird. I mean, it was, as I said, it's a different crowd, right? It's not the crypto native crowd.
00:05:48.756 - 00:05:58.858, Speaker A: And obviously the list is catered to that. But I was like, oh, my God, I'm number one. So I'm sitting there and I'm just like, you know, a bit. Bit nervous. I'm like, oh, my God, this is. This is pretty cool. And.
00:05:58.858 - 00:06:56.338, Speaker A: And then number one pops up, and, of course, it's not me, right? I wasn't even in the top 50, which is funny, but number one wasn't me. But what made it amazing was that it wasn't just not me, it was the chairman of ASIC, which is the Australian Securities Investments Commission, aka the SEC of Australia. So I basically got rugged by the Aussie Gary Gensler, which I found hilarious. And my table, who, as I said, were crypto natives, we all found it hilarious and it was just, just became a big joke. But that was just really funny because I, you know, I spent like an hour expecting to be in the top five, and then when I got to reading out all of them, and then I wasn't read out, and then I'm like, oh, my God, I'm going to be number one. And then just to get rugged by the chairman of ASIC was just a highlight to top off an amazing last few days. So, yeah, I mean, I'm definitely still high off the, the events, as I said, not the usual events I go to, but definitely well worthwhile.
00:06:56.338 - 00:07:22.240, Speaker A: And a big shout out to someone called Steve Vallis, who actually organizes a bunch of these events. He basically, I would say, acts as like the bridge between crypto natives and, and this world. He does listen to the refuel. He told me once, he listens to the refuel at two times speed, I already talk really quickly and he's listening to me at two times speed. I would. I hate to know what that kind of sounds like, but he does, and he loves the show, of course. So if he's listening, big thank you to him for putting this event together.
00:07:22.240 - 00:07:46.034, Speaker A: But, yeah, that's basically my last three days up in Sydney. I really enjoyed it. I really enjoyed getting different perspectives. And my main takeaway is that there are a lot of people working on bringing the old world of tradfi and the old corporate world and the old way of doing things into the new world. It's still very early. A lot of the solutions are just proof of concepts right now. There's nothing really at scale or anything like that.
00:07:46.034 - 00:08:19.560, Speaker A: But we know the reasons why that is. You know, infrastructure is not there, the UI, Ux isn't there, still very early days, just generally, but it's being worked on in the background. There are lots of good and honest and awesome people working on this sorts of stuff that you will have never interacted with before and that you probably won't on crypto, Twitter. As I said, they're on LinkedIn. They're professionals. They're in the corporate world, or they're in the, you know, they're on the government side of things, regulatory side of things, but they are awesome people. And, you know, I kind of think a lot of them could be considered crypto natives because they actually do try to keep up with things.
00:08:19.560 - 00:08:45.220, Speaker A: Like they have their own kind of work, they have to do their own day jobs. But a lot of them that I was talking to, they were pretty clued in. Honestly, I was pretty surprised. You know, I was like, wow, okay, you actually clued in. You actually know kind of what's going on. And then, you know, I do my thing where I start going off in a million different, million different directions, and I start talking about more technical stuff. And then I felt like I was kind of losing some people, but at the same time, they were super interested in what I had to say, and they kept asking questions they really wanted to know.
00:08:45.220 - 00:09:25.884, Speaker A: Um, and I got asked, this is the last thing I say before I move into the news. I got asked the question a lot of, like, why ethereum? You know, why ethereum over everything else? Because unless you're like, deeply involved in crypto, that can be not something that you kind of understand from the outside looking in. Right. Like it's, it takes a lot, I think, of years in this industry to understand why certain ecosystems thrive and why others don't. And I used my kind of, I guess, infamous analogy that I like to use in that, well, maybe not analogy, but like framing of the, of why ethereum. I basically framed it like this. I said, there are projects that have missionaries or mercenaries, right.
00:09:25.884 - 00:10:04.376, Speaker A: A lot of the time, there's not really much of an overlap there. And I basically said Ethereum has the most missionaries by far, right? It has the most people that are building Ethereum because they want to build Ethereum, not because of money, not because of some other kind of profit motive or anything like that. They want to build Ethereum. They want to see the Ethereum vision come to life. And a lot of these people could get paid so much more working elsewhere, but they don't because that is just not something that they would want to work on. And I said that also, Ethereum is a massive nerd snipe, which means it has the hardest problems to solve. So it gets the smartest people into the ecosystem, and it's just so broad.
00:10:04.376 - 00:10:33.854, Speaker A: Doesn't have the best tech, right? I mean, Ethereum layer one obviously doesn't have the best tech, but that doesn't matter. That's not what it's about. So I kind of framed it in that lens, but I did talk more about it, but I'm not going to continue because I want to get to this other stuff that happened over the last three days. But I mean, for anyone who listened to the refuel for a while, you know exactly what I was saying to them. But it was, it felt genuinely awesome. One of the best feelings ever, honestly, to talk to people and have them be genuinely interested, because, as I said, I know you guys are interested. You listen to the refill every day.
00:10:33.854 - 00:11:20.510, Speaker A: I know that you're interested when I'm talking to you in the Discord channel, but it's not face to face, right? Like, I can't see your facial expressions. You know, I can't see when I say something that I think is really cool, if you think it's really cool, like, like, you know, your face lights up or something, I don't see that. So for me to go out there and talk to people, it's just a very different way of doing kind of like education and getting that immediate feedback, which, honestly, yeah, it's the best feeling in the world, and I'm very lucky to be able to do that and be able to do that as a, I guess, full time thing. Anyway, moving on from that, on to the news from the last three days. So let's start off with some regulatory news because we had some big regulatory news. So there was this bill that basically advanced in, I guess, like the US House here. So you can see here, Jake Shewinski tweeting.
00:11:20.510 - 00:12:02.922, Speaker A: The Financial services committee just advanced the fit for the 21st Century act by a vote of 35 to 15, including significant support from democratic members. This sends a strong bipartisan message in favor of reasonable regulation for digital assets. So the headline here really is that bipartisan support. So I believe all of the Republicans voted in favor and six Democrats voted in favor, which was awesome to see. So the 15 nos, I believe, were Democrats. Now, obviously, we know that Democrats in the US have traditionally been anti crypto to an extent, at least not all of them, but, you know, the, the loud ones, Gary Gensler, you know, Elizabeth Warren, uh, even Biden to an extent. Right.
00:12:02.922 - 00:12:28.266, Speaker A: Um, but, uh, seeing this bipartisan kind of, um, uh, support go through here is really great. And I think that it's not obviously, probably close to becoming law, but this is the first step. It goes through this. I mean, I'm not up to speed on exactly what the next steps are from here, but it goes through this. I believe it goes to potentially the House next to vote on it, and then it goes to the Senate or something like that. Then it becomes law. But as I said, I'm not an expert on on this.
00:12:28.266 - 00:13:07.768, Speaker A: And I'm not sure exactly all the steps, uh, to this, but, uh, it definitely is an important milestone on the regulatory frontier on that thing. So you can, I guess, like Google for the bill fit for the 21st century act bill, or a kind of, I guess, like act generally, and go check out what that is. There was also a stable coin act. So you can see here Chairman Patrick McHenry. Sorry. There was the financial services committee saying, chairman Patrick McHenry's clarity for Payment Stable coins Act passes the financial services committee with bipartisan support. After 15 months of bipartisan collaboration, this landmark legislation is one step closer to becoming law.
00:13:07.768 - 00:13:46.192, Speaker A: So another act that was passed through the Financial services Committee, which is great to see. So, as I said, that I believe goes on to the House next to be debated on and voted on there as well. So, yeah, two pretty big pieces of positive regulatory news over the last three days in the US specifically, which is great to see. You know, I made a comment a while ago where I basically, quote, quote. I quoted the famous quote that is, it's. It's regularly attributed to Winston Churchill, but there is debate about whether he actually said this. But it's a quote that basically says, you know, Americans will do the right thing after they've exhausted every other option or something like that, after they've tried everything else.
00:13:46.192 - 00:14:28.192, Speaker A: And it seems like we're at that point, right, where it finally feels like the Americans are doing the right thing when it comes to crypto regulation after many, many years of doing the wrong thing. Right. But again, it's too early to tell. You know, getting something to become law is very hard. Obviously, right now, the Democrats control the presidency and, and the Senate, I believe, or the House, I can't remember, but they definitely have a lot of power right now when it comes to this sorts of stuff. But I'm hoping that there are enough Democrats that flip to support these kind of things that it can kind of turn the tables there. All right, so moving on to some Ethereum core development news.
00:14:28.192 - 00:14:54.292, Speaker A: So Nethermind has successfully implemented stateless verification in the Nethermind client using vocal trees. Nethermind is now the first client that can participate in the network as a stateless client. This is a major milestone and will bring massive benefits to the network, and it continues. Stablecoin. Stablecoin. Stateless nodes can participate without the need to store the entire state of the blockchain, making them more lightweight and scalable. We were able to verify the blocks of the.
00:14:54.292 - 00:16:08.244, Speaker A: Oh, man, I don't know how to read this word costing in Testnet, just by using the vocal witnesses, including the blocks. This lowers the entry barriers for node operators and enables individuals and organizations to join the network, contribute to its growth and foster a more distributed network. So this is all part of the Verge roadmap, Verkle trees that I've talked about before. You know, that's going to be the focus after Den Kun goes live, and it'll be the focus for probably 2024 and maybe 2025. It just depends on how fast we ship these things. But the fact that Nethermine has already implemented stateless verification into their clients, obviously early days, but the fact that they've already implemented it is a huge milestone and it really does, I guess, provide a blueprint and provide an example to other clients for them to implement it and for us to get vertical trees to mainnet and for the stateless Ethereum vision to become reality. Because for a long time this has been on the roadmap and things like light clients, which you've probably seen talked about a lot more due to the modularity discussions recently, these things have been the holy grail, because what they allow you to do is it allows you to verify that the chain you are talking to is the correct chain without having to actually download the chain.
00:16:08.244 - 00:16:51.102, Speaker A: So for example, right now with Metamask, if you're using infuria as your RPC, you are trusting that the chain that you're interacting with, the infuria chain that you're interacting with, is the correct one, right? And you're trusting that everything's all well and good there. With a stateless client, you don't have to trust that you have cryptographic proof that you are interacting with the actual Ethereum chain. And that's only one benefit. That's obviously a huge benefit. But the other benefit becomes the fact that you can run these, these stateless Ethereum clients, or these kind of like clients on hardware that is basically very low powered. I mean, I'm talking, you're able to run this on like a mobile phone as well. Because what happens is you don't have to have the whole chain.
00:16:51.102 - 00:17:40.884, Speaker A: And from my understanding, you don't have to be on 24/7 either. You can just connect via the lite client whenever you need to in order to verify the chain and verify that everything's going well and good. That's all you would need to do. And this also potentially as part of the Verge roadmap, allows us to increase the layer one gas limits, because increasing the gas limit is like increasing the block size, which means that the chain becomes harder. So the chain becomes bigger generally, and obviously it becomes harder to store because the hardware requirements go up. But with the Verge roadmap, it allows us to raise the gas limit. I believe I saw some estimates that once the Verge roadmap is mostly complete, we could increase the block gas limit by about ten x and get basically the same, I guess, decentralization properties that we do today.
00:17:40.884 - 00:18:35.234, Speaker A: So obviously it's not a long term scaling solution because increasing the gas limit has always just been filled up. You know, it just fills up again because it's like adding more lanes to a highway, right? It's induced demand. So it's not a long term solution, but it's good because it basically allows us to keep scaling with demand, essentially. And that scale would obviously apply to L2s as well, even though post ERP 48 44, it's not going to have as big of an impact. But, but it would still for L2s that maybe want to store their data permanently on Ethereum, because as you all know, with AIP 4844, the data is only stored for a month and then it expires. And then if you want to retrieve that data, you have to retrieve it from a third party service. Whereas if you want to keep your data on Ethereum forever, you would have to use the call data, the existing call data opcode, instead of the new blob transactions.
00:18:35.234 - 00:19:14.940, Speaker A: I do wonder, though, long term, if the call data opcode will be removed to force everyone to use blobs just for the health of the chain. I haven't seen much discussion, or any discussion really around that. It's just something that I've been thinking about. But yeah, it remains to be seen how that shakes out there. But anyway, very big congratulations to Nethermind for achieving this milestone. All right, so lite clients here proposed a new AIP, AIP 7377, which is called the migration transaction. So what this EIP would do, it would be a new transaction type that allows an externally owned account or a normal regular Ethereum address to make a one time code deployment at their address.
00:19:14.940 - 00:19:57.480, Speaker A: This would effectively migrate the account to a smart contract permanently. So I guess in plain English, this would allow you to convert your normal ethereum address into a smart contract address or a smart contract wallet, so to speak. So for example, you could convert your normal ethereum address into an argent smart contract wallet, basically. And it would allow you, from my understanding, to deploy any kind of smart contract wallet that you would want, whether it's argent or sol wallet or another one, right? You could choose which one you would want to convert your eoa to. Now this, as like client said, would be a one time thing. It would be irreversible. From my understanding, you wouldn't be able to go back to being an eoa, so you would be permanently a smart contract wallet.
00:19:57.480 - 00:20:54.490, Speaker A: Now of course there are security considerations for this because obviously with smart contract wallets there is a larger attack service attack surface. But I think this is something that is pretty critically important generally to to Ethereum and to the adoption of smart contract wallets generally. And I do hope it can potentially be included with the upgrade after the next upgrade after Den Kun, which I've already forgotten the name of because I remember the other day I was talking about names that people were debating and now I've forgotten them at this point. But yeah, the next upgrade that would happen, maybe Q two or something next year could potentially include this. So you can go give the EIP itself a read for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below, but this is definitely exciting and definitely something that has been in the works for actually quite a while. I believe this EIP is a spiritual successor to EIP 29 38 and EIP 3074 from my reading.
00:20:54.490 - 00:21:32.276, Speaker A: So yeah, this isn't anything new, but the IP itself is new. But the discussions around doing this isn't new. So yeah, hoping to see discussion evolve around this and seeing how it all shakes out. All right, so we have a new data visualization for mev boost bids. So this is a real time visualization of all the mev boost bids happening on the Ethereum network. You can go to payload Dedar for slash data to check this out. Now this is really cool because you get to basically get a breakdown of the builder, the validator and the relays all in real time of what's happening in the Ethereum mempool.
00:21:32.276 - 00:21:57.854, Speaker A: And it's broken down in, you know, by a bunch of different metrics. I'm like, I'm not going to go through them all and explain them all, but you can check out this website for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But this is what's basically happening in the mempool, guys. Like there it is a. I wouldn't say it's a complex environment, but it is a. It's basically a very well oiled machine at this point, right? You have the builder that submits the blocks to the relays and then the relays kind of relay them to the validators.
00:21:57.854 - 00:22:42.966, Speaker A: Validators proposed the block and I guess like that's the way the Ethereum network works these days before in protocol PBS, because this is done through the mev boost network, obviously. But even with in protocol PBS, I wonder if it would look similar to this. It would, and obviously it wouldn't have things like relays and stuff like that from my understanding, but I think it would look pretty similar here. So yeah, you can check this out for yourself. It's actually got a pretty healthy amount of data here for something so new. So yeah, I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to check out. All right, Geode finance is now live on Testnet, so they're calling themselves Ethereum's first truly trustless liquid staking library, enabling users to create unique pool and token setups.
00:22:42.966 - 00:23:29.144, Speaker A: So what Geode finance is, is a new Ethereum staking protocol, or LST protocol that allows anyone to create their own, I guess like LST so to speak, or their own pool, and they can change the properties of the pools and kind of modify it, make them private or public or anything like that. It does share similarities, I guess, with stakewise v three, as I've spoken about before, but definitely has a few different pieces to it. And you can check out obviously all the information about this in the YouTube description below. But some of the features include permissionless creation and ownership of staking pools. You can create a public pool where anyone can access and mint the LST. There are private pools, as I mentioned, as well. Choose your own LST type, which is really cool.
00:23:29.144 - 00:24:19.944, Speaker A: So you can choose from rebasing tokens to value accrual tokens, standard ERC 20, ERC 20 permit or even no token and complete yield separation as well here. So another, just another really great and innovative player entering the LST space. As I said, they are on Testnet right now. They're not on Mainnet just yet, but this is what I've been talking about for quite a while now. We need more of these protocols coming online to increase competition generally for the Ethereum staking ecosystem and to make everyone else better. And I was having a discussion with a friend recently about this and saying that I don't think there's going to be like tens of major LST protocols, right, that have like the majority of market share. But the point is, is that the more that there are and the more I guess like good ones that there are, the more competition there is and the better the overall ecosystem gets.
00:24:19.944 - 00:25:21.850, Speaker A: And that's the whole point, right, because at the end of the day, we want the Ethereum staking ecosystem to be as distributed, as decentralized, as resilient and reliable as possible. And we won't get that if we only have like a handful of solutions that basically get entrenched and then they don't feel threatened because, for example, Lido, if Lido just existed, and that was it. Like, that was, there wasn't rocket pool, there wasn't stakewise v three, there wasn't geo, there wasn't swell, right? It was just Lido that, you know, there wouldn't be much innovation there. They would literally have no reason to change anything other than trying to drive value to the LDO token. But if they've got no competition, then naturally they would drive value to the LDO token because they would, they would probably have a monopoly, right? They do have a large market share, and that would probably be even bigger. They would definitely be even bigger if it wasn't for the competition, right? So the more competition that comes online, even if they're only chipping away at the dominant players, they're still pushing them forward, because the dominant players see this or the bigger players isn't like, oh my God, wow, our market share is going down. We actually need to do something about this.
00:25:21.850 - 00:25:53.270, Speaker A: And then the smaller players see and react to that and say, oh, okay, these guys are doing this. We need to increase our market share. We need to do more. Let's do more. And I think the perfect example of this is the Lido rocker pool dichotomy, right? Where Lido's this huge LST, it's centralized, right? It's definitely not decentralized right now. Whereas rocket pool has been built from the ground up as a decentralized staking protocol, it still has kind of like, I guess, centralized aspects to it, so to speak. Right? But like, not, not like Lidar, not, not the node operator set.
00:25:53.270 - 00:26:25.626, Speaker A: It's more around the governance and things like that. But you know, when you kind of look at that, right, and you look at the incentives there and look at what's happened there, rocker pool started from zero, obviously, when Lido already had a massive market share, and it's been slowly chipping away. And if you haven't checked lately, Rocketpool's market share has continued to increase. I mean, you can go to raider.net work. I visit this site quite regularly, even though I've said before that you shouldn't be looking at this every day. I look at it regularly, not every day, but I look at it regularly just to monitor things, not to draw any kind of real signal from.
00:26:25.626 - 00:26:46.898, Speaker A: But just to monitor things, even this like rocket pool is still 3.12%, right. It's just been slowly chipping away. Lido has hung around, around the same percentage here or gone down a little bit. It's at 32.16%. But it's all about that chipping away there, right. And rocket pool over the last few months, especially the community has really kicked it into high gear and basically said, you know, we need to be doing more.
00:26:46.898 - 00:27:14.226, Speaker A: They shipped atlas, right, which brought the node requirements down or the ETH requirement down. They're redirecting the odour rewards to the PDA now to do more incentive campaigns. They're doing a lot more business development and marketing from what I've seen as well. So it's great to see that. I don't know if it was my advice that triggered that because I mean, I've been talking about it for a little while now, but it's great to see them doing that regardless of the reason why. So I think that's a clear kind of example of what I'm talking about. When it comes to more competition, better it is for everyone.
00:27:14.226 - 00:27:45.862, Speaker A: Even if it's a competition that you consider to be a small kind of a small player. Small players can become big players. And I've talked about why I believe lighto so dominant before. I do believe that if we had withdrawals enabled from like even 18 months ago, lighter's dominance wouldn't be as big as it is. Because the simple example is that a lot of stake got puked during the unwind and Steve ended up trading at like what, 0.91 or something like that. And then by the time withdrawals were enabled, Steth was back at fair value.
00:27:45.862 - 00:28:07.018, Speaker A: So there was no arb to be had with the beacon chain. Whereas if withdrawals were live, I reckon there would have been a lot of stake withdrawn from Lido because people were being that spread. Right. So that's the, the kind of like entrenchment of LSD's that can happen. And that's again why we need more lsts online as well. But anyway, I'm not here to bash lighter or anything like that. I just using him as obvious examples.
00:28:07.018 - 00:28:25.250, Speaker A: Right. So yeah, just great to see geode live on testnet. They do have like a when mainnet section here. So soon, I guess so soon. Soon. I'll keep you guys updated on when their main net goes live. All right, so I not sure if you guys have noticed this trend lately.
00:28:25.250 - 00:29:23.806, Speaker A: I think you have of l one's or alt l one s or sidechains, I guess, migrating to l two s. And the latest one to do that is something called palm network. Now, palm network was a, or is a layer one network essentially, or a sidechain, I guess, whatever you want to call it, that was spun up by consensus to be a network for NFTs. I remember when they spun this up, I think to myself, why is this a layer one? Why is this a side chain? Why is this not a L2? And of course, I think at the time, the kind of software wasn't there yet for it to be really easy for them to be, to be an l two instead of an l one. But now it is, and they're now using polygons, their technology, to migrate. They're migrating to a polygon, polygon super nets to basically become an l two on Ethereum. So settle on Ethereum, I believe, probably storing their data off chain, not on Ethereum because it would be too expensive for them.
00:29:23.806 - 00:29:46.224, Speaker A: But this just continues the trend of these l ones or side chains becoming l two s. And I mean, I spoke about sello the other, the other day that they're doing it. There's a few more, actually. I mean, I've been posting them in the other chains channel and the Discord channel just to keep track of them. I saw that pancake swap is migrating to Zksync era. Well, I mean, I guess they're deploying on there. They're not leaving.
00:29:46.224 - 00:30:21.824, Speaker A: They're not leaving BSc. There's also a few other ones, I'm just scrolling through here just, just to go back on them. But there's been a few other ones that I've, that I've posted in there that are kind of coming, coming along, and I expect that trend to accelerate and continue. And it's just, it's funny, funny that I said this, you know, how long ago did I say? I don't remember. It could even be, you know, twelve to 18 months or something where I said that. I believe a lot of these l one s are going to become l two s and it's just playing out before our eyes. And even I'm a little bit surprised by it because I give these predictions and I'm like, you know what? Like, I have conviction here.
00:30:21.824 - 00:30:47.984, Speaker A: I have a belief that this is going to happen, but, you know, the chances of it happening can sometimes be really small. And I do believe there are certain l ones out there that will never become an l two. I mean, Cardano, for example, is never becoming an l two. The Charles's ego wouldn't let him do that. Solana? I don't think so, because as I've said before, Solana is trying to do something different as. And what they're trying to do really only works as an l one. So I don't believe that would happen.
00:30:47.984 - 00:31:09.322, Speaker A: Avalanche? Probably not. Phantom? Maybe. But again, okay, so I should take a step back here. I'm speculating out in the open here. These things becoming an l two doesn't automatically make them a good thing thing. Right? Doesn't make them not a ghost chain anymore, because a lot of these things are ghost chains. A lot of these things aren't actually getting much use.
00:31:09.322 - 00:32:08.878, Speaker A: And what they'll do is they'll pivot to an l two, thinking that that will get them used, and maybe it will during the bull market, because maybe we get, like, an l two narrative or something like that. But generally, I think that the leaders in the l two space, the natural l two s, I like to call them, like, the arbitrums and the optimisms and others, will, will definitely be the dominant plays for the foreseeable future. Uh, but it'll be very interesting to see if something converts from an l one to an l two and then becomes a dominant player as an l two, that will accelerate the migration even more. And that will accelerate not only the migration from l one to l two, but also that the capital as well, because we may see l one's just not getting the funding that they once had, because everyone's funding l two s instead. So, yeah, it remains to be seen what happens there, but, yeah, great to see that. Palm network is migrating to an l two powered by Polygon. All right, the int max team has released a new blog post detailing something called int Max two, which is a powerful algorithm to make a completely stateless zk roll up.
00:32:08.878 - 00:32:30.250, Speaker A: So this is pretty cool. This is pretty cool. My ad blocker is complaining about this medium link for some reason, but I'm going to medium here. So this is a medium blog post all about what this is. And just a disclosure. I'm an investor in int Max, and I've talked about them before and about how they're trying to, to build kind of innovative hybrid solutions for, for L2s. Right? For, for zk roll ups.
00:32:30.250 - 00:32:57.666, Speaker A: Um, they wanted to build a hybrid, uh, roll up that was both an optimistic and a zk roll up. And now with this, uh, it, with, uh, this algorithm, int max two, they're trying to build a completely stateless zk roll up, which is very cool. And I talked about stateless before when I was talking about Nethermind building a stateless client here. So I'm not going to go over all the benefits again. Um, but you can read the blog post for yourself to check out. Uh, check this out and learn what this is all about. But the innovation guys on the l two front right now is just insane, honestly.
00:32:57.666 - 00:33:27.170, Speaker A: Like, I've lost track of it, to be honest. I mean, I try my hardest to keep up with things. I think even l two beat, which has been my go to website to keep track of these things, has lost track of things. But they also still have a very extensive library of knowledge on all of these l two s. So I'd rather not be aware of something and then only be aware of it once. There's actually kind of like stuff that I can read about it once it's listed on an l two beats. But yes, the innovation is just crazy right now.
00:33:27.170 - 00:33:58.006, Speaker A: I think we've all lost track of it, which is a good thing. It's a good sign. But you can go read this blog post from Int Max all about in Max too. All right, so Gitcoins Public Goods Network is now live on Mainnet and open for building. So I talked about this. I don't know if it was on Monday or last week, but the public goods network is a op chain built on the op stack and all about public goods. Obviously it's in the name, right? They're trying to basically build an ecosystem around public goods.
00:33:58.006 - 00:34:31.844, Speaker A: You know, the git coins of the world give earth nouns, stuff like that. And bringing it to the l two environments, obviously for those cheaper fees, faster transactions and better coordination there, because this is basically their home. And what's awesome about this is that it lives on Ethereum, right? Like at the end of the day, these l two s, they all live on Ethereum. They're all compatible with Ethereum. They, you know, you can bridge in really easily, you inherit the ethereum ecosystem and community and everyone kind of like can check it out relatively easily. And I think obviously Ethereum is all about public goods, public goods funding. It's what I'm about to.
00:34:31.844 - 00:34:49.160, Speaker A: And I haven't actually played around with this yet because I believe I was in Sydney when this happened and I didn't have access to any wallets. So we'll be playing around with this on the weekend. Actually, speaking of the weekend, tomorrow, Saturday, yeah. There's going to be another podcast with Eric Connor. Finally. It's been a month since the last one. Lot to talk about.
00:34:49.160 - 00:35:11.744, Speaker A: Haven't recorded it yet. I, I rugged him today and I said, can we do it tomorrow? So we're going to record it tomorrow and it'll be live tomorrow for you guys tomorrow morning us time, same time as the, as the refill goes out. But yeah, just an aside there. But yeah, I'll be playing around with the public goods network over the weekend. You guys can play around with it. As I said, it is live on Mainnet and open for, open for building, open for playing around with. Check out all the details in this Twitter thread.
00:35:11.744 - 00:36:38.604, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so speaking of the op stack optimism, put out a Twitter thread and a blog post titled introducing the law of chains, which is what they're calling their open neutrality framework for participants in the super chain ecosystem. Now, I believe I spoke last week about how base is adhering to this open neutrality framework and about how it was going to be published this week. But basically its purpose is to promote core principles of user protection, decentralization and economic autonomy as foundations for the developing super chain. From my reading and my understanding, this is basically saying that the super chain is optimistic in if you're building on the op stack, you don't have to be part of the super chain, but there are incentives and reasons why you should be part of the the super chain, right? And they kind of outline these here. They say, we believe the law of chains will enable the super chain to ensure block space remains homogenous, neutral and open, benefit from constant improvement, and enable better and more available infrastructure. So as I said, it's basically saying that you don't have to be part of the super chain as an op stack L2, you can opt to not be, but it's bet in your interest, it's much more in your interest to be part of the super chain, which I think is a good way of going about it because it still basically gives people, or gives teams the autonomy and the ability to not give up that sovereignty.
00:36:38.604 - 00:37:17.294, Speaker A: Or guess like not give up that control. But if they do want to see a little bit of sovereignty and do want to see a little bit of control over things to benefit the collective, which is what optimism is all about, right? They are literally called the optimism collective here on their mirror page, then joining the super chain is the way to go. So you can read the Twitter thread and blog post, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. But I think this is a really cool experiment because it is an experiment, right? This is not something that has been tried before. I think that it's an experiment in human coordination as much as it is in economic incentives. And at the end of the day, I think the optimism ecosystem is all about experimenting with these sorts of things. So it's great to see them leading the charge on this front.
00:37:17.294 - 00:37:59.048, Speaker A: All right, so some defi updates to run through to finish us off today. So Athena has announced a partnership with Synthetix. So they say here in the blog post that Athena will be using Synthetix. They'll be building their first decentralized perpetual express exchange integration on the Synthetix platform. So Synthetix has been around for a while, as you guys know, and it's. They've gone through many iterations, they're actually going through another one right now, and they're trying to build the original vision of Synthetix, that they're kind of like centralized exchange, but on a decentralized platform. So essentially taking what's good about centralized exchanges and making them fit for DeFi.
00:37:59.048 - 00:38:42.894, Speaker A: And I think obviously those sorts of things need a good on chain stable coin, and one that's better than the existing ones. And that's what Athena is trying to build. And I talked about Athena the other day, and when I announced their funding round, which disclosure, again, I'm an investor in them, and I talked about how they build this stable coin that is backed by staked Ethan and backed by the funding rates of basically perpetuals markets. And obviously synthetix being a platform for that, it just makes sense for this integration to happen. So great to see this happening. You can read full details about what this actually is in this blog post, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. But yeah, I mean, I think the general theme and trend that I've been talking about for a little while now is this.
00:38:42.894 - 00:38:52.586, Speaker A: As I said, I. I don't want to call it Defy 2.0 or Defy 3.0. I hate those terminology, because Defy 2.0 ended up being all Ponzi's. Defy 3.0 is just stupid.
00:38:52.586 - 00:39:31.788, Speaker A: I mean, how many times are we going to rebrand this thing? But. But generally, I guess when I refer to these newer, more innovative defi protocols, they are a step above what we've seen before. They may not be like a zero to one, um, it's too early to tell. Zero to one requires a pretty big leap. But in terms of what we've seen in the past and what we're seeing now, not just Athena, but a bunch of other protocols that I've seen out there, and I've talked about before on the refuel, they're trying to do something radically different than the status quo. It may be the same kind of product. Obviously a stable coin is nothing new, right? Like, we have plenty of stable coins, but Athena is trying to do something radically different.
00:39:31.788 - 00:40:00.004, Speaker A: There is a bunch of projects that I, that I've looked at. There is an amm, one that I've invested in that is still in stealth. They're trying to do amms in a radically different way. Not just trying to copy uniswap basically, right. I'm trying to do it, do it in a radically different way. There are, there's a money market that went live recently that I'm also an investor in Azure finance. I'm not just pumping my bags here, guys, but you probably noticed the trend that the only defi that I've really invested in late lately have been the things that I actually think are innovative in pushing the space forward.
00:40:00.004 - 00:40:29.426, Speaker A: But some of the existing protocols are still doing that too. Like Uniswap, for example, obviously is really pushing the space forward. Cowswap innovated and pioneered a lot of stuff. Maker is even pushing the space forward. And I know some amongst us who are ogs or ETH ogs feel like Maker betrayed us because they didn't stick to the vision of a truly decentralized stablecoin. I've said before that I don't actually think a truly decentralized, scalable stablecoin can actually exist. And I've explained that before, I'm not going to rehash it now.
00:40:29.426 - 00:41:02.942, Speaker A: But what Maker is doing with the real world assets things, which is another theme that I've spoken about recently, is incredibly important. And I do think that maker being a real world asset platform, not being a decentralized kind of stablecoin platform, is a much better use of maker. And I really do believe that they are the forerunners here. They are bringing a lot of, they're going to bring a lot of capital on chain as well. They're going to bring a lot of outside capital that hasn't existed on chain. We're going to bring it in and it's going to benefit everyone. So yeah, just a bunch of really cool stuff happening in defi right now, and Athena is definitely one of them.
00:41:02.942 - 00:41:20.286, Speaker A: So you can go check out this blog post. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. Lyra has announced their V two. So they said here, Lyra V two is coming. You can join the waitlist to receive early access to the product and a first look at the Lyra announcements. So there is this blog mirror. Blog post.
00:41:20.286 - 00:41:57.278, Speaker A: Sorry, blog post. Yeah. Announcing Lyra V two. So the TL doctor is that Lyra V two is a spot perpetuals and options trading platform designed to be secure, performant and easy to use. And the biggest announcement of this, which I think a lot of people missed because I didn't see any people talking about it, was that Lyra is going to be building their own chain. So they're going to be building something called the Lyra chain, which is an op stack up, providing high throughput, low cost settlement of transactions to Ethereum mainnet. So this is actually pretty fun because Lyra started on optimism because that's where synthetix was and they were light on synthetix.
00:41:57.278 - 00:42:21.402, Speaker A: Then they migrated to arbitram. And I believe they use GMX on arbitrum instead of synthetix because I don't think synthetics is on arbitrum. I can't remember. As I said before, it's too hard to keep track of everything these days. And now they're migrating to their own app chain, basically. And I think that's pretty ambitious. I think that they're definitely pioneering here because app train, like l two app trains are relatively new, but I think it can work.
00:42:21.402 - 00:42:56.346, Speaker A: Dydx proved it out. I think. I think they just fumbled the ball completely with it, and I'm waiting for them to pivot back, by the way, from away from a Cosmos chain and to L2 again, because I think they, as I explained at the time, it's a really misjudged their decision in doing that and I think that they made a really bad decision there. But we'll see. But yeah, I'm actually pretty excited to see how all of these app chains kind of play out because I've long maintained the view that app chains are good, but I didn't think that they were good as layer ones. And that's exactly what the cosmos ecosystem tried to do. Right? They tried to do sovereign l one app chains.
00:42:56.346 - 00:43:23.102, Speaker A: I just didn't think it made much sense for a number of different reasons. I think as an L two, an app chain makes much more sense, and that's what we're seeing kind of playing out here. So. So, yeah, Lyra V two is a pretty big upgrade to Lyra with a bunch of different things in here, not just the Lara chain, but you can read the blog post for full details on that. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. Last couple of things to get through quickly. So Gravatar has been deployed to arbitram.
00:43:23.102 - 00:43:54.244, Speaker A: So for those of you who don't know what gravatar protocol is, it is an ETH centric borrowing platform for LST. So basically you can kind of put ls ts in and mint the gray stable coin here. And you can see here that in they're saying enjoy extremely low cost borrowing, starting from a new minimum of 200 GRI and the same one time only 0.5% fee. So taking the kind of liquidy approach to kind of like minting this stable coin here. So you can go check this out and check out the details. I'll link it in the YouTube description below.
00:43:54.244 - 00:44:48.200, Speaker A: But yeah, it's great to see them deployed on arbitrary and here obviously opening up their product to more users. And I wonder sometimes like how many of, if the protocol, these protocols are going to create their own chains, right, with the app chain stuff, because is it going to be so, is it going to be like everything's going to have an app chain but also be deployed on the generalized kind of chains? And like what does that look like? It's weird because the incentive then becomes for the developers of the project to focus on the app chain, right? Because that's where a lot of the value can be captured rather than the generalized one is. So does the deployment on the generalized chain fall behind? I don't know. There's a lot, so many open questions right now, guys, around this stuff, but still very cool to see this. So yeah, you can go check out this for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, last thing, and this is exciting, you can now use your ETH name on Farcaster at the protocol level.
00:44:48.200 - 00:45:17.282, Speaker A: So basically your farcaster username or at can now be your ETH address. So for example, I can have at sassle ETH as my handle on, on Farcaster. And I did tweet out, on tweet out. I did cast on Farcaster the other day that I'm going to be spending more time on that platform and you're probably going to see some farcaster tabs pop up from, from now on. Because honestly, Twitter is a mess. Crypto Twitter isn't what it was. To be honest.
00:45:17.282 - 00:45:44.582, Speaker A: A lot of the smart people seem to have moved away or moved off of it because of the toxicity that's on there. I went on far cast the other day, I was like, wow, okay, there is actually a lot of people here now. It's pretty active and I know it's still invite only I believe they're opening it up at some point in, later in the year. To everyone. I do have some invites left. So as I've always said, if you are interested in being on Firecaster and you're interested in being active on there, reach out for an invite. I'll be sure to shoot one across to you.
00:45:44.582 - 00:46:03.944, Speaker A: But, yeah, now you can set your ens name or your ETH name, I should say, as your handle on Firecaster, which is very exciting. There's. But anyway, that's going to end today's extra long episode. So thank you, everyone, as always, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all next week.
00:46:03.944 - 00:46:05.784, Speaker A: Thanks, everyone. Bye.
