00:00:01.120 - 00:00:31.732, Speaker A: All right, welcome, everyone, to the 6th daily Gwei AMa. This is a new format. I'm using the discord stage feature this week because the other, the normal voice channel is limited to 25 people. So the stage feature doesn't have a limit, as far as I know. But that will mean that you'll need to raise your hand if you want to ask a question. There should be a button down the bottom of your discord client where you can kind of hit that and you'll be able to ask a question. Uh, so this will be recorded as well and uploaded to YouTube within 24 hours.
00:00:31.732 - 00:00:58.244, Speaker A: So if you miss it or have to leave or halfway through or whatever, it'll be on there for you to kind of listen in and it'll be timestamped as well. But, yeah, it is being recorded. So the way this works is, I'll go through the question, a question on the list that I. That I noted down from the AMA series channel here, and then I'll let someone from the audience ask a question. If no one wants to ask a question, I'll just keep moving through the list that I have here. There's a fair few questions to get through. So plenty of stuff there.
00:00:58.244 - 00:01:48.906, Speaker A: But, yeah, let's get started with a question from that sheet. And this first question is actually quite fun from Skillsee, who says, hey, you mentioned often about ETH going to $100,000 in the long term. How have you arrived at that figure? Are you assuming most of the value will accrue from fee burn due to protocol usage? What other factors do you see contributing to the ETH value? Now, I gave this kind of, I guess, number through this number out there a little while ago on the refuel, and I wrote a newsletter about this called the ETH super cycle. Essentially, I tend to look less, maybe at the number and more at the market cap when I'm kind of, like, judging these things. So, at current issuance, if ETH went to a market cap of. Sorry, a price of $100,000. Sorry, at current supply, if ETH went to a price of about $100,000, the market cap would be $11 trillion or something like that, which would, I think, roughly, is the market cap of gold today.
00:01:48.906 - 00:02:31.126, Speaker A: Not that I think that that's a comparison that we should be making with ETH, but it's just to give a kind of context around the fact that this isn't something that's, like, super far fetched and could never get there sort of thing. So that's kind of like how I kind of have a mental model for it. But how I arrived at this figure, this $100,000 figure, is that basically I looked at long term, like I'm talking like ten years plus here. And I thought to myself, okay, well by that point there's going to have been heaps and heaps of ETH being burned with AIP 1559, obviously, like that. That's like ten years worth of ETH being burned. The network, you know, I believe the network's going to keep getting more usage. It's going to keep growing, we're going to keep getting more and more kind of like protocols building on top, which brings in more users.
00:02:31.126 - 00:03:20.518, Speaker A: And I mean, in ten years it's probably just going to be like a L2 world where we have all these L2s using layer one as a security layer. And then, you know, the fees being paid on there will be probably billions of dollars, you know, a day or a week or something like that, something crazy. And obviously this assumes that Ethereum is going to be the backbone of this new kind of decentralized Internet we're trying to build with Defi being there, you know, the NFT metaverse stuff, the Dao stuff, like all that sort of stuff. This is obviously making a big assumption about Ethereum kind of winning all of that and becoming, or at least remaining the biggest and most dominant smart contract chain. So of course, you know, this isn't a guarantee or anything like that, but yeah, that's definitely one part of it. It's the fee burn. But also the fact that, you know, after the merge goes through the issuance of ETH, the new issuance is dropping by about 90%, what it is today.
00:03:20.518 - 00:04:03.270, Speaker A: And even if like 30 million ETH is staked or something like that, or even more than that, the issuance doesn't really go very high. I mean, I think 30 million is going to be like a soft limit on, on staking where more ETH can be staked, but there'll be like an active stake. An active stake. The active stake will be, you know, 30 million or whatever it is, and then the inactive stake will, will kind of rotate through, which means the issuance should only be around 1% now. 1% issuance on the backdrop of 1559 burning, you know, lots and lots of ETH because the fees are still going to be quite high on layer one. I think for the foreseeable future means that we could still see a net deflationary ETH as well. So yeah, those are like obviously two of the main factors I consider.
00:04:03.270 - 00:04:27.966, Speaker A: But then there's, there's all the other kind of stuff that people use ETH for. Right? Like ETH being used as collateral within defi. I think that's going to keep growing. That definitely oscillates, goes up and down, but the general trend over the last, you know, one to two years especially, has been on an upward trajectory as measured in ETH. Not even just measured in USD. Obviously, if you measure it in USD, it goes up with the ETH price going up. But denominating it in ETH and seeing that that's growing is really, really positive.
00:04:27.966 - 00:04:48.438, Speaker A: I think more and more it's going to get staked, which means it's obviously can't be sold if it's staked and things like that as well. I think people are going to buy ETH as a story of value. I think a lot of people are already doing that. They may stake it, they may not. There's another question about staking on the list here. I'll get to that later. But essentially that plays a big part into it as well.
00:04:48.438 - 00:05:48.084, Speaker A: And, you know, I guess using ETH as a medium of exchange, I don't think ETH is a good currency because obviously it's not very stable. It is not really made to be a currency, but I think it's going to be used as a medium of exchange for the foreseeable future as well, with things like nfts and other kind of stuff like that. And then you can kind of add in all the use cases we haven't even thought of yet. There's so many things that I think that no one has really thought of at this point in time. And I think as we progress through Ethereum's lifecycle, that's going to become more, more at the forefront, which I think is really exciting as well. So, yeah, that figure obviously seems like a very, I guess, like far fetched one today, right? $100,000, $11 trillion market cap when at the moment ETH is what, 2100 and something dollars and the market cap's 250 billion and at the all time high, it was only half a trillion. But the thing is, is when you, when you kind of look in the short to medium term, yeah, it may seem like a stretch, but you look long term and you just think, like, how long something like ten years is in the crypto space.
00:05:48.084 - 00:06:05.820, Speaker A: I mean, it's an eternity. Ten years ago was 2011. Bitcoin was, was still worth basically nothing in 2011. If you want to, want to use a comparison here. And then, you know, ETH was was $0.30 in, in 2014, 2015 from the ICO. And, you know, now look at what the price is.
00:06:05.820 - 00:06:38.610, Speaker A: And as I said, looking at the market cap is probably the better thing here, but price is just easier to kind of, um, kind of reason about right now. So that's kind of how I arrived at that figure. Um, there's going to be lots of volatility along the way. It's not going to go straight there, obviously. I mean, we already seen that ETH can and all of crypto can still fall very, very quickly. But if, you know, you're holding for the, like, the longer term, and I'm talking like, you know, ten years plus sort of thing, or even with like five to ten years, I think that that price is definitely very possible if all those things play out for ethereum. Now, I'm not going to say that it's a given and that we're definitely going there.
00:06:38.610 - 00:07:00.636, Speaker A: There's no way that it can't happen. It relies on a lot of the fundamentals remaining strong. But, I mean, I'm sure a lot of you are the same as me, where you do really believe that the fundamentals are going to remain really strong for ethereum, but it's still a risk at the end of the day. And those are the assumptions that I'm making to arrive at that price point. So hopefully that answers your question. Skillsy. I'll take one from the audience if anyone has one.
00:07:00.636 - 00:07:15.688, Speaker A: As a reminder, you just need to raise your hand down the bottom if you want to. If you want to speak, to ask a question. If not, I can move on. Oh, there we go. Wants to speak. Uh, you should be able to speak, Apollo, if you accept the invite. There we go.
00:07:15.688 - 00:08:12.876, Speaker A: All right. Hello, can you hear me? Yeah, yeah, go for it. Um, yeah, I just wanted to know, following up a little bit on the, um, that last question, do you see in the future, like, long term, um, like the kind of crypto culture, nft space, um, outgrowing the defi space? Um, or do you think that, like, the main use of, of crypto is financial services? I still think that financial services are going to be the biggest thing that I guess blockchains do in general. But I don't think it's going to be at the forefront. I think it's going to be more in the background where it acts as the plumbing, the infrastructure, and then something like nfts or other use cases like that are at the forefront, which essentially bring in way more users than DeFi would alone. Obviously, nfts tap into defi infrastructure, you know, for trading of different kind of like NFT game. So game items, for example, or different nfts and things like that.
00:08:12.876 - 00:08:52.672, Speaker A: And not just that, like using your nFTs as collateral, all this sort of stuff. So, yeah, I definitely think that while, you know, Defi is going to remain the biggest kind of money, you know, money suck for Ethereum, it's going to bring in the most amount of money. It's going to be in the background and I think the NFTs are going to bring in the most amount of, of people. Because at the end of the day, nfts, you know, I mean, gaming, entertainment, culture, like all that is way more fun than finance. Like, you know, Defi is really fun and we all love playing. You know, we look at Defi as a game, but the vast majority of people don't really care for that sort of stuff. And we've already seen it play out where NFTs are bringing in so many new people, so much more new people than Defi did.
00:08:52.672 - 00:09:16.412, Speaker A: And I think nfts are also just inherently easier to understand as well for people rather than something like DeFi, which introduces all these concepts of these financial concepts that people may not be used to. So, yeah, definitely think that they're very complimentary. But yeah, the way I see it, defi in the back, nfts and other kind of similar use cases in the front. Yeah, for sure. Great. Thank you. Awesome.
00:09:16.412 - 00:09:49.164, Speaker A: Thanks. Cool. I'll move on to one from the list now. So one here from Dom who says, what is the point? Oh, this is topical. What is the point of splitting a single NFT into multiple parts for NF? Is it for NFT? Liquidity, doesn't breaking up an NFT into multiple fungible parts defeat the purpose of having a single non fungible unit? At this point, why choose to mint an NFT instead of an ERC 20 token? So I think the main reason that people like splitting up nfts, or at least people are working on doing this sort of stuff, is for liquidity. But there's. I think there's two reasons, actually.
00:09:49.164 - 00:10:47.982, Speaker A: There's the liquidity kind of reason, because you obviously want to give liquidity to nfts because inherently they aren't liquid because they're unique. So in order to bring liquidity to them, you have to either split them up or you can put them inside like an index product, like what NFTX does, and then people can trade the index product. But that's a, it's still like, you know, not perfect. Like, neither of these things are perfect. And then the other thing is basically allowing people to have a share of this NFT and like fractionalize a piece of art, for example, where you have like 100 pieces of this art and then everyone gets their own piece of it. I don't know, like how, how good that use case is or how like, viable it is. Like, for me, it kind of, you know, when I say that, I'm like, okay, well, what happens if one of those 100 people lose their fraction of the NFT? Does that mean that the NFT can never be made whole again? Does that mean it's only like 99 out of 100 and you're always missing that one piece? Does that give the actual whole NFT less value because of that and things like that? I don't know.
00:10:47.982 - 00:11:28.304, Speaker A: I feel like fractionalizing is a cool concept. I don't know what it's going to look like in the long term, and I don't play. I pay enough attention to the NFT space to know all the projects working on it. I think there's something called fractional, and as I mentioned, there's NFTx. But yeah, generally I think that it's for those two reasons. And you ask why at this point, why choose to mint an NFT instead of an ERC 20 token? Well, because when you fractionalize it, you can put it back together, assuming that no one has lost any pieces to it. You, you know, if you split it up into like ten pieces, for example, and then you put it back together or if someone wants to collect it, you know, the way I think about it is sort of like Exodia from Yu Gi oh.
00:11:28.304 - 00:12:02.844, Speaker A: Exodia was this like powerful set of cards in Yu Gi oh. You have to have all five cards to summon exodia to the board in the trading card game. And, you know, and that's kind of how I view these NFTs, where you can split it up into like ten different pieces and then you have to have all ten to recreate the NFT or to essentially, you know, sell it as one. So I think that, you know, it still serves its purpose. But, yeah, I just think that it's going to be an open question to see how viable this is going forward. Anyone want to ask a question? You just have to raise your hand. If not, I'll keep moving through the list.
00:12:02.844 - 00:13:09.980, Speaker A: Awesome. Next one comes from note node zero nine nine. Who asked something about Gitcoin crowdfunding, who? And they say, say I donated for a startup in Gitcoin as public goods, would they remain a public good? Would that company get bitcoin grants this year? And if they were kind of like invested in, buy a VC and move forward without giving anything back to the community? I'm basically asking what has been the general trend so far confused by this term public goods. So I think what's, what's being asked here is essentially, you know, what constitutes a public good? And if this public, if, if this thing in this project takes money from like VC's or issues, a token or anything, are they still a public good? So the way I view public goods is essentially open source, you know, software, media, education, all that sort of stuff that doesn't have a token, doesn't have outside investment. And it's essentially like free. Like I would consider the Daily Gwei to be a public good, right? Because I don't charge for anything on the daily way. I don't have a token, obviously, none of that sort of stuff.
00:13:09.980 - 00:13:48.426, Speaker A: It's all completely free for anyone in the world to access if they wanted to. And then the same goes for lots of things like open source software out there that's free. They don't have any kind of premium features on there. It's just essentially you can use this software if you download it or if you might be using it without even knowing it because it's sitting in the background of your favorite defi apps, things like that. Or there's educational drives to say some group in a third world country is trying to increase their standing in society and trying to better themselves. And they want to help people and they want to educate people, but they need money to do so. They could, you know, do that on, on Gitcoin grants as well.
00:13:48.426 - 00:14:19.538, Speaker A: So that's kind of like how I view public goods. I really, and this is something I've actually discussed with some people, some other people extensively in the past about. Like should a project that has a token or has taken outside investment be able to be on Gitcoin grants and be part of the matching round? And I don't think they should. There was a bit of controversy around this. There were a few projects that were on there that had tokens or had recently raised, you know, funding, whatever. And that was still part of the matching round. And now what you can do is you can actually say, oh, no, I don't want to be part of the matching round anymore.
00:14:19.538 - 00:15:01.458, Speaker A: And that basically takes you out of the pool and, you know, the money goes to the, to the actual public goods. So, yeah, I don't consider those public goods anymore. Like you can be public goods and then transition away from that once you take outside investment or, you know, issue a token and some, or something like that. I mean, this is exactly what bankless did. They are, they were part of the matching rounds up until the latest round and then they had issued their token as part of the bankless Dao and then they removed themselves from the current matching round, which I, I really respected them doing that because it would have, you know, it doesn't really make sense for them to be in the matching realm once they have a token and, and all that sort of stuff there. So, yeah, hopefully that answers, answers your question around that. But this is definitely something that gets discussed a lot in the Gitcoin community.
00:15:01.458 - 00:15:39.766, Speaker A: And, you know, Gitcoin itself doesn't want to be like an arbiter of this, doesn't want to remove people from the platform based on their own opinions. This is why I guess, like they, they're trying to decentralize and why I actually think that Gitcoin decentralizing is incredibly important if it's one of the things that makes the most sense to decentralize because you really don't want any central kind of party deciding who should get money. If you're trying to be a public goods platform, it should be up to the community. They should debate it. They should figure out who deserves, you know, deserves the money and who's actually a public good rather than the, you know, the Gitcoin core team doing it, for example. So, yeah, hopefully that answers the question there. You know, I'm just going to keep going through the list.
00:15:39.766 - 00:16:07.856, Speaker A: If you do want to answer. Sorry, ask a question, just raise your hand down the bottom. It'll come up here on my screen and I'll be able to kind of like invite you in to ask a question. So, yeah, I'll just keep moving through the list now. So one here from Lloyd Banksy who says, question for you about Mev and staking. I heard that staking providers will be able to extract and perhaps distribute mev to stakers on their platform. Could this additional yield ultimately disincentivize self staking and lead to increased centralization? Short answer, yes.
00:16:07.856 - 00:16:35.600, Speaker A: And this is something that's been discussed in the community a fair bit over the last, you know, I think few weeks or at least last few months while Mev has been a hot topic. And the concept for those who may not be aware is essentially you have these staking pools right now. The staking pools obviously are big. Rather, there's like kraken and Binance and Lido. Lido is not the pool itself. It distributes it to different staking providers. But, you know, you go through them and then you go into the different staking providers.
00:16:35.600 - 00:17:13.446, Speaker A: So there's all of that happening. So, you know, and then these staking pools can basically advertise and say, okay, well, you know, we're going to have more mev than this other pool, or we can give you more mev than, you know, you can. You can get on by staking on your own sort of thing because they'll be using something like flashbots where they, where is essentially like being bribed to kind of like, do this mev stuff. And I've spoken about flashbots a lot before. So, yes, I do think it can lead to a disincentivization to self stake, for sure. But on the flip side, I think we're already seeing that regardless of mev. I think that unfortunately, people will take the easiest path.
00:17:13.446 - 00:17:45.152, Speaker A: Most people at least will take the easiest, easiest path to staking. And that is definitely using a provider, a staking service provider, especially if you don't have 30 tweets because you can't stake on your own unless you have 32 ETH. And, you know, there's decentralized services like rocket pool coming out and things like that, but they're not live today or anything like that yet. And, you know, who knows if they even going to work in production. We just don't know yet. So you're already seeing a lot of the stake going to these providers. And, you know, these providers obviously can't capture the mev yet because there's not no activity on the beacon.
00:17:45.152 - 00:18:10.754, Speaker A: Sorry, on the ETH two network because the merge hasn't happened. But once it happens, it's going to be very interesting to see if people do, in fact, move their stake to another provider because that provider will basically say, hey, I can offer you a higher yield. And the end user doesn't need to know that that higher yield is coming from mev. They just need to see that. Okay, well, I can get a higher yield over here. I'm going to move my staking to this provider here. And this kind of like, falls into another thing that I've discussed before.
00:18:10.754 - 00:18:54.208, Speaker A: And I've written a newsletter about this where I basically said that I basically learned to love centralized staking services because looking at just like the raw staking data and saying, okay, well, you know, Kraken accounts for like, I don't think it's 20%. I think it's less than that, maybe 15% of stake right now. That means that, you know, they're a huge chunk of the network and that's a risk. But you have to kind of look at the nuanced view. Take, sorry, take the nuanced view here and see the fact that, yes, Kraken is obviously a centralized exchange. Yes, they have a big stake, but, but their motivation, or at least their incentives are to make sure that that stake is, is doing the right thing because that is not their ETH, that is their customers ETH. Same with every other exchange, same with every other staking service provider.
00:18:54.208 - 00:19:50.536, Speaker A: And actually the staking service providers are even at greater risk because they would stand to lose a lot of business if they screwed up. We've already seen some of the providers screw up where they get slashed because they double sign or they get rugged because some employee was like rogue or something like that. So I just think that the rules of the network work very well to keep people in check and keep people doing the right thing. But when it becomes a concern is when nation states get involved, where they could coerce a bunch of centralized providers to censoring transactions on the network, or essentially taking over the network and doing other kind of attacks on it. And then that falls back to the last layer of defense we have, which is the social layer where we could potentially fork out the attackers, or I guess the providers trying to screw with the network. And that would be very messy. I'm not saying it would be easy, but that is kind of like a layer of defense there as well.
00:19:50.536 - 00:20:31.442, Speaker A: So yeah, hopefully that answers the question and gives you more context around it. I think we're just going to have to wait and see once the merge goes through and activity is, you know, happening with proof of stake validating the network. And then we can kind of see what this, how it changes over time. I think by the, by that point, we're going to have like a pretty healthy view already of what the staking ecosystem looks like. And then if it change, like, and then if we watch it over twelve months and it changes drastically based on the, the MEV, kind of like footprint of each, if each staking provider, or at least the yield that they're getting from Mev, then we'll have like a better idea of what it looks like. So yeah, I'm gonna leave it at that. I got one from knowledge fire.
00:20:31.442 - 00:20:46.934, Speaker A: I just invited you to speak. Come up. You just gotta click accept on your end. Yeah, there you go.
00:20:47.274 - 00:21:28.004, Speaker B: Oh, okay. Hi. Yeah, I think on one of your recent refuels, you talk about how not wanting bitcoin exposure. I think it was the one where you talk about the bed token that bankless released. As much as I like to think that it is a Petrock, I was a bit taken aback by that. I just wanted to get an idea from you as to, we all know it doesn't really have much utility on its own, but is there a specific reason as to why that's the case from your side, or, you know, what's, what's the reason behind not wanting an exposure? Because, you know, our market is quite dictated by that, so just wanted to get an idea from you, that's all.
00:21:29.104 - 00:22:06.390, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, that's a fair question for sure, and it's a good question. So, I mean, I haven't held bitcoin since it's probably 2017 the last time I held bitcoin. And I mean, there's a lot of reasons for it. I think the number one reason is simply that I'm just like way more bullish on ETH than anything. And my portfolio generally consists of, like, very heavy ETH with some DeFi tokens and stuff in there, but I'm generally like a utility maximalist. I don't. I mean, I know I can do things with my bitcoin on Ethereum now with DeFi, but if I'm going to do that, why not just use ETH, right? Like, ETH is a trustless collateral asset on Ethereum.
00:22:06.390 - 00:22:58.778, Speaker A: I don't have to trust any kind of like, uh, central bridge, like, wrapped bitcoin or whatever to kind of secure that. So, you know, that that kind of use case is, is settled by ETH. For me, I think that ETH has got a much brighter future than bitcoin, or like, the Ethereum network has a much brighter future than bitcoin. I think BtC, um, is going to underperform ETH over, over the long term, and it has, you know, over, I guess, like if you, even if you zoom out, like, as long as you want, from, like, when ETH first came out, it's underperformed ETH the whole time. Yes, there's been periods of time where ETH got crushed against bitcoin, obviously, during 2018 and 2019, but that was a different, very different period of time compared to now. And since the bottom in March of 2020, ETH has greatly outperformed bitcoin by as like over three x now, which, which I, which is a pretty big deal, I think. But, yeah, I mean, it's funny because, like, I don't think holding bitcoin is a bad thing.
00:22:58.778 - 00:23:40.404, Speaker A: I do think it's going to go up over time. And, you know, I don't, I don't think that, you know, you're going to lose out by buying into it or holding it instead of ETH. But for me, and being so involved within the Ethereum ecosystem, I don't consider ETH to be any more risky than holding BTC, to be honest. I know some people do and they say, okay, well, holding ETH has a lot of execution risk because you have to assume that the merge is going to go right. You have to assume that people are going to adopt these things and other networks aren't going to get usage and aren't going to eat into Ethereum's kind of lunch. But I actually think that Ethereum is eating into bitcoins lunch because at the end of the day, every asset is competing with every other asset for capital. There's, you know, if I buy ETH, it means I didn't buy something else.
00:23:40.404 - 00:24:21.704, Speaker A: So if someone's buying ETH, it means they didn't buy bitcoin. Uh, and you know, that maybe they went 50 50, but it means that they didn't put 100% of their money into bitcoin. So from that perspective as well, I just think that there's going to be much more people buying into ETH than there is into, into bitcoin. I think that Ethereum is the much more interesting ecosystem and the utility of Ethereum is going to feed directly into ETH value even more than it does today in a 1559 world. So my bet on ETH is really a bet on the ethereum network. Whereas if you're betting on the BtC asset, you're not betting on the bitcoin network because the bitcoin network doesn't do anything to drive value to bitcoin. Bitcoin gets its value from a bunch of narratives and I guess more of a religious fervor.
00:24:21.704 - 00:24:45.314, Speaker A: At least that's the way I see it. And I just don't fall into the bucket, that bucket of like, you know, someone who wants to hold an asset like that. I would just prefer to hold ethereum, sorry, held ETH because of the utility. So hopefully that's like a compressed version. And that answers. Answers your question. I mean, I could go on for a long time about every issue that I have with bitcoin and why I actually am bearish on bitcoin in the long term.
00:24:45.314 - 00:24:48.074, Speaker A: I don't know if you wanted me to go into that a little bit.
00:24:50.074 - 00:24:51.226, Speaker B: Absolutely.
00:24:51.410 - 00:25:06.122, Speaker A: Yeah. Okay. Yeah. I mean, my main concern with. With bitcoin is that I don't think the 21 million cap is sustainable, because the way bitcoin works is that it has three opposing narratives. So. And these narratives do not, um, do not work with each other.
00:25:06.122 - 00:25:20.006, Speaker A: And they're all, like the main narratives that bitcoin has loved to use. So the. The three narratives are, okay, well, bitcoin is digital gold. You can, you know, hold. Holding it is using it. You can just lock it away and not do anything with it, and you'll be fine. Okay, that's.
00:25:20.006 - 00:25:44.542, Speaker A: That's fine. But then the second narrative is, oh, okay, well, bitcoin security budget dwindles over time because the block reward halves every four years. But that'll, you know, that security budget will be made up for in fees on the bitcoin network. Well, okay. Um, where are those fees going to come from? And then people will say, oh, it'll be. Because there'll be so much transactional demand on the bitcoin network, uh, that, um, you know, there'll be lots of fees on it. Well, I mean, why would people transact on bitcoin if.
00:25:44.542 - 00:26:04.190, Speaker A: If there's nothing to do on the bitcoin network? Like, there's. There's no reason to transact on it. And. And you're also saying that you want people to hold it as digital gold. Those things are at odds with each other. And we're already seeing this play out where bitcoin's fear revenue is much lower than even just apps on Ethereum. Like, ethereum is obviously, you know, probably 1020 times more than bitcoin at this stage.
00:26:04.190 - 00:26:49.898, Speaker A: But also other protocols like RV and Uniswap and some of the big DeFi protocols, they're ahead of bitcoin in fee revenue as well. So those two narratives are at odds with each other. And the third one is that they say, okay, well, you know, bitcoin is going to scale via the Lightning network, and everyone's going to transact on the Lightning network, and that's going to be free and cheap or whatever for people to use. It's going to be fast, and people are going to use it as money. It's like, okay, well, again, using it as money means that it's not going to be a good digital gold because it has a lot of velocity if a lot of people are using it. And generally, things that have high velocity aren't going to increase in value. That much gold isn't used as money today, and I know that I don't really like the digital gold comparison, but I mean, the gold comparison comparison, but that's, that's what they do all the time.
00:26:49.898 - 00:27:32.354, Speaker A: So I just think that that third narrative is at odds. But also it's a, it's at odds because of the fact that, well, if everyone's transacting on the lightning network, then where's the fear of a new coming from for layer one? Because the way the L2 on, on bitcoin works is it's different to lightning network is essentially a state channel system where it's not a roll up or anything like that. Whereas ethereum roll ups are very different because they are not just doing, you know, vanilla transfers like a state channel ward or just like token to token transfers or whatever. They're also doing smart contracts. So they have to post data to the chain and that requires paying fees. But with, with bitcoin, with lightning network, it's. You still, I think you still have to post transactions to the main chain.
00:27:32.354 - 00:28:22.906, Speaker A: There's exiting, entering. But like, once you're in that layer, once you're in the lightning network, there's no reason to go back to layer one. So where's the fee revenue going to come from? And honestly, most of the fee revenue for bitcoin, most if not all of it today, is coming from exchange arbitrage. Well, if exchange, if exchanges integrate lightning network or exchanges integrate other kind of L2 protocols or even just like permission things like liquid, well, then the arbitrage, I guess bots and traders aren't going to use layer one bitcoin either. They're going to use these L2 things. So where does the fear revenue for layer one come from? Where does the security budget for bitcoin come from? How does bitcoin defend itself against the tax once the block reward isn't enough to keep miners happy and then the whole kind of like, system breaks down. Now, you may think this is 100 years out because the, the block subsidy goes for 100 years, but it's not.
00:28:22.906 - 00:28:59.520, Speaker A: It's, it's, it's only two or three more harvestings away, which is eight to twelve years before the block reward gets so small that it becomes an actual existential security risk for bitcoin. If the miners unincentivized enough to stay online because they have real costs and they have very expensive costs and they can't, they need enough to be able to cover those costs. And if they're not getting that from the block reward, they need to get it from the fees. But they're not going to get it from the fees. I just don't see where that fear revenue is going to come from. So that is my kind of, like, bear case for bitcoin. I think that bitcoin is like, to think that the network doesn't matter, but the network is the thing, securing BTC.
00:28:59.520 - 00:30:07.548, Speaker A: There is no way that BTC can have value if the network is getting attacked and the network is getting, you know, transactions are getting censored or people are trying to change the rules or double spend or whatever. And I just feel like in that scenario, BTC would fall, but, and then, and other than that, I've also got one other thesis that I. That I think I've shared before, where if Ethereum flips bitcoin in market cap, bitcoin loses its narrative of being number one. It loses its narrative of being the most valuable crypto. And then people kind of start to ask the question and they go, well, why would I hold bitcoin now? Like, it's just going to get flipped again? Because what's stopping the third place from flipping bitcoin and putting bitcoin in third place? What's stopping bitcoin from falling out of the top ten? Like, obviously there are bullish cases for bitcoin, and people, and people say, okay, well, you know, there's all these kind of things that you hold BTC for and everything, and I get that, but I just don't think the total addressable market is big enough for BTC, for Ethereum, not to flip it. Because if you kind of look at who beat what BTC kind of, like, appeals to, and the type of person it appeals to, it's definitely more of the gold bug type. And those types of people are like an extreme minority.
00:30:07.548 - 00:30:39.914, Speaker A: They may, they may seem like the majority because they have, like, a large presence in crypto. But I think that's just momentum from the fact that bitcoin came first and existed as pretty much unchallenged until Ethereum came along. And I would actually argue that bitcoin remained unchallenged until 2017, when Ethereum had its first run. And the flippening started as a narrative. So it had, you know, basically eight years of dominance, and then that dominance fell off a cliff and the narrative changes. And then if Ethereum flips bitcoin, the narrative is going to change again, and it's going to be an absolutely massive shift. And it's not just going to be those within crypto, it's going to be the mainstream.
00:30:39.914 - 00:31:05.714, Speaker A: The mainstream is going to be like, well, you know what? Why would I buy bitcoin? Like, it's not number one? You know, all these kind of, like, narratives that they. That they spoke about, that it's the most valuable crypto, that everything else is a shitcoin compared to BTC or. Well, how can that be true if ethereum is number one? So those are my two main bad thesis is for bitcoin. And I think that they're very distinct. One of the. One of it's got to do with the network. The other one's got to do with the narrative of the asset itself.
00:31:05.714 - 00:31:10.614, Speaker A: So, hopefully that clears it all up for you as to why I don't hold any bitcoin.
00:31:12.754 - 00:31:30.634, Speaker B: No, thanks for that. Yeah, I think. I think the second one. The second one is something that I think about every now and again as well. Well, as to. As that narrative of being number one, the mainstream ruffle, like, if the flipping eventually does happen, which I think it will, but it is. Yeah, you hit the nail.
00:31:31.934 - 00:31:59.146, Speaker A: Yeah. Yeah. I think, you know, narratives are such a powerful force within crypto, and people still underestimate just how powerful they are and how much they. They count. And at the end of the day, I think. I mean, I believe that ethereum flipping bitcoin will not be the death of bitcoin, but it will basically mean that bitcoin could potentially drop even lower than second place, because, uh, I just don't see a reason why people would buy it in that case. So many narratives would break down, and then all the bitcoin is trying to.
00:31:59.146 - 00:32:19.050, Speaker A: Trying to put forth these narratives would just. It would fall on deaf ears because people would be like, well, you know, everything you said prior, everything you said about bitcoin remaining number one and being the most valuable crypto asset, well, that's no longer true. So how do I know you're not full of shit now? So, yeah, that's kind of like how I view it. Awesome. Cheers.
00:32:19.082 - 00:32:19.434, Speaker B: Thanks.
00:32:19.514 - 00:32:29.050, Speaker A: Awesome. Thanks, mate. Cool, cool. Yeah, if you want, you can get off stage if you want as well, I think. Yeah, there we go. Awesome. Cool.
00:32:29.050 - 00:33:23.670, Speaker A: All right, next question on the. On the sheet here from defi, l e r or layer. Defi layer. What is the etiquette or standard operating procedure for using an ENS domain for your main ethereum wallet and doxxing yourself? Do people separate their funds from their identity? If you did that, wouldn't you lose most of the opportunity you've been talking about regarding your ETH address being your credibility in the community? Since most of the activity would be on your hidden address. So essentially you want to keep your, I guess, your ens address, the one that, you know, your public ens address separate to your identity because of the fact that unless you don't really care, I mean, some people don't care that their financial transactions are tracked and everyone knows what they're doing, but generally you do want to keep it separate if you don't want that happening. Um, so, I mean, I, I try to separate things as much as I can as well, but unfortunately, you know, it's, it's kind of hard as well because there are tools that can, can link up accounts and things like that. So definitely.
00:33:23.670 - 00:34:09.232, Speaker A: And if you make a mistake just once, like if you send funds to your, you know, ens, your public ens address, uh, from your private address accidentally, because you just, it just slipped your mind, then unfortunately, uh, you know, it's there forever on chain, and those are forever linked, and you have to, like, wash it again if you want to kind of hide yourself. So, yeah, that's what I would say would be the standard operating procedure, just trying to keep it as separate as possible. If you need to get funds to it. I guess what people do is they either go through something like tornado cash, or they'll just wash the funds through a centralized exchange. Because with a centralized exchange, your funds go into a shared pool, and then when you withdraw them, it comes out of that shared pool. There are still ways to track that down, but it's much, much harder to do that. But then the centralized exchange obviously knows who you are and can tile that together.
00:34:09.232 - 00:34:50.280, Speaker A: It just protects you from everyone else knowing about that. So that's kind of like the etiquette, I guess, and the standard operating procedure there. And then to your second point, wouldn't it kind of cause you to lose most of the opportunity with your credibility within the community if all of your activities on your hidden ethereum address? Well, I mean, yes and no. It just depends. Like, at the end of the day, you can have like your really cool nfts and your public address, you know, if you don't mind people knowing, uh, you know, that, uh, that you have those nfts. Obviously you want to show them off, then you have them on your public ens, uh, you know, all the other stuff that you kind of do. I don't think anyone really judges people on, uh, much of their on chain activity, unless you're like a whale, for example.
00:34:50.280 - 00:35:16.238, Speaker A: I know there's one whale out there that was, that was like doing a lot of defi farming. Early on people were watching them. I think, you know me and you like our kind of like activity is probably not very interesting. I think whale activity is interesting. But generally you know, most people's activities just like kind of standard stuff. So people don't really look at that for credibility or anything. And I know there was this thing called the Degen score from the atomic blue decentralized exchange aggregator that was cool as well.
00:35:16.238 - 00:35:50.396, Speaker A: But I don't know how much that counts for. It's more of just like some I guess, light social cred. At the end of the day I don't think it really counted for much, you know, I guess like sometimes maybe different projects will ask to see, you know, your address and see how dj you are, how much activity you've done. But I don't, you know, if you say to them I don't want to reveal it because of privacy reasons, I don't think they'd push on that either. So you can still build up credibility and still build up kind of like your standing. I think you can do that through nfts mostly, to be honest. I don't think you have to do that through defi activity that you don't want people knowing about or whatever.
00:35:50.396 - 00:36:31.684, Speaker A: I think you just having nfts on your public DNS address is enough to kind of I guess, build up that credibility and things like that. But for me the main use case of ens, at least a public ans address, is to be able to get people to send you things like easily send you currencies for payments or whatever if they want to tip you, if they want to buy something off you, if they want to send you an NFT. That's kind of like what I look at it for. I wouldn't use my public ens address for like all of the Defi activities that I do or anything like that, or any stuff that I want to keep private for obvious reasons. So hopefully that answers your question there. I'll take one from the audience if anyone has one. Just be sure to raise your hand.
00:36:31.684 - 00:37:14.954, Speaker A: If not, I'll keep moving through the list. Cool. All right, onto one that. I don't think I'm going to be able to answer this, unfortunately, but I just wanted to mention it anyway from Aegon Targ, who said, can you please shed some light on proof of history and its pros and cons? I don't know really anything about proof of history. I know that Solana uses it, but I haven't seen anyone do an unbiased take on it. I've read some of the Solana stuff, and I usually, whenever I read something coming from a project, I usually look for, like, a contrarian voice or someone analyzing something that, from outside, the. Outside the core team or whatever, because obviously, the core team has a bias not to point out the weaknesses in their own technology.
00:37:14.954 - 00:38:08.556, Speaker A: So I don't know too much about proof of history, but I'm sure you can, like, google it and kind of, like, find different explanations of it on there. But. And if you do find something that is, you know, not, not biased, like, is done by someone outside of the, the core team, because I know, as I said, Solana uses this. I'd be interested in reading that, but unfortunately, I don't really have any kind of knowledge of proof of history myself. All right, so three questions here from Patrick. So his first one is, how do you handle your emotions in a market where it seems that prices are going down almost daily? So this, I mean, I've spoken about this on the refuel quite a, quite a number of times. I think about how, you know, it's kind of like, if you're watching the markets all the time, your mind gets tricked into thinking that the current state of the market is what it's always been and what it's always going to be.
00:38:08.556 - 00:39:13.994, Speaker A: I know that sounds bit counterintuitive, but if you're looking at a chart, say you're looking at, like, the 1 hour chart, and you see the price going down on the 1 hour chart, and then you've got it zoomed into a point where you can't actually see much of what's going on in the chart. You just see, like, a glimpse into, like, the last 24 hours. Well, that's not really telling you much, but your mind, and I don't know if this happens to everyone else, but for me, what my mind tells me, and it tricks me, it goes, oh, it looks at this chart and it says, oh, wow, the price of ETH is doing, like, really poorly right now because the hour chart is trending down over the last 24 hours. But then, you know, you zoom out, say you zoom out to, like, the daily chart, and you look at, like, the last few months, and then you see, okay, well, no, the ETH price is doing amazingly over the last few months. Why is my brain thinking like this? And I think that's definitely a major factor. I think that, you know, it's also come, it also compounds when you go on something like Twitter, and then you've got all these people posting on Twitter you know, there's cope posting, as I like to call it, or there's, like, jokes being made. There's, like, bear memes being posted, there's bears, like, fighting and saying, you know, it's all going to zero because they, they're trying to push a narrative or whatever.
00:39:13.994 - 00:39:59.334, Speaker A: And that can definitely be tough to deal with depending on how much you expose yourself to. But at the end of the day, I think, I mean, the way I handle my emotions with it is like, if the price is going, like, down consistently and, like, it keeps dumping and the market feels very bearish, if I want to avoid the emotions attached with that, I'll just close the charts and won't really look at the price. It's easier said than done, don't get me wrong. And it's very hard to avoid price talk because it's all over Twitter whenever the market tanks. Like, I mean, even if the market only goes down, like 5%, which is a normal day in crypto, immediately on Twitter, everyone's bear posting, right? Everyone's, like, coping. Everyone's posting all these memes and, and just, it's just a mess. And the same happens on the way up, too, but on the way up, like, everyone's happy because most people aren't actually short crypto.
00:39:59.334 - 00:40:31.388, Speaker A: Most people aren't bears, they're their bulls, like the long term bulls. So of course you're going to be really happy whenever the price is going up. So you've kind of got these, these kind of like two extremes that the emotions follow. The volatility where you have like a, you feel really shit when the price is going down really quickly, but then you feel ecstatic and euphoric when it's going up. And really, the way to manage the emotions, or at least the best way, I've found, is just to zoom out, just to think about the long term. Always, unless you're a trader, then you, you know, that's a whole other kettle of fish. You have to kind of manage your short term emotions because if you don't, you're a bad trader.
00:40:31.388 - 00:41:17.292, Speaker A: Um, and I actually think that all of, all the traders I've seen, the ones that manage their emotions the best are the best traders because you, you cannot be swayed by these kind of like, uh, I guess, um, extreme emotions. You can't let your emotions dictate your trades, you know, in such a way where it makes you lose out over the long run. So, yeah, I guess the way I manager to just focus on the long term, I mean, I preach that pretty much all the time in on the refuel. Is that always focused on the long term? And I know that that doesn't apply to every asset. There are some assets that, you know, they go down for a reason because the project's failing or, you know, I mean, the team rugged or something like that, or, you know, people aren't seeing any kind of value in it. This doesn't apply to every asset out there. But, you know, I think it applies to something like ETH, for sure.
00:41:17.292 - 00:41:45.270, Speaker A: I think that ETH's got such a bright future and, you know, the short term kind of like bearish action is just that it's short term. I don't think it's long term. Obviously not investment advice, but, like, come on, I haven't sold any of my ETH. I don't plan to sell any of my ETH. I keep stacking it all the time because I do think that that ETH is going to appreciate over time, you know, over the long term. So that's what I always focus on. And, you know, watching, you know, if you, if you kind of, like, watch the refill every day, you'll see, like, all the fundamental stuff going on as well.
00:41:45.270 - 00:42:11.508, Speaker A: And the fundamental developments within Ethereum is what can keep you bullish, even during bear markets. I mean, that's what kept a lot of us now, during 2018 and 2019, bullish on Ethereum is the fact that all these developments were happening. And we came to terms with the fact that the price was going to be bearish for a while because it just wasn't reacting to anything. And it sucked. Don't get me wrong, it was, it was really shitty. Like some of us. I mean, I remember actually at the start of 2020, ETH had a terrible 2019.
00:42:11.508 - 00:42:36.510, Speaker A: Like, it actually opened at $130 and closed at like $135 on the year. And that was against USD, but against bitcoin. It actually got slaughtered. Bitcoin doubled, I think, in 2019, from its bottom. ETH obviously didn't. So the ratio went down. And I remember saying to a bunch of friends, I think it was the first or 2 January 2020, I said, guys, like, you know, I'm, I wasn't at my wits end, but I was like, this just, it was shit.
00:42:36.510 - 00:42:53.858, Speaker A: Like, I was just venting. I was like, this is so depressing. Like, when's ETH actually going to do anything? Like, the fundamentals are so strong. The future for Ethereum is so bright. Like, how can people not see this? And then you saw what happened in 2020, and the rest is history from there. And 2021. ETH had an amazing 2020, amazing 2021.
00:42:53.858 - 00:43:15.048, Speaker A: And it's still, you know, very, very bullish, I think, over the long term, and not just the asset, the Ethereum network had a, had a very bullish year, too. So even for seasoned people like me, I can get swayed by the short term stuff as well from time to time. But it's just like a muscle. It's like anything else. You have to keep training it. You have to put yourself in the mindset of thinking long term, always. And, and that's what I tried to kind of, like, I preach all the time.
00:43:15.048 - 00:44:00.300, Speaker A: I, you know, and I do that for my own sanity as well, to kind of, like, round myself at the end of the day. So hopefully that answers your first question, Patrick. Your second one is, what are the biggest upsides and the biggest downsides of being an influencer? So I think I answered this on the last AMA a little bit. Maybe it was a little bit of a different question. The biggest upside I'll start with are essentially, well, I mean, there's a few different ones. So where do I start? I think the biggest upside is the fact that I achieved a goal that I set out for myself back in 2018. So in 2018, the beginning of 2018, I kind of said to myself, okay, well, I've been here before because I actually had gotten into bitcoin in 2013 and exited bitcoin in 2014 because the market crashed and I didn't stick around.
00:44:00.300 - 00:44:26.460, Speaker A: That was the worst decision I ever made because I missed Ethereum until early 2017. And then I wrote the bull market up, of course, then, and then the bear market hit again in 2018, and I was like, okay, well, I love this technology. I'm so passionate about it. I'm not going to leave again because I know how bad that turned out for me last time. And I set myself a goal. And that goal was basically, I want to become one of the most well known people within the Ethereum community, and I want to educate everyone about Ethereum. And I think I have achieved that at this point.
00:44:26.460 - 00:45:08.272, Speaker A: So that was one of the biggest upsides for me is the fact that I have never felt so rewarded about anything I've done in my life, you know, and becoming an influencer obviously goes hand in hand in that. So that was just like on a personal, kind of a deep personal level there. The second biggest thing is the fact that I can walk into a conference. I mean, I can't go to conferences lately because of COVID But during the second half of 2019, I walked into a, to any conference, and pretty much everyone knew me and it was just so easy to talk to everyone because of that. It was the ultimate icebreaker. Like, I didn't even have to kind of like introduce myself or anything. We, you know, everyone, everyone knew me already and it was just like so awesome to meet everyone in real life and them just like thank me for my work on Ethub back then.
00:45:08.272 - 00:46:02.746, Speaker A: I hadn't started the deli Gwei yet and just like get to talk to all these people that were listening to the Ethub podcast for, for the last year because we started that in 20 in late 2018, and them just thanking me for like, you know, all my work and things like that. So that was a, it was a huge kind of another upside. There is conferences and having all these friends. The third upside would be that my network is really large and I get to speak to all different types of people all the time, whether that be project founders, funds, VC's, you know, people working, like, just even anal people just working on things in the background. I get to speak to different kind of, like other, other influencers, other educators. I mean, I can pretty much speak to anyone I want to. Like, no one ignores me and I'm not trying to toot my own horn here, but, you know, if you're someone who's unknown within the community and you send a random dm to someone, well, chances are they're not going to respond to it either because they, they're too busy or they just don't see the value in it.
00:46:02.746 - 00:46:46.776, Speaker A: Whereas I've never had that experience, at least, at least, you know, since I became like, what I am in the community, you know, whoever I message pretty much gets back to me and I have a lot of people messaging me as well. So there's that. And I think the fourth thing is the fact that I get access to a lot of early stage projects as well. So just from like the investments, investment side of things, I get to participate in, like as an angel investor in a lot of projects which, um, you know, I get to participate because of the, I guess the value I bring. I get to help a lot of projects early on in their life cycle, get to sit on calls with founders and help them a lot. And obviously I get the financial upside from that. But what that also allows me to do, it allows me to make the daily for free and allows me to put out all that content for free because I sustain myself through other means.
00:46:46.776 - 00:47:13.180, Speaker A: So those will be the four, four biggest upsides. And I know I've painted like, a really rosy picture of being an influencer. But you've asked for downsides, and maybe I can just balance that rosy picture out with some of the downsides. First and biggest downside is that you get a lot of shit, like, a lot of it. There will be people that hate you for, you know, just being an influencer, straight up. There will be people that always come at you, no matter what you tweet. They'll misconstrue something that you said.
00:47:13.180 - 00:47:23.430, Speaker A: They'll take everything out of context. They'll be jealous of you. They'll. They'll. They'll, um. They'll judge you on whatever you do. Uh, they'll try to cancel you at times as well, which.
00:47:23.430 - 00:47:41.278, Speaker A: Which definitely sucks. So that would be the biggest downside, is the fact that the, you know, you have attention, and that attention can. Can manifest itself in. In lots of toxicity, and you just have to learn to deal with that. You have to grow a thick skin. Now, I'm lucky, being an australian, I have an incredibly thick skin. I do not let anything get to me, um, anymore.
00:47:41.278 - 00:48:09.144, Speaker A: I didn't used to. I had to learn that. I had to refine that, especially as I. As I came to prominence more within the community. But, you know, that would be the biggest downside, I think. And that kind of, like, flows into other downsides, being that, as I said, like, people are going to try to cancel you. And, you know, I know someone's saying, like, canceling or being canceled, like, that's become, like, a bit of a meme, but what it essentially means is that people will find any reason to kind of, like, knock you down from where you stand now.
00:48:09.144 - 00:48:27.820, Speaker A: I actually had this happen to me late last year where there was. I'm not going to go through the whole thing, but there was, like, a scandal where I was just in a telegram group with a bunch of other people. There was, like. I think it was, like, 100 people in the telegram group. I had been randomly invited. It was a bunch of friends that I knew, and they. They made a token, and then, like.
00:48:27.820 - 00:48:49.468, Speaker A: And then I made a comment in that telegram group. Like, just joking. Like, I made one comment where I said, oh, yeah, we need people to dump on. Now, some of you may be aware of this, some of you may not, but that comment was a joke and ingest. And everyone says this within crypto. So, obviously, if you're in crypto, in defi, you know that this is, like, a common joke. People say, you know, dumping on people, whatever, blah, blah.
00:48:49.468 - 00:49:26.332, Speaker A: But I made that comment and then it got leaked out of that group and people canceled me for it, or at least tried to cancel me for it, where they came at me and they said, oh, you're just like, putting on a front, you know, you're an influencer who's just like, scamming people in the background. You know, I thought you were honest. You're actually, like a big scammer. And I'll be honest, that was one of the worst periods of my life that, that week that that happened. And it was, it was incredibly hard to deal with all of the negativity. Um, and as I said, like, uh, you know, I have a thick skin, but there's so, only so much someone can take. And there was literally, like, I don't know if I read, like, thousands of comments just literally calling me a scammer, all this sort of stuff.
00:49:26.332 - 00:50:05.312, Speaker A: And the, the funniest thing about that whole ordeal was that the token that was issued never actually traded. No one lost or made money, no one got scammed. And I wasn't even involved with it. I was just in the group because someone invited me to the group and I got airdropped some tokens, which I actually didn't do anything with. I burned them straight away. So it was just like, when you kind of, like, get into that scenario, the fact that I was the poster child for this thing that I had really little or nothing to do with, I was just invited to this telegram group, and everyone in there was airdrop tokens, whereas the actual creators of the token didn't really say anything about them. And I was the poster boy because of the fact that I was the most well known person in that group.
00:50:05.312 - 00:51:08.170, Speaker A: So those are the biggest downsides to being an influencer. And I think the third thing is that I have to be much more careful with what I say just to follow in from what I just said about the second point there in that, you know, as I said, like, anything I say can be misconstrued or taken out of context, and anything I say is going to be used against me, like, by, you know, thousands of people around the world, a lot of them completely anonymous, because they, you know, they're just on Twitter or whatever, and they're calling me out and they're, like, coming at me and attacking me. And there's just something you have to deal with when, when you're an influencer. So, yeah, those, those would be the biggest downsides, but I think they kind of balance each other out. And I think the upside actually vastly outweighs the downside, and I tend to just block people that straight up troll me or try to insult me or call me a scammer these days because there's no point dealing with those sorts of people. So yeah, hopefully that, that answers that question, Patrick as well. And your third question here was, what do you think about expanding on your YouTube channel? Like inviting knowledgeable people similar to what bankless is doing, with a focus on a couple of niches you enjoy? Would love to learn more about.
00:51:08.170 - 00:51:29.312, Speaker A: I had thought about this for a while. The reason why I haven't done it is because I actually think there's enough of that right now. You mentioned bankless, but there's like the Defiant, there's Defi dad, there's, I mean, there's plenty of podcasts like uncommon core. The blocks got a podcast. I mean, I'm not going to go through all of them. All of them. There's plenty of podcasts that interview all these kind of guests.
00:51:29.312 - 00:52:28.042, Speaker A: And I just don't think I'd be adding anything unique to the ecosystem by doing this. I don't think, you know, interviewing the same DeFi founder that every other project interviewed and asking them the same questions is really going to add any value here. But in saying that, I do think there may be a gap, and this is a gap that I've noticed recently where people aren't getting the information about the Ethereum protocol itself from the developers working on it, like the core devs, the researchers and everything like that. They may go on, you know, some podcasts, I've seen them on epicenter, uncommon core, bankless, but it's, it's kind of few and far between. It is not like the core focus and it is more focused on like, I guess the biggest things, like 1559, obviously AIP 1559 was, was covered extensively on the various channels and the merge and stuff was like that. But then, you know, you think about things like ERP 3074, which I've spoken about before, or outside of EIP. You think about the bleeding edge research, you think about the stateless ethereum stuff, like all these sorts of stuff is probably getting way less coverage than it deserves.
00:52:28.042 - 00:53:13.268, Speaker A: So maybe that's something I can do. But another point to this is also scheduling issues. Given where I am in Australia, time zone issues are actually a big thing. I remember, you know, when we were doing guest episodes on the ether podcast, we basically decided that Eric would just do it on his own because we were looking at all the times that people wanted to schedule in and none of them were when I could do it, like it was always when I was sleeping, because here I sleep during us waking hours, and also, like, Europe would be away, would be asleep by the time I woke up. So that's another thing as well. Just the scheduling issues and kind of the way I view the daily way is just as. I mean, the refuel was like a daily diary for me, essentially taking stock of what happened in the day, um, you know, pushing through my knowledge to the rest of the ecosystem like that, and kind of like, you know, no.
00:53:13.268 - 00:53:37.124, Speaker A: Kind of like hype, no, I guess shilling or anything. Just kind of like full education there, the ama, same kind of deal. Just trying to educate where I can ask, answer people's questions. Um, and then, you know, the bunch of the other things I do as well on that front. So I don't know if I'll be doing guest things. I think I'm just going to stick to the way it is for now. But maybe there's a small niche I can fill with, uh, covering more ethereum, core protocol, uh, stuff instead.
00:53:37.124 - 00:54:34.994, Speaker A: So, yeah, hopefully that answers that question for you. If anyone has a question, be sure to raise your hand. If not, I'm going to keep moving through the list here. All right, next question is from spare, who says, could you explain something about polygon when they eventually launched roll ups? If you are already on polygon, how will it work? Will you need to bridge again, plus any timeline when they will roll out roll ups in order to capitalize on the first mover advantage they have with the sidechain? So the roll ups initially, when they roll them out, will be separate things. They won't be, you know, I guess replacing the side chain, the polygon. Pos chain. So you might have, like, a polygon roll up that hosts, you know, all the similar apps to what the pos chain does, but you'll have to bridge to that new roll up from either Ethereum or the pos chain or whatever, or anything like that.
00:54:34.994 - 00:55:15.586, Speaker A: So, yes, you will have to bridge if it's launched separately, but there is a thing where if they decide, or if polygon decides to essentially replace the pos chain with. With the roll up, then there could be either a migration to do that, or they could just take a snapshot of the state and kind of put it over, which is, which I think is harder and requires a lot of coordination. So either way, I think it would require, it would have some kind of disruption for users, depending on what happened there. I don't know when they're going to bring out their roll up stuff. I know that they're working on it right now and disclosure for everyone. I'm an advisor to Polygon, but yeah, I know that they're working on it right now. They're working on so many different things.
00:55:15.586 - 00:55:49.974, Speaker A: But essentially I do believe that when it does come out, it's not going to replace the POS chain from the get go. It'll definitely be a complimentary thing. It'll be a standalone kind of roll up that developers can kind of build on and deploy to. So, you know, and I'm looking forward to seeing how that plays out. But for me long term, I think that L2 like, and things like roll ups are the future. I think that sidechains have their place in some use cases, but for sing for things like Defi, L2 is the future. So I think Polygon will have to kind of evolve and keep deploying new technology to keep up with that as well.
00:55:49.974 - 00:56:23.670, Speaker A: So yeah, hopefully that answers your question. Spare. All right, onto one from Zero X. Berdo here, who says VC's in general get a bad rep. But are there any investment firms in crypto that come to mind that you have a lot of respect for either for being genuinely value additive or for having a history of good early investments? Yeah, I mean there's a few. The obvious one is paradigm, which a lot of people would know about. Uh, they were the first investor in Uniswap and, you know, they invested in compound a bunch of other kind of like the top DeFi protocols and they've, they've done a lot of investments lately.
00:56:23.670 - 00:56:52.754, Speaker A: They're in Lido and Dy DX, I think, and Starkware and stuff like that. So they're in a bunch of different things. So yeah, I. Maybe I've only heard good things about them. You have framework ventures and parafy, which are both like DeFi focused. Framework is very early on chain link paraphy has been very early on a bunch of defi protocols like Aave and I think, I believe synthetix. You have Defiant, which is under the three Arrows capital umbrella, which is Arthur Zero X's fund.
00:56:52.754 - 00:57:23.944, Speaker A: I've heard good things about them and then there's a bunch of other funds out there. I'm not going to name them all, but, you know, those are the ones that come to mind. And the funny thing is is that there's actually two separate things here. There's VC's and then there's funds. So these things are usually structured in certain ways where if you're, if you're a fund, you may have like a shorter term mindset. Your LP's or your limited partners who are giving you money to invest might want a return on investment within two years. Whereas in traditional kind of like VC firms, they have like a longer outlook of five plus years at least.
00:57:23.944 - 00:58:05.014, Speaker A: So you have to kind of delineate here. I would say that paradigm, defiant, parafy framework are all longer term investors rather than short term. But there are a lot of short term funds out there who Alameda research, for example, SBF or FT, sorry, SBF's kind of company there. They're definitely on the short term side of things. Then they're not a VC, they're a fund. They buy and sell things all the time, whether that be OTC or, you know, invest in things early and then sell it when it's vesting and things like that. But you know, I think if I had to pick one, Paradigm would probably be the top of the list there in terms of the VC's that add the most kind of value from what I've heard.
00:58:05.014 - 00:58:57.298, Speaker A: I mean, it's funny, I actually view Paradigm as a research company first and a VC second because of the fact that they have so many like smart people working there putting out all these bleeding edge research, and all of their investments are heavily based on this research and where they think the ecosystem is going in the future. And they want to bet on the winners. Like obviously everyone wants to bet on the winners, but paradigm, from what I can see, seems to bet on one project per category, and they want to make sure that that project is the winner. Obviously you have uniswap as being the winner of the AMM space. There's a bunch of other investments they've done, like Lido, winner of the staking space so far, or at least the derivative staking space you have. What is it, Stark, where they believe that Stark was going to be one of the big winners, if not the winner of the L2 race. So that remains to be seen, of course.
00:58:57.298 - 00:59:45.106, Speaker A: So you have a lot of that stuff going on. So I would say paradigm is definitely number one in terms of the most legit vc's within crypto and especially within the Ethereum space. All right, question here from t one, who asks, according to l two beat the tv out? L two beat, for those who don't know, is new website that tracks L2 metrics and information about different L2s. But essentially, yeah, what t one is asking is that the TVL on l two s, according to l two beat, has declined significantly over the last 90 days and is now back at the level it was in January 2021. Why hasn't the launch of optimism reverse this trend, in your opinion? So the reason why it fell and the reason why all tv, all TVL falls is because the prices fall. TVL is measured usually in asset prices. Um, you know, if the price of ETH falls, then the TVL is going to fall.
00:59:45.106 - 01:00:22.194, Speaker A: If the price of all the other assets fall, TVL is going to fall. So that accounts for a major reason why you saw a lot of, um, a lot of the prices fall. But also generally when the market turns bearish, people will pull funds from, uh, from anywhere and they'll sell off funds. So you may see people, uh, exit these l two s, go to like a centralized exchange and sell their funds and kind of like, um, you know, uh, de risk or whatever you want to call it. Um, so that, that's, those are the main reasons, I believe. And then you kind of ask here, why hasn't the launch of optimism reversed this trend? Well, I mean, optimism has been live for what, two weeks now? Sorry, with, with uniswap being live on there. Uniswap has 6 million tvl.
01:00:22.194 - 01:00:49.424, Speaker A: Last time I checked, they haven't done any huge marketing push. They haven't got any bridges in just yet. They are keeping it low key. It's in a very controlled environment. There's only six assets for, available for trade on there and it's limited to 50,000 transactions per day, which isn't very much. It's not even, it hasn't hit that limit yet. But, but there's just not many reasons to trade on there yet because of the fact that there's only six assets and there's no real good bridges in and gas fees on Ethereum, relatively cheap still.
01:00:49.424 - 01:01:37.394, Speaker A: So I don't, and it's only been like two weeks, as I said, with, with uniswap being an optimism. So that's why I don't think it's reversed the trend. And I've said on the refuel plenty of times that I think the L2 rollout is going to be a, you know, a gradual rollout over like maybe a six to 18 month period is going to, we're going to see it gradually roll out and then eventually we'll hit like an inflection point where it just goes really quickly from there. But I think the most important, I guess, thing to get l two s adopted is onboarding and onboarding from centralized exchanges, onboarding with direct fiat on ramps, onboarding with faster bridges or whatever. There's a kind of a lot of stuff going on like that, but we need to get them more deployed. So basically just deploying the infrastructure to make sure that we can, you know, service these users. So, yeah, hope that answers your question.
01:01:37.394 - 01:02:55.430, Speaker A: T one. All right, another one from skillsee here who says, given that I can stake my ETH easily and with good liquidity via Lido finance, is it possible that we will move towards the majority of ETH being staked in the long run post merge? That is, if you don't stake, you are just missing out on yield. Might this impact the deflationary nature of ETH? So I discussed a little bit about this earlier when someone asked about Mev and staking. But essentially, this is a bet that paradigm is making, I think, where they basically said that they believe that all ETH is going to be staked because of the fact that, yes, I mean, if you can get, like, a derivative of that ETH being staked, like with staking, with lido, gives you ste, which essentially is a derivative that you can go do things with in defi or whatever, then, yes, I do believe that most ETH will probably be staked because why not in that kind of scenario? But at the same time, there's trust assumptions that, again, introduced there. For example, if you're holding Ste instead of ETH, well, that Steth is backed by the ETH that is staked with centralized providers. So you're essentially taking on, like, a massive kind of trust assumption there that those centralized providers are going to behave correctly and that the value of your steth will remain, you know, in line with what you expect it to be. So there's that, and then, you know, it impacting the deflationary nature of ETH.
01:02:55.430 - 01:03:28.136, Speaker A: Well, as I explained earlier, there's going to probably be, like, a soft cap on the amount of active stake of, like, 30 million. So that will put a soft cap on the amount of issuance. Sorry. That'll put, like, an actual hard cap on the amount of issuance that can be kind of issued each year, and it's around 1%. So I don't think so. I don't think it will impact the deflationary nature. And you also have to consider the fact that this kind of, like, offsets the extra issuance because you're staking more ETH, which means you're locking more ETH up, which means there's less ETH for sale on the market, which logically means that, you know, the price should trend up over time.
01:03:28.136 - 01:03:54.608, Speaker A: Because of that as well, because you're taking more out of. Out of active, kind of like circulation and active supply there. So I think it works to balance itself out for sure. So, yeah, hopefully that answers your questions. Skillsy. All right, one here from Lucas, who says, I often hear people saying using l two is as secure as using the main chain, which is definitely wrong. What are the trust assumptions, potential attack vectors when using an optimistic roll up like arbitrum and optimism.
01:03:54.608 - 01:04:23.502, Speaker A: Optimism. So I think you're right in saying that, you know, people say that using l two is just as secure as the main chain is. Is wrong to an extent. I think that there's nuance here. And the nuance is basically that l two s can be constructed in any number of different ways. And what an l two is, or what a roll up is, it's essentially a new blockchain that inherited security from Ethereum. So instead of spinning up its own validator set or its own miners or whatever, it's piggybacking off of a theorems and it's paying ethereum for the privilege, mind you.
01:04:23.502 - 01:05:25.356, Speaker A: It has to actually secure itself to a theorem by anchoring via posting proofs. So from that perspective, l two s like rollups and can be as secure as the main chain if they're constructed in a way where they have no admin keys, they have no upgradable contracts, they have a decentralized set of sequences, and sequences are essentially the block producers. So that, um, you know, the transactions can't be censored because if you've only got one sequencer, transactions can be censored quite easily, but it's not like they can steal your funds. What can happen is that because the l two s are secured by the main chain, your funds are always secure. So from that perspective, you can withdraw your funds out of the bridge, contract on layer one by basically saying, well, I want to kind of exit from this L2. And the L2 can't, when it's constructed correctly, can't take those funds away from you. I mean, it is right to say that using l two is, you know, probably, I don't know if you would say it's 100% as secure as using l one, but it's pretty much like equal if constructed in the right way.
01:05:25.356 - 01:06:15.356, Speaker A: So hopefully that that clears up that, that kind of point there. And then, you know, you're saying, what are the trust assumptions? Aka potential attack vector or, sorry, and potential attack vectors? Well, as I said, trust assumptions come down to things like how many sequences producing blocks and Trent and I guess like processing transactions and things like that. Are the contracts upgradable? Which means does it have an admin key? Is it like centralized because of the admin key? Stuff like that. And then the potential attack vectors are essentially, especially in optimistic roll ups. The attack vector is basically that someone poses a challenge or at least does something like with fraud on L2. And that goes through without it, without a challenge being bring, bring, pose. Then from, from my knowledge, I think a lot of these issues were actually ironed out.
01:06:15.356 - 01:06:46.598, Speaker A: And this is why it took so long for roll ups to come to market. Is this kind of like, um, notion of a challenge period. And I mean like optimistic roll ups because ZK roll ups work a bit differently. But essentially you have to basically place a bond when you want to challenge something. And if you challenge something and it turns out that it's wrong, and this is why they, there's this seven day withdrawal period, because there's seven days of a challenge period here. But if it turns out that the challenge is wrong, then you lose that bond, which is usually some kind of token, probably be ETH or something like that. And then, you know, the chain progresses as normal during this time.
01:06:46.598 - 01:07:13.790, Speaker A: And, you know, there was no fraud found. So everything's well and good there. So I don't know if that'd be an attack vector, but definitely there are a bunch of different attack vectors. If it's, if it's centralized, obviously it can be shut down. But the whole point is that if the l two is constructed correctly, then even if the entire l two network goes offline, everything shut down. You can still withdraw your funds from layer one because your funds are actually technically in the bridge. In, sorry, in the bridge contract, it's not on the l two itself.
01:07:13.790 - 01:08:20.730, Speaker A: Now this is actually in stark difference to something like a sidechain because yes, your funds will be in a bridge contract on a sidechain, but they can also be in a side chain by via going from like a centralized exchange or something. And a sidechain really is just a layer one blockchain again. So if you transfer your funds that are natively issued on another blockchain, say you're using something like Solana, for example, and you transfer like over a bridge, well then yes, your funds are secured by that bridge contract. And, you know, but the thing is, is that that bridge contract isn't tied to, sorry, the side chain isn't inheriting security from Ethereum. So then the funds in there can only be withdrawn by you going back from the side chain to a theorem, for example, or from the other layer one chain. But if they kind of, like, get stolen on the layer one chain, say, for some example, the validators collude and steal your funds on there, well, then you can't get them back from the bridge, then it's gone, in that case. So, yeah, I mean, there's different security trade offs here, always between different L2s.
01:08:20.730 - 01:08:57.650, Speaker A: And side chains definitely are much less secure because they don't inherit, inherit security from Ethereum itself. So, yeah, hopefully that, that clears that up for you on that front there. Their derebit insights have put out some really great research around optimistic roll ups lately. I suggest going and checking that, that out if you haven't yet. I haven't got the links handy, but you can just go to Deriba insights and you'll find the post there. All right, onto the next question from John v. 420, who says, one of my favorite things about metamasking uniswap is that I was able to trade from my hardware wallet.
01:08:57.650 - 01:09:42.701, Speaker A: I'm guessing that I'll need to continue to pay a premium for that comfort even after L2 goes live. I'm assuming that Trezor or Ledger wouldn't be compatible with a L2 like optimism, and that I would need to move the funds out of my hardware wallet, similar to the experience with Matic. No, I mean, no, this should work because so you. There might be an assumption here that the polygon Pos chain, or matic, as you're calling it here, um, is a L2, when technically it is not. It is a sidechain. So with L2s, your ledger should still work, because what you would do is you just send the funds to the bridge, and then you would change your network using either something like ledger live or metamask to the optimism network, and you would be able to kind of interact with it there, whereas I think with, with Polygon, it's a little bit different. I haven't actually tried it yet on my end.
01:09:42.701 - 01:10:10.873, Speaker A: I haven't tried the optimism or anything with a ledger. I don't use ledger live, I just use metamask. But I. Sorry, I just use path pass through with metamask through my ledger. So I don't know if it's different on there, but it should still work. I'll have to double check on that, but I don't see a reason why, why it wouldn't work. So, yeah, I think that definitely, you know, Ledger will add support for these things, and you'll be able to interact with it, just like you would the Ethereum main chain.
01:10:10.873 - 01:11:14.128, Speaker A: All right, on to the next one from Ghostis Ave. Who says, how exactly do you navigate this ecosystem since you're not a programmer? How do you even begin to understand the code written for smart contracts and how do you manage your risks? I don't read the code of the smart contracts, just to be clear. I don't check them whenever I'm like putting funds into them myself. I rely on obviously the contracts being legit because it's part of a legit project. Or the fact that I know people who have read the contracts or have, like the contracts have been audited by reputable firms, you know, they've been formally verified, stuff like that. And, you know, if you're thinking about like new contracts that have been deployed, like, how do you check those? Well, I have friends that are smart contract developers, so I just asked them, but yeah, myself, like, I don't read the contracts because I don't know solidity, I don't know how to read them and I would be lost without my friends essentially. But how do I, but the more general question here is how do I navigate the ecosystem while not being a programmer? I mean, you can understand a lot of this stuff from a high level.
01:11:14.128 - 01:12:01.232, Speaker A: There's a lot of explanations out there, a lot of educational content out there that explains this, breaks it down in easy to understand blog posts or research pieces and stuff like that where it doesn't include any code, it just includes like the high level concepts and how they work under the hood and things like that. And you do have to be somewhat technical and understand somewhat about how computers work in general to get some of this stuff. But you can learn that on the job, so to speak. I don't think it's actually difficult to learn that as you go. So that's kind of like how I learned. I mean, I do have a bit of a technical background in that I worked in cybersecurity for a couple of years and I, in a past life, like a long time ago now, I was a web developer, so I understand like those concepts and I've, and I've been into like computers in general since I was like 14 years old. So I definitely have a technical background.
01:12:01.232 - 01:12:28.340, Speaker A: But, you know, I think anyone can learn it as you go. And I didn't like kind of learn it from school or anything like that. I definitely learned it from just doing it on my own and I think that anyone can do that. So yeah, that's kind of like how I navigate through the crypto ecosystem through all the technical stuff, and it's a lot of repetition to, it's reading, you know, different descriptions of different things. I mean, it took a while for roll ups to click for me about how they work. I had to read multiple things about them. And this was back a while ago when there wasn't any easy to read explanations.
01:12:28.340 - 01:13:06.410, Speaker A: Now there's plenty of easy explanations out there. If you just search, like optimistic or ZK rollups on Google, you'll find plenty of really easy to understand explanations. So, yeah, hopefully that answers your question. All right, just a reminder, if you want to ask a question in the audience, you just have to raise your hand and I'll invite you onto the stage, but I'll keep moving through the list on that note. So one here from yawn, the faun who says, imagine the Ethereum network was your hometown, and today a friend told you they were thinking about coming to visit. They want you to make them a bucket list of must have experiences. What would be in the top ten things you put on their list? Well, I mean, I think this is pretty easy to answer.
01:13:06.410 - 01:14:01.586, Speaker A: Definitely would start them off with a stable coin, would basically say to them, here's a stable coin. This represents like $1, for example, if you hold one of these stable coins and you can use this to transact on the ethereum network, then I would introduce them to ETH, the asset, because you obviously need to know what ETH is to pay gas fees and things like that. So those are the two things that I put on their bucket list to say, get familiar with these things, make sure you understand them. And the easiest way to do that is to go to uniswap. So Uniswap would be the first app that I basically introduced them to and say, you can swap any asset you want on Uniswap, go to Uniswap dot swap, have some ETH in your wallet, have some stable coins, whatever, and you'll be able to do a swap on there. So that would be the very first thing. And then the second thing I would say would be like, okay, well, now that you've done that, do you want to take a loan? You know, do you, it's not technically a loan, but like, essentially, do you want to borrow money against your, your funds? So I would show them something like compound or rv.
01:14:01.586 - 01:14:46.896, Speaker A: I would show them makerdao. I mean, it's, it's, it's a bit different, but I would still show the maker and I would explain to them how, you know, with using your like ETH as an example, you can mint this synthetic kind of like dollar and you can use this within the ecosystem to, to do different things with. Um, so, and then I just keep working my way down the kind of list here of defi apps. I go to the more complex things, things. I would show them something like Alchemyx definitely, where I basically say, hey, you can put your stable coins in here and get yourself a self paying loan. And then I, and then they'd ask, okay, well you know, how does that work? And you basically explain to them yield aggregators, like yearn and say that okay, well, yearn essentially gets this yield from doing this, this and this. And this is how you can pay off your loan through Alchemyx.
01:14:46.896 - 01:15:21.982, Speaker A: And then the non defi stuff I would show them would be ans, I'd be like okay, go to ens domains and you can register your own domain name on there which basically gives you a easily human readable character that maps to your Ethereum address. I think that'd be really cool for them. They would definitely get a kick out of that. And then moving on from that, I will show them nfts, of course, opensea rarible, you know, just the marketplaces and things like that. I would say, hey, this is, you can buy yourself like a collectible and it's digital and it's digitally scarce. You can prove that it is by going and checking on like on like Etherscan or whatever, which actually is your next question here. Yawn.
01:15:21.982 - 01:15:50.430, Speaker A: Which I'll get to in a sec, but, and then from there, if they were kind of looking for even more things to do, you could move down the list and go to Daos and basically say, well this is a dao. And you'd have to explain to them what it is and basically say, well you can go join this Dao. If you want to go participate in that. You can go join this, this discord channel. You can buy these tokens and you can vote on things within the DaO. So those are kind of like the main things that I would definitely tell people about. And then also actually L2s as well would be something that I showed them after all of that.
01:15:50.430 - 01:16:23.266, Speaker A: I would say, okay, well, because they would have, you know, obviously used the network and experienced the fees and then they might have asked about the fees. And then I said, okay, well, do you want to do this without having to spend like an arm and a leg on fees? And they'll be like, of course I do. And then I'll be like, okay, well, you can go use uniswap on optimism, and then I'll be like, okay, well, optimism is like a L2 on ethereum. It still inherits ethereum security, but you're going to be able to basically trade with much lower fees, and it's much quicker. And then I'd show them how to do that as well. So, yeah, so hopefully that that kind of, like, answers the bucket list question there. I think those are the first things I would do.
01:16:23.266 - 01:17:34.544, Speaker A: And then obviously, over time, I would dive deeper and deeper into it as they kind of got deeper into the rabbit hole. But those are the top level things that I think everyone should do, you know, when they're coming into Ethereum for the first time. So your second question here, you're on the phone, was basically you saying you recently bought that NFT commemorating EIP 1559, and on the Daily Way mentioned that while other people might tease you and say you could have just downloaded the gif free, that the key difference is that you could prove that you own the original. Could you explain how, if a normie guest came over and saw your NFT on the wall, you could physically show them that you own the original asset? What steps would you take to prove this to them? Do you pop up Etherscan to the contract address and then cross reference that with your wallet address to show that the contract is owned by you? Would you not also have to pull up a trusted piece of documentation, eg, a tweet from Tim Bico declaring that the contract address is the canonical one? TrDR how can we, in a low friction way, prove prominence of our nfts? This is a great question, because providence of nfts is definitely an open debate right now, like, about the easiest way to do it. But I think you kind of broke it down exactly how I would do it. I would say, while I have this Ethereum address assault ETH, you can see this on, like, this thing called Etherscan. And on Etherscan, it shows that I have this NFT in my wallet.
01:17:34.544 - 01:18:15.092, Speaker A: And now they will be like, okay, well, there's no picture there. Like, where's the picture? I just see that, like, you have the AIP 1559 NFt. And then I'd be like, okay, well, we can go to a site like Opensea that will show it to me, and I'll log into opensea with my Tesla ETH account. And I'll say, okay, well, here it is. And then they'll be like, okay, well, it shows that it belongs to your wallet, but how do I know this is the legit NFT that was issued by, you know, the legit AIP 1559 NFT. Then I'd be like, okay, well, here's the post from Tim Baiko or Trent Van Epps or estateful works, and here it is on like the Mirror website where I bought it from. And here's all the other people that bought it, and, you know, they all bought it as part of the same one.
01:18:15.092 - 01:19:05.364, Speaker A: And this is the canonical one. Because of that. You can, I mean, there's exact same steps that you outlined, but it's very involved, right. We need kind of like easier ways to do it, but I don't know if there's going to be an easier way to do it where, you know, it's much quicker, for example, because of the fact that depending on how deep you want to go and how many questions people tell you, you have to always go to the source because you could easily say to people or display it in like a nice display and say, okay, well, Cecil ETH owns this NFT and this is the legit one because of that. But then you still have to go somewhere to say, okay, well, that, was that the right contract? You know, how can I approve this on Etherscan or on Opensea or whatever? You're using third parties to kind of like come to consensus on that. So yeah, definitely. I think that that's something that I think more people in the ecosystem are going to focus on and are going to kind of like solve going forward.
01:19:05.364 - 01:20:17.346, Speaker A: But it's a hard problem for sure to make it easy to kind of like get provenance on fts. All right, your last question here. You're on the phone, you said, what exactly is an l two? It's often described as a scaling solution for Ethereum, but what does that mean? Is an l to its own standalone blockchain with its own protocol, clients nodes and network that interacts with the Ethereum blockchain. If yes, then does this mean we want millions of people to be also be running optimism nodes to preserve decentralization? I explained earlier how, yes, L2s are essentially their own blockchain, but they just inherit their security from Ethereum. But what I mean, what it means by a scaling solution, what l two s do, at least what roll ups do, there are different types of l two s, but what roll ups do is they split up the data and execution layers. So what ends up happening is that the execution, which is the most expensive part of an ethereum transaction, gets done off chain. So it gets done on this L2 network, where it's cheaper to do it, and then the data, which is basically the proof that this transaction happened, which is compressed, gets pasted or posted to the Ethereum main chain, and you can recreate the computation of that on chain if you wanted to.
01:20:17.346 - 01:21:27.236, Speaker A: So you could just download that data, run it locally on your own machine, and you'd be able to check that that computation was run in the right way and was done verifiably correct. But because you're only storing the data on Ethereum, it's much cheaper. And that way you can get kind of like an order of orders of magnitude more scaling, because you're taking off the most expensive part and putting it on the L2 network. And what I mean by this, just to give a tangible example, is that when you kind of like do an ethereum transaction, say you're interacting with Uniswap, that is, interact, that costs more than a normal ETH transfer, because you're doing a lot of different transactions, a lot of different smart contract calls, where that costs more gas, they cost more of the computational resources of the network to do. And that execution is done on layer one. Instead of doing that on layer one, we take that Uniswap tray to L2. We do the heavy lifting on L2, all the computational work there, and then we put the data, essentially the proof that that computation was run a compressed proof, onto layer one, where it would be very, it's much cheaper to post that proof, and you can basically fit much more transactions into that proof and put it onto layer one.
01:21:27.236 - 01:22:27.470, Speaker A: Then you would be able to just doing it on layer one. And then, as I said, you can run that proof yourself locally on your own machine, and do the computation on your own machine and prove that was run, that execution was run, and that was done properly. So that's kind of like what we mean by a scaling solution and how that works, it's essentially compressing the transaction, increasing the throughput of Ethereum by splitting up the transactions. And there are the L2 constructs as well, like ZK Porter and validium, which also take the data portion off chain and have like, what's called a data availability community, and they only post the data that's required, the minimal amount of data that's required to the main chain to just post that. Yes. Okay, well, we did this trends at this computation, and we have the data here, and we can prove that we have the data. But you're, there's a security trade off there where you're relying on this this committee with essentially a bunch of nodes to service that data, to give you that data.
01:22:27.470 - 01:23:00.724, Speaker A: So if you wanted to run the computation yourself, you would need to get access to that data from this committee. You couldn't pull it directly from the Ethereum main chain. So hopefully that answers those questions. And you ask, like, if it is a standalone blockchain, which it is, does it require its own kind of like decentralization with people running like nodes and things like that? And yes, it does. These things are called sequences. The more people are running sequences, the more people, the more decentralized the network is. But the key difference here is that because these sequences aren't responsible for the security of the network, they're just responsible for processing the transactions.
01:23:00.724 - 01:23:36.002, Speaker A: You only need one of these to be live for the network to work. And you can't like have a, have like a coalition of like 51, you can't have 51% attacks or anything like that because it's secured by the Ethereum main chain. So we obviously want to decentralize it because, as I said, with only one sequencer, that sequencer could sense the transactions and no one could stop them. But if there's a bunch of different sequences, well, from the other sequence, I can basically say, well, no, I don't want to censor this transaction, I want to process it. And that would get processed. So that's kind of like how it works. And definitely the L2 needs their own infrastructure as well.
01:23:36.002 - 01:23:59.246, Speaker A: Like, you've seen a lot of the arbitrary optimism announcements around things like infuria and alchemy and the graphics and, and stuff like that. The infrastructure definitely needs to be set up to support that too. So. Yeah, and that's all falling into place as well. So hopefully that answers those questions there. All right. One here from Radegar, who says, I was wondering if you could talk about your decision making process behind having no bitcoin exposure.
01:23:59.246 - 01:24:48.624, Speaker A: Okay, I spoke about this earlier in answering kind of a knowledge fights question. So I'm not going to rehash it here, Rudiger. It's timestamped, so you can go back and check, uh, check my answer to knowledge fights question. Um, but yeah, I think I answered it quite well there. All right, next one here is from Brian Peace, who says, sometimes I hear about projects such as Starkware that are Ethereum aligned but are not EVM compatible. What is the Ethereum virtual machine? How do projects communicate with the Ethereum blockchain if they aren't EVM compatible? And what considerations will go into the decision to choose EVM compatibility or not. So the Ethereum virtual machine is essentially this, um, uh, this thing that sits on the Ethereum network that process processes smart contracts, essentially execute smart contracts that essentially allows you to do all the fancy stuff you do with smart contracts, as I was just talking about all the execution stuff.
01:24:48.624 - 01:25:51.180, Speaker A: So that's essentially at a high level what the Ethereum virtual machine is. It's basically the engine of the Ethereum network that makes smart contracts possible. Starkware is, so this is getting a little bit technical here, but Starkware does have their own os that, so because they have their own operating system that they call it, they actually do have EVM compatibility, where you can basically transpile EVM bytecode is what it's called into whatever language they're using. They've got like this Chiro thing and whatever, like virtual machine they're using, you can actually transpile it across. Now, not everything will be like a one to one mapping. There's also, this also works the same for something like optimism and arbitrum. They both have their own virtual machines that the OVM, the optimistic virtual machine, and the AVM, the arbitrary virtual machine, which I believe the optimism virtual machine is about 90% compatible with, with EVM code, and they've got their own transpiler to transfer transpile EVM bytecode into OVM kind of compatible code.
01:25:51.180 - 01:26:26.454, Speaker A: And same with the AVM, the arbitrary virtual machine. So essentially, yeah, I don't think that this is an issue. I think that because we have these tools that can transpile it across, it's going to be fine there. And you ask, how do projects communicate with the Ethereum blockchain if they aren't EVM compatible? Well, they do it through that way, but also they do it through a bridge contract. So all these projects need to know is, did the funds hit this smart contract? Okay, if they did, well, then we'll just credit these funds into this user's account on this layer too. And that's all well and good. So from that perspective, the bridge contract controls that communication there.
01:26:26.454 - 01:27:06.424, Speaker A: Um, and you say, what considerations will go into the decision to choose EVM compatibility or not? Well, the EVM is actually, I mean, by today's standards considered old technology. It is single threaded, which means it can't do parallel processing, which means, um, you know, it's, uh, it's definitely a scalability bottleneck there. But that's, that's been designed like that for good reason. But the main reason people would decide to support EVM compatibility was basically to make it easy for developers to port over their code and for them to bootstrap their new ecosystem on these new L2s. So that would be the main reason. And the main reason not to is because you want to get around the limitations of EVM, and they think you can basically build something better. And there are other projects building different virtual machines.
01:27:06.424 - 01:27:43.984, Speaker A: There are some using WASM, which is something that web, I think, I believe, web browsers use, or at least I think it was developed by consortium of web browser companies like Google, Mozilla, and all that sort of stuff. But on top of that, you also have other blockchains. They're doing different languages, like Polkadot and Solana, I believe, use rust. And they have their own kind of, like, virtual machines that run, that I think are using WASm. I don't know what Solana is using, but they also have, like, I guess, tools that are building on top of them for EVM compatibility, because the network effects of the EVM are quite, quite great. And it's going to be hard to break that down. So I think the EVM is going to be with us for years to come, to be honest.
01:27:43.984 - 01:28:33.458, Speaker A: All right, next question here from PJ Fastpants, who says, after EIP 1559, ETH sale pressure is estimated to drop by 25% to 30% due to 70% of fees being burned instead of being issued to miners. The move to proof of stake will further reduce issuance by to around 10% of today's levels. But I was thinking there will be a period of time before validators are able to withdraw their rewards. And therefore it's quite possible that we'll have a three to six months of no sell pressure from issuance at all. Is this right? Can we call this the zero ring or the twilight zone? This is really interesting. I hadn't really thought about this too much, but to discuss your first point here, you said e sell pressure is estimated to drop by 25% to 30% due to the fee burning in 1559. I wouldn't assume this because that's assuming that all of the fees that get paid to miners are sold.
01:28:33.458 - 01:29:08.090, Speaker A: I don't know. I haven't looked into the data of this, but I wouldn't assume that all of the fee revenue currently going to miners is sold. Yes, there is going to be some sell pressure that's dropped because of the fact that it's getting burned instead of going to miners. But a lot of these miners could be holding that ETH for long periods of time anyway. But now we'll have verifiable proof that that ETH is actually gone out of the supply. So that is definitely quite positive, of course. And then, you know, just to get to your main point here where you say, is there going to be like a twilight zone where no one can sell their issued ETH or they can't sell their fee revenue because of the fact.
01:29:08.090 - 01:29:28.498, Speaker A: Sorry, the fear of a new as part of, like, the tip or the one that's. The fear of a new that's not burned. And I think, yes, I mean, I don't think it's going to take six months for withdrawals to be enabled. Once the merge goes through, I expect it to happen relatively quickly. Maybe. Maybe it happened, maybe it doesn't happen for three months. I actually think it's going to happen faster than that.
01:29:28.498 - 01:30:16.506, Speaker A: But, yeah, I mean, we can call this the twilight zone, where essentially the issuance is effectively zero because of the fact that you can't sell it. I mean, it's not effect, I mean, it's not really zero because, like, as soon as the withdrawals get enabled, I'm sure some people are going to withdraw and sell or whatever. But, yeah, interesting to see that all of the extra fear of a new that's not burned and all the new issuance will not be able to be sold because it will be, it will be stuck until withdrawals are enabled. So, yeah, I mean, we can maybe meme this as like, the zero ring or the twilight zone if we wanted to. Maybe once it happens with the merge and once it, once that goes through, but I think it's bit more of an esoteric thing and probably something that maybe not a lot of people will kind of latch onto because they'll just say, oh, well, you know, yeah, that's true. But, like, once the withdrawals get enabled, it's just going to get some of, it's just going to get sold anyway. So, yeah, we'll have to see how that shakes out.
01:30:16.506 - 01:30:50.396, Speaker A: But, but good, good question and good thoughts there, I think. All right, two more questions left on my sheet here. So one here from Cams, who said, hey, Anthony, you were recently talking about Steam and other decentralized social media platforms, talking to the point that they just become cesspools for extremist movements. After listening to Vitalik speak about his hopes for these platforms innovation that could make them better. What's your opinion, and has it changed? I think, I don't know if my opinion has changed just yet. I think for me, for my opinion to actually change on this, I have to see something work at scale. And right now, I haven't seen any of that.
01:30:50.396 - 01:31:27.188, Speaker A: And I know Aaver has announced that they're going to be trying to build a decentralized Twitter. I'm curious to see how that plays out. But until I see one of these decentralized social media platforms deal with, as you said, you know, toxicity, like extreme toxicity, which basically overtakes the whole platform, bots lots of illegal content being posted on there, you know, just moderation in general, and scalability issues, too, mind you, I just. I don't think my opinion is going to change until I see that. I'm optimistic that we can navigate these issues. But at the end of the day, these issues are much more social than they are technical. And whenever you introduce social complexity into a system.
01:31:27.188 - 01:32:00.304, Speaker A: Sorry, introduce social stuff into a system, the compact complexity explodes. Like, absolutely explodes. That's why. I mean, there's a reason why Ethereum is trying to keep its base layer as objective as possible and as dumb as possible. Because if you start adding in more and more subjective things and more and more humans into the base layer in terms of, like, how the network runs, then you just explode out the complexity. So I think that if I see at one of these social media networks or decentralized social media networks working at scale, my opinion will be changed then. But for now, I just remain cautiously optimistic on that.
01:32:00.304 - 01:32:39.684, Speaker A: All right, last question here from Patrick, who says the knuckle indicator for bitcoin has been quite useful in the past, especially in regards to potential market tops. Is Knapple also available to Ethereum? So, for those who don't know, Nuple is basically an indicator that I've gone over in the daily grade data pump videos, which you can find on the YouTube channel. But essentially what it shows is it shows the average amount of the network of, like, average amount of the people that are holding b, two, C, or ETH that are in profit and how much they're in profit by. And there's basically different bands that these people are in. And it's color coded. It's like red, yellow, orange, green, blue, from. From lowest to highest.
01:32:39.684 - 01:33:19.604, Speaker A: When it's in the red zone, it means that most people are either not in profit or in loss and buy and, sorry. In small profit or in a loss, or when it moves up from there, it just gets higher and higher. And then once it gets into the blue, it basically means that a lot of people are in a lot of profit. And that's kind of like a signal to say, okay, well, the market's a bit overheated here. We're probably going to come down because people are going to take profits. Now, I'm going to go over this on next month's data pump, which I'm actually going to cover two months worth of data here, and I'm going to dive deeper into that. But yeah, to answer your question, it is available for Ethereum, and I have gone over it in those videos, and I think it's actually a pretty reliable indicator.
01:33:19.604 - 01:34:03.834, Speaker A: And there's actually three different indicators. There's the average indicator, there's the short term indicator and the long term indicator. The short term will show you how many people that have bought and held ETH within the last 180 days are in profit versus loss and by how much. And then there's the long term one, which I can't remember the exact time range it takes into account, but it takes into account like a longer period of time. And it shows you how much those people are in profit buy and by how much as well. So the short term one, actually, recently for ETH, I checked, it was in the red zone, which means that pretty much all the short term buyers were either in loss or underwater and not in profit by very much, which is actually probably a good signal that shows that. Okay, well, if the long term investors aren't selling, then who's left to sell, so to speak.
01:34:03.834 - 01:34:36.564, Speaker A: So it's cool to see that. But anyway, I'll go over that in more detail on the data pump. I think that's it for the questions, unless. Okay, I'm just checking in the AMA series channel. Actually, I'm going to answer these questions and then I'll get back to, back to the audience if you guys have any last ones. But anyway, one here from Goby who says, what are your thoughts on uniswap removing most of the synthetic s tokens? I was surprised that they do that and not remove the scam token that exploits ERC 20 rune anticipating three letter driven regulations. Or is there something else to it? Yeah, this was the topic of the day the last 24 hours.
01:34:36.564 - 01:35:27.218, Speaker A: I gave some thoughts in the Discord channel earlier, but, and I'm going to go over this on the refuel in more detail, but my thoughts is that I think this is fine and bullish because of the fact that we should stop relying on centralized front ends because Uniswap dot uni uniswap dot exchange or whatever swap. That is a centralized front end that is controlled by the Uniswap labs decentralized team. It has never advertised itself as decentralized. It will never be decentralized. And we have plenty of other interfaces out there that can tap into the smart contracts on Ethereum, which are decentralized for Uniswap. And I think that by Uniswap making this action or taking this action, sorry, Uniswap labs taking this action, they are basically signaling to the rest of the ecosystem that, yes, there are regulators coming. They're going to do some damage, they're going to try and regulate things, and we need to decentralize faster.
01:35:27.218 - 01:36:01.012, Speaker A: And I think that we're going to have many more front ends popping up. There's already a lot, but we're going to have many more popping up. We're going to have many more people deploying decentralized front ends as well. And then more and more people can use those instead of using the centralized ones, because any points of failure in DeFi are going to get exploited by regulators. As much as we like to think the regulators are dumb and they don't know what they're doing, they, while they may move slow, they're going to catch up and they're going to have people telling them what's what. And then if we don't, we, if we can't resist regulators, well, then we're not really true defy. True DeFi is not relying on any centralized point of failure.
01:36:01.012 - 01:36:16.206, Speaker A: It is decentralized across the entire stack, and that includes the front end there. So, yeah, I mean, I think they did it because of regulatory reasons. Of course. The s tokens were like the security tokens from. From. From memory. And, you know, securities are already under the purview of the SEC.
01:36:16.206 - 01:36:49.988, Speaker A: So if you're trading securities in DeFi, even if they're synthetic assets, I mean, I'm pretty sure the SEC already has jurisdiction over that, but you can still trade them. Like, it wasn't like these pools were delisted from Uniswap. I mean, Uniswap labs can't do that. But obviously taking it off the front end makes it harder to find. But the thing is, you can use all the other front ends to do it as well. So, yeah, the TL doctor is basically, we need to decentralize the whole stack, and I think this is going to push people to do that even further here. And on that note, I'm going to move on to the last question from Ghostis Ave here.
01:36:49.988 - 01:37:29.358, Speaker A: Who says the attack on Thor chains token rune can be done? Can that be done to steal ETH from an eoa? How is it different? And also do you hold all your bags in one address, or do you spread them around? And if you spread them around, how do you manage all your private keys? So the attack on the rune token was unique to rune because it was the way that the contract, the token contract was. Was coded up. It was using non standard practices and it was using a. I think the way they coded it was just like completely stupid from what I saw. Like, the devs were calling this out and saying, you know, you should never do this. This is really bad. This couldn't be used to steal ETH from an eoa because of the fact that ETH isn't a token that is generated by a contract.
01:37:29.358 - 01:38:01.978, Speaker A: I mean, ETH is the only coin on Ethereum that comes from the protocol itself. Whereas if you had like, a wrapped ETH contract, you know, obviously you have wrapped ether as the default contract. If that was coded in the same way that rune was coded in, then yes, that wrapped ETH could be stolen. I mean, any token could be stolen if it was coded in the same way that the roon smart contract was. But ETH from an il way, using that same exploit that happened with. With Roon, that can't be done. And you'll have noticed that whenever you trade with ETH on a decentralized exchange or anywhere, it never actually asks you to approve your ETH for trading.
01:38:01.978 - 01:38:23.314, Speaker A: It might ask you to approve your wrapped ETH. But if you're just trading with vanilla ETH, it's not asking for an approval. Because as I said, vanilla ETH is not a smart contract token. It is part of the core protocol itself. So it's actually special in that it's separate to every other asset on Ethereum. So hopefully that answers that part of the question. And your second part here, how do you also.
01:38:23.314 - 01:39:02.800, Speaker A: Sorry. Also, do you hold all of your bags in one address, or do you spread them around? I spread them around not so much for security reasons, but more for just like, the fact that privacy is a big factor there. Obviously, I have Cecil ETH, and then I have my main accounts. I have my deep cold storage account, which actually is connected to my staking account because I put my ETH staking. And then how do I manage all my private keys? Well, I have like, hardware wallets and things like that, and I. I have ways of tracking it. I'm not going to give away how I track it or anything like that, but I make sure to secure all my seed phrases correctly and in places that obviously I'm the only one who knows about and make sure that it's all well and secure.
01:39:02.800 - 01:39:30.050, Speaker A: Like, I think more people need to take security of their funds and private keys seriously, especially when it comes to seed phrases or secret phrases, whatever you want to call it. Because if someone gets access to that seed phrase, they have access to all of your addresses on your ledger, for example. They have access to everything, and that's obviously really bad. And they can swipe everything on there. They don't need to do anything else. They can recreate your entire wallet, take all of your funds. So you want to make sure that that seed phrase never gets it, never sees the light of day.
01:39:30.050 - 01:39:53.886, Speaker A: You don't want to input it into a computer. You want to make sure it's only written down on a piece of paper. Or, you know, there's kind of tools. You can buy these, these kind of, I guess, like metal tools, where it's like a metal sheet and you can actually put your seed phrase words in there and. And then you want to make sure you hide that somewhere. Or you can even split up your seed phrase and give one half to your mum, one half to someone else. Right, that you trust.
01:39:53.886 - 01:40:18.458, Speaker A: But, you know, if those two halves came together, you know, those funds could be stolen from you if you don't secure it properly. So, yeah, hopefully that answers your question about security. If anyone else has a last questions here, do raise your hand. If not, I think we're going to wrap it up there for today. Cool. All right. On that note, thanks, everyone, for joining.
01:40:18.458 - 01:40:33.594, Speaker A: As I said, this has been recorded. It'll be uploaded to YouTube with timestamps. So if you came in late or, you know, left early, you can definitely go and watch it on there. So thank you again, everyone, for joining the 6th AMA. The next one will happen in two weeks, and I'll see you all on that one. Thanks again, everyone. Bye.
