00:00:04.810 - 00:01:46.990, Speaker A: I'm truly amazed by what the Chainlink network has been able to achieve over the last two years of being on Mainnet. In that short time, we've enabled the decentralized financial industry to go from an idea to a booming industry, securing tens of billions of dollars in value, and now rapidly approaching securing hundreds of billions of dollars in value, thanks to the various decentralized services and oracle networks that enable them to function and enable them to grow their markets and launch entirely new products to everyone globally, not just in the places where financial products already exist. I think the ability to use decentralized Oracle networks to create fraud proof gaming, dynamic NFTs, and to enable things like decentralized insurance all over the world for anybody that has an Internet connection is a truly amazing and worthwhile goal. I think that hybrid smart contracts and blockchain systems will come to define how people interact with each other about everything that's important, and how truth is defined about ownership, contractual outcomes, and even news items. At the end of the day, I'm extremely grateful to everybody who's been involved in making Chainlink what it is. I'm deeply grateful to the developers and all of the teams helping build Chainlink together with us, and the countless late nights that people have spent making sure it's a secure system, a reliable system, and something that provides the data and the computational systems and services that smart contract developers actually need. I'm of course deeply, deeply grateful to the various users that give feedback, contribute to the improvement of the chainlink network, put fees into Chainlink Oracle networks that are then aggregated and used to create security for all of those network's users collectively.
00:01:46.990 - 00:02:16.440, Speaker A: And I am of course uniquely grateful to the amazing community that we have and their consistent and ongoing long term support of this change in the world that I believe in, that I know they believe in, and that a lot of people in our industry have historically wanted to see happen, and that I think the larger world is slowly waking up to. Once again, thank you very much to everybody who's enabled this new vision of the world over the last few years, and I'm unbelievably excited about what will happen in the next few years. Thank you very much.
