00:00:00.250 - 00:00:33.960, Speaker A: Today we have a workshop on Allclair, which is a roll up, a service platform that allows people to deploy application tailored rollups. The agenda for today is basically five we'll have five things to discuss today. One is we'll talk about a little bit about Allflare, what we do and how we help people, especially those who want to build application tailored rollups. We'll show you a quick demo and you can play that to that as well. So we'll show you how to deploy a roll up using our dashboard that we have. You do not write to write even a single line of code. You should still be able to have roll up that you could customize in all sorts of ways.
00:00:33.960 - 00:01:18.126, Speaker A: And we'll be deploying a fully on chain game called 200:48. Some of you might be familiar with this game. It was developed long time back, I think ten years ago, and it was developed in a web Two context. But what you're going to do is to deploy that on this roll up. We'll have maybe five minutes of gameplay for you to experience what happens when you deploy such a game on a roll up. And then we'll have about five minutes of Q A if you have any questions. So very know we all love every single general population out there, including Ethereum, optimism, Zksync, Arbitrum and whatnot, but they're not ideal.
00:01:18.126 - 00:02:05.714, Speaker A: I mean, they're ideal for people who want to deploy quickly because all you have to do is to write your contract, build a front end, and then you're good to go. However, when you are looking for sort of driving a huge number of transaction volume in a short span of time, we have seen that general purpose chains are not very ideal because you start to see gas wars and gas issues very soon. And so it's a good idea to sometimes go and build application specific chains. And in particular we're talking about application specific roll ups. And we have been building application specific roll ups for a while now, even before Op, Stack, Arbitrum, Orbit or some of the other SDKs are out there, we're a thing. And so you could go to dashboard or technology. This is one that's actually currently in production, but we won't be playing with this today.
00:02:05.714 - 00:03:04.760, Speaker A: But we'll have a staging version where you can mess things around, but it basically offers a platform which is a no code framework where you can go and deploy a roll up. You could customize your roll ups and you do not have to write any code for that. So basically it acts as a wrapper around some of the SDKs that are out there in the market today. Why would you use something like Otlay's roll up a service? Because one is you can experiment. So if you're thinking about building a fully on chain game and you feel like if I put this on chain game, on existing general purpose chain out there then it might create gas warlike or gas issues for everyone. So you want something that's easy to experiment with where you can deploy quickly and most importantly do not want to waste time and spend time on kind of putting out all the infra which includes for example, your sequencers, your RPC endpoints exploders and so on. So everything gets offered as a managed service for you so that you can focus on game development and building that and not worry about any of the tertiary things that comes with it.
00:03:04.760 - 00:03:35.630, Speaker A: There are two types of roll ups that we offer, one that we call that's a persistent roll up. So consider this as an instance of optimism Arbitrum for your specific application. You could customize it in all sorts of ways. The second one is a female roll up. So these are roll ups that you can spin up and you can host your application on that roll up for as long as you want. When you feel like you're done with it, you don't need that anymore, you can take it down. And so it's ideal for applications that require block space but for a short period of time only.
00:03:35.630 - 00:04:12.670, Speaker A: So ideal for kind of minigames or games that you like Dark Forest that you spin up and you play for a while but you don't need that for a long term. You could use for example, flashlight for games for NFT Mint events. So you host, for example, your Mint event on this roll up. And when all your NFTs have been sold out or you have airdropped all your NFTs, you take that infrastructure down. And when that happens, all the assets, including NFTs or Tokens that you had on the roll up will be settled back on the base chain. And this way you get all the benefits of an app specific infrastructure, but also the benefits that comes from a general purpose chain. For example liquidity and composability.
00:04:12.670 - 00:04:55.706, Speaker A: So I would skip this one. Yeah, the main thing is that when the assets go back on the base chain you enjoy all the benefits that you would miss on if you're only on an app chain postnate. As I mentioned earlier, it's a chain that exists there forever and you can use that for longer term applications like GameFi, Social five, those sort of things. We have been talking to quite a few people out there mostly building games and they have come to us and they requested over time that we'd love to. It's great that you manage the sequences and RPC endpoints for us but it'd be good if we could run these sequences ourselves or we could outsource this to our decentralized community. And so we are kind of transitioning from Authlayer 1.0 to 2.0
00:04:55.706 - 00:05:41.094, Speaker A: model where it will be much more open and permissionless. If you wanted to say let's say I want to have five sequences and you want these sequences to be run by your committee members that'd be possible to do so. This is kind of how it works today. And by the way, all the roll up as service provider, they work in the model on top. So you basically have either an SDK like Op stack or you have something like a front end on top of that. And from there you can go and deploy different types of roll ups and you can use different DA layers or settlement layers and have fault proof, availability proofs. And what's happening right now is we're moving from this architecture to more of like this where you would have a layer that we call beacon layer, which is kind of like an interlayer between your roll up and the base chain or the base DA layer.
00:05:41.094 - 00:06:21.240, Speaker A: And that acts as the network where you can find sequencers. And it basically allows people to kind of provides a marketplace for sequencers but also other node providers. So, for example, if you launch different types of roll ups and you want interoperability across those roll ups, this beacon layer can be the network that does it. So basically it will check the state of the roll up on one side and it allows the sequences to process transactions on the other side of the roll up. We have been doing quite a few things. People have been playing with our Flashplay and person roll ups in all sorts of ways. We hosted Dark Forest several times in the past and every single time we did it, we had about 200K transactions on that roll up.
00:06:21.240 - 00:07:07.486, Speaker A: It has been used for all sorts of Mint events, both AirDrop style Mint events or Free Mints, but also paid Mint events. And so it's interesting to see how people are using this in gaming and Ft context. The Alt ecosystem is expanding quite a bit. So we are starting with supporting different types of roll up SDKs. So if you are fan of Celestia's SDK in terms of launching sovereign roll ups, you could do that as well. We are also in the process of integrating Op stack, Arbitram, Orbit and if you wanted some sort of you don't like, let's say, the Validating bridge because it may come with a long withdrawal period, you could go and pick external interoperability solution providers like Hyperlin as well. That allows you to have a much more modular and open infrastructure for interoperability.
00:07:07.486 - 00:07:49.970, Speaker A: And we have been working with a lot of game companies that are building using the stack that we provide. One of the most interesting one is this company called Double Jump Tokyo. They are a game studio based out of Japan with some of the biggest IPS in gaming. For example Pac Man from the old school style games and they are building and using our stack for their game based chain. Now we'll move to show you a quick demo of how this dashboard looks like and what you can do with it. So if you want to play around with it. Here's a QR code, you can scan it and then you could go and play with the dashboard.
00:07:49.970 - 00:07:51.860, Speaker A: Take over.
00:07:56.630 - 00:07:58.470, Speaker B: I use your laptop.
00:07:58.970 - 00:08:51.140, Speaker A: Sure, it so.
00:09:02.270 - 00:09:46.890, Speaker B: So everyone can just log into the dashboard. So today for today's demo, right, we are using this staging dashboard as Amari just show you. You can just log in via this SDG dashboard art technology and inside it you have multiple tiers to choose. restaking Trial Free Trial and Starter tier and Developer Tier. So for the first row, right, they are sort of the same. It's the way for you to quickly spin off a flash layer. So you can deploy contract on this flash layer and once the event your event right, empty or game is done.
00:09:46.890 - 00:11:05.922, Speaker B: So you can call the protocol to basically roll up the states back to the settlement layer and then devtier is something we are finishing like a few months ago. It's basically provide you multi sequencer EVM and WASM compatible roll up with fraud proof. And same here you can select your settlement layer and either on ethereum binbichin or even like polygon and some other roll ups like linear for the settlement layer. Later I will show you and then as you can see we also have multiple functionality for you like manage your flash layer. You can just terminate them or show the status and then at the same time we are also providing the IDE so it's easier for you to directly deploy your contract into the rollab. Just spin off and then you can call this contract the cool part that we also have interwe GPT. So you can sort of just describe what kind of L two you want or the roll up you want and define the flash near name and then it will generate sort of the specs for your roll up.
00:11:05.922 - 00:11:47.946, Speaker B: And then you can spin off where this one at the same. You can also ask him to change the name to Module to something like that. It will also sort of help to change the name automatically using the GPT. Same thing. You can also use it to generate contract and deploy a contract on your dedicated L tool. Yeah, beyond that I would just quickly show you how to run something like Starter tier, generate one. So if you really want to have a try, as amre mentioned, you can just ask for the promo code.
00:11:47.946 - 00:12:06.802, Speaker B: And once you have a promo code you can just type in the promo code. And this is sort of like configurations you can have. So right now we have three modes. One is fair. Sequencing It's the first account, first serve. Second one is gas list. There's zero gas so you don't really need to pay any gas.
00:12:06.802 - 00:12:51.990, Speaker B: It's mainly for games and FTS which they want to onboard as many users as possible without any gas. And beyond that we also have the normal blockchain gas option, right so ajali higher gas, you can get a higher chance to have your transaction included into the block. Same thing here. You can just define your sort of flash layer name and also you can change sort of gas limit and block time. We are also the native symbol token you want. And beyond that you can also have your native balance. By default, we incorporate the Faucet Explorer into it.
00:12:51.990 - 00:13:46.130, Speaker B: After that you can just click Bartender and create this flash layer. Typically only takes two minutes for you to spin off a flash layer. We can just wait for a while and then see how it works. Yeah, beyond that, as I mentioned, we also have something very cool and you can also try out. We call sort of this dev tier, the cool paradigm. So basically we need to choose longer time. Doesn't matter the cool paradigm, right, as I can show you next, basically it provides you more sort of modes to choose.
00:13:46.130 - 00:14:29.778, Speaker B: Like you can choose the Namor nodes and for this one we have a native bridge incorporated. And also you need to select your settlement layer like Ethereum. Let's use Sepolia. And by default because we are providing this fraud proof, right. So you need to select sort of the checkpoint value and also challenge period for example longer challenge then you don't really need to regularly post the data too frequently. And beyond that you can also configure a native token symbol and all things. For this one we can also just clear button and quickly duplicate.
00:14:29.778 - 00:15:27.080, Speaker B: Yeah, for this one we need to define a new name, modular. It should be okay because we have the proof system for this one, right? So you need to really deposit sort of the tokens for posting the data to the L one or the DA layer. So in that case we need to deposit some tokens there. Beyond that, right, as we can see wait a second, as Amari mentioned, we are a decentralized protocol. There's also layer called beacon layer to help us to coordinate all the different roll ups. In that case, we also need to register on this layer. So we just deposit something like this.
00:15:27.080 - 00:16:47.224, Speaker B: Yeah, so once the deposit is done, right, so the network will automatically spin off. Let me check. The transaction should be okay now takes a little bit time to confirm the transaction on the support testnet and I think sort of flash layer one is already done, right, as you can see, typical, it takes one or two minutes. So what you can see, right, you already have the Faucet. So you can really deposit to get some Faucet tokens if you want people to use your roll up.
00:16:47.262 - 00:16:47.656, Speaker A: Right.
00:16:47.758 - 00:17:44.410, Speaker B: At the same time, there's also Block Explorer for you to use. And yeah, for this one, as you can see right, it's very straightforward and you can either use a free tier, you can use starter tier yourself and just spin off and then there's another one, we set it up like yesterday. This is called linear. This one is a dev tier. So it probably takes more time because we automatically deploy the contracts. For this one you can see, right, we also have the bridge ready so you can just bridge the tokens from the sort of settlement layer to your own l two, the one you just set it up for this one I'm not sure whether I have tokens. Let me check.
00:17:55.220 - 00:17:55.788, Speaker A: It.
00:17:55.894 - 00:19:23.498, Speaker B: Yeah, once I move to Sepolia yeah, for this one you need sort of things it's connected to the linear testnet. Yeah, connected to the linear test site. You need some testnet tokens and then you can basically bridge down to your own sort of roll up and later you can also withdraw. Yeah, but for the DevTO, right, there's a better explorer as you can see. You can check all the transactions and contracts with deployed yeah, this sort of the current dashboard and we have and for all the developers you can just use your own sort of single sound like Google, right? Log into it and then you can launch whatever sort of self defined roll apps yourself. Either it's for flash layer or it's for a persistent roll up you want if any of you want to have a try can just contact us. Beyond that, as amre mentioned, because we are building our own test deck so we put a lot of efforts on improving the performance for dedicated like these roll apps.
00:19:23.498 - 00:20:28.530, Speaker B: So in that case, we have this as I mentioned we have the multi sequencer system with fraud proof. So it's quite decentralized and also secure, right? At the same time we also make the performance as fast as possible. So one example we provide, or the infrastructure we provide for our gaming partners is this fully like game optimized roll ups and this is just one example, 2048. Everyone can just use your mobile phone or your laptop. You can just use your mobile phone to open this sort of link, it's 2049. And let me show you, give me some time. A little bit slow, let me read again.
00:20:28.530 - 00:21:44.962, Speaker B: Yeah, so you can quickly go to it, right, so the thing is the rule for this game, very simple. So you can swap left, right, up and down once you have the tails with the same number and then you can merge them for example, two two, right, you can merge them into a larger number like and then the Goldite, you basically combine as many tails as possible to quickly reach the number 2048. So the cool part, as you can see, right we can quickly like if you are using laptop, you can quickly use your keyboard left, right and up, down and quickly switch it. And basically for every move it's one transaction on the roll up. So that's a really cool part. So it's a fully onchain game and it's super super fast so basically you couldn't see any latency right? It's a regularly some network issue but anyway, this is something we provide for our gaming partners. So we achieve this latency less than 100 milliseconds.
00:21:44.962 - 00:22:31.170, Speaker B: So you can build whatever, it's a fully engine gamer as you want. You don't need to change your code, it's fully EVM compatible. You can just deploy your solidity contract but at the same time that I show you right, so you can really enjoy the super fast execution provided by our test deck. Yeah, you can just have a try as I just showed you, it's quite smooth and basically every move is a transaction on chain. So you can just click you can see the transaction here. So that's sort of like on our side, right? We see. We made a lot of progress on the performance of the execution layer.
00:22:31.170 - 00:23:20.440, Speaker B: So previously, if we want to build some fully onto game, right, we have to wait for a lot of time. For example, there's a constant blot time 2 seconds or even 15 seconds. So in that case, you really couldn't build sort of free entry game providing for web two users. So in that case, no web two user really want to use MetaMask. Click and wait for another few seconds, right, for one move. But here, since we are having this game focused roll up or this test deck so you can quickly sort of run it and basically all the users can enjoy this low, latency or almost no latency. Fully on chain game experience.
00:23:20.440 - 00:23:29.610, Speaker B: So everyone can just have a try. Either have a try this game or just have a try our sort of dashboard.
00:23:34.110 - 00:24:32.010, Speaker A: Just very quickly. I'll try. To close off. So the game that Yaoji showed, as you said, it's a fully on chain game. It might seem very simple because the moves that you're making are basically four moves. So you can either go up, down left or right, but this is the contract that corresponds to the on chain game logic. Starting from the storage part, you have basically, when the game has ended, you have just a simple boolean.
00:24:32.010 - 00:25:13.610, Speaker A: You have the owners. So basically every single game is a new instance within this map. So when you start, you are one of the owners. So basically a player in the system and this scores keeps track of which player has how much score. And you have this board which basically this four x four tile associated to each single eight single player. And then mostly after that, when you start, you basically create a new tile for board for the player. And you assign the person who started the game to be the sender, to be the owner of the style.
00:25:13.610 - 00:26:00.402, Speaker A: And then you initiate with some randomness and then you have these moves going up. Moves going down, up. So this is down, you will have a left and right, which is basically the mathematical thing, which is basically if you move, all the slides move until they hit the next tile. And if two tiles have the same number and they're close to each other, they will add up. So that's kind of what the logic here is. And then lastly yeah, these are some of the basic functions to get the board and scores and so on. So one cool thing, I mean this contract basically there are two ways of implementing this contract where you could have one contract per player.
00:26:00.402 - 00:26:50.658, Speaker A: So basically when you start a new game, you get a new contract. But in this one it basically combines all the contracts and all the boards into one single contract. So basically it keeps track of all the different users that might be playing at the same time. So this allows you to, for example, to run a competition or tournament if you wanted because now you have one single contract tracking, care taking, tracking every single game instance out there. Yeah, that's mostly it. We'll put back the slide in case you want to have sorry. Yeah, and if you have any more questions or any questions afterwards, we'll be around.
00:26:50.658 - 00:27:00.480, Speaker A: Or if you could go just go check on the docs page and this is the link for the game. Thank you very much.
