00:00:00.250 - 00:00:40.782, Speaker A: You. Thanks for tuning in to this week's news recap. Winter Mute, a crypto market maker, was hacked for $160,000,000 worth of crypto. According to CEO and founder of Getting Guyvoy, the exploit was related to the firm's DFI operations, but the overthecounter and CFI functions are safe. Guyvoy assured that the company remains solvent with twice over that amount in equity left, and said he is treating it as a White Hat attack. The Winter Mute team has contacted the hacker and offered 10% of the stolen funds as a bug bounty. It also warned if the stolen funds are not returned by the deadline, you will force us to remove our bounty offer and white hat label.
00:00:40.782 - 00:01:23.538, Speaker A: We will then proceed accordingly with the appropriate authorities and avenues. This is the 7th largest exploit in crypto. The top of the list is still led by the Ronan attack, followed by polynetwork and wormhole. The hack was related to a vanity address vulnerability, which was recently discovered by the One Inch team. In fact, earlier this week, someone drained over $3 million from one of these addresses. This is not the first mishap suffered by Winter Mute this year, as it also lost 20 million op tokens worth $27 million at that time due to a mistake. Tarun Chitra, managing partner at Robot Ventures, called the Winter Mute team incompetent on this week's show of the Chopping block.
00:01:23.538 - 00:02:20.520, Speaker A: Official video out Saturday. In related news, a hacker called Zero X Riptide identified a bug within Arbitrum Nitro, the latest upgrade to the Ethereum layer two. The flaw was related to the bridge between the Ethereum, Mainet and Arbitram and would have allowed anyone to replace the destination address with their own. The Whitehead hacker was rewarded with 400 E, or around $500,000. Doe Kwan not in Singapore but denies being on the run The Financial Times reported that authorities in South Korea have asked Interpol to issue a red notice for Doe Kwan, four months after the collapse of the Terra Blockchain. A red notice is a request to law enforcement worldwide to locate and provisionally arrest a person pending extradition, surrender or similar legal action. South Korean investigators have been looking into the implosion of the Terra network and analyzing whether Kwon violated the country's capital markets law.
00:02:20.520 - 00:03:05.890, Speaker A: Last week, a court issued an arrest warrant for Kwon, but his whereabouts are still unknown. After the police confirmed that he was not in Singapore, authorities have decided to ask the Worldwide Enforcement Organization for some help. However, Kwan tweeted, I am not on the run or anything similar for any government agency that has shown interest to communicate. We are in full cooperation and we don't have anything to hide. Last week, the Ministry of Finance of South Korea stated its intent to void Kwon's passport to force him to return to the country. To date, Interpol has not yet added Kwon to the red notice list. Giants battle over Voyager's assets Crypto exchanges FTX and Binance are leading the auction for troubled crypto lender Voyager.
00:03:05.890 - 00:03:40.674, Speaker A: According to the Wall Street Journal, Voyager is going through bankruptcy proceedings and is one of the many crypto firms that collapsed this winter. The auction for its distressed assets started last week. Finance has reportedly offered $50 million, a slightly better proposal than its competitor FTX. At the company's peak, Voyager was worth $3.9 billion. Since the bankruptcy, it has lost more than 95% of its value. Voyager had provided loans to bankrupt crypto fund Three Arrows Capital, and this exposure was the main catalyst for the collapse of the company.
00:03:40.674 - 00:04:28.370, Speaker A: In addition, Voyager lent $200 million to Alameda Research, Sam Bankman fried's trading firm, this week. Alameda agreed to repay the loan in exchange for $160,000,000 in collateral. This week, Voyager agreed to repay the loan in exchange for $160,000,000 in collateral Voyager has been holding. Speaking of troubled crypto companies, Celsius has asked the bankruptcy court for permission to sell $23 million in stablecoin holdings. If the motion is approved by Judge Martin Glenn, Celsius will have more liquidity to continue its daily operations. In addition, another video of Celsius's revival plan was leaked this week. Apparently, the firm is considering issuing wrapped tokens to give back some customer funds.
00:04:28.370 - 00:05:21.250, Speaker A: CoinFLEX, a crypto exchange based in Singapore which halted its operations in June, announced an official restructuring proposal that would give creditors the rights to 65% of the company. Meanwhile, FTX is still showing strength during these tumultuous times. The firm is reportedly raising up to $1 billion at a valuation of $32 billion. According to CNBC, FTX would use the funds for additional deal making. Coinbase Reportedly Had a trading Business Unit coinbase, the largest cryptocurrency exchange in the United States, set up an internal crypto trading desk last year, according to the Wall Street Journal. Also last year, executives at the company testified before Congress and stated that they were not running a proprietary trading business. However, the Wall Street Journal says that the company hired senior Wall Street traders to create a new business unit called Coinbase Risk Solutions.
00:05:21.250 - 00:06:14.110, Speaker A: The report claims that the business unit was dissolved five months after its creation. Coinbase published a blog post stating that the report was inaccurate. Coinbase does not operate a proprietary trading business or act as a market maker. The exchange also said from time to time, Coinbase purchases cryptocurrency as principal, including for our corporate, treasury and operational purposes, but it doesn't view it as proprietary trading. The Week Postmerge The highly awaited merge happened a little over a week ago, but even though the upgrade went as smoothly as it could have, the markets have seen quite a bit of volatility. Before the merge, ETH was trading at around one $600. However, it took a downturn and it hit a low of 1229 after the Federal Reserve announced a 75 basis points hike in the interest rate on Wednesday.
00:06:14.110 - 00:06:58.302, Speaker A: That caused a bloodbath in the crypto and stock market following the merge. The ethereum proof of work fork went live despite many doubts. Within hours after the mainnet announcement, Justin Sun's Exchange Poloniex decided to support a different fork of the chain, Ethereum Fair, which is supposedly supported by the community's majority. However, it looks like the fork is not going very well. Cybersecurity company Blockseg said that it detected replay exploits on the blockchain, which resulted in an extra 200 ETHW tokens being captured by the attacker. The ETHW token performed quite poorly and is trading at approximately $5 only 0.4% of ETH.
00:06:58.302 - 00:07:59.366, Speaker A: Some analysts were estimating that ETHW would account for two to 3% of Ethereum's market cap, but the market says otherwise. Tether to issue supporting documentation Tether The issuer of stablecoin USDT has been ordered by a judge to provide financial records to back its issuance. This is related to a lawsuit which alleges that Tether, in cooperation with its sister company Bitfinex, conspired to manipulate the price of BTC and other tokens with non backed issuance of the stablecoin. The judge is also ordering Tether to share details about the accounts it holds at crypto exchanges Bitfinex, Poloniex and Bittrex. Tether replied in a statement, the order is a routine discovery order and does not in any way substantiate plaintiffs'meritless claims. Kraken, CEO steps down jesse Powell CEO of Crypto Exchange kraken Disclosure a former sponsor will step down from his role. Powell founded the company eleven years ago and was able to grow it into one of the largest crypto exchanges in the market.
00:07:59.366 - 00:08:38.258, Speaker A: He will act as chairman of the board and will focus on product development and industry advocacy. Dave Ripley, Kraken's chief operating officer, will replace Powell as CEO. Powell said on Twitter Kraken is in excellent hands with Dave Ripley. I'll continue to be highly engaged as chairman. Big thanks to the team for trusting me, our investors for taking a chance, and all my industry peers on the front lines. Finance CEO Chengpeng Zhao saluted Powell like raising a kid, a founder has to let go sooner or later. Nasdaq to offer Crypto services Equity exchange operator Nasdaq is planning to launch its own cryptocurrency custody service.
00:08:38.258 - 00:09:46.774, Speaker A: According to Bloomberg, the second largest stock exchange in the world is preparing to capitalize on the Nascent crypto industry and will reportedly offer crypto services for Bitcoin and Ether to institutional investors. Nasdaq is establishing a new crypto focused unit called Nasdaq Digital Assets, which will be run by IRA Hourbach, a former employee of Crypto Exchange Gemini. This new service still requires regulatory approval. In other adoption news, the state of Colorado will accept crypto payments for taxes. Governor Jared Polis, a longtime crypto advocate who has also been featured on Unchained, said Colorado is tech forward in meeting the ever changing needs of businesses and residents. Time for fun Bits The rainbow has a new Color The bitcoin rainbow model finally broke this week, or so it was thought, as the price of bitcoin seemed to close below 19,000 on Monday. Eric Wall, who has been touting this model for a long time, said it's over, and posted a hilarious meme of the rainbow chart being defeated in a Dragon Ball Z fight.
00:09:46.774 - 00:10:32.530, Speaker A: However, the very next day he tweeted, oh wait, bitcoin had a daily close above nineteen k in the end. Sorry y'all, rainbow not dead. Also, after Holger, a crypto Twitter person commented Indigo was always missing. The chart was updated to include a purple band which reads one BTC equals one BTC. However, JackUS, another crypto influencer, posted a fixed rainbow chart which projects that the price of BTC will go to zero. Thanks so much for joining us today. To learn more about regulation in crypto and Senator Pat Toomey, check out the show notes for this episode.
00:10:32.530 - 00:10:41.890, Speaker A: Unchained is produced by Me Laura Shin with help from Anthony Yoon, Matt Pilchard, Von Ranovich Hama, Jimdar Shashank and CLK. Transcription thanks for listening.
