00:00:00.090 - 00:00:35.090, Speaker A: Um, in DFI, your money becomes empowered. You can store it, lend it, trade it, zap it and track it in real time. Yeah, it's kind of like a money game. But at the origin of this is the desire to have more control. And we call this self custody. Self custody in DFI refers to you, yes, you being 100% in control of your money, the same way you are with cash. Except this is digital cash, and it's not dependent on a bank or other entity holding it to provide you a digital representation.
00:00:35.090 - 00:01:11.358, Speaker A: And this is precisely why blockchain was such a huge innovation, starting with bitcoin and then Ethereum. So here's what you need to know. DeFi requires you to have an ethereum wallet, like metamask, Argent, dharma monolith or any of those. The point is, you have a private key, which is kind of like the password to your email. And while others can know your public wallet address, like your email address, you never ever share the private key. Secondly, being in control of your assets means no one can save you. There is no customer support like you'd find at a crypto exchange, and there's definitely no customer support to call when you lose cash on the street.
00:01:11.358 - 00:02:03.250, Speaker A: When you own digital cash, the only thing you can do is write down your private key and your wallet seed sprays to back up in a safe place in case you ever lose your device with your wallet, like your laptop or phone. The good thing is you can easily restore your wallet if you do lose your phone, but you can't restore funds that are taken if you inadvertently give up your private keys. Lastly, and here's the good stuff you can now do, well, pretty much anything with your digital money and defi applications will allow you to do just that. There's a wide range, including trading, lending, borrowing, liquidity, providing options, trading derivatives and yield farming. And you can do pretty much whatever you want until your agricultural dreams as a child are fully realised. Now, the key takeaway about self custody is as simple as Andreas Antonopoulos said. Not your keys, not your coins.
00:02:03.250 - 00:02:39.020, Speaker A: But with Defi, we now have applications that let your money work for you, and you can't take advantage of that unless, first off, you're in control. And secondly, you give permission to these new automated money robots called DeFi apps to put your money to work. And that's precisely why we believe DeFi can democratise access to strategies that can grow anyone's wealth, regardless of who you are, where you live, how much or how little money you earn. So you've been watching D 5101. Do be sure and check out the other videos in this series and subscribe to the channel so you don't miss the new videos as they drop. And above all, stay safe out there.
