00:00:00.170 - 00:00:44.886, Speaker A: You. Thanks for tuning in to this week's news recap. First Headline Uniswap Labs restricts certain tokens Last Friday, Uniswap Labs decided to restrict access for over 100 tokens through its user interface. Delisted were a range of synthetic assets, tokenized stocks, mirror stocks, options and derivatives. The company cited the quote evolving regular landscape in its explanation of the cuts because Uniswap is a decentralized protocol, Uniswap Labs can only restrict tokens through its own interface. Users can still interact with the protocol through other portals. The distinction is significant uniswap the protocol is unaffected as it exists as a decentralized permissionless smart contract running on ethereum Uniswap.
00:00:44.886 - 00:01:41.334, Speaker A: The app, however, is controlled by Uniswap Labs, which is separate from the protocol. Defining itself as a quote, software development studio that contributes to the Uniswap protocol, uniswap founder Hayden Adams put it best on Twitter Just a reminder Uniswap protocol equals fully decentralized permissionless smart contracts on Ethereum. Uniswap interface equals open source GPL or general public license codebase app Uniswap.org equals Uniswap Labs owned domain that points to an IPFS hosted instance of the Uniswap interface. Notably, Uniswap Labs's announcement comes soon after securities and Exchange Commission Chair Gary Gensler hinted that digital assets backed by traditional securities could fall under US. Securities law. Next Headline A new infrastructure bill Looks to Raise $28 Billion through crypto taxes in the latest version of the Bipartisan infrastructure plan in the US, policymakers have proposed to raise an additional $28 billion through crypto taxes.
00:01:41.334 - 00:02:33.630, Speaker A: These funds would be funneled into a larger $550,000,000,000 investment into the country's transportation and infrastructure. As part of the bill, reporting, rules would tighten, with US. Businesses being obligated to report any transaction over $10,000 to the IRS. Kristen Smith, executive director of the blockchain association, told CoinDesk. Quote, we interpret this to mean software wallet developers, hardware wallet manufacturers, multisig service providers, liquidity providers, Dow, token holders, and potentially even miners. In other regulatory news, representative Don Byer introduced the Digital Asset Market Structure and Investor Protection Act on Thursday. The bloc reports that the bill quote, seeks to delineate the treatment of crypto assets under five securities acts the Commodity Exchange Act and the Bank Secrecy Act, as well as Federal Reserve treatment of stablecoins and possible digital legal tender.
00:02:33.630 - 00:03:12.118, Speaker A: Next headline. Finance cuts leverage and Nonkyc withdrawal limits. Finance is moving at light speed to address increasing regulatory scrutiny. The exchange revealed over the weekend that it has begun lowering its futures trading leverage limit to 20 x. It previously had an infamous offering of 125 x. CEO Changpeng Zhao, aka CZ, cited consumer protection in his explanation regarding the move. On Tuesday, the company announced a reduction in the withdrawal limit for the lowest tier of KYC customers, cutting it down from two BTC down to zero six BTC.
00:03:12.118 - 00:04:04.310, Speaker A: On Twitter, CZ explained the decision as a way to enhance finance's. Quote, KYC efforts to further its leadership in this area while binance the global exchange is working so hard to appear buttoned up. Binance US is eyeing a public offering. Last Friday, CZ said, quote, Our partner in the US is looking at the potential IPO route. However, in an interview with Forbes Finance, US CEO Brian Brooks set the timeline for an IPO at about 36 to 48 months from now. As for Finance itself, CZ noted that the exchange is not quite ready to go public, but that could change in the future another potential shift for Binance It could be looking for a new CEO. CZ Tweeted I Slash We would very much like to hire a strong compliance background CEO to show our commitment to compliance, as this is the top priority of the organization.
00:04:04.310 - 00:05:11.306, Speaker A: However, he did clarify that, quote There are no immediate plans to replace him as next Headline Tether's Early Days could come back to bite It The US. Department of justice, or DOJ is investigating whether Tether executives committed bank fraud. According to a report from Bloomberg, the charges focus on Tether's early days, when the company allegedly lied about its crypto nature when opening initial bank accounts. Per Bloomberg, three unnamed sources quote with direct knowledge of the matter claim that federal prosecutors are examining quote whether Tether concealed from banks that transactions were linked to cryptocurrency. As of now, no criminal charges have been filed against Tether concerning the concealment of cryptocurrency transactions. However, Bloomberg reports that federal prosecutors have sent letters to individuals at Tether alerting them of the investigation. Such notices signal that senior DOJ officials could be making a decision soon on whether charges are warranted.
00:05:11.306 - 00:06:03.050, Speaker A: In response, Tether published a statement which did not entirely deny the report but indicated it was wrong. Quote this article follows a pattern of repackaging stale claims as news, the continued efforts to discredit Tether will not change our determination to remain leaders in the community. Tether routinely has open dialogue with law enforcement agencies, including the US. Department of justice, as part of our commitment to cooperation, transparency and accountability. Next Headline Stonercat's NFT Drop Led to Big ETH Losses Wednesday's Stonercat's NFT Drop resulted in a loss of 344.6 ETH, or more than $750,000, due to a number of failed transactions combined with high gas fees, according to data from Dune Analytics. Produced by Mila Kunis, Stoner Cats is an adult animated series that can only be accessed via NFT.
00:06:03.050 - 00:06:50.922, Speaker A: The cast is absolutely star studded, with Kunis, Ashen Kutcher, Chris Rock, Seth McFarland, Jane Fonda, and Vitalik Buterin. Starring as digital collectibles. The 10,420 Stoner Cats each sold for 00:35 E in just 35 minutes or excuse me, meow Knits. It was undoubtedly a success at publishing time. The project ranked fourth in weekly volume on Openc despite only being dropped a few days ago. However, due to an error with the Minting contract, many Wouldbe collectors were left with nothing but lighter digital wallets. Any address that attempted to mint 20 NFTs, which is the max allowed per address without manually adjusting the gas limit in MetaMask was left with burned ETH and no NFTs, as reported by the defiant per Ether Scan.
00:06:50.922 - 00:07:26.454, Speaker A: One user lost 5.8 ETH worth more than $13,000 at the time due to the error. As of now, Stonercats has not announced any plans to rectify the situation. Next headline Robinhood goes public in Eyes crypto staking solution On Thursday afternoon, Robinhood officially IPOed, selling 55 million shares at $38 each, giving Robin Hood a valuation of $31.8 billion. At press time, Hood sits at $34.90, about 8% off its initial listing.
00:07:26.454 - 00:08:27.070, Speaker A: While going public is a huge deal in traditional finance, Robinhood also made headlines in the crypto world this week. On Sunday, Decrypt reported that Robinhood is looking to add crypto lending and staking to its platform at the company's roadshow ahead of its IPO. CFO Jason Warnick revealed that Robinhood is, quote, making a lot of investments in things we know our customers want, such as wallets lending and staking. He added, quote we think there's a big opportunity in front of us and we look forward to delivering more products for customers. Warnick's comments led the blog to unearth a panel from an Ethereum Focus conference held in Paris last week, where Uniswap Labs growth lead Ashley Schapp said Robinhood has held talks with Uniswap Labs. In Shap's words, One of the cool things we've actually been talking about with them Robinhood is a way to use Uniswap to automatically settle a trade, for example, right when it happens with the user. Robinhood has remained silent on the topic, while Uniswap Labs has confusingly both confirmed and denied the rumors, the block report said an inside source has confirmed the talks.
00:08:27.070 - 00:09:38.254, Speaker A: Next headline Amazon is hiring in crypto but denies plan to accept crypto payments Amazon is looking to hire a quote, digital currency and blockchain product lead, according to a posting on its job board. The specifics of the job, which was first reported in Bloomberg, are wide ranging, with the commerce giant asking for someone with, quote, expertise in blockchain, distributed ledgers, CBDCs and cryptocurrency. The product lead would be in charge of developing a roadmap for both Amazon and AWS's foray into the world of digital currencies. Also this week, many anticipated an announcement from Amazon regarding the acceptance of cryptocurrency as payment. The rumors arose from a British newspaper report on Monday, which cited an inside source claiming that Amazon would accept bitcoin payments by the end of the year. However, Amazon, in an email to CoinDesk, dashed those hopes, saying, quote, Notwithstanding our interest in the space, the speculation that has ensued around our specific plans for cryptocurrencies is not true. Next headline high profile Backers Fund Paxos's series D on Thursday, Paxos announced a 300 million dollar series D backed by bank of America Coinbase Ventures, FTX and Founders Fund.
00:09:38.254 - 00:10:26.446, Speaker A: Notably, bank of America, the second biggest bank in the US. Has now shown interest in blockchain and crypto twice through Paxos, as the bank previously tried out Paxos'settlement system in march to clear stock trades. In related news, during its second quarter earnings call, Paxos'biggest client PayPal hinted at big plans for the payment company in the world of digital assets, specifically citing smart contracts and DeFi. Time for fun bits. Goldman Sachs'defi in Air Quotes Fund on Monday, Goldman Sachs filed an application with the US. Securities and Exchange Commission for a DeFi ETF. DeFi, as I'm sure most of you know, is short for decentralized finance, which apps like Uniswap, Curve and Ave are pioneering in crypto.
00:10:26.446 - 00:11:05.466, Speaker A: It appears that Goldman Sachs did not quite get the memo while its filing was on the right track with the name of its ETF, dubbed the Goldman Sachs Innovate, DeFi and Blockchain Equity ETF. The actual companies involved in the fund are a far cry from DeFi. The top three weightings of this DeFi ETF are allocated to one Nokia, two Facebook, three alphabet. All right, that's it for fun bits. Thanks for tuning in. To learn more about Leah, callan Butler and Axio Infinity. Be sure to check out the links in the show notes.
00:11:05.466 - 00:11:24.130, Speaker A: Heads up, everyone. The Unchained newsletter has switched from a weekly news recap to a daily email. Each morning you'll get four to five quick headlines, a crypto meme or two, and a few recommended reads. You can find the link to sign up in my Twitter bio. Unconfirmed is produced by me, Laura Shin without from Anthony Yoon, Mark Murdoch and Daniel Ness. Thanks for listening.
