00:00:09.440 - 00:00:30.144, Speaker A: So our next speaker has a background in Tradefi, also has worked with trading and investment banking with big names such as Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and Rokos Capital in London. I would like to to ask to come on the stage, George, give a little round of applause.
00:00:30.924 - 00:00:50.984, Speaker B: Thank you. Great. So is everyone bullish? Ethereum? I hope so, yeah. So my name is George. Thanks a lot for having me. Really excited to be here. I'm going to be talking about building defi yield curves and unlocking new real world use cases.
00:00:50.984 - 00:01:49.416, Speaker B: So let's get going. So what is the term structure protocol? Term structure is a non custodial fixed income protocol that basically aims to establish interest rate curves in Defi by having fixed rate, fixed term borrowing and lending. The way it's doing that is by having a customized ek roll up for fast, scalable and secure transactions. We've also been in contact with the arbitrum foundation to deploy there as well by the end of the year. And the whole vision is to basically provide Defi tools and infrastructure that can unlock real world real life use cases, from rwas to cheap remittances and to mortgages. Where is the market right now? Well, basically almost 50% of borrowed and land volume is being repaid or redeemed after less than 30 days. So there's not much activity happening beyond that.
00:01:49.416 - 00:02:18.842, Speaker B: There's nothing happening. One month, two months, et cetera. There's no concept, there's no such thing as an interest rate curve, as a yield curve. So what is an interest rate curve? What is a yield curve? I'll go into that in just a minute. But before that, I just want to go into some financial markets history. So banknotes and modern money was invented in the 17th century. The first futures contract, it's really interesting.
00:02:18.842 - 00:02:56.854, Speaker B: It was traded in Japan in the 18th century, and it was a rice futures contract. So basically farmers were trying to ensure their future crop and basically hedge their price risk. And that's how futures were invented. They had a real life use case and that's how they got going. Then significant growth of futures contracts happened later in 1848 with the grain futures that was introduced by the Chicago Board of Trade. So that is on the futures side. And then the other important product that we all heard of, government bonds.
00:02:56.854 - 00:03:30.846, Speaker B: When were these first issued? 17th century in Netherlands and the UK. They kind of happened around the same time. So I've put in both. And then the first issuance of us government bonds happened later in the 1790s. So obviously us government bonds, the most important bond market and arguably the most important kind of financial contract traded. So the kind of points I'm trying to make here is that when it comes to futures contracts, these were tied to commodities and were meant to hedge farmers price race. So they had real life use cases.
00:03:30.846 - 00:04:04.190, Speaker B: They were not created such that speculators can play a different type of casino. They were embedded in real life needs. And similarly, government bonds played a significant role throughout history in funding wars, unfortunately, and then funding reconstructions and making societal progress. So again, they had a real life use case. That in itself had a real life use case. That's how it was invented, not for, you know, speculation. Now back to what the yield curve is.
00:04:04.190 - 00:04:54.854, Speaker B: So basically, if you have the time to maturity on the x axis and the interest rate on the y axis, you should get this nice upward sloping, concave looking curve if the market is well behaved. And what this is meant to tell you is that the longer the time to maturity, the more uncertainty you have. If you're having more uncertainty, you need to be compensated with a higher interest rate. So for example, if I'm lending $100 to my friend for a week, it's a different risk proposition, as opposed to lending $100 to a real estate developer in New York for two years. Obviously the uncertainty is much higher and I won't be necessarily be able to chase that real estate developer to get my money back versus my friend. And so that's kind of what a yield curve is, or an interest rate term structure is. The terms are interchangeable.
00:04:54.854 - 00:05:31.814, Speaker B: Let me just try to go to the next slide. Yeah, perfect. So use cases of fixed income. Again, most of these use cases were embedded in real life needs, for example, capital preservation and income generation. You have some spare cash, you go to the bank, you make a deposit that's meant to preserve your capital, ideally pay you an interest rate that is going to beat inflation, and so it's going to preserve the capital. We use fixed income to value simple and complex financial products. We use it as a benchmark for pricing and risk management.
00:05:31.814 - 00:06:32.954, Speaker B: So again, if you look at US Treasuries and they're yielding 5%, you can use that as a benchmark when assessing other investment opportunities. So, similar to the real estate example I was giving, if treasuries are yielding 5% and you have an investment opportunity to lend to a US New York real estate developer at 8%, maybe that's good or maybe that's bad. If it's lower than us treasuries, that's definitely bad because the risk is much higher for that rather than the us government, which is never going to default. Whenever we look at things, whenever we look at these financing needs and things like that, we need to look at it from a risk management perspective. Again, we use fixed income for duration and asset liability management, for pension funds, insurance funds that are meant to preserve value and pay pensioners money and things like that. We use it for funding and liquidity management. We use it to hedge interest rate risk, future payables, future receivables.
00:06:32.954 - 00:07:20.792, Speaker B: And lastly, we use it also to arbitrage against other interest rate instruments. We use it for leverage, for risk taking. But these are obviously more financial related use cases, as opposed to real life use cases, which were the first ones. So, yeah, that's a short conclusion here. Fixed income has many real life use cases and needs besides financial speculation when it comes to where the market is right now, if you look at the top ten defi lending protocols, so the TVL is around 12 billion, give or take, depending on how bullish people are feeling that week. And then if you compare that to fixed income, that's over 100 trillion. And then to us interest rate derivatives, that's over 600 trillion.
00:07:20.792 - 00:08:16.814, Speaker B: So there's a huge gap for DeFi to, to catch up with over the next few years. When it comes to product gaps, I think here the story is really, really interesting. We have money markets with Aave, with compound. We've jumped all the way the complexity curve to having options and structured projects and protocols and teams that are building this. We're doing tokenized real world assets. But I think the main problem in DeFi is that we have forgotten about the solid foundation, the backbone of how you can build all these things. And so the idea is to kind of build bond markets, and going from bond markets to creating an interest rate swap curve, a yield curve that I was mentioning, that being able to price forwards and future contracts, and having a discount curve that basically allows you to price any sort of future cash flow discounted to the present.
00:08:16.814 - 00:08:57.614, Speaker B: And by doing that, you're actually able to price options correctly and structure products and other. So real, really big issue here that we've jumped all the way to the complexity curve without solving the fundamentals when it comes to some gaps in solutions. So again, if you look at DeFI, you have floating interest rates API that varies by block. So this block is going to be 5%, the next one is going to be maybe 5.2%. There's no sort of certainty. And the idea is to get to fixed interest rates to API that varies by ten or so. You know, you're getting 4% for a month, you're getting 5% for three months, you're getting 7% for six months.
00:08:57.614 - 00:09:43.892, Speaker B: Similarly, you have this peer to pool Amm pricing model that was meant to kind of bootstrap liquidity. And there's a mathematical function that you don't know necessarily what's happening there. So you have very little transparency, you have very little efficiency. And the idea is to go to peer, to peer to a market driven order book where you have bids and offers that determine market prices. Not a whale, that, for example, withdraws liquidity from a pool, imbalances the pool, and then the kind of the prices deepak significantly. Whereas if it's a market driven order book and people put in bids and offers, that actually means that stuff has transacted there and that is the real and correct price. And I think all these things basically make Defi very hard to scale.
00:09:43.892 - 00:10:19.404, Speaker B: And the idea is to improve on that scalability and build multiple products. How we plan to do this, it's by having three types of markets. So primary markets, secondary markets, and repo markets. Repo markets are happening later down the line, so I won't be talking about those. But the. There's many different use cases that you can use these markets for. You can use them for payment, investment pricing, hedging, liquidity management, issuing debt, asset allocation, and obviously arbitraging for opportunities, taking some leverage.
00:10:19.404 - 00:10:52.188, Speaker B: And this is just kind of a chart with the primary and secondary repo markets. So I'm going to go into the primary markets first. So what are primary markets? Well, basically here you can choose, for example, the token to borrow is USDC. You can choose between some maturity days. These maturity dates are going to be standardized such that it can concentrate liquidity, such that liquidity is not fragmented in so many different places. You're going to be able to go for a month and two months and three months and six months to start. You can choose the collateral.
00:10:52.188 - 00:11:21.762, Speaker B: In this case, it was reptile. And the amount you want to borrow, basically you're going to do that. You're going to be able to borrow and lend at a fixed rate, and for a fixed amount of time, you know you're going to get 5% for the next month. It's all going to be certain. And the way people are going to get matched is via an auction process with the ZK roll up. So the workflow is very simple. Lender places an order to lend at x percent, borrower to borrow at y percent.
00:11:21.762 - 00:12:26.136, Speaker B: They get matched and then the lender receives an ERC 20 fixed income bond like token. And so then the question becomes, what can you do with this bond like token? Well, in traditional finance, when a US treasury is issued and there's an asset manager that buys it in primary markets, he can go on and trade that treasury in secondary markets. Why would you need that? Well, for example, let's say that you were a lender, you've lent for two months at 5%, and in two weeks time people are really demanding to borrow for six months. And the borrow rate for six months, which was driven by market demand, is at 15%. And you're like, wow, this is such a better opportunity than what I have. So what you can do is you can go into the market with your token and sell it, get back your capital, and then go on and lend for six months at 15%, which is very similar to what has been happening in traditional markets for the last hundred years or so. So that's secondary markets.
00:12:26.136 - 00:13:21.390, Speaker B: You can place limit orders or market orders to trade fixed income tokens. And as I was mentioning, the workflow is very simple and that's kind of primary and secondary markets. They're synergistic together and they replicate the threat find model that has worked in creating liquidity for the last hundred years or so. As I was mentioning, the use cases are many and the market participants are many as well. So you're going to have, you can have bitcoin miners that want to hedge the bitcoins that they mine by doing futures or forwards. You can have RWA investors that want to borrow or lend using their assets as collateral. You can have fund managers and threat five people, structured products, investors, options traders, people that want to make arbitrage or arbitrageurs, stablecoin issuers.
00:13:21.390 - 00:14:30.124, Speaker B: There's many, many different interactions between primary secondary markets and the products that are going to be to be on the platform here. I want to talk a little bit about stablecoins. So what they're meant to do is they're meant to be a pricing unit, a medium of trust, a medium of exchange, a medium of value and reserve. And I think there are a few problems right now. One of them, the fact that we don't have risk management, we don't have yield curves, we cannot discount future cash flows to the present, and that leads to some kind of negative consequences. So you have less liquidity, less people holding stable coins, less transaction volume, and in general just lack of use cases and product varieties. And so the idea is to fix that and create liquidity and scalability, be able to price derivatives and synthetic products via having the discount factor curve and the forward curve and the term futures, you're going to be able to discount future cash flows to the present, make future payments discounted to the present, and things like that.
00:14:30.124 - 00:15:15.012, Speaker B: For example, here, one of the very important use cases, liability management. So if you're a stablecoin issuer, you can use the protocol for optimizing your capital structure. Say for example, you want to issue more debt, you can use it for refinancing. So you can replace your existing debt with new debt at favorable terms. So for example, maybe you've issued debt at 10% and now the market is much more, has rallied. So now that you can potentially reissue at 4%, so you can buy back the debt that you issued at 10% and refinance at cheaper level, you can restructure your debt. So extending the maturity or reducing the maturity of your debt profile, usually people tend to extend the maturity profile, like if it gets to a month or two, people try to extend it to a year or so.
00:15:15.012 - 00:16:00.824, Speaker B: And in general, you can use derivatives such as interest rate swaps to hedge risk. Another super interesting use case for me, it's this interest rate corridor system. So let's say, for example, you're again a stablecoin issuer, and you think that for your stablecoin to be well behaved, you think that the yield on your stable coin, the borrowing and lending rate, should be anywhere between four and 8%. So if it goes beyond 8%, you think that's too much. If it goes lower than 4%, you think that's too little. And so what you can do is you can kind of preserve this interval by having a corridor. So if the interest rate goes down significantly, you can borrow more of your own stablecoin in primary markets by borrowing more.
00:16:00.824 - 00:16:29.064, Speaker B: There's a higher demand for borrowing, and therefore there needs to be a higher interest rate for that. And that's how you push it higher. And equally, if you know the yield curve, the yield has gone beyond 8%. You can buy your own stablecoin fixed income token in secondary markets. By buying it, the price increases and therefore the yield decreases. And so you're going to have this interest rate corridor. Another interesting one is basically if you're an importer or an exporter for supply chain payments.
00:16:29.064 - 00:17:16.324, Speaker B: Actually, I'm not going to go much into this because I think the example is a bit more complicated and I'm more excited about the corridor one. And in general, you're going to be able to be able to price forwards, you're going to be able to discover, to discover forwards. In this case, for example, you're going to be able to know what should be the three month rev bitcoin forward, which you don't necessarily know right now. And lastly, tokenized rwas. So using fixed income securities, using equities, using real estate, using credit, you can verify and tokenize it. You get to the RWA tokens and you can use these RWA tokens as collateral for fixed rate borrowing. On term structure, the risk is going to be segregated.
00:17:16.324 - 00:17:59.574, Speaker B: That's definitely going to be a high use case for this. Yeah. So I think the point I'm trying to make is that you're going to be able to combine call options, put options, perpetual futures options in general, to create all these different synthetic structures, structured products, floating rate structures, floating rate nodes, and the space for composability is really, really high. You can have some trading strategies as well. You can have some carry theta strategies. You can borrow at a low yield and lend it at, and lend tokens at high yield. You can buy fixed income tokens that are yielding high.
00:17:59.574 - 00:18:42.154, Speaker B: And when those prices increase and the yields decrease, you can sell them at those lower yields and therefore higher prices. You can borrow lower yielding tokens and lend them on centralized exchanges, farm points, rewards and things like that. You can obviously borrow to increase your leverage. If that's something that you're passionate about on bitcoin, Ethereum, alts meme coins as well, should have put it there. And you can borrow to arbitrage against turn futures and other dislocations that you see in Defi. And I think all of these things provide a lot of threatfi benefits and threatfi related benefits. It provides further legitimacy to the industry from a threatfi thread five perspective.
00:18:42.154 - 00:19:37.164, Speaker B: It enhances the compliance, the regulatory compliance by having transparent benchmarks. So you're going to see, ok, this is a benchmark for three months borrowing and lending. On Ethereum, it's going to be this percent, and for USDC it's going to be y percent, and for USDT it's going to be this. This is going to open up the space to different ways of benchmarking investment performance correctly. You can use it for other things that I was mentioning in the beginning. So portfolio construction, investment diversification, funding and liquidity management, asset liability management, duration matching and hedging any sort of interest rate risk and tailoring any sort of interest rate risk for risk taking views. So I think all of these things are going to provide a lot of real life benefits and use cases, stablecoin growth into both present and future payments.
00:19:37.164 - 00:20:43.282, Speaker B: That growth in stablecoins in general I think is going to push for cheaper remittances, which is obviously a very big topic for not just Latin America, but in general emerging market economies. You're going to get to healthy and predictable borrowing and lending solutions. So people are going to know, I can lend ethereum for three months at this rate. I don't have to check in every single day on Aave. What is the rate, what has happened? And try to average out what was my rate over the last three months? You're going to get to real world asset tokenization and financing, as I was mentioning earlier, that is only going to open the space to mortgages. And the kind of last point I wanted to mention here is that speculation in itself is definitely casino like. But I think also speculation in itself brings liquidity and mind share, which in turn creates a lot of other composability and other different use cases when people try to look at the space correctly and for the long term.
00:20:43.282 - 00:21:28.650, Speaker B: And I think in general, speculation will lead to real life applications. And I think that is where DeFi is right now. People are using it to speculate on a bunch of things. But once we build the right tools and the right things, we're also going to be able to build more real life use cases. In terms of where I see this going, in terms of security, with scalability, we're going to get to a non custodial wallet with ZK capabilities. In terms of efficiency, we're going to get to a peer to peer plus ZK order book. And in terms of costs, we think a customized ZK is what would make sense for trading activities and defi activities.
00:21:28.650 - 00:22:02.674, Speaker B: And in terms of where the future lies, we start with ZK interest rate products. We go to building a defi L2 in ZK and the whole ZK Defi ecosystem. Similarly, we start with simple bond markets and fixed income instruments. We get to money markets, derivatives and structured products. And that's how we build a lot of use cases for stablecoins and real world assets. And I think that's all I had to say. Thanks a lot for the time.
00:22:08.904 - 00:22:10.444, Speaker A: Do we have any questions?
00:22:17.664 - 00:22:32.964, Speaker C: Hey, thank you for the presentation. Before we get to rwas, I think we could probably tokenize a few things like gas futures or block space. And how far do you think we are until we can get there?
00:22:34.964 - 00:23:22.714, Speaker B: Yeah, good question. I think there have been attempts in the past to try to hedge for gas risk. And I think that's definitely something that we are definitely not working on that at the moment, but I think that's something that would be really interesting. I think probably as you scale up and all these different scalability solutions come up, I think gas in itself is going to be less and less of a problem. But definitely, I think both of those use cases are very much blockchain related and very, very important. And I do feel that the narrative for RWAS is extremely, extremely strong. But equally, it's very hard to get there without having the right fundamentals, which we don't have right now.
00:23:29.234 - 00:23:54.084, Speaker D: Thanks for that presentation. That's really interesting. I have this question. So the yield curve in traditional finance usually implies the risk free rate. And I was wondering, how are you going to access the risk free rate and if there is any way how users could possibly get rid of the premium that you have to pay for the cannonization process?
00:23:55.264 - 00:24:33.228, Speaker B: Yeah, it's a great question, and I think it's a very fundamental question, which is what is the risk free rate? Like, if you look in traditional finance, the risk free rate is if you look at dollar denominated instruments, it is the US treasury curve. And then anything that is on top of that is a risk premium, as you said. And equally, if you are, for example, I was a trader, I was trading euro and sterling products. In sterling, it's the uk government bond market. In Europe, it's the german government bond market. That's kind of the risk free rate. Now, I think the question in crypto is a very philosophical one, in my opinion.
00:24:33.228 - 00:25:25.420, Speaker B: I think Ethereum in itself should be the risk free rate. So how you think about that? You can think about it in different ways. If Ethereum is yielding 3%, can you compare in staking, can you compare that 3% with US Treasuries? That is basically a different asset class? Not really. So going back to the Ethereum ecosystem, I think the staking rate in itself is probably going to be the risk free rate. Beyond that, I think you're going to have borrowing and lending on Ethereum. That is going to be trading at a premium to the staking rate, which the staking rate in itself should be the lowest risk activity that you do on the Ethereum blockchain. Obviously, we say that Ethereum staking rate is the risk free rate because we obviously all envision that Ethereum is never going to get hacked and things like that.
00:25:25.420 - 00:26:18.130, Speaker B: Otherwise, there's no such concept of risk free rate on ethereum. If we have any sort of technological risks, and then from there you need to think about other things, such as, for example, USDT, which is the most important stablecoin that we have. Should the USDT rate trade above the ethereum rate? Probably. But how high should it trade? Probably at a premium. Probably also at the premium to US Treasuries. Right? Because if US Treasuries are yielding at 5%, that is a risk free US denominated product, whereas USDT has the deep risk, has the hacking risk and things like that. So I think we're going to get to this stage where for many different users in the ecosystem, people are going to have very different views about what is the risk free rate.
00:26:18.130 - 00:26:42.910, Speaker B: And equally for bitcoin, is bitcoin a good indicator of a risk free rate when you have to wrap it? Probably. Maybe for others it's not. But I think the fundamentals is that ethereum in itself will become the risk free rate. And that was going to be the staking rate on which we're going to build other things that are going to have risk profile premier. I think that's where we're gonna get at some point.
00:26:43.022 - 00:26:43.714, Speaker D: Thanks.
00:26:46.094 - 00:26:48.454, Speaker A: That's all the time we have for questions. Thank you, George.
00:26:48.534 - 00:26:48.814, Speaker B: Thank you.
