00:00:00.400 - 00:00:20.726, Speaker A: I'm Andreas. Thank you very much for being here. Last chance to flee. The title could be misleading. I'm actually going to talk very much pro under collateralized credit, not against underlies credit. Quick recap, I've been in crypto since 2013. Started my journey at Deutsche Berser, which is one of the biggest exchanges.
00:00:20.726 - 00:01:08.336, Speaker A: Doing a lot of prototyping there. Traditional finance versus blockchain permission blockchains. Prototypes worked on a lot of research projects and implementation projects with Deutsche Bundesbank, which is the central bank of Germany, then 2018. I didn't want to work in the traditional finance world because I thought they castrated everything good away from blockchain. So I joined Brainbot, which is an older company that's been in the ethereum space since 2014, Doing Raiden, which was one of the first scales, scalability solutions, state channel technologies. And I've been doing product ownership there for the Trust Lines network, which is also under collateralized credit mutual credit system. Some people might know it as the original ripple idea.
00:01:08.336 - 00:02:02.418, Speaker A: And my last product there was Beamer Bridge, which is an optimistic bridge. I joined Wildcat protocol a month ago, so first time presenting it, very excited about it, and let's dig in. So let's quickly recap of collateralization. Over collateralization. Under collateralization, like how is it done? What different models are there? And you have the traditional, you have the over collateralization, and then you have the under collateralization, which could be no collateral or less collateral than your borrowing. And I split it up into four categories, risk assessment, collateral accessibility, and lender interaction. In the traditional financial world, if you want to have a credit, you typically need to have some type of risk assurance towards the bank.
00:02:02.418 - 00:02:53.628, Speaker A: It's either income or it's a property to get a credit or its good reputation. And the overall collateral could be anything as long as the bank accepts it. In terms of accessibility, it is accessible to almost everybody. But you have to have a lot of paperwork, you have to do KYC, you have to do AML, you have to have a bunch of contracts that nobody understands. And in terms of lender interaction, if I want to lend or if I want to borrow, it's mostly directly through the bank central entity. If we look at over collateralization, as the word implies, if we do risk assessment, the risk assessment is basically, you have to have more collateral than you're actually borrowing. And the factor is something between like 1.2
00:02:53.628 - 00:03:32.078, Speaker A: to 2.5 of the collateral that you're borrowing against. And the accessibility is quite good. In terms of that, you can get it, since you can get it on DeFi protocols that don't require any KYC or AML, but you need a bunch of collateral to actually borrow money out of it. So the entry is very low. Lender interaction is then basically through the UI, through the DAP. Simple if you understand what you're doing and how it works, but can be complicated for people that don't know how to use metamask or any other browser extension.
00:03:32.078 - 00:04:24.332, Speaker A: Now, if we look at under collateralization, it's mostly that. Here again, the comparison to the traditional financial world is very similar. You do have to have some type of risk assurance. You need to have some type of reputation that you will give the money back. Because one of the challenges that you have in crypto is that you typically don't know who the counterpart is. And lending money to somebody that you don't know is then always the question, okay, will I actually get the money back? That's one of the main reasons why where we have this over collateralization, because people don't want to deal with the counterpart, who is it? Who will it be in a year? Will he actually give my money back? Etcetera. And the accessibility here for is therefore also similar to the traditional financial world.
00:04:24.332 - 00:05:12.226, Speaker A: You do have to do some KYC, some AML, and also some paperwork, legal framework, etcetera. The, you know, and credit could be anything. Out of simplicity, I'm going to use the concept of money and credit, even though money is super complex, and just to make sure we understand what money is, because working in crypto for over ten years, I've heard probably hundreds of definitions of money. This is one of my favorite pictures that I made. It's a picture of a huge poster that is in the money museum of the german central bank that basically defines money. And the most favorite sentence is the one on the right side. It doesn't really matter what money is made of or what form it takes.
00:05:12.226 - 00:05:45.628, Speaker A: All that counts is that it is accepted as a medium of exchange, unit of account, and store of value. This can only work if people trust money. And then now we define money. But then we need to define trust, and that's a topic for a different presentation. If we look at the. And these numbers are important to, you know, bring my point over, why I think that under collateralization needs to be much more prominent in defi. These are money supply numbers of the traditional world.
00:05:45.628 - 00:07:31.044, Speaker A: And money is in the traditional sense, not only money, we have different categories of money. They're defined through m one, m one, m two, and m three, for simplicity reasons, we can just call it central bank money and commercial bank money, where central bank money is the very small part, there physical currency and whatever deposits are within the central bank. This is real money. This is like cash equivalent, that doesn't have any counterparty risk, except if the whole currency system fails, it's not the money that you have in your bank, where if the bank goes busts, you might not get your money back, because that is money created by the banks through credit. And if you compare the overall debt, which is equivalent to money, and compared to the overall market cap of crypto, you can see that crypto is not even 1% of the overall world debt money supply. And now if we look into like the over collateralization models, and this is always with the background thesis of why are we actually doing crypto? And there are a lot of long term visions, but one of the long term visions, I think, is to provide an alternative to banking and to provide a better alternative to banking. And therefore we need to also create concepts that are better than banking, but then also fulfill the need of retail, so that retail actually accepts crypto and can use crypto for daily activities.
00:07:31.044 - 00:08:56.186, Speaker A: Now, over collateralization, we have an example of Aaver compound and then the stable coin market. You can see that the over collateralization is not generating enough money to flow to compare it to the traditional world. And the collateral relations are really bad in terms of that, you need 2.7 billion to create 900 million of borrowing money, or value that is being generated. So if we compare the traditional world, where we like have a growth model that is very small on the left side and extends to the right side, and compared to the models that we're using in crypto, it's actually exactly the opposite way, which, if you compare the numbers, will not work on the long term. We cannot compete with traditional finance if we keep up this model, where we say we need on the left side, like real, like bitcoin or ethereum in its value, to then generate commercial bank equivalent money that is much lower compared to what the traditional world needs. And this is like the thought model that I have, why? I think that under collateralized credit is very important.
00:08:56.186 - 00:09:58.104, Speaker A: We just need to find the right method to create it. So where are we now? We're basically at a stage where we were able to create technology that on the technology side, can compete very well with the traditional financial world. The thesis that we can break down central entities is proven. The question is, why do we still need central authorities? Why do we still need central parties? And it's not there, or we don't need them to hold our money, but we still need them for some elements, KYC, AML, creating contracts that are legal binding, but we don't need them to hold ownership over our assets. My bank does not need to have access or ownership over the money that I have with my bank. They can still have a copy of my passport, they can still do KYC and AML checks, they can still do reporting, they can still send my data to the IR's. I'm happy with that.
00:09:58.104 - 00:10:44.104, Speaker A: What I'm not happy with is that I have to go to the bank and ask for permission to withdraw my money because they have ownership. And crypto is something, in my opinion, that can change that and should change that overall and in terms of stablecoins. And this is now the overall opinion that I hope somebody can challenge in the Q and a later on, or maybe not. But if we look at what we currently have, we have stable coins and we have different types of stable coins. We have fiat backed stable coins. We have cryptocurrency backed stable coins. We have algorithm stable coins that I put at the down right corner because I'm definitely not going to talk about them because they don't work.
00:10:44.104 - 00:11:29.912, Speaker A: We also have commodity backed stable coins, which is more of a toy in my opinion. But cryptocurrency backed stable coins are quite simple. For example, Dai, you need to have cryptocurrency, you have to deposit it. You get Dai, you have to bring over collateralization. So you have to bring in more value, let's say like $150 worth of ETH to get $100 worth of DAi. And that works very well because if the ETH value goes down, it has to go down a significant portion up to the point where the collateral is not, you know, sufficient anymore to back the value of the $1 value of DAi. And then we have fiat backed stable coins, USDC.
00:11:29.912 - 00:12:05.768, Speaker A: USDT. And if you actually look closer at them, they're actually under collateralized. But people typically don't realize it because it's a good marketing stunt. We have 100 billion in USDT. We have 30 billion in USDC. And what is the fiat that is actually backing the value of those tokens? It's commercial bank money. And commercial bank money, by definition, is under collateralized money because it is not backed 100% by central bank money.
00:12:05.768 - 00:13:04.732, Speaker A: So the DeFi space already has a huge proportion of under collateralized value. It's just not framed that way. And it's marked very smart to actually give the impression that it is backed 100% by real value. And then if something happens like last year, a bank could bust in the states. The stablecoins de peg and luckily USDC and all the other stablecoins went back to one us dollars, because there was still enough capital in other banks. And the Fed in the states was very quick in acting on the default of that bank. But in theory, if there's more than $100,000 worth of money in your bank account, you only have legal entity, and that's in Europe, to $100,000 or euros, because that's what the state guarantees, that if the bank goes bus and you have more than or less than 100,000 in your bank account, you get that from the state.
00:13:04.732 - 00:14:14.384, Speaker A: But if you have more than 100,000, it's tough luck, and you have to go in front of court and hope that you get it back. So we already have under collateralized value generation in crypto, and the overall assumption of don't trust verify that we have in this space is very good, but we should think about how we're actually using this. The biggest mechanics of economic is fractional reserve. So, under collateralization of value, and currently only banks are focusing on it, only banks are leveraging it, and they're leveraging it for the traditional financial world. They are leveraging it also for crypto. But in our opinion, we as Defi people, we as crypto people, we should take this tool and actually make it our tool to build a better alternative than the banks are building it, because the banks will enter the market heavily. They've been trying to do this since 2014.
00:14:14.384 - 00:15:25.918, Speaker A: The increase of cbdcs arising on the world is showing that banks are gaining more and more interest in conquering what crypto has built and taking it for themselves. And that's why we built Wildcat, basically hands off massive configurable under collateralized credit markets that people can do. And we've done it because we are the opinion that under collateralization currently sucks. It's very lender driven, and the main target audience currently is the lender side rather than the borrower side. And we're basically flipping it. The goal that we have is to make under collateralization possible for each and every use case that you need credit or you need capital to work. If you need a credit line to trade ETH, if you need, if you're a DAO that just launched a token, but you need to have capital to work with, but you don't want to sell your token, you could in theory, create a credit market denominated in us dollars, but pay it back in your token so that your token generates a value.
00:15:25.918 - 00:16:23.818, Speaker A: But you're not actually needing to sell off your token in a public sale or an airdrop to generate that value. You can still have the overall token in your treasury, create a credit line against it, and then generate value that you can use to build your protocol by raising ETH or USDC or DAI. And the difference here is that where we as wildcat basically provide the protocol, we don't touch anything and we don't influence anything. The only central part that we take in place is we onboard the borrower. And the borrower then can create credit markets. And he then needs to deal with borrowing to onboard the lenders, so the people that basically provide the cash. And he can do that by identifying big whales or, or he could open the market to retail if he wants to do that.
00:16:23.818 - 00:17:17.063, Speaker A: But we as Wildcat just provide the standardized contracts, basically off chain and off chain to allow this and don't market around it, so that people don't basically fall into it. And the potential is huge. We saw the numbers already 130 trillion in bond market. The crypto market is still very, very low in comparison to the overall credit that we have on the world. And if payment is a valid use case that we want to provide an alternative to traditional banks, we will need some type of under collateralized markets. Small team, we launched in December. We have 30 million in Tvl currently across multiple markets, and currently two borrowers.
00:17:17.063 - 00:17:20.703, Speaker A: And that's basically it.
00:17:26.963 - 00:17:36.703, Speaker B: Thank you so much, Andres. Are there any questions from the audience? There's one. Just please wait for the mic. We have it for the recording.
00:17:45.704 - 00:17:54.284, Speaker C: I did not understand how the under collateralized system work that you're proposing. I don't know, maybe I went through the details in the beginning or not.
00:17:55.304 - 00:18:39.208, Speaker A: Fail of the presentation. So under collateralization basically just means I want to borrow $100 worth of capital. And typically what happens in the over collateralization, I need to deposit more value that I'm borrowing out. Now the under collateralization would basically mean that I don't have to deposit more value that I'm bringing out or that I'm borrowing. So for example, I would give you $10 worth of ETH, but you would give me $100 worth of, of DAi. And that's the under collateralization port. So the collateral cannot cover the credit that I'm taking.
00:18:39.208 - 00:19:00.784, Speaker A: But there is still some reserve so that if I go default, you still don't have 100% loss. And basically the risk parameter is then do you trust me enough to think that I will actually repay you the money? Is that more clear.
00:19:09.004 - 00:19:10.224, Speaker C: To the borrower?
00:19:13.124 - 00:19:58.140, Speaker A: What we provide is just the basic protocol where you can actually create these credit lines or credit markets. And we do provide some, we call it master loan agreement, which is basically a legal document. If you look at under collateralized markets that have been in crypto in the past, a lot of them went default, a lot of them failed. That's mostly because they have a heavy focus on retail. So if like ten thousands of people lend money to one borrower, you have 10,000 people that then go in front of court and need to basically sue the borrower to get the money back. Currently, we're not focusing on retail, we're only focusing on businesses. So the quantity of lenders will be reduced.
00:19:58.140 - 00:20:42.748, Speaker A: And if there is some dispute in terms of that, the borrower cannot repay the credit back, then you can basically only have five people going in front of court and getting the money back. And the history shown, like in most cases, the lenders got their money back by default. There's very few cases where they actually had 100% of default risk, but that's not what we're aiming for. We don't want to have default, and we want to have enough transparency. And we have that by putting everything on chain so that the markets can react fast enough to basically resolve any default. And that's in comparison to what we have in the traditional financial world. We don't have the transparency that we have on chain, and that's the.
00:20:42.748 - 00:20:49.964, Speaker A: The added value that we as crypto can basically provide full transparency compared to the traditional financial world.
