00:00:12.650 - 00:00:15.902, Speaker A: Welcome, guys. Thanks for coming. Close call, MC, thanks for having us.
00:00:15.956 - 00:00:17.214, Speaker B: Thanks for having us.
00:00:17.412 - 00:00:44.278, Speaker A: MC just rushed in the door, so thank you for coming. Both very busy people. Why don't we start with introductions? So MC is COo of Uniswap Labs. Devin is executive director of Uniswap foundation. So we're going to get into the differences in focus and what you guys do, respectively, but be awesome to just start with how you got here. So, MC, do you want to start off with your background?
00:00:44.454 - 00:01:26.438, Speaker C: Sure. So I spent about 15 years in what we now call Tradfi in crypto. So starting businesses in digital investing and sustainable investing. Started a company myself that failed and all along was passionate about crypto and felt very strongly that you had to rewrite the rails to really change the financial system. Little known fact, Devin and I actually sat near each other at Blackrock about seven, eight years ago. And so when I learned about Uniswap in 2020, I felt like it was the first application in the sort of nine years since I'd first bought bitcoin in 2011. I'd been watching crypto, the first application that really could change the financial system, and so found my way to joining the company when it was about eight people.
00:01:26.604 - 00:02:09.626, Speaker B: Hi, I'm Devin Walsh. I'm the executive director of the Uniswap foundation. As MC mentioned, I actually started my career at BlackRock and got an up close and personal view into some of the frictions that exist with traditional or tradfi rails. One of the things that inspired me initially, actually to get into the crypto space back in around 2016, 2017. Since then, I have worn a number of different hats prior to getting into the Uniswap world. So conducting independent research while getting my grad degree at MIT, doing some venture investing for a few years. Also holding a number of leadership roles at crypto startups prior to becoming chief of staff at Uniswap Labs in 2022.
00:02:09.626 - 00:02:53.970, Speaker B: And one of the things I did there was act as an ecosystem liaison. So working with other builders and folks, kind of conducting research, doing a lot of interesting things outside of Uniswap labs, kind of on their own, building on the protocol, and really saw some early success cases that had grown out of programs like the Uniswap grants program, and saw a huge opportunity to really scale up and add more structure and strategy to that kind of work again outside of labs. So I, a little bit more than a year ago, stepped away from Uniswap Labs, spent some time getting to know a lot of folks really closely in the community, and that ultimately led me to founding the foundation, which has led me here today.
00:02:54.120 - 00:03:53.670, Speaker A: I think the backstory that's interesting, Uniswap actually has a big role in variance origin story, which in short is Uniswap. I first met Hayden, the founder CEO, I don't know, 2017 or 18, when he was first working on the project. I was at Andreessen Horowitz at the time, and I was really, really excited about Amms as this sort of new idea and really pounded the table to lead the investment wallet. Andreessen, Andreessen being a bigger fund didn't do that. And so I thought, well, somebody needs to launch a fund that's dedicated to seed investing. And so that was part of the initial spark for variant, and we were investors in the subsequent round that happened thereafter. And it's been super fun and super informative to be involved in the journey from the beginning to today, where the foundation has recently spun out and is doing a lot of great work alongside labs.
00:03:53.670 - 00:04:11.706, Speaker A: Okay, so with intros out of the way, let's talk a little bit about the split between foundations and labs and what the respective focus is for the company and for the foundation, which is a nonprofit. So, MC, why don't, why don't you start what's labs focused on today?
00:04:11.808 - 00:05:10.894, Speaker C: Sure. So the simplest way I think I describe the distinction is that if SMTP is the protocol for email and Gmail is a simple application on top of it, that makes it accessible and intuitive, labs is focused on building the Gmail application, and we're certainly not the only one. There are many, many other companies that are building applications and products that make access to the Uniswap protocol and other parts of Defi in the crypto ecosystem simple and safe. So we're mostly focused on consumers, on consumers who might want to swap tokens. We built a self custody wallet, a mobile wallet and a web application, and we also now are building APIs that will serve enterprise customers. But in that analogy, Uniswap protocol has a lot more complexity and breadth and depth than SMTP. And so to make it truly a developer platform and unlock the many things that it can make possible, we as one company can't do that.
00:05:10.894 - 00:05:42.380, Speaker C: We can't do that alone. And so there were many times in 2021, I think in 2022, where there was enthusiasm about how much could be done on top of the protocol, and labs was not equipped to really deliver on that. We didn't have the resources. We're just one team. We have to drive focus, and so that's part of why I think the existence of the foundation has really helped the whole ecosystem grow. And frankly, we see them as very synergistic. So the more people are building the protocol, the more liquidity there is, the more users, the more awareness, the better it is for our products.
00:05:42.750 - 00:06:45.680, Speaker B: And yeah, just to kind of like piggyback off of that a little bit, I think that the missions of both organizations are very aligned and very similar. We both exist in order to build digital financial infrastructure that is accessible, that is transparent, that is provably fair that anyone can use and anyone can build upon. MC just covered what Uniswap Labs focus is for the foundation. We're a nonprofit, grant making organization. We have a $30 million budget to make grants over at least the next two years to focus on seeding funding, supporting the developer ecosystem, again kind of external to labs, funding, researchers, developing innovations upon how to improve the user experience on top of the protocol, and also investigating and doing development into ways that stakeholders in the protocol can really step into the value that it creates to align interests with the protocol. And I think, as MC mentioned, I think all of those things that we do are very complementary to one another and ultimately build upon one another.
00:06:46.370 - 00:07:00.818, Speaker A: One thing that's interesting is how the foundation actually came into existence. I think it's sort of atypical the story of the Uniswap foundation, especially relative to other foundations in the space. So do you want to talk a little bit about that?
00:07:00.904 - 00:08:12.838, Speaker B: Yeah, sure. So I kind of touched on it in my intro bit. So while I was at Uniswap Labs, one of the things that I did was kind of field questions, queries from developers in the ecosystem to kind of think through how we could support them, or at least answer developer questions. And through that work, and through getting to know my ultimately co founder Ken at the Uniswap grants program, I saw some early success cases and the inkling of something really special within the ecosystem in the way of teams that had received grants to work on research that ultimately went on to receive external vc funding. Again, this is to build different applications, different interfaces to Uniswap labs that could generate vc style returns, and really interesting new business models on top of Uniswap that were different to what labs had been building. And I saw an opportunity to scale up and again provide more structure, organization, and ultimately strategy around where that funding could go to ultimately build a really strong ecosystem, true ecosystem around the protocol. As MC mentioned, if web three, if the next gen of the Internet is made up of protocols and digital assets.
00:08:12.838 - 00:08:36.820, Speaker B: Uniswap will be the liquidity layer. There is not going to just be one application built on top of that. There will be thousands, tens of thousands of different applications and interfaces serving different jurisdictions, different kinds of asset classes, different kinds of users. And the foundation is really the organization, or I see it as the organization that will seed a lot of the best developers, the best people today to build that future.
00:08:37.910 - 00:09:03.786, Speaker A: And critically, I think the foundation was incepted by Uniswap token holders. Right. So this is, I think, important to note, a lot of projects in the space. When they launch, they form a nonprofit foundation. When I say they, I mean folks who are working at the original for profit companies spin out and set up a foundation. In this case, it happened a little later on. Right.
00:09:03.786 - 00:09:33.330, Speaker A: So labs existed for, I don't know, three, four years before the foundation existed. And labs went through the process of progressively decentralizing the protocol, turning it over to the community, launching a token. And then the token holders voted to fund the Uniswap Foundation. I think that's kind of an interesting detail and just curious if any view on sort of on the pros or cons of taking that approach.
00:09:33.750 - 00:10:21.362, Speaker B: Yeah, I can kind of speak to that. First, I think we're building the playbook as we go. This is really a new world that we're facing. Ultimately, while the other models in the space kind of launch the foundation at the point of token launching, I think there are a lot of benefits to the manner in which we start. Our goal is to generate kind of a DNA, a soul for Uniswap that represents a growth and an evolution of what the DNA was and started with, with Hayden and labs. And I think we wouldn't be able to do that if the team was kind of a split of the founding team. We're an entirely new, or our team represents some really amazing folks, but all coming from the community itself.
00:10:21.362 - 00:10:49.020, Speaker B: And our continued funding, sustenance, ability to serve the community is tied to the community's continued buy into our mission, buy into our strategy and success. We rely upon them for funding. I guess, just to put it like know, while I think there are certainly trade offs to that strategy or that playbook and that approach, I think ultimately it sets us up and it sets uniswap up, most importantly for long term success.
00:10:50.130 - 00:11:02.030, Speaker A: So let's look forward now. So I guess, succinctly, what does success look like for labs and the foundation respectively? And MC, why don't you go first?
00:11:02.180 - 00:11:21.742, Speaker C: Sure. Well, we actually turned on revenue and fees this week for the first time. So success for us. Thank you. Yes, success for us means more and more people keep using our products and pay to use our products. We think there are three big barriers to that right now. The first is simple wallets.
00:11:21.742 - 00:12:04.340, Speaker C: That wallets, self custody wallets are too hard to use, not that intuitive to sort of grow the population and people for whom they're interesting and compelling. The second is more and more assets that are on chain. So the next version of the protocol V four will allow lots more customization that will support real world assets. And we hope the foundation is doing so much work to help make sure it's a developer ecosystem for that. So what labs will do is hope to make that accessible and easy. We'll be competing with many other companies to do that more than ever because they've been backed by grants from the foundation. But for success for us is really just building a strong, largely consumer facing brand and being a revenue generating company.
00:12:05.510 - 00:13:13.946, Speaker B: Yeah, when it comes to the foundation, I mentioned building an ecosystem, and I think the reason we're focused on that is because the impact of building a strong ecosystem will be the creation of extremely strong network effects around the protocol. Now kind of zeroing in on what exactly that means. When you look at the incremental developer or developer team deciding where to build, when they're looking at Uniswap, they're getting not only provably fair, credibly neutral infrastructure upon which to build, they're also getting the state, the liquidity that is kind of stateful within the protocol that they benefit from and are able to build on because it is permissionless infrastructure. Now, those two things are pretty attractive for folks to build on. I think the attractiveness of building on Uniswap is enhanced by Uniswap V four, which MC has mentioned I think we'll get into in a bit. It increases the ability to customize the user experience. But as those interfaces and applications build, if they are successful, that represents obviously success for that team, the ability to generate revenue for themselves.
00:13:13.946 - 00:13:42.354, Speaker B: It also represents benefits to others across the ecosystem. There's net new organic order flow that adds to the virtuous positive flywheel effects, more net new organic order flow, more liquidity provided, et cetera, better user experience for net new developers coming into the ecosystem, for labs, for every other developer. And so I would say that ability to create an ecosystem that is accretive to those network effects is really key for us.
00:13:42.552 - 00:14:02.790, Speaker A: Yeah, if anyone out here is on crypto Twitter, you might have seen that the announcement of labs turning on fees, it caused a little bit of a stir. Just my view is that I think you both touch on this. Having sustainable companies building on top of protocols is not a zero sum game.
00:14:02.860 - 00:14:03.094, Speaker C: Right.
00:14:03.132 - 00:14:25.042, Speaker A: It's like you need the companies that are building on top of protocols to have a way to sustain themselves. That's market driven. Right. So you guys earn fees at labs, you sustain the business. That's great. And that's ultimately good for the protocol because you integrate the protocol and drive liquidity to it. And the network effects in the protocol beget other developers to do the same.
00:14:25.042 - 00:14:27.954, Speaker A: And so it's a positive sum game.
00:14:28.152 - 00:14:53.690, Speaker B: Yeah. I would say, from our perspective, I think sustainable protocols will be made up of organizations and companies that themselves can be sustainable. But that does not, I guess, preclude the protocol and stakeholders within the protocol from being able to step into the value that is created within the protocol itself to align interests with the protocol. And that's definitely a focus area for the foundation and a priority for us.
00:14:53.840 - 00:15:40.300, Speaker C: Sometimes, because we use different words in crypto, it sounds like we're inventing everything for the first time. And the notion of having a profitable network that has returns to the participants in it and then companies that build software or products on top of that network is not necessarily novel. Right? Like, you can think of visa and point of sale systems or credit cards as like an example of an ecosystem. You can think of the New York Stock Exchange and all the market makers around it and the members that are participants in that. So there are lots of different analogies where maybe the value accrual happens in different parts at different levels. But ultimately, there are many examples where there's lots of different ecosystems like this and taking a step back. Devin said this already, but if we're both successful, hopefully there's much cheaper, more accessible financial infrastructure that unlocks universal ownership in a way that's different.
00:15:40.750 - 00:15:57.022, Speaker A: Yeah. And very simply put, I see it as labs creates value for end users, and there's great products create lots of value for end users. Step into some of that value. Of course, it makes sense. Foundation and protocol create value for developers. Labs is one of them.
00:15:57.076 - 00:15:57.294, Speaker C: Right.
00:15:57.332 - 00:16:38.620, Speaker A: And if there's a lot of value created there in the form of network effects or otherwise, you can step into the flow of that value, too. Anyway, the crypto Twitter noise is loud, but I think it's actually very simple. Okay, so you guys touched on uniswap v four, and there's been really a lot of milestones this year. There's been the wallet at labs, which is on mobile, on iOS and Android. Let's talk about some of the major milestones. MC, what's labs done this year? That's a big deal. And then I think that'll be a good segue to talk about the work the foundation has done around v four.
00:16:39.550 - 00:17:25.162, Speaker C: So two big things. The first is trying to make uniswap a product that you can use on all platforms to be the best swapping platform. So that meant launching a mobile app on iOS and Android. It also meant really improving our web application. So it feels more like a logged in experience, even though you still have self custody portable account with a self custody wallet. So we did a ton of work on making the swappy experience better, faster, more data, sort of data driven, and having more data at your fingertips. That might seem quite simple, but because a lot of the past couple of years, many web three companies were excited about the breadth of web three, and so it was easy to have a lot of feature creep and scope creep, we've been really focused on just narrowing in on that swap product experience.
00:17:25.162 - 00:17:54.260, Speaker C: The second thing we did was we did release a draft code base for v four of the protocol. But since then, dozens of community contributors have committed code to the protocol. And so we have not been doing go to market on v four, the next version of the protocol that is really the foundation and our 2024. We'll be thinking about how we, alongside many other companies, will be integrating v four and the many pools and the breadth and diversity that that will bring into the front end products.
00:17:55.110 - 00:18:41.218, Speaker B: Yeah, and on the foundation side, I think I'm really proud of what we accomplished over the last year. I could talk a lot about it. I'll highlight a few areas that I'm most proud of and I think are most representative of what we've done. And then touch a little bit on how we're thinking about the launch of a v four. As MC mentioned, that's been a focus for us over the last year. I've mentioned a few things, development, research, protocol, value accretion, and in terms of developers, we funded one of the first major alternative interfaces to the lab's interface, and it speaks to a different kind of particular kind of pro trader user. And that's seen kind of a lot of interesting traction thus far in terms of research.
00:18:41.218 - 00:20:26.374, Speaker B: We have launched a first of its kind, Defi focused research fellowship that will also result in a conference next year in New York in March. And I hope to see many of the folks in the room here there as well in terms of protocol value accretion, we've been working with Gauntlet, which many folks in the room may know as a really respected team in the space on thinking through or end publishing research around dynamic fee optimization and different optimizations that other folks from a protocol or hook level may be able to leverage in the future. When it comes to v four, I think that the key paradigm shift here is the protocol is shifting from an immutable protocol to something that is still immutable but has a layer of customization. Truly kind of a developer platform that allows for not only customization at the user interface application level, but also means the protocol can evolve and change over time in ways that it wasn't necessarily able to before. And from our perspective, three areas I'll call out that I'm really excited about are the seeding and supporting of hook platform hook applications, automated liquidity management strategy automated liquidity management hooks, custom oracles credit facilities leveraging liquidity hooks that speak to institutions in a way that the protocol hasn't really been able to before, and improving the LP experience. And I think all of these represent inputs to positive flywheel on the protocol, adding net new organic order flow, as well as improving the LP and user swapper experience just backing up a step.
00:20:26.412 - 00:21:15.374, Speaker A: So Uniswap, when it first started, automated market maker is what amm stands for is this really simple kind of smart contract that it had a very simple formula for trading tokens, x times y equals k. That probably means nothing to most folks in the audience, but in short it creates a really simple curve on which tokens can trade. And the big innovation was there's always on liquidity for any pair of tokens that you want to trade. There doesn't need to be sort of a live counterparty in an order book to make it happen. And I used to describe this as sort of, it's like a vending machine for tokens. You put the token in, you get a token out every time and the price is the variable thing along this curve. So just backing up, you're talking about hooks and how you can custom tune them.
00:21:15.374 - 00:22:08.866, Speaker A: I think the high level evolution is that over time Uniswap, which started very simple, has gotten more complex but also more capable. And the flexibility that hooks enable is more kind of parameterization. So you can have markets that are specially tuned to different types of use cases, for example, swapping stablecoins. Different types of stablecoins can have one set of hooks that's uniquely well suited to that use case, which is a big one, and then separately, there may be a different curve that makes sense for really long tail pairs. Right? So when we talk about hooks, we're talking about customization of markets based on the use case. And that's really exciting if you have more customization, if it's a real platform. I think the thesis that we invested against can really, truly be realized.
00:22:08.866 - 00:22:52.514, Speaker A: And that thesis is that Uniswap becomes the venue where all the world's value can trade. And so if you believe all the world's value will be tokenized, hooks are really important innovation to make sure that Uniswap is the venue where they can all trade. So we haven't talked about use cases a whole lot, but I think I'm going to kind of go off the cuff here. I think stablecoins remittances have been like, there was a research report published about that use case, and so I thought maybe we could talk a little bit about that because that's one area we're going to be talking about it more today, how stablecoins have real product market fit and are growing, and Uniswap is a big part of that story. So, MC, do you want to talk about?
00:22:52.552 - 00:23:42.478, Speaker C: Yes, I'm really passionate about this use case. So I wrote a research paper with our research team at Uniswap about foreign exchange markets on automated market makers. So on Uniswap specifically, and we just sort of looked at opportunities for both retail and remittances as well. Remittances, FX trading for retail, and then also increased liquidity for other pairs that aren't just sort of the top FX pairs. I think you nailed it in that like an AMM demonstrated, you could have always on liquidity, and that anyone could create a market for anything using the form factor of a token on this platform. But Uniswap V three is still actually a specific market structure, right? It still actually specifies some of the major parameters you have to be always on. You have total exposure to volatility depending on the dynamics for that specific asset.
00:23:42.478 - 00:24:33.742, Speaker C: And what V four allows, as you described, is to be able to actually have market structure that's specific to a pool. And so what we hope we'll see is that many more people who are starting to use Uniswap and probably mostly the protocol for all kinds of use cases that are popping up in crypto. So we are seeing more and more fintech companies starting to integrate stablecoins and see that as an opportunity to have dollar access around the world and then also some foreign exchange there are more stablecoins popping up in different country and different currencies. Still not a ton of adoption outside USD and the dollar stablecoins. But that's a use case that I'm extremely excited about. What does it mean for our products? Our users are those who are pretty savvy. Hopefully some of you are in the audience, are pretty savvy, and are comfortable with a self custody wallet.
00:24:33.742 - 00:25:01.390, Speaker C: So that's part of why we're building an API that we can offer to fintech companies, for example, that might want to have this under the hood, but not have their whole experience, be kind of feel like a self custody experience. And then for our wallet itself, we're actually building messaging and a few other features in the wallet that will make it more interactive. So things like transfers and have that more venmo experience will feel more native on uniswap.
00:25:03.890 - 00:25:16.340, Speaker A: Okay, so I guess what should people do in the audience if they want to get immersed in the ecosystem and the products? What should people do?
00:25:17.590 - 00:26:17.854, Speaker B: Well, I guess from our perspective, we do a lot like the Uniswap foundation is here to learn from you all, to teach you about Uniswap, to figure out how you can get more involved, I guess. First off, love to chat here today, but you can also reach out to me, obviously, on Twitter, et cetera. Outside of that, we do a lot of IRL events for any hackers in the audience. We're at kind of every major eth global hackathon, and that's really ramping up with V four on the horizon. We've actually seen all time highs in the number of developer submissions that we've gotten at hackathons because there's so much excitement around building around V four. For those of you who are interested in contributing to governance, who may not be hackers, we just kicked off IRL kind of governance and growth focused events, planning to have one in dev connect at Turkey and having some throughout the US next year. Yeah, there's a lot of ways folks can plug in and excited to chat.
00:26:17.902 - 00:26:33.190, Speaker C: More about download our. Please, please. It's the best, I promise. It's really the best swapping app out there. And then you can always send us feedback through variant me directly or at Twitter, but use our products. Great.
00:26:33.260 - 00:26:55.150, Speaker A: Okay, so Devin MC first, just want to say absolute pleasure working alongside both you guys have learned so much from the two of you, and I think the ecosystem has as well. Uniswap is really sort of on the bleeding edge of pioneering lots of new ideas, lots of market structure concepts, and so it's been a thrill to be alongside for that. Thank you for joining us today.
00:26:55.220 - 00:26:56.380, Speaker B: Thank you. Thanks, everyone.
