00:00:00.330 - 00:00:01.162, Speaker A: Not a dividend.
00:00:01.226 - 00:00:02.474, Speaker B: It's a tale of two quan.
00:00:02.522 - 00:00:05.162, Speaker C: Now your losses are on someone else's balance sheet.
00:00:05.226 - 00:00:07.722, Speaker D: Generally speaking, airdrops are kind of pointless anyways.
00:00:07.866 - 00:00:10.618, Speaker C: Unnamed trading firms who are very involved.
00:00:10.714 - 00:00:12.782, Speaker B: Alec ETH is the ultimate on this.
00:00:12.836 - 00:00:15.840, Speaker E: DeFi protocols are the antidote to this problem.
00:00:17.170 - 00:00:40.630, Speaker C: Alright, hello everybody. Welcome to the chopping block. Every couple weeks, the four of us get together and give the industry insider's perspective on the crypto topics of today. So, quick intros. We've got some special guests with us here today, but first we've got Tom, the DeFi Maven and master of Memes. Next up, we've got Robert, the crypto connoisseur and captain of Compound. Joining us today we have Rune Christensen, chief mischief maker at MKR.
00:00:40.630 - 00:01:11.858, Speaker C: And joining him and his debating sparring partner, we've got Hasu, the gourmand of governance. And finally there's myself haseeb. I'm head Hype man at Dragonfly. So the three of us, the non guests, are early stage investors in crypto. But I want to caveat that nothing we say here is investment advice, legal advice, or even life advice. So today we're going to be doing a little bit of a different structure, or kind of a different vibe, let's say, than the way we usually do these shows. So generally speaking, we kind of just riff on what's going on in the news and kind of share with you things happening during the day.
00:01:11.858 - 00:01:51.186, Speaker C: But we've been really fascinated by all the drama going on with MakerDAO and we thought, what better way to dive into what's going on in MakerDAO land than to bring on two of the loudest voices and two of the bitterest enemies in on chain governance, rune Christensen and HASUs. So let me start before we kind of get into the meat of things. Let me start by giving some background because I think a lot of people are maybe glancingly familiar with you guys, but don't have the full story or even the picture of what's happening in Makerland. So let me start with Rune. So, Rune is the co founder of MakerDAO. He was formerly the CEO of the Maker Foundation, which is now since dissolved. He's been working on decentralized stablecoins for a long time, since 2014.
00:01:51.186 - 00:02:18.726, Speaker C: And like the BitShares era, he's become notorious for his views within the Maker community. Specifically his vision for how he wants Maker to reorient itself in a plan he calls his Endgame vision. Then we have hasu. So, Hasu is a pseudonymous, commentator, podcaster, dao contributor, thought leader within crypto. He's got a lot of hats. I don't know exactly how he describes himself, but he's done a lot of different things within crypto. He was a performer, professional poker player, which I also was.
00:02:18.726 - 00:02:45.722, Speaker C: So we've got that in common. He's now a full time contributor to Lido Flashbots and he's one of the largest Dao delegates within MakerDAO. And he has submitted his own vision for how he thinks that Maker governance should be reoriented. Okay, so, quick background on MakerDAO before we jump into the meat. So, MakerDAO. For those of you who've been living under a rock, MakerDAO is a decentralized lending market that issues collateralized loans in its own stablecoin called Dai. So Dai is an over collateralized stablecoin.
00:02:45.722 - 00:02:58.994, Speaker C: It is the largest decentralized stablecoin in existence today. It's also one of the cornerstone protocols of DFI. So it's very, very important to DFI. A lot of other things in DFI use MakerDAO. So people sometimes call it the central bank of DFI. Its governance. Token is MKR.
00:02:58.994 - 00:03:19.446, Speaker C: The stablecoin is called dai. So just some high level stats on MakerDAO. MakerDAO has about $7.5 billion worth of Dai outstanding. It's got about ten and a half billion dollars of TVL. It's one of the largest protocols in existence by total value locked maker MKR. The Token, the Governance Token, has a billion dollars fully diluted valuation MakerDAO.
00:03:19.446 - 00:04:00.038, Speaker C: The organization burns today about $43 million a year and has 115 full time headcount. So it is a large and very expensive organization. Now, it's not exactly is it a Dow? Is it an organization? How exactly to describe it, I think is one of the key things that Rune and Hasu will be talking about today. So MakerDAO in particular is a fascinating case study in on chain governance. As I mentioned, Rune was originally the shepherd of the Maker Foundation. MakerDAO originally had a Swiss foundation, but that foundation has since dissolved. And now the core teams, which work on MakerDAO, which are called the core units, they're all given budgets and they're funded every year by the Dao itself.
00:04:00.038 - 00:04:32.194, Speaker C: Now, nobody is happy with how MakerDAO is governed. Everyone kind of finds something to be unhappy about. It's kind of like Congress, I guess. But Roon and Hasu each have different qualms with the way that MakerDAO works today. So Roon has generally critiqued its overwhelming and opaque complexity, while Hasu critiques its lack of vision and strategy. Now, I'm sure they both disagree on Malinvestment or just other things that at the margin, MakerDAO could be doing better. But there was a particular vote that took place recently, which was the impetus for us to want to bring these two guys on the show.
00:04:32.194 - 00:05:22.654, Speaker C: And it's unfortunately taken us a while, but we finally got them here. So this vote took place in June. It was one of the landmark referendums in the history of MakerDAO, one of the largest, highest turnouts in Onchain voting ever, with over 30% of the MKR supply voting on the question, which is about $300 million today worth of MKR, was voting on this question. The question itself was a little esoteric and we don't really need to go into it. It proposed the creation of a new lending core oversight unit. But the spirit behind the question was exactly the spirit of the question that Rune and Hasu disagree on, which is whether to create more streamlined leadership and decision making within MakerDAO which is Hasu's vision or to keep MakerDAO more amorphous and move toward Rune's stated endgame for the protocol. So the vote on the yes side came Hasu and many of the VCs like ASIC Indian paradigm.
00:05:22.654 - 00:05:59.214, Speaker C: On the no side came Rune and many of the early Maker team. The community itself was split, but it was Rune who ultimately carried the day with about 60% of the vote against the proposal. But this conversation, this disagreement about whether MakerDAO's leadership should become more streamlined or whether it should maintain its amorphousness and move toward more toward dows and subdows, that is the disagreement at the heart between Rune and Hasu. So with that preamble out of the way, roon, I want to first give you five minutes and I will be counting to state your vision for MakerDAO and where you disagree with I mean.
00:05:59.252 - 00:07:11.890, Speaker A: So I think the first and most important thing to talk about is it I call it an end game, right? The concept of an endgame. But in the past it's been referred to as governance lockdown, for instance, or even Ice Age. It has many different names over the history of Mega, there's always been this ultimate long term goal and the idea is you want to get like something is decentralized, you want to get it to a point where it stops changing over time, right? You really want to have a certain reliability. So you can really count on it as like an infrastructure that doesn't randomly, like ruck pull or pivot to something else, right? And that's particularly important for a stable coin, right? Because that's really something people need to be able to rely on and need to have stability. Literally. Everyone agrees with that. I think where I maybe have some, I guess, more extreme views is that I think that if there's even sort of a tiny sort of sliver of kind of a centralization or sort of a slivery slope towards centralization in any kind of sort of ossified or sort of near like sort of a state that starts to reach this kind of like lockdown situation where it gets harder and harder to change things, then in my view, then you're guaranteed to basically get sort of complete centralization.
00:07:11.890 - 00:09:30.770, Speaker A: Right. Because you can't always count on basically like pioneers and founders and sort of thought leaders to just selfishly kind of work to remove themselves out of a position of power, basically. And instead what you're going to get is you're going to get just this sort of natural human process of consolidating power, right? So that in by itself that's a huge challenge, I think, right? It's a huge problem and I think basically it's the only thing that's really justifiable to really work on to change things, right? So I think all decisions, all changes, all sort of attempts to really change the status quo and maker has to move towards some kind of coherent vision and coherent plan for how you're going to get this endgame right. This lockdown and why that's going to be decentralized and why it's going to be safe and why I want a slivery slope into capture of some sort. And then I see basically two ways this can happen, right? And so the first way is sort of the classic vision for Maker, which is what I'll call sort of I mean very early on in Maker we were just obsessed with this concept of how blockchain had huge potential of fundamental value, right? Like more efficiency, faster settlement and transparency and security and all this stuff, right? The reality is you can actually build stuff with blockchain that just runs automatically, right? And I actually still believe that's possible. So that's why one of the things I'm sort of pushing is this possibility of what I call symbol die which is basically pretty much take what exists in Maker today and then get rid of the entire workforce essentially and then just let it run by itself. Of course a few people need to remain but basically what's there today runs itself for the most part and then you have this massive workforce on top of that which was driven by a kind of desire to grow and desire to innovate and break barriers and break limits, right? And it gets into a new frontier that we didn't consider early on in Maker, which is it's not just about building some fundamental value like you build it and it will come, right, but it's also about intangible value, having a brand, having growth, having sort of a growth strategy.
00:09:30.770 - 00:10:28.158, Speaker A: In the end, that's something I'm even more excited about than just sort of fulfilling the original vision of some thing that just works and then that's it. But I believe that to do that it's an incredible, unbelievable challenge to try to figure out how to do things like organize humans and organize what I call meta which is basically the context of how humans and a community, how they work together. And then that's sort of this big vision I've come up with is using a tool called meta dows which basically recognizes that you simply cannot have 130 strong workforce in a dow. It's impossible, it's not going to work. It's a total failure, right? It descends into like crazy politics, turf wars, power struggles. The reason is because the context for all these people isn't compatible. Like they all come from different sort of walks of life in a sense, right? They've all been onboarded in some kind of random fashion.
00:10:28.158 - 00:10:56.590, Speaker A: So what I believe is the silver bullet potentially to this is to split it up into many essentially like siloed independent dows that are still tied together economically through tokenomics and all this sort of intangible value that altogether. I call it meta magic because you can sort of really do some complete sort of hacks, almost right of hacking human psychology with all these tools available in blockchain. Got it.
00:10:56.660 - 00:11:10.290, Speaker C: Okay, so you've presented your vision for MakerDAO Hasu. I'd like you to present your vision and if you can, where you think that Rune's vision falls short of the way you think MakerDAO ought to be governed.
00:11:10.790 - 00:11:44.538, Speaker B: Sure. I don't think we really disagree very much about the vision for MakerDAO in the sense what it should be doing. And I can briefly go into that. I mean there's a lot of different voices in Mecca and also in the community surrounding meka. So Maker, I think we all agree Maker is a decentralized bank, but that alone doesn't even tell us very much. Banks over the centuries have pursued many different business functions. I mean, custody payments, consumer lending, commercial lending, corporate finance, investment banking.
00:11:44.538 - 00:12:46.942, Speaker B: So when we say something is a bank, it can still mean a vast number of combinations of the above options. And so I think before you can really do, before it really even makes sense to start about governance you need some alignment about what your project, what Maker should even be doing. And I think that's why, for example, I suggested so let's create a constitution for Maker in order to figure out what we even want. I know what I want, but I don't know what everybody else wants. And I can see that there's a lot of different visions and I think it would be better if we would all run in the same direction no matter what that direction is, instead of pulling the dow into very different directions that sort of all neutralize each other. So what I would like Maker to be, I mean, I think Maker's most powerful vision is to be a shadow bank. I mean that's how it's already used today and I think that's where it has its highest potential.
00:12:46.942 - 00:13:37.922, Speaker B: So Maker's product is dollar denominated demand deposits. I mean to any listeners from TradFi, also called the Euro dollar not tied to Europe. It's just sort of dollar denominated deposits that are created outside of the US regulated banking system. And this product has a huge target market. It's extremely important to get right there's huge demand to hold US dollar exposure outside of the existing legal system. We'll get to this I assume. But today we saw another example of why that is just US regulators can sort of at know, freeze any deposit that is sort of in their domain and they cannot do this with dollar deposits that are outside of the US legal system.
00:13:37.922 - 00:14:34.034, Speaker B: However, the problem with these shadow banks has been traditionally that they are not FDIC insured. So in the past sort of US central bank has just sort of let them fail and let them sort of fail on their customers. But now these shadow banks have become so big, so systemically important that in the last ten years the Fed had to bail them out with swap lines anyway. So I think Maker has this huge target market. It has many advantages over traditional shadow banks because it doesn't actually need this kind of deposit insurance. It can just hold liquid collateral. And I think that's something that for example, we super agree on like Maker should only hold very scalable, very liquid collateral that we can always liquidate when we need it, right? But for example, this view, it's not like consensus in site Maker what we should be doing.
00:14:34.034 - 00:15:40.534, Speaker B: So I think before we can even talk about how we should do it, how we can get there and how we can design a system that achieves this purpose, I think we need to kick start a process about defining sort of a common constitution, a common mission statement for what the Dow is supposed to do and to be. And I fully expect that, I mean, 20, 30%, maybe of the people involved, maybe of the boats are going to disagree with any vision that is chosen and they will probably go and leave. And that's totally fine, right? Because at least now then they have the chance to go and do and pursue something else because for example, they know that their vision of, for example, a rye or an LUSD version of Maker that's not on the table. And I think stuff like that has never really been communicated for Maker. You already touched on it very briefly. But I think sort of the main way that my proposal differs from Runes is sort of it focuses on very specific tasks. It identifies very specific tasks that need to be done and creates specific roles that then are dedicated in order to filling these objectives.
00:15:40.534 - 00:16:54.142, Speaker B: And this includes setting a strategic direction for the Dao, setting an annual budget, sort of observing setting like a risk management policy for the Dao, hiring and firing core units, monitoring the financials and setting a legal strategy and basically so providing high level strategy but also oversight for the workforce. Because I thought that this is all things that are currently missing from the Dao. And I think that it would be really important that there is a dedicated role in order to steer the Dao from this very high level perspective, right? Because what the token holders are, they can vote on individual decisions, but what they're explicitly not good at is, like, zooming out and not thinking, what do I think about this one decision? But what do I think about what is even the design space for decisions? And what do I think about this decision in the context of what other possible decisions that are not even mentioned here? And so I think steering system as complex as Maker, as ambitious as Maker is just completely impossible if you're so low level. And that's why we need something like I call it a council of makers to take a very deliberately bird's eye view on the system and steer it from there.
00:16:54.196 - 00:17:32.358, Speaker C: Okay? So if I can try to summarize very briefly the two opening statements. So Rune, it sounds like basically your view is that look, when we started Maker, we had a very simple idea of what we wanted to build and over time it's become more and more I wouldn't say politically captured, but politically complex. It's become this big spider's web full of all sorts of stuff that doesn't necessarily need to be there. And your vision is one of, hey, let's return back to kind of a minimal viable Maker there. There are ways in which we might want to be more aggressive. But the first and number one thing is like let's simplify a lot of the complexity that has landed within MakerDAO. HaasA, your vision is that look, right now MakerDAO is basically being decided by token holders.
00:17:32.358 - 00:17:57.410, Speaker C: But tokenholders don't have sufficient direction and alignment of vision to be able to build the right thing. And everything in life is about building the right thing. So you propose that they create a constitution that describes what the goal and broad vision for MakerDAO is and for there to be an elected or some kind of council of decision makers who are responsive to token holders, but it's not token holders voting directly on individual decisions.
00:17:57.750 - 00:17:59.134, Speaker B: Yeah, so that sums it up.
00:17:59.192 - 00:18:01.206, Speaker C: Awesome. Sorry, Robert, you were going to say.
00:18:01.228 - 00:19:14.830, Speaker E: Something to flesh out the surface area of agreement and disagreement just a little bit. Know Hassan, one of the things you said was know, you know Dai to be backed by liquid collateral. One of the things that I've seen happening in MakerDAO is that the collateral base of Dai over time has been moving in two directions. One is towards, albeit liquid collateral like USD coin which is comprising a larger and larger portion of the backing of Dai as well as less liquid collateral or things that aren't as on chain accessible, which really falls into the more real world assets camp, which is there was recently a treasury approach to start including Treasuries and corporate debt as the backing for the system, as well as real world assets loans to banks and other off chain entities. How do you each see that backing of Dai? Is it positive, is it negative? Hassa, you specifically said that you wanted Dai to be outside of the control of the US banking system and regulatory system. But all of these things that are increasingly banking dye are directly controllable by that system. How do you each see this transformation that's occurring?
00:19:15.490 - 00:21:01.886, Speaker A: I really think that first of all, one part where me and Hasu definitely agree. I mean I think beyond is just a sort of sense of there needs to be some mean and that's what the Constitution hasu is talking about also brings to the table right sort of ground rules that basically you put the ground rules in place, and then you play by those rules instead of constantly trying to sort of meta game and change the rules so they favor you. Right? Which is kind of like what happens if you don't get some stability into the political dynamic, right? And then there is the sense of how do you agree on a constitution? What's going to cost you to agree to some ground rules rather than try to game them for your own benefit? And that's where it goes into this concept of what I call the meta or the culture, the sort of the context of the humans basically involved, right? Because I strongly believe that a Dow simply cannot function if it's purely for profit. Like if it's simply a sort of a money making enterprise, you can sort of logically show that it simply is never going to work. And that's because the definition of a Dow is that it's not a legal entity, right? There's no legal protection. And one of the consequences of that is things like corruption and embezzlement and theft and none of that means anything in a sort of if you can do it, then the Dow sort of wants you to do it, right? That's the whole concept. That's sort of the cornerstone of decentralization, right? And so in a situation where people are only motivated by greed, the problem is that there's never this sort of shared vision in that case, right, it's really always just an individual vision of I'm interacting with this thing to maximize the value I can extract out of it.
00:21:01.886 - 00:22:12.610, Speaker A: And that's going to then sort of permeate governance, right? So people will vote for whatever benefits them personally. But even worse, it goes into it sort of impacts the workforce, it impacts the management, if you have something like that, right, and it's just going to be sort of endless freefall. And then that's why I think what you always get is you sort of cut through the insanity and establish some kind of real hierarchy, real centralization, and then turns it effectively into something with real legal protections, right? And the solution to that is some kind of vision that goes beyond just making money and just being in it for profit, right? I think we sort of also alluded to that, right? It's about having people that align about we're not just here to make money, we're here for some bigger thing. Not everyone can get aligned around that. But it's so important to have that alignment that it's actually worth it to basically find something where enough people can be like, now there's a real reason for us to be engaged and contribute to this. In a way, I think it's more sort of altruistic, right? Actually vote what's good for the whole Dao, right? What's good for our vision, for our purpose.
00:22:12.770 - 00:22:42.030, Speaker C: Rune that's such a fascinating claim. I've never heard that said before, that in a Dao there is no such thing as embezlement because a Dao is an extra legal concept. It almost sounds like what you believe is that in a Dao, people are just like it's pure state of nature. People are just doing whatever the hell they want. They are kind of stealing at the margin wherever they possibly can. Do you actually think that's how people behave within MakerDAO?
00:22:44.550 - 00:23:40.690, Speaker A: Maker is already sliding in that direction, but we haven't even seen the beginning of it. Right? And that comes back to this concept again, I really find this term meta, the sort of the context, the second order of what's happening, it can have a certain momentum, right? And one of the things it can do, it can deteriorate. Right. So corruption in an organization spreads because you see everyone else doing it and then you start doing it yourself. In Maker there's nothing like that, right? You don't have anything like real embezzlement or real corruption or anything like that. But what was happening for a long time was this memification of decentralization, as I would call it, right? So once upon a time, decentralization was considered taken very seriously. But then for all the people that have to actually do things, it's super inconvenient for them to constantly have to deal with all this decentralization, maximalism and LARPing.
00:23:40.690 - 00:24:54.326, Speaker A: And over time it started to sort of slide as a principle, right? And then you actually started opening the door to things that could really sort of irreversibly centralize the Dow. And I think the exact same process will certainly play out for things like accessing budgets, right? Like at first you're sort of thinking about I'm going to get this budget for what's best for the whole organization and I'm all about doing consuming value. But then if you see everyone else sort of building up a fat buffer and a fat budget, you're going to naturally be working in that direction. If there's no counter force against that and that counterforce, it cannot be that we're here to make money because that's exactly the thing that's going to drive that kind of sliding, right. It has to be some kind of greater purpose. What I've pushed in the past, what actually was my first realization that this is so important was clean money, right? So this idea that you can have the collateral itself of Dai and sort of what Dai actually in a sense physically is you can have that be the purpose, right. And have that be sort of the reason why it has to be Dai that should succeed.
00:24:54.326 - 00:25:20.626, Speaker A: Right. And why it has to be Dai that people should work for and volunteer and contribute to. Right. Because you can literally create a currency that produced positive externality, right. In the same way that the current financial system is like destroying the world, right, and producing negative externalities all over the place, you could actually reverse that process and create something that just makes the world better, sort of automatically, right. Driven by the power of blockchain. Right.
00:25:20.626 - 00:26:08.062, Speaker A: And I think with something like that in place, you're going to have actually the possibility of creating a real ossified constitution. Right. Where you're going to get the system to a place where everyone's involved because it's doing good. And because they think there is some real purpose for this beyond just making a bunch of money. So they'll not accept somebody coming and being like, oh, let's mess with some budgets. Let's do some stuff over here. Let's do some pull some tricks here and there, right? Regardless if they try to bribe people or do some propaganda, all this stuff that absolutely happens and will happen in Dow politics, right? Because in the end there is a tangible sort of upside that goes beyond just what's in it for me, right? And I think that's how you get this sort of stability.
00:26:08.062 - 00:26:53.550, Speaker A: And to draw a comparison, I think that's something like Vesforce, for instance, makes Bitcoin totally unassailable, right? Everyone says they're not just in Bitcoin for the money. I mean, it's a big part of it, even the maximalists, right? Of course they're all there to speculate and so on. But there is also that sense of freedom and sovereignty and living in the mountains, out of reach of the government, right? And that creates a meta where the exchanges are not going to the miners and exchanges, they're not going to collude because they know that the entire world is going to be against them, right? The second order sort of feedback is that everyone else knows that nobody else is going to mess with Bitcoin, so nobody's going to try, even if theoretically they could fog it and introduce inflation or whatever, right? But it simply won't happen.
00:26:53.620 - 00:27:18.530, Speaker C: So, Roon, it sounds like a lot of your view about MakerDAO and Dao governance generally is driven by this skepticism about human nature, let's say, and about kind of the purity of incentives quickly getting eroded when there's power to be had, when there's money to be made. What is your take? Do you disagree with that? Or do you largely think that Rune is basically correct, but you think that the solution to this problem is different than what Rune's presenting?
00:27:18.610 - 00:27:22.520, Speaker B: I mean, I thought the original question from Robert was more interesting.
00:27:22.830 - 00:27:24.700, Speaker E: Let's go back to the original question.
00:27:25.070 - 00:28:07.186, Speaker B: You were asking about collateral, right? I mean, I can briefly sort of there's a bunch of things we could talk about, but I thought your original question is very interesting just because it's so timely. You were asking about whether we should have real world assets in Maker and such, right? And stablecoins backing. The Dai, I think, might be interesting just for the audience to hear about this briefly because this is actually something that I think Rune and I are in complete agreement about. And Dune actually had this super insightful tweet about this earlier. I would call it decentralized stablecoin dilemma, almost. You can have a coin that's stable, solvent, you can have a coin that's backed by non US dollar collateral and you can have a. Coin that's scalable.
00:28:07.186 - 00:28:51.762, Speaker B: You can have only two out of these three properties, but you can't have all three. So any stablecoin system needs to sacrifice one of the three sites. I mean, maker has decided that it wants to be a stable coin. It wants the Dai to always be at a dollar. There used to be a huge debate about this in the past, but sort of the site that wanted die to be $1.01, I think that in hindsight, that was a very good decision. It does sacrifice trustlessness of the system necessarily because you have to then once you made this decision, you need to decide, do we want non USD collateral in Maker or do we want Maker to be scalable? And from that point on, basically, you have to pick one of the two sides.
00:28:51.762 - 00:29:38.578, Speaker B: And maker chose scalability because in order to for Maker, it's not just enough to be you can make a system that's very useful for a few people, or you can make a system that's potentially useful for the whole world. And I really think it depends on what your objective function is. And I think rune's vision, and largely the vision of the Maker community, is to create a global currency, a currency that is accessible to anyone in the world. And for that, it needs to be very liquid and it needs to have wide distribution and so on. There's only one way to guarantee that. So dai deposits. If you use a traditional sort of asset liability model, then Dai is a liability of Maker.
00:29:38.578 - 00:30:17.434, Speaker B: And right now it has sort of on the order of like five to $6 billion of USDC backing these demand deposits. So anyone can take one Dai, go to Maker and withdraw one USDC for that. And that's really important in order to create stability at the pack, in order to basically create this guarantee that people can always withdraw $1 of collateral for $1 of die. And if you have dollar denominated liabilities, then you need dollar denominated assets backing that. And so the amount of available collateral.
00:30:17.482 - 00:30:26.982, Speaker E: Wait, why I'm going to interject why? Ether is not dollar denominated per se, right? It's an arbitrary asset, right? Ether has exchange rate risk relative to the US.
00:30:27.036 - 00:30:27.314, Speaker A: Dollar.
00:30:27.362 - 00:30:35.160, Speaker E: It's wild and it's great collateral. So why do you have to have dollar denominated collateral for this to work?
00:30:36.490 - 00:31:24.882, Speaker B: Okay, so there are two ways to create Dai. The first is, and this is how maker used to work in the early days. And this is you have someone who deposits collateral such as Ether, and then they borrow Dai against that collateral. And by doing that, they go short ETH USD because they borrow USD against ETH and then they sell the USD. So this is one way that Dai can go in circulation. But this way of creating Dai is sort of extremely it's purely dependent on the demand to borrow Dai against USD, which is like really small and it's not at all matched with sort of the demand to actually hold Dai. So you need a way for the demand to hold Dai and for the demand to borrow Dai against ETH.
00:31:24.882 - 00:32:11.746, Speaker B: You need these to be sort of in some kind of equilibrium with each other. And so the much more scalable way of actually meeting the big global demand to hold Dai is to allow Dai to create it from other dollar stable assets. And this is what the PSM does in Maker, the Pac stability module, which is if demand for Dai ever goes above, let's say like $1.01, then it becomes profitable for Arbitrageurs to deposit one USDC in the system to mint one die, sell the one die for one USDC and $0.01, right? And then profit $0.01. So you basically have infinite scalability as long as you have dollar collateral backing this. But we don't want USDC.
00:32:11.746 - 00:32:41.406, Speaker B: We don't want the current dependence on USDC that we have. We want to replace USDC not just because it's a huge central point of failure, but also because USDC doesn't pay us any yield right on this. So Circle is making three to 4% on all of these deposits that they hold in the bank, and maker is getting zero of that. So Maker should in theory, it does.
00:32:41.428 - 00:32:49.634, Speaker D: Allow you to expand the dye supply without dropping interest rates. Right? And I think that was part of the whole thesis, which is like, yeah.
00:32:49.752 - 00:33:40.974, Speaker B: That'S a good point, Tom. Yeah, so it does have some benefits. I mean, it does on the other side, it introduces a lot of sort of existential risk and creates the narrative that dies just wrapped USDC and such. Right? So, I mean, in theory, instead of just USDC, maker should be backed by a range of different stablecoins that all have profit sharing agreements with Maker on the yield that they generate from the money that is ultimately sitting somewhere in the banking system. And then maker should also be backed by commercial bonds and governance bonds because these are some of the sort of safest and most liquid US. Dollar denominated sort of yield bearing assets that there are. And I think this is something that nothing that I said is sort of controversial among, I would say, like 80% of MKR.
00:33:40.974 - 00:33:47.826, Speaker B: This is like something that I would say that we all agree on and sort of anyone who disagrees with that is sort of already well, in the.
00:33:47.848 - 00:33:54.358, Speaker C: Minor spirit of this being a debate, let's maybe try to zoom in on the controversy, which is why we brought you both on.
00:33:54.524 - 00:34:14.286, Speaker B: I think it's also important that people understand all of which is not the controversy, because I did see today on Twitter a lot of people saying, okay, so this proves that maker can't be backed by USDC, maker can't be backed by reward assets, et cetera, et cetera. So just want to make, for these reasons, clear that I would like to.
00:34:14.308 - 00:34:30.322, Speaker D: Dive into RWA stuff and USDC at some point. But I am kind of curious. I think so far you guys have been talking a little bit about your respective visions and I think also your blog posts go into a lot of detail, or the forum posts rather go into a lot of detail around how you sort of see the world and.
00:34:30.376 - 00:34:31.074, Speaker B: What you want to see.
00:34:31.112 - 00:34:50.460, Speaker D: But I'm curious what more specifically you disagree with. Right? There's one thing to say, hey, here's generally speaking how I think makers should go. Here's kind of what I want to do with Metadals. But I'm curious and this is for both of you, maybe starting with Rune. What specifically do you disagree with most in Hasu's post and Hasu's point of view?
00:34:51.710 - 00:35:55.194, Speaker A: What I think I can respond to is what Hasu was just saying, which is like so I think the way Hasu laid it out is like I agree with this, that it's like that's the most what I would say that's sort of enlightened kind of like this is the obvious kind of business as usual. We've already been seeing Maker going. It's like, of course there's this whole thing about just like ETH is a perfect collateral, but it doesn't scale. Getting bonds on chain, getting access to the yields and centralized stable coins that are on chain, all of that stuff is like it's amazing if you can build something on that and just scale it up and become sort of the stable coin of stablecoins or stablecoin of bonds and it's all unchained. That's an incredible product. Unfortunately, I don't think it will be a stable equilibrium essentially, right. Or rather it's not guaranteed that will basically be allowed to exist.
00:35:55.194 - 00:36:56.310, Speaker A: Right. I mean, we're already seeing in the US. I think it's basically been decided that they're going to stomp on the stable coins, basically not just die, actually even USDC, they're going to turn it into something like e money in Europe, which is like an unviable business model basically. I mean, of course we can hope that this latest stablecoin bill, whatever doesn't pass, right? But it's being brought forth with the momentum of that's like what they decided to turn Luna's collapse into. Right? They're basically trying to sort of not actually ban, but practically ban mean. In Europe we've got Mika is actually really awesome because it exempts Maker specifically. It nukes pretty much everything else but Maker, which is like I would not argue in its current form or something very close to its current form where it's fully decentralized, it's being actually exempted and actually gets into a very nice spot.
00:36:56.310 - 00:37:57.894, Speaker A: But the same thing is happening where there's all this discussion around, well, how do we actually kill it? Because that's what they actually want, right? And I think increasingly, I mean they've been moving further towards actually let's just kill it. That's the sense I get both in the US. In europe and we've seen struggling economies around the world, one of the first things they like to do is to ban all crypto, right? And as things are going to get worse in the west, we will see the same kinds of things, right? So I think, first of all, the first thing that I wear sort of I mean, I basically disagree with Hasu that it has to be only liquid, or rather that's maybe not the way to put it, but I think that what I call clean money is basically collateral where you deliberately use stuff as collateral that you wouldn't use purely for financial reasons. And you use it essentially for like I mean well, I would call it for meta reasons. Right. But for sort of PR and political reasons, not to mention internal governance reasons. Right.
00:37:57.894 - 00:39:22.414, Speaker A: But essentially we need to prove to the world why they shouldn't shut us down and why the politicians should understand that they'll actually get more votes if they allow something like Maker to exist rather than if they shut it down. Because we are able to sort of show to regular people that there's some real value for them in this, such as here's the technical solution that can help with the huge coordination problem of climate. But beyond that, I also think we need to be properly prepared for a full sort of failure of these legal systems that right now we feel very convenient to sort of rely on and increasingly build on top of not just these political attempts to destroy stablecoins, but I think even like a social breakdown. Right, because as I said earlier, once you start to see the crack showing in an economy, they really crack down on crypto. That's one of the things they do. That's really what I view like dai should really be the currency that doesn't die in that situation, right? So the good old die or die, right? We need to figure out how to navigate past that. And I think to do that, we have to tap into these not just the basic fundamentals of efficiency, but we have to figure out how to get the community to come together, basically, and how to tap into these.
00:39:22.414 - 00:39:33.138, Speaker A: New frontiers of what you can do with blockchain and web3 and metaverse and intangible value and the ability for humans to organize with all this stuff.
00:39:33.304 - 00:39:41.990, Speaker C: So Rune, how do you think Hasu's idea of there being a sort of council of elders for Makerdaw? How do you think that plays into those political risks that you're.
00:39:45.210 - 00:40:41.914, Speaker A: Actually I sort of amended my own plan to actually include something called councils just because I think it's like a great term. It's a great term, right. I don't think it's viable to have a single council basically that sort of directly goes against what I believe is sort of possible. I mean, or rather if you have a single council well, either you will have like you will literally just have all value going to that council. They'll basically sort of embezzle all the value in the system or more likely they'll do that and then there'll be some kind of backlash, scandal type of thing and then that's going to result in some sort of legal framework being imposed on this identifiable group. Right? So the solution as I see it is you have a ton of many councils and you also kind of put checks and balances in place to their power. So you make sure they set the high level.
00:40:41.914 - 00:41:31.180, Speaker A: They sort of help with setting. They provide expertise for the high level direction and implementation and sort of what conforms to the constitution and what doesn't and these kind of very important high level questions. But you sort of balance it. Out so they don't also sit and are involved in, I don't know, making deals or engaging with counterparties to the point where they can build up something are called private entanglement but basically a kind of power, like a kind of leverage that you can get in a dow that makes it very difficult to kind of undo. Once you build it up, it's very hard to unwind again. And that's one of my biggest fears and why I come back to this thing of like you have to put in place something that is so decentralized it can be cracked because any kind of crack, once it starts happening, it'll only go one way, I think.
00:41:31.950 - 00:41:47.950, Speaker C: So Hasu, let's get your response. It sounds like Rune believes that your proposals don't sufficiently take into account the political risks both of the existence of a single council, but also the political risks that are imposed on MakerDAO's just continuing existence.
00:41:48.290 - 00:43:13.290, Speaker B: Yeah, so I think we both agree that something has to be done. That there are sort of I mean large inefficiencies in Maker. Not just inefficiencies, but also sort of large voter apathy and like entrenchment of the token holders and the borrowers that all of this stuff is sort of it leads to sort of a slow debt for Maker and it also makes it much easier to capture by regulators. So I think something that both of our proposals tackle in their own unique way is sort of how can we create strong checks and balances in Maker? So I think both sort of proposals have at their core something close to sort of I like to call this like owner operator separation where sort of the owners of the Dao tokenholders no longer have to be the ones that are operating it day to day. And this was already sort of kicked off with the introduction of delegates but it would sort of be taken further with the introduction of one council or several councils. Right? But once you start to delegate and sort of say, okay, so I'm appointing an agent to manage a Dow on my behalf, or at least like this small subpart of the Dao. Then it's really important to make sure that you keep the principal agent problem in check, that you keep the incentives of the two parties aligned with each other.
00:43:13.290 - 00:43:44.926, Speaker B: And that's where I think actually that the simple makeup proposal that I put out is actually I mean, it sounds simpler, but I think it's actually much cleaner and actually does this job better because it's way easier to provide oversight on one Council for MKR token holders than on 20 councils. Like, you need way fewer eyes, you need way fewer people to be engaged to observe sort of the output of one group than of many different individual groups.
00:43:45.118 - 00:43:53.558, Speaker C: Why do you think it won't be the case that this Council will not just embezzle or enrich themselves from their position as Council members?
00:43:53.724 - 00:45:22.338, Speaker B: Well, so there's a couple of different reasons. I mean, for one, in my vision, the Council can only make recommendations to token holders, so it can create proposals, but these have to still be voted on. Every single proposal still has to be voted on by the MKR token holders, but it's sort of presented in a much more high level way, so it becomes actually much easier for the tokenholders to understand what is actually being voted on. So for one, they never give up control, but they also gain sort of so much context and bird's eye view on every decision that is being made because the Council only makes very rare occasional sort of high level decisions. So, for example, when the council would create a budget once per year instead of sort of continuously or maybe once every six months, then it would have to all of the budgets for the different core units and the different initiatives that Maker does, they're all presented and negotiated at the same time. And sort of anybody can look at, say, oh, yeah, I think are we spending too much in total or not? Where does this money go? And if I want to give more money to this core unit, then I have to decide I want to take it away from this other coinIt and so on. So I think that we're actually making the decisions much more transparent and actually much easier to oversee and that we are adding a lot of accountability to the MKR token holders which don't exist today.
00:45:22.504 - 00:46:19.502, Speaker A: Because I agree that this makes sense on paper, right? But what I've seen in reality play because I mean, I actually think the same logic, you could almost apply the same logic to the coinits themselves, right? In the end they can't push anything through and they have to come back to get their budgets renewed and so on, right? But what I really think is a central issue, like a really big sort of corner we backed ourselves into, is that again, it's the context of this, right? So the real context, right? So on paper they're supposed to blah, blah serve the Dao and all about decentralization and all about cutting costs and so on. But when push comes to shove, you kind of see this, like, the way the dynamic actually is that it's like, here's the thing we worked on, and it's great. And here's a budget. There's a bunch of money, and we need some here. And we made it. And we were chosen because we're the smart ones that know how to do this. So here it is.
00:46:19.502 - 00:49:06.074, Speaker A: And basically this is the thing, right? And then if people sort of push back, it's like, oh, my God, you're MK holders, you have no clue what you're doing. You all just want to cut budgets and that's going to harm growth, but you have no sense of thinking about the long term, right? I remember these cases of people coming into the discord, right, and sort of asking, why the hell is the budget at 50 million, right? Or 30 million or whatever it was at? And then you had like one guy asking, why is the budget so high? And then immediately you get like 20 to 30 full time employees, right, who's in full time job? Is this stuff swarming and being like, budgets are great for growth. Budget, budget, budget, budget. And nobody wants to participate in that kind of situation, right? No one wants to be like the volunteer sort of idiot that's carrying all the other free riders that are not even speaking up at all, right? And then you have to fight politically against 30 full time experts who live and breathe this stuff, right? And I mean, the only thing I can imagine that's worse than that is going up against a council of the seven makers who has been sitting on this post for the last ten years. And you think you're coming to whatever, right, in practice, even if someone sort of had the power to kind of let's assume, right? I mean, of course it's a hypothetical scenario, right? But let's imagine they're like super corrupt and they've been there for like a decade and someone's able to kind of get in there and figure generate some kind of leverage that's like, okay, now finally I can replace one of them, or something like that, right? I know that of course this is an unfair I mean, I recognize it's a totally unfair example, right? But the point is, I think that if you're already seeing all this, that everyone's just looking out for themselves, what's going to cause you to then do it for sort of the greater good and to undo all this corruption? I really think the people would do this so they could get a cut, right? So you may be going to replace someone on the council, but the person who gets in there, it's going to be like Russia or something, right? Then the new king or whatever will just take over the ability to extract value. And I think the only way to get out of this is to basically we disagree on this, like this agent owner separation, right? Obviously there has to be like experts because MK outlets can't be the experts. But I think you actually must have what I call, I mean, basically like volunteers, semi altruists I call it, right? Like people who are sort of they're in it because they can benefit through appreciation of the MKR token but not for some kind of special interest they have.
00:49:06.074 - 00:50:23.634, Speaker A: Right, so they're really just looking out for the token and then because they're looking out for the token, they're looking out for the users, the dieholders, because the token is linked to the die holders, right? And we have to build systems where you can't get comfortable and lean back and it will work even if the MPR holders are totally out of it. That's what I discovered. That's why I got back into it like six months ago is because I noticed that there's literally not a single person active that wasn't getting paid in some shape or form. Right, so the inmates were running the asylum, right? There was actually nobody watching out at that point because you can't go toe to toe with people that are full time professionals, especially when the whole thing is set up to sort of give them the momentum and give them the initiative. And so that's what I believe we need to do is we need to build something where you sort of put the MKR holder on a pedestal in a sense, right? Like the people who actually volunteer, who are not getting paid, who are there sort of to simply vote and participate and basically sort of do their duty almost like jury duty or something like that. Everything must be set up for them and for them to be able to actually interact anywhere they want and for them to kind of match all the full time professional actors in terms of the ability to politically clash, in a sense.
00:50:23.672 - 00:50:26.658, Speaker C: Right, well, let's give hasu an opportunity to respond.
00:50:26.834 - 00:51:57.666, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, I basically completely disagree that MK alders should be put on a pedestal or that they really have like a tone to add to the operation of Mecca. Dao I think the project is way too big, too important, and too ambitious and too complicated, like for anyone who isn't sort of a full time employee or like a long term expert in the field. And that really is a very small sort of intersection of people that sort of even qualify for steering MakerDAO in a meaningful sense. And I just think the intersection of these groups who are also then large MKR holders is basically zero. If the project is supposed to have any future, then I think we need to make it possible for experts to drive MakerDAO and we need to make it extremely easy for MKR holders to hold these experts accountable and to audit the whole system from different angles. So, for example, the council or councils, I think they should not just contain MKR holders, for example, or shouldn't just contain people who make strategic decisions or financial decisions, et cetera. You should also have sort of someone in there who represents, for example, Dieholders and one who represents the interests of borrowers and maybe one who has the interests of the underlying blockchain, like the Ethereum ecosystem for example, in mind.
00:51:57.666 - 00:53:06.520, Speaker B: I think definitely you should sort of factor in all of these different viewpoints. That's something that we also do at Lido, sort of the dual governance approach and optimism does with their house approach. And I think that is really the future. Like having strong division of power, but sort of in at least like one side of it have sort of experts driving the ship and then everybody else gets a really clean look at what the experts are doing and that they are steering in the right direction. And along with that comes the ability to fire the council at will, right? I mean, not just approve anything that the council does, everything needs approval, but also sort of the ability to unilaterally replace council members or fire the entire council. I think that this stuff is really important to get right sort of the checks and balances. And this is actually where we get to my biggest sort of problem that I have with Ruins Endgame Vision and that is that it's too complicated for me to understand.
00:53:06.520 - 00:54:06.490, Speaker B: I think it has now sort of five posts I read the summaries. Summaries alone are like there are five summaries there together, like over 100 pages. And for me it's just too complicated. I can read it, but it's too complicated for me to look at the whole system and say, yeah, this is definitely going to work, this is definitely not going to be exploitable and it's fundamentally not the way that I would design a system. I think my approach to system design is first define sort of the objective function of the system, decide where we want to go. Then think of the design space for what are sort of the different governance systems that you can put on top in order to get us there and really keep it as simple as possible because complexity is such a big risk and such a big danger. So the biggest unspoken danger of all systems that pride themselves on their resilience and such.
00:54:06.490 - 00:54:43.960, Speaker B: And I think for Maker it's extremely important that it is resilient. That's one of its most important features. For me, I couldn't vote for this proposal because of its complexity. To me, that's sort of its big shortcoming. And I think a lot of work like Rune, you have to put a lot of work into greatly, greatly simplifying it before I think it becomes sort of viable for many voters like me. Yeah, that's also feedback that I've also given you already sort of six to nine months ago.
00:54:45.050 - 00:55:23.342, Speaker E: Can I ask one question about the endgame plan that jumped out at me from it that I really liked? And I'd love to get Hasu's thoughts on this as well. So one of the things that I found really exciting about the endgame plan was the mention that eventually MakerDAO could move beyond a simple synthetic dollar asset, which was part of the original vision of MakerDAO. That got me excited years and years and years ago to creating new synthetic assets, whether it would be like a synthetic euro or a synthetic ether or synthetic bitcoin or synthetic equity index or whatever. Rune. Do you think that's crucial or core to the vision of MakerDAO? And Hastu, do you think that that is crucial or core to the vision of MakerDAO?
00:55:23.406 - 00:56:24.854, Speaker A: So there's a whole bunch of stuff to talk about with synthetic assets, because that was part of sort of the vision from the so that's and actually, I would say nowadays synthetic assets is part of what I call the Trinity, which is this concept invented by Fracs, that there's this sort of natural law, gravity around. What are the obvious? Once you reach a certain level of complexity, of governance. So you do risk management. You have this trinity of stuff you kind of always want to build up. Both me and Hasu, we're basically saying, look, we need something that is possible to kind of like audit and control and have certain guarantees around it. And in order to get that, it needs to be simple. And complexity is the enemy, right? And then the main difference is that I don't think that 100 pages of sort of technical design or constitutional design or even 200 pages or how many pages you want, I don't think that is complex at all compared to the complexity of human incentives, basically.
00:56:24.854 - 00:58:51.382, Speaker A: And not just human incentives, not just like selfishness, but even like irrational malice in terms of interpersonal conflict and beef and insanity and mental illness and this good thing around the number of CEOs that are psychopaths and all this stuff, right? That's what I think is like the challenge that MKI holders need to be able to deal with. I'm not so not even close to worried about MKI holders being able to risk manage I mean, that's also a crazy challenge, right? Of course, risk managing liquidation of assets at some massive scale, but dealing with people, right? And especially dealing with people in the total absence of legal frameworks of shareholder protection, like fiduciary duty, that's what I think is like the almost impossible challenge, right? And so bringing back to what Hasu talked about with the council, right? And then you put someone who represents Die holders, you put someone who represents ETH holders into the council, right, but I mean, I'm assuming that those people would still get paid, right? In which case they're going to represent the bureaucracy, right? I mean. That's the reality of how human behavior works. It's like literally humans 101, right? And I mean, more than anything else they're going to be subject to this very good old thing called the Iron law of bureaucracy which is again just the context of an organization. Originally like a bureaucracy or an organization is created to do x. But the internal dynamics in practice sort of empirically we know that in almost all cases what happens is the sort of individual replacement of people and the individuals or power struggles of people in an organization in a sense sort of represent the organization itself rather than its purpose gaining power, right? Simply because again, it's something like a laws of like a gravity natural law in a sense, right? So I think that you would have like someone representing die holders, someone representing ETH holders, someone representing whatever the ethereum blockchain working together with council representing real world assets, blah, blah. And what they would do is they would secretly collude to produce propaganda making it look like they are whatever the people, whatever they think will keep people to basically shut up and let them do their thing.
00:58:51.382 - 00:59:31.380, Speaker A: And then their objective would always be to just maintain sort of their goal will be resilience but it will be their own resilience. Right? I think the only way to prevent that is to build up something that's basically more like it looks more complex in terms of sort of mapping out all the pieces. But what we're doing is we're making explicit the structure that becomes sort of implicit in this kind of structure where you sort of count on people taking care of it.
00:59:33.350 - 01:01:05.410, Speaker B: I would take the other approach and say let's not just say that shareholder protection doesn't exist in a Dao and can't exist and that fiduciary duty can exist in a Dao and that Dows can be transparent, et cetera. Because I think we can just design the Dow in order to have all of these properties and then you can actually have managers in place and like people steering the Dow on behalf of the token holder and they are accountable to these token holders that they are working for. So that was my starting point to be honest. That you can have these things in a Dow and that you can design simple systems that create them and that you can tune these systems over time as the need for that arises. And I mean, what I think we completely agree on is that you want to minimize the surface for governance as much as possible. We both want to build a system that can grow to a trillion dollar in die circulation and there is a lot of tail risk from something going wrong. I think that the risk from something going wrong and die is like you want to minimize sort of that risk a lot because you're dealing with people's savings here and you want this currency to be very reliable and you want it to be resilient to internal capture, but also to capture by nation state attackers.
01:01:05.410 - 01:02:10.774, Speaker B: I think we completely agree that we want the core maker to ossify as much as possible and then sort of have a lot of expansion, a lot of initiatives on the edges. Right. And I think I haven't seen sort of an actual spec for the concept of a metadao and what that would look like. I don't think it exists yet. But in theory this is also an idea that I think has been discussed before and that I'm high level supporting, right? Like a metadao. Just being sort of the high level idea that you have an organization that for example from Maker gets the ability to mint dai up to a certain debt limit but it has to put up some of its own collateral first and so if something goes wrong with that dai then they are on the hook first before sort of it affects the maker community. For me that looks, for example, also like a good scaling model but then you still need like you need a central in the central hub, you need someone to pull the strings and set what is the risk limit for that metadao going to be.
01:02:10.774 - 01:03:07.160, Speaker B: And if we have sort of this budget and there are ten metadaw supplying, which should we fund, et cetera. So I think you do need someone taking the central position, because it does exist, and you very aptly described earlier. What happens if that doesn't exist? Which is you do see budgets spiraling out of control because, of course, for token holders, every new proposal from a core unit looks amazing and looks like we need to fund this thing now. But it doesn't factor in the next three budget proposals and the previous three budget proposals. To be honest, a lot of mistakes have been made in makers, governance systems not predicting these things, which for me, coming in late is very hard to believe. That, for example, it could be allowed that the budget isn't decided once every six months for all core units. That there even is this rolling window of approvals for all of these things.
01:03:07.160 - 01:03:12.860, Speaker B: This is like the really low hanging fruit that we should clean up first.
01:03:13.230 - 01:04:12.220, Speaker A: Yeah. And I think that comes back to, again, what I call the context or in this case you could say sort of the culture, right, that once it's like, oh, we're just doing some budgets, then once you open the door to it, it's all over the place. And I mean, one of the other interesting observations of this kind of thing playing out is something around, I think it's called the contingency buffer or something that the core units had like a contingency buffer. So they sort of loaded up on a buffer and then that buffer is supposed to kind of like give them a buffer, right? So if something happens they have some extra money, but they sort of load it up over it over a budget period. And then I think literally every single core unit, they rolled that over. So that buffer just at one point the finance core unit. Then one day they did the numbers and they were like, oh, there's like 20 million dies sitting out there in these buffers that have just been growing and growing and growing, right? Which is exactly like if one part is doing it, then everyone's going to do it.
01:04:12.220 - 01:05:25.326, Speaker A: And this is what I talked about, what I really keep coming back to, that it's a slippery slope kind of thing where you have to have this like it needs to be completely impervious, right? Which is again what I think why you need to spell it all out, have really every single thing of like if this happens, well, then if you see this kind of behavior, then secrecy or any kind of whatever, something that basically is like in the moment maybe could be justified as, oh, we're getting some things done. We had a quick, this is the one I know can do it. They just did it. We didn't go through the open transparent process. We did it the fast way, right? And maybe that makes sense in isolation, but it has this second order ripple effect of suddenly you've opened the door to this kind of stuff, right? So I totally agree that you can engineer something that looks like a fiduciary duty kind of thing, because that's also the big problem. It's like in Maker today, it's like whenever we see these small slippery slope, little sliding things, all we can do is basically, well, we can fire it. We can be like, oh, you just didn't publish some message so that wasn't transparent.
01:05:25.326 - 01:06:43.710, Speaker A: So now you're fired, right? Not just you, in fact, your whole core unit has to get fired, right? We can't do anything less than that currently. And that's a terrible dynamic, right? So then what happens is this opposite behavior where then actually the incentive is for the MPI holders to close their eyes and look the other way and be like, oh, nothing's going on, right? Everything's fine. Because it's not like they can shut down a core unit because of some random small thing. And so they'd rather just make everyone else think everything is fine to try to pump the price, essentially, right? So you get this very bad negative dynamic that goes against trying to enforce this behavior. And so with the metadals, right? So just to this example you're talking about, right, the whole idea is to have basically instead of having individuals like humans having their political drama interaction to each other and with the Imperial holders, to basically have entire dows do these interactions, right? That's like different classes, I call them, of the metadals, right? And so there are basically some that do the sort of the actual work and then they're the ones I call Governor Dows. And so the Governor Dows, they're the ones that, for instance, run the councils and run the core units. And then the idea is that the metadao is the one responsible for kind of like adhering to the constitution, essentially.
01:06:43.710 - 01:07:59.846, Speaker A: And then everyone who works in a core unit or council or whatever for a particular Metado, they get a bunch of tokens for that metadao. So they don't get MKR, right? They get the Metado token, which is then sort of indirect exposure to MKR, but also exposure to the metadata itself. And then if there is kind of if something goes wrong, there's a best practice wasn't followed or even there was maybe corruption or something ridiculous, but it could even be some kind of small thing of going down the slavery slope, then Maker can basically put penalties on these governor Dows, right? So suddenly the dynamic is flipped where it's super easy for Maker to be like, oh, we don't here's the problem. Let's find any kind of tiny flaw and let's go for that and be like smack a penalty on you. So suddenly it's like the dynamic is flipped. It's really easy for Maker to find reasons to basically say something's wrong. And then suddenly the co units, the councils, the metadals, their main concern is always how do we absolutely do it? 1 trillion% by the book, because that's the starting point for doing anything is to really just adhering to the constitution, basically.
01:07:59.846 - 01:08:05.046, Speaker A: And that brings us back to this kind of like really solidifying this stuff, right?
01:08:05.068 - 01:08:49.010, Speaker C: And then you have sarun, let me pause you there. It seems like, though, the crux of what you guys are describing and I want to wrap up on this it seems that the crux of what you're describing is how do you do management in a dow for a lot of very early Dows, you didn't really need management. It's kind of a trope that in startups you don't really need management when you have like seven people because everyone kind of knows what to do. Everyone kind of feels like they're part of the same team. But as organizations grow, they become more complex. They require more hierarchy, more structure, more different kinds of affordances that we don't really have, a handbook, we don't really have. Like when Andy Grove from intel wrote High Up Output Management, that was like one of the bibles of how you manage large organizations.
01:08:49.010 - 01:10:02.080, Speaker C: We don't have any concept like that for DAOs. And one of the largest and most complex and as you pointed out, Rune, one of the most bureaucratic DAOs today is MakerDAO. And we're seeing, I feel like what we're seeing play out between the two of you is this fight over the soul of how do you evolve a bureaucracy to prevent the bureaucracy from becoming stale in different ways. And I think each of you has a different kind of fear about what can go wrong in a large, complex bureaucratic organization. But it's pretty clear that the answer is not that the complexity goes away because MakerDAO has irreducible complexity. If we all agree that MakerDAO needs real world assets, if we all agree that it needs to continue underwriting new collateral, if we all agree that there are all these complicated questions that need to get adjudicated by experts within MakerDAO, that this is a really hard problem and there's no simple solution to it. That being said, I want to give each of you kind of as a very kind of cute last word, I want to have each of you give one sentence of what you think was the best counterargument by the other person toward your side.
01:10:02.080 - 01:10:08.014, Speaker C: So, Rune, I'd like you very briefly, to start, what do you think is the best counterargument that hasu has made towards you?
01:10:08.052 - 01:11:01.710, Speaker A: In one mean, it's obviously that complexity is very so what you just said haseeb of like, it has to be complex. I don't necessarily agree with sort of getting in on that early on that I think that there is a possibility that we have to just cut back our ambitions for how much stuff is going to be going on in Maker. And I believe that it's like, either you do a massive workforce, you're good the whole way, and you actually make what we were just talking about this thing about decentralized fiduciary duty and all this stuff. And if you can't do that, I don't think you can go halfway. But the point is, going the whole way, that's very complex, and it may not be possible, but I think it is, and I hope it is. I think it's worth it to really.
01:11:01.860 - 01:11:05.300, Speaker C: Hassan, what would you say was Rune's best argument toward your position?
01:11:07.670 - 01:11:20.882, Speaker B: I'm very bad at thinking on the spot, so maybe I'd think of something better. But I really like the emphasis that Rune's proposal puts on creating strong checks and balances for the workforce.
01:11:21.026 - 01:11:48.622, Speaker C: Okay, well, look, obviously this is an evolving conversation. It's one that's not ending anytime soon. So we look forward to having this conversation continue in the Maker Governance forums. So for those of you who are listening, if you haven't already, you should go Google the Maker Governance forums. It's where all the most important conversations on Maker Governance are happening today. Thank you, both of you, for coming on and being good sports and engaging with each other's arguments. I learned a ton, and I imagine our audience did too.
01:11:48.622 - 01:11:49.760, Speaker C: Thanks, guys.
