00:00:00.320 - 00:00:19.822, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of Daily Way refuel where you got the latest news in Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Dan Denise. As I know the 18 July 2024. All right everyone, let's get into it. So before we jump into the news from the last couple of days, just wanted to clarify something for people. I think a few people got confused the other day thinking that I was going on holiday is starting the other day.
00:00:19.822 - 00:00:41.530, Speaker A: I did mention I was going on the trip to Europe that's actually starting on August 10. So still a little while away. But as I mentioned on the last episode, there will probably only be a refuel once a week for about two and a half months, months from August 10. So yeah, not on holidays just yet, not traveling just yet. But yeah, just wanted to clarify that for people out there. Now. Moving on to the news.
00:00:41.530 - 00:01:33.638, Speaker A: So we finally have a launch date for the Eat ETF's. As you all have seen by now, they are going to be launching on Tuesday, the 23 July, which is pretty much two months to the day from when they got approved, when the 19 b four s got approved on May 23. So it felt like a lot longer than two months, hasn't it? But we're finally almost here, almost ready for these things to start trading. There are so many questions going to be answered, I guess, like obviously the number two, I should say the top two questions that I've been talking about for months now. What are the ETH outflows going to look like? And what are the overall inflows going to look like? And really, I mean, you can take the middle ground of both of those things and basically say what are the net inflows going to look like for the ETH ETF's? We've honestly got no idea. You can do estimations based on a bunch of different things and obviously everyone estimates things based on. Well, a lot of people are estimating things based on market cap weightings and stuff like that.
00:01:33.638 - 00:02:02.178, Speaker A: But yeah, it just really isn't unknown. But we're going have our answers soon enough. Now, of course, the, I think the day after or a couple of days after this news broke that the ETH ETF's were launching on Tuesday, there were a bunch of fee updates as well from pretty much every ETF kind of sponsor here. So yeah, all the fees are in, basically the fees are pretty much the same. They range between 0.19% all the way up to 0.25%, with a notable exception from Grayscale.
00:02:02.178 - 00:02:58.260, Speaker A: Now, of course, this was the one that everyone was kind of wanting to know, you know, is grayscale going to lower their fee? Is it going to be higher? Is it going to stay the same? Well, we now know that is going to stay the same, which seems insane on the surface, because for those of you who don't know, the current fee for the Grayscale Ethereum Trust is 2.5% per year. That is an insanely massive fee. This product in general has just been such a bad product for investors because of the fact that it can trade at both a discount and a premium, and also the fee is just enormous. So Grayscale has opted to keep that fee for this Ethereum trust, but when it converts from obviously ethy or from its existing structure to an ETF. But of course grayscale also has their mini trust product, which I believe the fee for that is at 0.2%. So essentially, I guess they're betting that anyone who outflows from the grayscale Ethereum trust will either go into the mini trust or go somewhere else.
00:02:58.260 - 00:03:30.504, Speaker A: And as I've discussed before, I don't know how many like net sellers of eth e there are. And what I mean by net sellers here, I essentially mean that anyone who is waiting until eth converts into an ETF, then sells their to cash and go somewhere else with that. Maybe they keep it as cash, maybe they invest in another asset, maybe they buy another crypto asset, or otherwise. That's what I mean by a net sell. I'm not looking at this and thinking, okay, well, if someone goes from ethy to another ETF because of the fact that they don't want to be paying 2.5% fees when they could instead be paying 0.2 or 0.25%
00:03:30.504 - 00:04:14.216, Speaker A: fees, that is not a net outflow, right? Like besides the taxes that are owed on that, obviously you could consider that a net outflow because of the fact that it's unavoidable, right? If the taxes are, it doesn't matter if it's short or long term capital gains taxes, there's still going to be some kind of outflow because of the tax portion of it there. But other than that, like if someone is just going out of Grayscale's Ethereum trust into another ETF, I don't consider that a net outflow. And that's why I said before, the middle ground here is just looking@the.net flows. It doesn't matter how much has come out of grayscale or of ethio, I should say, versus how much goes in. What really matters is just that net number at the end of the day. Like, okay, let's just say a billion dollars outflows from grayscale, but then you have $2 billion into the other ETF's over the first couple of days.
00:04:14.216 - 00:04:44.336, Speaker A: Well, you would net say that there's a billion dollars of net inflows, right? So that's a, that's a positive thing. And this is what happened with the BTC ETF's, obviously, when there was a lot of outflows from GBTC, but then there was a lot of inflows into the other ETF's. And I do think there was a pretty big conversion rate from GBTC into the other ETF's, but it's basically impossible to map this out. So that's why you just look@the.net flows altogether. So I'm curious to see what that's going to look like. I'm actually very curious to see how many people leave Grayscale's Ethereum trust here because that is a, that is a massive figures.
00:04:44.336 - 00:05:10.634, Speaker A: Like the GBTC fee is only 1.5%. So essentially grayscale teams to be, seems to be taking the gamble here that a lot of the Aum they have in this trust will essentially stay there with this fee and just be like very, very passive. Aum that essentially will pay, it will keep paying Grayscale an enormous amount of money to have this in there. Like, just think about that for a second, guys. Like how much money that actually is 2.5% on. I believe the AUM is $10 billion.
00:05:10.634 - 00:05:43.962, Speaker A: So that's $250 million, if I'm doing the math correctly, at 20, $50 million a year, basically for doing nothing, really. I mean, at the end of the day, these products are very simple overall. So, yeah, when you look at it like that and we look at it from that perspective, yeah, you can really kind of see how, just how insane that is. But as I said, we're going to be looking@the.net. flows and the rest of the ETF's look quite normal. I'm pretty sure all of these fees are the same as they are for the BTC ETF's. And also there's a few waivers in, so six to twelve month waivers based on a waiver amount.
00:05:43.962 - 00:06:05.818, Speaker A: So Franklin Templeton is waiving their fee up to $10 billion or until the 31 January 2025. So that's a, that's a pretty big deal. And they've also got the lowest fee here at 0.19%. So they've been very, very aggressive here, whereas van neck and bitwise are at 0.2% fee waiver length of one in six months, respectively, and 1.5 billion versus 0.5 billion.
00:06:05.818 - 00:06:33.462, Speaker A: So, essentially, if you get into these ETF's early enough, you won't be. Won't be paying a fee for quite a while, unless there's massive inflows into these things. I think with the Franklin one, I wouldn't expect $10 billion just to go into Franklin Templeton's ETH ETF off the bat. Right. Maybe it happens over the course of the rest of this year, but I don't expect that to happen anytime soon, because that's just a single ETF. Maybe if it was Blackrock, it'd be different here, but when it comes to Blackrock, they have a waiver amount of unlimited. So this is just a time based one.
00:06:33.462 - 00:06:52.152, Speaker A: So it doesn't matter how much aum they get in. This is going to last until the end of the year, basically, until the 31 December 2024 here. So essentially. But their fees are slightly higher at 0.25%. So. But as I said, like, that fee is going to be waived until the end of the year, but then you're paying 0.25%. That's pretty aggressive as well.
00:06:52.152 - 00:07:25.912, Speaker A: So overall just looks really great here. I think, besides Grayscale, which I just think is really insane, but as I've said before, I don't think there's anyone really left to net sell at this point, considering the fact that you've had. You've essentially had two months now of less than, I believe, 2% discount to sell. If you really, really wanted to sell, you could get out for a small haircut. Not very much there. Now, of course, there are different types of investors here. There could be people that sell out of grayscale and then think to themselves, well, this grayscale narrative or this ethy narrative is shitty.
00:07:25.912 - 00:07:39.720, Speaker A: Maybe the price of ETH goes down in the short term. I'm going to wait to buy. I still wouldn't consider that a net sell. Right, because they're going to buy anyway. Maybe it's not. Maybe it's in a couple of weeks, maybe it's in a month, they're still going to buy back into ETH. So I wouldn't consider that a net sell at all.
00:07:39.720 - 00:07:58.236, Speaker A: To me, a net salary. Someone who literally just exits ETH altogether and doesn't come back into EtH for a long period of time, maybe six to twelve months or something like that. Right. So that's what I would consider a net sale. But overall, what we're going to be focusing on is the net inflows, which I will be, of course, reporting on next week as we see them. But, yeah, it's exciting times, guys. We're finally here.
00:07:58.236 - 00:08:25.814, Speaker A: After so long of waiting, it feels like forever, but we're going to be seeing these things go live on Tuesday. All right, moving on to some very positive news here. So I woke up to this, actually. Today was one of the first things I saw. So Alexander here on Twitter tweeted out massive news. Friends, Virgil Griffith is coming home. Moments ago, the court granted our motion to reduce Virgil sentence, and Judge Castell shaved seven months off the sentence.
00:08:25.814 - 00:09:01.524, Speaker A: So you'll remember that as originally, Virgil Griffith was sentenced to 63 months or around, I think, five years in prison for essentially, I don't remember the exact charge he was found guilty of, but he was the. The guy that went to North Korea and basically educated them on how to use Ethereum. I can't remember the exact charge he was sent to jail for off top of my head right now, but essentially, his sentence has been reduced here. And I believe that he'll be getting out of jail shortly. I believe this is effective from August 2, the order. I'm not sure exactly when he'll be getting out of prison, though. I don't think it's mentioned here.
00:09:01.524 - 00:09:18.896, Speaker A: But, yeah, apparently it is going to be quite soon, which is. Yeah, that's. That's quite crazy that that was reduced. Uh, and it's quite, I guess, like, good luck for, um. For Virgil here that this. This happened. Because Virgil, I met him all the way back in 2019 at my first ever Ethereum conference, actually.
00:09:18.896 - 00:09:52.396, Speaker A: And I don't think he's a guy who belongs in prison, that's for sure. He is definitely not a hardened criminal or anything like that. I don't like. I'm not kind of privy to all of the nitty gritty details of the case or anything like that, but from the outside looking in, he didn't really do anything, at least from my point of view, that was aiding in embedding the north korean regime. I think that really, he was naive in going there. He was flaunting a bunch of things going there. And I think he's learned his lesson, but I don't think he was trying to do anything overtly, kind of malicious or trying to aid North Korea or trying to make, you know, trying to.
00:09:52.396 - 00:10:30.036, Speaker A: To empower them to do big, continue to do bad things, so on and so forth. I think that he just believes so strongly in freedom that he really wanted to make sure that the north korean people were aware of, of Ethereum and what it can do and what it can enable. But that's where his naivety came into it, where essentially, when you go to North Korea, you're not interacting with the north korean people. You are literally shepherded through the entire, I guess, like, country by a bunch of guards who are controlling what you see, controlling what you, you say, for the most part, controlling what you do. So you're not reaching the people. Right. So there is obviously, as I said, there is naivetivity there.
00:10:30.036 - 00:11:06.374, Speaker A: We all have that from time to time with different things. So I can understand essentially why maybe Virgil had this, but I think he's learned his lesson at this point, that's for sure. And it's good to see that he'll be coming home sooner than expected here. All right, some big news on the censorship resistance front for Ethereum. So Justin Drake tweeted out that ethereum's top builder has stopped censoring. So remember, I think this was, this has been a while now, maybe a couple of years worth of me discussing this, how originally we were concerned that mev boost relayers were censoring. And I think it was at like 80 or 90% censorship on the network.
00:11:06.374 - 00:11:43.530, Speaker A: And what they were censoring was essentially tornado cash related transactions because of the fact that the tornado cash contracts were sanctioned by the us government. Now, of course, we fixed that, or at least we alleviate a lot of that. I think on the relayer front, it's like 40% censorship or something like that. But then when it came to the builders, there was, I think, up to 90% censorship on that side because the builders are so heavily concentrated. As you can see here, two of the top builders, Beaver build and Titan builder, they're both. They both account for the majority of block building that happens on Ethereum. But as Justin Drake said here, beaver build stopped censoring today, which is Ethereum top.
00:11:43.530 - 00:12:15.908, Speaker A: Ethereum's top block builder, which basically means that only, out of all the block builders, only around 13% are currently censoring. So that's. That's a huge win, right? That's a huge win right there. But as Justin Drake, Julie notes here, inclusion lists remain a priority because of the fact that this is not real censorship resistance in my eyes. Maybe Justin will disagree with this or agree with this, I don't know. But in my eyes, this isn't real censorship resistance. This is us relying on these centralized players who at, you know, any point in time can start censoring or stop censoring or do whatever they want.
00:12:15.908 - 00:12:56.868, Speaker A: I mean, for example, Beaver build has 40% of the dominance of block building. They could flip tomorrow and say, okay, well, we're back to censoring. And then all of a sudden we go from 13% to 53% of censorship on the network. So essentially, the whole idea of inclusion lists and other work around censorship resistance on ethereum is to make it so that we don't rely on the altruism of these actors. We essentially force the actors to include transactions that otherwise would have been censored for whatever reason. Like, that's essentially what we're trying to do here. And we're also trying to give, I think, plausible deniability to these actors, because at the end of the day, you can understand why these actors want censor these things, especially when it comes to a sanctioned entity on Ethereum.
00:12:56.868 - 00:13:35.840, Speaker A: So a lot of the relays were doing it because the relay is, were run by people that were us citizens. And they're like, well, I'm not going to process these transactions using infrastructure that I control because I could be held responsible for this. Even though it wasn't part of the sanctions that were put by OFAC on the tone to cash contracts, it was people taking precautions here. And also there were certain validators, entities, or certain, certain entities running validators that were taking precautions as well, believe. I don't know if it's still true today, but they were censoring at the validator level. They were censoring toneto cash related transactions. And I have a few good friends who were doing it as solo stakers because they did, because they're us citizens.
00:13:35.840 - 00:14:32.464, Speaker A: And I didn't want to run afoul of OFAC and didn't want to get in trouble, which that's, that's just the situation that we found ourselves in. So essentially, with the work around hardening Ethereum sensory resistance with inclusion lists and other, other work around that we want to make it. So, I mean, I guess, like the two main goals are that we essentially force the various entities, block builders, validators, relays, whoever they are, to make sure that transactions get into the network and aren't censored, but also give them plausible deniability. And what I mean by this is essentially, if for some reason the government wants to come to you and say, hey, why did you do this? Why did you include this transaction? You know that these contracts are sanctioned, you can basically say, well, I don't control what happens here, it's part of the core protocol. And essentially I, I'm just blind to this. And whatever gets included, gets included so that plausible deniability exists there for, for the people, for those people. And essentially, I mean, in a rational, insane world, makes it so these people don't get punished for these things.
00:14:32.464 - 00:15:14.274, Speaker A: And obviously this is a very shitty situation overall because the fact that they were even able to sanction a set of smart contracts on ethereum was ridiculous. But hey, tonight, cash still works, still runs. Even at 90% censorship, there is a one in ten chance, or every one in ten blocks, roughly, are going to include your transactions. And for something like tornado cash, that was totally fine. So really, I don't think these sanctions that happened a while ago now, almost two years ago now, I really don't think that they did anything negative to Ethereum. I think they've been a huge positive for Ethereum, actually, because we've been able to harden the overall sensory persistence of Ethereum. But we've also been able to learn a lot more about it as well, and see how different actors on the network behave when faced with nation state actors.
00:15:14.274 - 00:15:54.196, Speaker A: Because the entire point of what we're building within Ethereum, the reason why we make sacrifices, like essentially constraining the l one, the reason why we keep it so that you can run your own nodes on your own consumer hardware, is for really this reason, decentralization, which gives us censorship resistance. That's, that's it, guys. Like without that, you may as well not have a blockchain, as I've discussed at length before. It's just, there's no point because you can do everything else so much better on a centralized database. If you don't need censorship resistance, there's no point having a blockchain and census chip resistance is one property of decentralization. They go hand in hand. But I strongly believe that if you don't need it, then you should not be building a blockchain, just build a centralized database and away you go.
00:15:54.196 - 00:16:28.002, Speaker A: But obviously, there's a lot of money to be made building things that you can say are decentralized but aren't. But really, testing decentralization is something that doesn't happen very often, really. I mean, if you look at a lot of the chains out there, only a few of them has been tested over time. I think the most famous one maybe is steemit, where essentially steam, the steam chain, I should say, got overtaken by Justin sun and Binance because they colluded together to take over the chain. But even in that world, people were able to fork off of steam and create another version. I think it was called hive or something like that. But the steam chain was essentially, for all intents and purposes, taken over by these entities.
00:16:28.002 - 00:16:57.578, Speaker A: So you could say that it wasn't decentralized. Right? So anyway, I digress on that point, but great to see that we have better censorship resistance on the network as it exists today. All right, so there is a new dashboard here that's been built by Henry Stats ETH. So this is the ultimate dashboard for ethereum, restaking, covering eigen layer, symbiotic and crack. So essentially you can explore the dashboard on Doon analytics here. I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to go check it out. Of course.
00:16:57.578 - 00:17:32.268, Speaker A: But you can see stats around TVl for each of these services. So eigenlayout symbiotic and crack here, you can see that TVL in dollars and eth terms. You can see what that looks like over time. You know, it's pretty funny because you can see that essentially Eigen layer had, you know, that big spike up in this kind of plateaued there in both us dollar terms and EtH terms. I think the ETH terms would be better to look at because us dollar terms obviously going to be affected by the market more so than the inflows and outflows into, into these things. Because the Eigen layer in blue. And then you can see korak and symbiotic have just started, but like they went up a bit and then they've kind of plateaued there.
00:17:32.268 - 00:18:17.340, Speaker A: There is a, I think I've mentioned this before, there is a kind of point where you hit and there's diminishing returns where essentially you, you saturate all the available ETH or at that point in time that wants to restake. And I think we've done that like at this point, I mean, for a while now. I think if you look here, essentially Eigen layers, ETH denominated TVL has remained the same since the 22 April. So almost, what, three months now, it's remained the same. It's basically flat here. So it seems that, that I guess, like how much ETH is that? Like 5,000,008th almost 5,000,008th seems to be the, the overall appetite there. Now, of course, this is influenced by token incentives, both Eigen layer and other services like ETH five for example, that do restaking our points programs and stuff like that.
00:18:17.340 - 00:19:03.496, Speaker A: But it's interesting to see this all laid out on a dashboard because we can get a clear picture of what this looks like overall. Now, of course, there, it's not just tracking the the TVL, it's also tracking a bunch of other metrics, such as dex, liquidity reserves, tv are grouped by tokens. So not just vanilla eth, but also being able to see all the different lrts. As I mentioned, there is ether fires etH, but there is also Coinbase's CB, E rocker pulls, Reth, and so on and so forth. And then you can just keep scroll going down the list here and seeing all of the different metrics. There is so much here, guys like you can see as I'm scrolling down, there's just so much information here to go through and digest. But I think this is going to be a dashboard that I definitely use going forward to look, to have a look at what's happening in the ethereum restaking ecosystem across not just Eigen layer, but also the other projects here.
00:19:03.496 - 00:19:43.164, Speaker A: You know, I am definitely partial to Eigen layer overall. Not just because I'm an investor in Eigen layer, as you guys know, but because I think Eigen layer is doing it right, where essentially the only asset that I think is really worth having, like a restaking platform for is eth. I don't think you like, I don't think bitcoin restaking is a thing because bitcoin staking isn't a thing. Staking other tokens, like USDC or other Arctic 20 tokens doesn't make any sense to me because essentially you're not staking anything. You're just adding it as collateral. At the end of the day, like I know, technically staking at layer one, like in on a theorem, layer one, you're technically adding it as collateral. You know, you put in collateral up in order to stake on the network.
00:19:43.164 - 00:20:19.828, Speaker A: But that's only one part of it. The other part of it is that you're running a validator against that eth, against that stake, whereas. Or against that collateral, whereas with other tokens, you're not doing that. Like with US DC, for example, you're not staking USDC to secure the USDC network or whatever. You're essentially just adding it as collateral. So you're missing that second part there, which is the whole point of restaking to begin with, is that shared security, right? And that's essentially what Eigen layer is most focused on with their AV's marketplace. But I think when it comes to, I guess, competing, probably symbiotic and crack are like, well, we can't compete on the ETH front because everyone that has ETH is just in Eigen layer right now.
00:20:19.828 - 00:20:45.032, Speaker A: So let's add other tokens so that we can compete there and get TVL up that way. I just don't think it makes much sense, honestly. But that's my, you know, that's just my opinion on things. But anyway, you can go check this dashboard for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so l two beat has a new feature on their website called badges. So essentially this highlights the unique aspects of every l two.
00:20:45.032 - 00:21:07.432, Speaker A: And as you can see from the screenshot here, the badges are coming all shapes and sizes. So if you look at base, for example, you can see the badges that they have. So they're an EVM. They're using blobs for data availability. They're built on the op stack, they are part of the super chain. And they also are hosting l three. So you get basically a quick overview of essentially what each of these l two s are doing and what they're made up of.
00:21:07.432 - 00:21:29.310, Speaker A: Like basically looking into their. Into their guts, essentially. So the way you can look at this is basically just clicking into the project page. And up the top here, you'll have the badges. So for example, arbitram one, you can see that they've got the built on nitro badge, they've got the governance badge. They also host l three s if we go to something like a zk roll up instead. So let's go to scroll because you can see here that it's a.
00:21:29.310 - 00:21:46.566, Speaker A: It's EVM and that it's using blobs for data availability. I'm trying to just go through here and see which ones are different. I like looking at the different badges here. Yeah. So each stack has its own badge as well. There's actually other things that aren't EVM. If we actually look at the other, the other non evm chains here, if I scroll down, I think they're.
00:21:46.566 - 00:22:14.060, Speaker A: They're in the smaller kind of parts of this year, so they're not very big just yet because everything seems to be evM. I think a lot of them aren't actually alive yet, like movement and I, and fluent. And a bunch of those others aren't exactly live yet. So it seems like a lot of these will just have the EvM badge to begin with here. So yeah, anyway, you can go check out the badges for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But just another feature that l two b has added to make it easier for us to digest what all these l two s are about.
00:22:14.060 - 00:22:52.266, Speaker A: Because obviously there are a lot of l two s now, guys, like I'm scrolling down this list and there are 62 l two s and l three s if I just click roll ups only. So this is just chains that are actually posting their data and proofs to Ethereum. There is 29 roll ups now. And obviously there is that kind of power law effect that I've talked about a lot where essentially most of the TVL exists in the top five or even like the top three really. If you look at arbitram one base and op mainnet, they account for around 70% of the total Tvl of all of the projects, including the l three s on Ethereum right now. And if you look at the top five, that is. I'm just doing the math.
00:22:52.266 - 00:23:14.634, Speaker A: Yeah, that is almost 80%. So it really is that kind of power distribution there essentially with the top five versus the rest of the l two s. And there are a lot of things that aren't even live yet as well. But yeah, anyway, as I said, you can go check this out for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do. So I speaking of l two s, bases gas target has been raised again. So it is now 8.75
00:23:14.634 - 00:23:44.850, Speaker A: mega gas per second. Obviously, you guys know bases North Star is one gigas per second, so they're still quite far away from that. But I'm liking these gradual increases over time because that's the way to do it, really. Like you don't want to increase it suddenly to like one gig per second because of the fact that there's probably not the demand there for that just yet. You want to increase it as demand saturates the available space. And if you actually go to gas fees IO, you can see what the fees are like right now. On base in particular, they're still dirt cheap.
00:23:44.850 - 00:24:00.882, Speaker A: A swap is basically $0.01 on base right now. Like that's, that's extremely cheap. Right? And a USDC transfer is even less than that. And eth transfer is even less than. It's like a 10th of a cent. So there is no like rush to scale this up massively yet.
00:24:00.882 - 00:24:45.364, Speaker A: But at the same time, these things are going to keep getting more demand and keep getting more usage as we onboard more people. So we need to basically keep up with that. And that's essentially what basis strategy seems to be is keeping up with that demand not going to, you know, one end of the spectrum and saying okay, we're one gig per second right now and dealing with all the stuff that comes with that when the demand isn't there for that right now. And that's essentially what's happened with a lot of the l one chains over the years. They say, oh, we can do 50,000 or 100,000 tps, and it's like, okay, well, you're doing, like, nothing right now. And then maybe in a couple of years, they grow a little bit and they start doing, like, a thousand tps. It's like, okay, well, you said you could do 50,000 tps a couple of years ago, and now you're only doing 1000 tps, you know, and you still got 49,000 tps that's not being used.
00:24:45.364 - 00:25:25.228, Speaker A: What was the point of scaling up this system to that amount, paying out for that system, paying for that infrastructure, dealing with the negative externalities of having, like, a beefy chain if no one's using it, right? Like, and no one's filling up that capacity. So I've always liked the approach of essentially waiting for things to fill up and then scaling up, because there's no point having ghost towns everywhere. There's no point having more capacity than there is demand to fill it, unless you're expecting huge spikes in demand and then those spikes to last for long periods of time, which, yeah, just never made much sense to me there. But anyway, I'm sure you guys are experiencing this for yourself, these cheap fees on base for yourself and having fun with it. I know I am. I use base quite a lot when I'm there. Top two l two s that I use.
00:25:25.228 - 00:25:46.680, Speaker A: I use arbitram and base because, I mean, they're the two biggest. I can do everything I want on there. They have the liquidity and everything. So I'm enjoying using those l two s in my day to day life. All right, moving on to some big news that I don't know if I've covered on the refill before. So there's another stable coin in town on eth Mainnet. So this stable coin is called USD.
00:25:46.680 - 00:26:13.020, Speaker A: It's being built by agora. And in their first week live, they were able to mint $35 million of this stable coin on, on the eth main net. Now, of course, this is a centralized stable coin. It is not a decentralized one. I saw some, I guess, chatterer about, like, van Eck being involved with this, but I don't think that's accurate because I think that it's just because this guy's surname is Nick. Van Eck, and he doesn't seem to work at Vanek. So I think there was a bit of confusion there between that.
00:26:13.020 - 00:26:49.396, Speaker A: But essentially, I like that there's more competition here in stable coins. In, I know it's a centralized stable coin, but still, like, really today, there's only what, USDC and USDT for the most part. And then we had BUSD, but that got shut down. And then the other day, actually, the case against binance for BUSD, or the case against Paxos, I should say, for BUSd was withdrawn, but not until after they killed BUSD. And really, I don't think there's many other stable coins out there today, at least not ones that are used very heavily. It's really just USDT and USDC. And of course there's Dai, which is a decentralized stable coin.
00:26:49.396 - 00:27:28.044, Speaker A: But yeah, I think there was also true USD, but I'm not sure how much that's used these days. I'm just looking it up here. Yeah, it's a $500 million market cap, so, you know, very, very small. USDC's market cap is 33 billion for context here, and USDT or tether is 113 billion. So obviously a far cry from AUSd here. But I think that I am liking seeing more and more competition in this space here in the centralized stable coin space, because I think with, when it comes to centralized stable coins, the biggest risk is having, you know, one, one dominate everything, because that is a huge centralization vector. But if there are many of these things, it becomes less risky that way.
00:27:28.044 - 00:28:06.238, Speaker A: Obviously, I would love to have a truly decentralized us dollar stable coin on Ethereum, but as I've talked about at length before, I don't think it's possible to have a truly decentralized stable coin that's pegged to the us dollar with, with basically just using ETH as collateral and being able to scale that up to the scale it needs to be in order to service the world. Now, of course, it doesn't mean that there isn't value in having a decentralized stable coin that only serves as a small part of the crypto economy. There certainly is. And it also doesn't mean that you can't make a stable coin that isn't pegged to the us dollar. Rai is famous, famous for this. They're pegging it basically to a basket of ask assets, or trying to. I don't know what the latest is on that.
00:28:06.238 - 00:28:45.560, Speaker A: I haven't looked into it recently. But the term stable coin doesn't have to imply that it's pegged to the us dollar. Essentially what it tries to do is keep a stable value of the, the asset relative to some kind of basket of goods or some other asset that you can look at here, and I've talked about this before on the refuel, about this concept of stability and how people, I think, think about stability wrong. Because at the end of the day, one USD. Because one USD. But USD is not stable relative to everything else, right? USD against ETH, for example, ETH has performed USD massively over the last ten years. So you would say that USD wasn't a stable coin when it comes to measuring it against ETH.
00:28:45.560 - 00:29:30.708, Speaker A: But then we can take that analogy further and more and relate it more to your everyday expenses. For example, over the last five years, I'm sure all of your everyday expenses have gone up massively in USD terms, which means that holding USD, you've lost a lot of purchasing power. That's what they call it, purchasing power. You've lost a lot of that over the last five years, especially because of the massive inflation that we've seen. So you weren't basically safe in us dollars, right? And yes, it's relatively stable over the short term, especially compared to assets that people are essentially trying to trade to earn more of this. But if you're looking at something as a store of value and something as like a long term stable asset, then increases your purchasing power over time. Then the assets like BTC, assets like ETH, assets like gold, for example, these are the things that people like to hold.
00:29:30.708 - 00:30:05.970, Speaker A: Assets like, I guess like stock market indexes, the SPX for example, the S P 500, like these are things that increase your purchasing power over time. Whereas yeah, the term stable coin, when it's applied to like something that follows the us dollar, or saying the us dollar stable, it's like, yeah, it's stable to itself, but it really isn't stable relative to everything else. And that's what you should really be looking at, especially over the longer time horizons here. Or at least that's how I tend to look at these things. But yeah, anyway, you can go check out this thread about AUSD from Nick here. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so, but I think that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching.
00:30:05.970 - 00:30:11.770, Speaker A: Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
