00:00:06.090 - 00:00:13.840, Speaker A: With that, I'd like to welcome our first speaker Molly to talk about Fabim. Happy New Year, Molly. And welcome.
00:00:14.290 - 00:00:27.878, Speaker B: Hey Kardik. Awesome. So excited to be here. Thank you so much for having us. Can't wait to talk to folks about all of the exciting stuff that's happening with Fem. So maybe Paul's start sharing my slides and we can jump right into it.
00:00:27.964 - 00:00:28.870, Speaker A: Sounds perfect.
00:00:29.020 - 00:01:11.182, Speaker B: I'm pumped to be here for the Space warp hackathon. Hopefully we have a couple of folks who are returning from our Fed hackathon back in November. So we have a few folks who have iterated on ideas on our improvement even further. But we also have a lot of new people who are jumping into Fem for the first time and we are so excited to have you. I'm going to give you a high level overview of what is Fethm, what are the really exciting opportunities that this makes available with Filecoin, with EVM bringing these things together. And then also what are some of the really cool things. Early preview into what our early builders have already been building over the past couple of months and our timeline and roadmap to main net launch.
00:01:11.182 - 00:01:52.142, Speaker B: You are perfectly positioned right now. You are in our kind of last 40 day run up to main net launch. Now is the perfect time to be building the new first exciting businesses, smart contracts l two s use cases that are going to launch on FalcoIn with Fevm. And so excited to have you here. Let's dive in. So for anyone who's new to FVM and just piquing their interest, this delivers on chain programmability to the FalcoIn network. This allows you to write smart contracts that interact with FalcoIn state and lets you deploy new upgrades, new capabilities, tokens layer twos onto the FalcoIn network for the first time.
00:01:52.142 - 00:02:43.810, Speaker B: We've been working on FVM now for about a year and a half. There's been a number of milestones that have brought us to this point and this is the big one. This brings that user programmability that we're also excited about empowering all of you as builders and developers to bring your special saws here, improvements to Filecoin itself and really unlock tons of creativity. So we're just so excited for the various different use cases that are now possible to build with Fem. And this goes from new things that have never been possible before. Things like data dows where you have contracts that are also thinking about data storage, verifiably and provably over time and communities of people getting together trustlessly to backup and authenticate and verify data sets together and store them long term. So we're really excited about those use cases but there's so many more.
00:02:43.810 - 00:03:32.394, Speaker B: There's also new capabilities that are going to improve filecoin for storage providers, for storage clients, reputation systems, layer twos that are harnessing filecoin storage but then adding new capabilities like retrievability compute and more we can have on chain voting. We're going to definitely have a ton of tokens NFTs auctions for data storage improvements to the quality of service that can. Hey, you have programmability. You can now automate the annoying rough edges and pain points of file point to make it more user friendly and painless. So we are so excited. I would love to talk to you through maybe some of my favorites just to give you a little bit more visibility into some of the things that become possible. So one of those that's very timely is storage provider loan markets.
00:03:32.394 - 00:04:33.326, Speaker B: One of the big challenges in the FalcoIn ecosystem right now is that storage providers have to commit collateral to secure new data and new capacity that they add to the FalcoIn network. But getting access to the FalcoIn for that collateral is a challenge. And on the flip side, you have FalcoIn token holders, investors, folks participating in that ecosystem who'd love to find opportunities for yield on their FalcoIn by collaborating with story providers. But there's no market that's enabling these two groups to interact with each other. So this is a huge area for folks who are experienced in DeFi or folks who really want to get involved to start mediating and creating marketplaces lending pools, liquid staking, things that help both sides really unlock what they're looking for. Token holders to find this opportunity for sharing some of those SP returns and storage providers SPS to get the collateral that they need to scale their operations, bring even more useful data and capacity to the FalcoIn network. Then you have perpetual storage deals.
00:04:33.326 - 00:05:17.460, Speaker B: FalcoIn right now operates on top of anywhere between six month to one and a half year storage deals. That's kind of our fundamental component or unit of FalcoIn storage. But you can always make a new storage deal or renew a storage deal over time. And perpetual storage deals can automate that process for the user, so the users can store once, never have to go back, and they actually get verifiable proofs over time that their data is being stored, that your sectors are still being checked and audited by the ecosystem. And you have these real proofs of data persistence. Which is not true about other perpetual storage programs. You kind of stick your data in there and really hope that your data continues to be available.
00:05:17.460 - 00:05:57.694, Speaker B: And here you actually get to harness those verifiable proofs. Along with your perpetual storage deals, you could have ten year, 20 year, 50 year storage contracts that can hit some of those really human valuable information that we want to make sure is stored forever. Archives or other groups that want to make sure their data is persisted. They don't have to worry about remaking a storage deal every five years. They can use this contract and have that automated for them. And so it's programming over those core storage components that is now unlocked with the programmability of FBM. Some groups are actually already starting to do this.
00:05:57.694 - 00:07:20.300, Speaker B: So highlighting Lighthouse as a group who started doing this on EVM and is now able to bring their EVM smart contract to FVM, because again, we've made it fully seamless and compatible for you to move an existing EVM smart contract into falcon land so that you can have these long term storage deals like our seed vault persisting. Humanities most important information. So definitely check out what Lighthouse has been doing so far in the perpetual storage deal space. We also have a number of groups who are thinking about how to bring layer two data privacy into FalcoIn and smart contracts that can bring new capabilities that for example, encrypt and have private data that no one party has the keys to access, but that are split up across, say, something like Medusa's Threshold Encryption Network. Or you can have projects like Lurk, which are going to let you to do ZK snarks over top of private encrypted data without actually having to decrypt that data at the storage provider side. So new tools to interact with private data, which is definitely a big demand for folks who are using Falcon. They want to store encrypted data that's not visible to the parties who are storing it and they want to still be able to have useful interactions with that data over time, share it with new people, update permissions, things like that.
00:07:20.300 - 00:09:03.062, Speaker B: A really exciting new opportunity within Fem that as far as I know, has never existed before, is this opportunity for Data Dows. So data Dows combine the storage existing in Felcoin with the new innovations happening with collective governance around decentralized autonomous organizations. So what this can allow you to do is have a collectively curated, useful data set so your dao can start thinking about maybe a collection of important scientific works, research papers, Wikipedia pages, whatever collection of data NFTs is important to this community. You can curate this useful data set, you can govern that data set, you can govern, say, the privacy and access to that data set using some of those privacy controls. You could potentially even have a way to sell access to that data over time, where you're unlocking that for users who have, say, paid into the Dow. And then you can have this shared treasury within the data Dow that can be used partially for that data preservation and growing, adding new data to the collection, but also maybe making that data more useful, transforming that data through compute or marketing that data, or finding new clients and users for that data. And this can become a whole lifecycle and system which a smart contract can even work on automating, which is finding new highly valuable data sets over time, bringing them into the Dow community, adding the revenue from that smart contract into the treasury, repeat and cycle.
00:09:03.062 - 00:10:26.550, Speaker B: And that's actually a really exciting opportunity where you can do that without having to have any central intermediary, any single point of control in that system. Last but not least, very excited about the new Compute over Data use cases, especially when combined with things like Datadows. There's a ton of new primitives being created for Compute over data in IPFS and Filecoin. If you go and check out the Baccalau project, this allows you to run distributed ML compute jobs, do job orchestration bid for which node wants to take on and run and really assemble an ecosystem and L two of compute nodes that can provide additional services and additional functionality over top of Filecoin storage layer. So think of this like great, you have your Glacier and S three of Filecoin and now you're adding your EC two compute layer over top. And so this is going from the l zero Filecoin storage layer to the L one FVM computation over the state in Filecoin. Iterating over that metadata on chain having those smart contracts and then you can have l two s and we actually expect to have many l two s who are adding those different computation layers or other new capabilities on top of the data and metadata in Filecoin.
00:10:26.550 - 00:11:04.160, Speaker B: So this is part of our Filecoin master plan. Step one was to build the world's largest decentralized storage network which we achieved within the first year of Filecoin, which is amazing and huge thanks to all storage provider community in really assembling to make that happen. It's blown past everyone's expectations and phenomenal. Step two is to onboard and safeguard humanity's data. I think we've just crossed 500 petabytes of humanity's most valuable information stored on Filecoin, which is nuts. That's like a 95% increase year over year. It's just totally impressive and crazy.
00:11:04.160 - 00:12:00.242, Speaker B: And now we're working on also adding new capabilities, bringing Compute to that data to enable web scale applications. And that breaks down into a couple of different pieces. We've already talked about cod Compute over Data this large scale computation. We think that storage is just the start that we're going to be able to unlock the hundreds of data sets stored in Filecoin to all sorts of exciting transformations. Doing distributed data science over these data sets, making them accessible to run your own language model on top of all sorts of interesting machine learning opportunities as well and to really interact with these more seamlessly. We also see a really amazing opportunity to bring this to other web Three networks. So Filecoin gives you this proof of storage, also bringing you now kind of the kind of compute and transformation of that.
00:12:00.242 - 00:13:20.918, Speaker B: There's a great opportunity to connect Filecoin in with other web Three ecosystems to do things like store the state and chain and messages of other web Three blockchains so that you can start using FalcoIn as a data availability layer where you can start indexing all of that data inside of FalcoIn storage deals. And then you can have metadata and data dows that are, say, governing the preservation and accessibility of something like Solana's state, which actually, I believe Solana is actually already storing their messages and some of their state on filecoin. Which is pretty so really, really a great opportunity for this. Cross chain interoperability bring all of the capabilities of Filecoin to these other networks as well. As I mentioned, we really believe there's going to be a lot of different compute networks on top of Filecoin because there's a lot to optimize for in this space. There are different constraints that you're going to prioritize, whether that's performance, trying to have really efficient, compute jobs, whether that's more verifiability, more in the ZK space, or really focusing on privacy, which Lurk and Zama and other groups. Are thinking more about with fully homomorphic encryption or things that try and balance these different constraints and have a kind of general purpose compute network.
00:13:20.918 - 00:14:34.850, Speaker B: And so we think Falcon is going to be a great home for many of these networks to flourish. And we're excited to support many different groups going after this domain and using building blocks to get there. And so that's why you see FalcoIn and the whole DSI community working super closely together to unlock massive scale data science to enable all sorts of developers to ingest store compute over export, collaborate on large scale outputs of their research and make it accessible to their communities. And so we see this really as a huge opportunity for Filecoin and for the whole DSIDE community. So with all of this new activity, you might be asking yourselves, how is Filecoin going to scale when we have all of these amazing L Two S compute networks, smart contracts and running on FVM inside Filecoin? There's some really exciting work in progress that I want to point to that's working on unlocking subnets on filecoin in a really scalable way. It's called interplanetary consensus. There's some really great talks from Lab week in Lisbon that I highly recommend you go and learn about.
00:14:34.850 - 00:15:30.850, Speaker B: You can Google Interplanetary Consensus and I'll take you right there. But this is a scalability solution for blockchain. Sharding focused on having a root chain that then has these scalable subnets and child chains that can still move data or move transactions between them. And so this is kind of a great opportunity for folks that are really excited about L two S. Take a look at the work that IPC is doing, which can then be a building block to enable folks that want to have their own chain that uses Falquin as that root chain or that overall security layer for new things like Retrievability networks or Compute networks or other things like that. And the aim of this is that they have a testnet up right now called SpaceNet, which has 1 second block times. And so it's aiming to support the sorts of scalability and speed and performance that we need to really get web scale applications.
00:15:30.850 - 00:16:48.702, Speaker B: And so that's our goal is to actually bring the infrastructure demands of Web Two and help web Three primitives and fundamental building blocks support that scale of performance, activity and usage and help all of Web Three cross the chasm to those users. So you're part of this now and we're excited to have you. So maybe to dive into the things that people have been building to help us get a step closer to that, a step closer to web scale compute. There were a ton of awesome projects from Hack Fathom in November really recommend checking out the Ethg Global showcase of all of these. As you can see, there were tons of data dows lots of smart contracts from ethereum being brought into filecoin, things like voting or things like liquid staking, and also lots of new things being created that hadn't existed before that really bring together the capabilities of doing on chain smart contracts with being able to access those core storage primitives in filecoin. So you can also take a look at the set of Foundry Early Builders and the showcase there. There's a ton of groups that have been working in this area for months now building out new applications and I'll highlight just a couple of them just to spark your interest.
00:16:48.702 - 00:17:41.534, Speaker B: But I know folks are going to go into this more a little bit later. So one to highlight is the Glyph Staking market. This is super exciting new opportunity both for token holders and for folks that are acting as storage providers and looking to gain access to foulpoint collateral. They've been building this out and also building a lot of primitives that other folks might want to utilize, harness, collaborate with. And so if you're excited about staking markets or getting involved to DeFi, definitely check out the work that Glyph has been doing, glyph IO I believe and you can go and take a look at all of this and if you're a token holder, get excited to have that opportunity for yield in the FalcoIn ecosystem as well. There's a lot of groups getting involved with retrieval l two s a few to point out. There's the FalcoIn Saturn team which has been pushing this forward.
00:17:41.534 - 00:18:20.694, Speaker B: There's Retrieve.org, which is looking at retrievability assurance. So having storage providers kind of guarantee and put up collateral for their retrievability and flowshield which is working on building a private retrieval network as well. There's a ton of groups working on various kinds of DeFi loans. So there's Phillet and then there's a ton of groups that worked on this in Hackfevum, some that were focused more on the storage provider experience, some focused more on the token holder experience. So some great examples to lean on there. As I mentioned, Lighthouse is an awesome example to lean on for perpetual storage.
00:18:20.694 - 00:19:41.590, Speaker B: We think there's a lot more tooling to be built here in addition or collaboratively with lighthouse storage, and so would love to see groups lean in here thinking about repair miners or kind of like automated deal can emulate. A deal across many different storage providers so that you can automatically, instead of just storing with one storage provider, store with twelve storage providers, or have an auction for storage providers to kind of take your deal from you. And those who set your criteria can make that happen. And so really excited to see this as a really much improved user experience for clients who want to store their data in FalcoIn, we mentioned data dows. Two to point out are the LaGrange Dao and Spindao, which are both two amazing projects that are thinking about how to have a community governing the long term persistence of data and having members that maybe are earning rewards from doing a good job of curating really useful data sets. Then there's a ton of Compute l Two S. There's the Fill station work, there's this awesome way that you can participate in the Saturn l Two network and join the FalcoIn economy and start earning FalcoIn through station as well.
00:19:41.590 - 00:20:36.390, Speaker B: So definitely there's a lot of opportunities here to take advantage of none of those spark your interest. There is a whole request for startups that you can start losing. Grab this QR code here, it's RFS fem dev. But there's a ton of ideas. Many of these no one's working on yet, no one's actually made these exist, but there's huge opportunities for each of these in the Palpit ecosystem and can spark your interest and help you start generating some cool ideas for the folks that get involved in this hackathon. A reminder that there is an impact evaluator that's running every week during this space war program until we get to mainnet launch that's rewarding the most exciting FBM projects that we're aware of. So in addition to all of this awesome hacking that we're going to be doing as part of the hackathon and the hackathon prizes, you can also add yourself to the FBM Builders leaderboard.
00:20:36.390 - 00:21:17.646, Speaker B: You can see what place you're in, you can see how many votes you're getting and there is a price pool for this as well. So the next Impact evaluator vote is January 25, so it's next week. So start your project, get up and running and you can submit yourself even for this next vote round. Or you can vote on the projects that you're finding really useful as you get onboarded and gives them back to those amazing folks who are helping you out and presenting and getting you onboarded into this ecosystem. Last but not least, here is our roadmap. We are so close to Fem main net launch. We're so excited this brings all of this EVM compatibility into Filecoin.
00:21:17.646 - 00:21:58.210, Speaker B: It brings user programmability into the Filecoin main net and we are so excited to have you with us in these last 40 days. As we build up to this main net launch, we hope to see many of your contracts being deployed on main net. We'll have a running shot clock of who gets their contract up there first. After Mainet, the target launch date is somewhere between March 1 and 7th. So we're really in the home stretch now and we're pumped to have you. There's been a long road to get here and we do have future exciting milestones that are going to be coming later. Things like adding native WASM smart contracts into SEM and then adding even deeper protocol improvements that can enhance programmability.
00:21:58.210 - 00:22:22.406, Speaker B: But right now we're laser focused on main net launch and we're excited to have you be a part of it. So happy hacking. Please get in touch with me on Twitter. I'm MoMac 28. I'm happy to chat with anyone, brainstorm, design ideas, whatever you have. I'm excited to help out and can't wait to see what you all build. This judging is going to be super tricky, so make it hard for us.
00:22:22.406 - 00:22:24.360, Speaker B: We can't wait. Thank you.
00:22:24.810 - 00:22:49.900, Speaker A: Awesome. Thanks, Molly. That was awesome. That was a great overview on everything that's happening and I am genuinely surprised that I missed so many things that happened. Like a month and a half that's a lot of things that just happened. It's the last event, but this is and this is about to two, three X in the next few weeks, so can't wait. All.
