00:00:00.840 - 00:00:22.302, Speaker A: Hi, everybody. Thank you, Sam, for introduction. It's very nice to be back in Prague. Thank you so much, everyone, for coming to my talk. And I'm very excited to speak today about interoperability challenges when building interchange applications. Let me see if the clicker works. Yes.
00:00:22.302 - 00:01:28.558, Speaker A: Awesome. Thank you. So at first, I would like to start my talk about the interoperability introduction. What's interoperability? I think I would like to start my talk with a great, sort of like a paraphrasing quote from one of the speakers yesterday who mentioned that the interoperability is what keeps blockchain successful from the philosophical perspective by connecting communities together. And that's how we make, essentially blockchain successful, because having different layer one or layer two or a different kind of blockchain is great, but they won't be successful unless they will be interoperable. And this ties also to user experience issues that we have in the world of blockchains and interoperability. But what's essentially interoperability, it's like the way how blockchains talk together.
00:01:28.558 - 00:02:17.814, Speaker A: It is also the data exchange between blockchains and blockchains to talk together. And they talk together via the transactions where they are using arbitrary messaging or arbitrary date data. And that's how they essentially transfer or transfer the data between each other. So they are using bridges and atomic swaps and also sidechains and oracle networks to talk together. So interoperability challenges. This is sort of like a micro of my talk. So what are the interoperability challenges? We have a lot of interoperability challenges when it comes to building in blockchains.
00:02:17.814 - 00:03:58.502, Speaker A: One of like the craw or like the main thing or the main interoperability challenge that we are facing is building multi chain application, which is not super straightforward. Although we at Hyperlane and like many other like our competitors, are trying to pioneer divisions and the missions of building multi chain applications. So it's like more easy and more straightforward, mainly as developers are used to synchronous programming, which means, you know, that like the messages, the transactions, or like the messagings will always pass through whenever we are building in the single chain applications. But when we are building multi chain applications, there is a huge chance that the transaction will either fail or won't compete itself. And I'm going to share like a huge alpha here, which actually maybe even my boss don't want you guys to know about. But, you know, I just need to make my talk more funky. But no, the thing that we have in the world of interoperability and in the world of, like, multi chain applications is that even if the message leaves the origin chain or like, the chain a, or like, call it whatever, there is, like, never a guarantee that we will arrive to the chain b.
00:03:58.502 - 00:05:26.804, Speaker A: And that's like, a very big issue that we have in the world of multi chain application. But there are many ways how we are trying to tackle this problem. But that's pretty much if there is one takeaway which you guys should take from my talk is pretty much that in the world of multi chain applications, there is never really a guarantee of the application of the messages being delivered between the chains itself. I mean, I don't want to sound very silly, but at hyperlink, we are trying to, or we are pioneering the visions of the permissionless interoperability and modular security. What are those? Permissionless interoperability. We are building our message transfer and our essential product in a way that anyone can deploy hyperlink to any chain they want. And also we are building them like this, all with the visions and missions of the modular security, where we have a bunch of modules which you can choose from based on the needs of your applications and based on the transfer that you need and want.
00:05:26.804 - 00:07:04.804, Speaker A: And hyperlink is essentially trying to be sort of a connecting highway between different. We call it internally, we call it, it's like, you know, different l one s and l two s are sort of like islands that need to, like, communicate together, which is like, essentially the interoperability, because, like, one of the biggest issues that we have, or we used to have in the blockchain ecosystem is that, like, you know, there are so many cold chains, and there were so many, like, different, like, layer ones. And when developer is trying to build their application, they, like, do not know, like, which chain to choose from. Like, they build application on, let's say, solana chain. And then there is a lot of onboarding issues, which we are facing, whether that's ethereum or any other chain. And it's like the second you have a user on one chain that you want to have them simplify the process of get them, use your application on different chain. And one of the ways how we are solving this issue is at hyperlink, which is like a part of, or like completing the modular stack, which I'm not really going into the wits of that, but the problem that permissionless interoperability is solving is pretty much using, or the way how we are solving this problem is using the messaging interface and the security module.
00:07:04.804 - 00:07:39.444, Speaker A: Yeah. So the messaging interface, we also have, like, the three things. There only two. Yeah. So those are the main things that like all the ways how we are solving it at hyperlinks. So we have the messaging interface and we have like different security modules which you can plug into the messaging transfer, and that's how you enable save transfer between the chains itself. I'm going to skip these three.
00:07:39.444 - 00:08:53.986, Speaker A: Also, at Hyperlink, we are currently supporting nine EVM chains. We are working with a bunch of different chains, such as we are working with Celestia, optimism, arbitrum, base, eclipse as well, Solana, and soon we will be live on Cosmos as well. Those are just illustration on the picture as well. But quickly, those like, these are the things that I already mentioned. I'm just going to quickly touch base, like how hyperlink works and how the transfer works. So it's not a huge deal. It's just like from chain a to chain b, we are using this mailbox infrastructure, which means that the messaging, the messages, or like the arbitrary data from chain a to chain b goes through this mailbox system, which depends on like, which no then goes through like a relayer and then goes through the interchange security module.
00:08:53.986 - 00:10:13.504, Speaker A: And the interchange security module is the one that enables the messaging, the messages being delivered to the chain b. So essentially you have, it's like a locking bridge, essentially, or like locking bridge, you lock your tokens on chain a and then they get minted 101 on the chain B. And that's pretty much how hyperlink works. And then we also, our main thing is the relayer service, or we are trying to make that as our business model. Yeah, that's pretty much how hyperlink works. So the message leaves the chain a, like the mailbox infrastructure, and then it goes through relayer to chain b. We also have a different security module, which currently we have the economic, optimistic and multisig is the one which is being used the most for the message transfers, which you can also build your own if you want.
00:10:13.504 - 00:11:33.586, Speaker A: And the way how we are enabling the security of the token transfers is mainly through. We are using a dedicated validator set to enable, even if you are using hyperlink for Dex or a different, when you need the security to be more higher than you want the transfer to be much more secure. So we are using a dedicated validator set to enable that. You don't have much of a funds on one chain, which comes back to a lot of hacks that were, a lot of funds were trained in the bridges. But we are trying to solve this issue with dedicated validators set. I'm not going to touch about this, but yeah, we are trying to complete the modular stack. We are also working a lot with Celestia, as you guys notice on my slides a lot where you can also build like using the Celestia, you can build your own rolekit and then using hyperlink you can connect your rolekit with any of the chains that we are supporting right now, but we are adding more like support of more chains to the future.
00:11:33.586 - 00:12:27.344, Speaker A: And also anybody can take hyperlink contracts and plug them to any chains. Pretty much, yeah, I think that's pretty much it from my side. I know that my talk is super short, but I hope that you guys enjoy it. If you want more information from me, there is my telegram and I'm very happy to talk to you guys after I got off the stage and also check out our documentation where you can find much more about Hyperlink. Also you can find our Explorer. We built our own Explorer, which I know there's a huge, there are so many new Explorer coming up, but we have our own where you can find and debug the messages. We also added a support that anybody can add their own custom chain to the Explorer itself.
00:12:27.344 - 00:12:47.654, Speaker A: Our developers are very active on our discord and make sure to follow Hyperlane for more information and for more like updates as we are partnering with a bunch of different chains and we are doing a lot of fancy collaborations and that's pretty much it. Do you guys have any questions?
00:12:56.994 - 00:13:16.758, Speaker B: Questions? Should I ask her about her opinion about the fourth dimension? Questions? Yeah, I would say thank you so much, Annette. Thank you once more. Thank you, Annette.
00:13:16.846 - 00:13:17.174, Speaker A: Thank you.
