00:00:00.330 - 00:00:30.466, Speaker A: Hello, this is julian and you are on idoblox. And in this video I'm going to show you what are the function visibility keywords in solidity. By the way, I created a free email course to teach you how I got my first remote blockchain job. Paid $100,000 a year. So if you want to learn all my secrets, you just have to sign up at this URL. So this is the smart contract I've been using in previous videos. And in the two function of this smart contract I've been using this external keyword.
00:00:30.466 - 00:01:06.482, Speaker A: So this is an example of a function visibility keyword. Function visibility keywords allow you to define who can have access to your function. So let's start with the most restrictive visibility keywords, and that is called private. With the private keyword you can only call the function from inside the smart contract. And in general as a convention, we actually prefix the name of the function by an underscore just to show that this is a private function. So this is just a convention. Solidity doesn't care about this, but it's just a good practice to follow this.
00:01:06.482 - 00:02:23.978, Speaker A: So if I redeploy my smart contract, then I will not see get value anymore because this is private and it cannot be called from outside smart contract, I only see set value. The next keyword is called internal. So with the internal keyword the function is still limited to be called from within the smart contract, but it can also be called from smart contract who inherit from the smart contract. Because in solidity there is an inheritance mechanism like in languages such as C plus plus, for example, and I'm going to explain this later in this tutorial series, but just know that internal is slightly less restrictive than private, but you still cannot call this function from outside the smart contract. The next keyword is external, and that's what we've been using in the previous video. With the external keyword you can only call the function from outside the smart contract. So if I try to call get value from inside the smart contract, inside the set value function, for example here, this is not going to work.
00:02:23.978 - 00:03:02.674, Speaker A: And also for external function, we do not prefix them by an unscroll. So let's get rid of this. And the last function, visibility, is called public. So with public you can not only call the function from outside the smart contract, but also from inside the smart contract. So this is the most permissive function visibility that you can use. So the question is how you can choose which function visibility is good for your function. And with smart contract in general, a good rule of thumb is to give the minimum amount of privilege to any entity.
00:03:02.674 - 00:03:37.180, Speaker A: So first you try with the private keyword to see if it works. If it doesn't work, then see with internal, then see if you can use external and in last result you use public. But a typical beginner mistake is to use public for all your functions and this can create some secret vulnerability. So be really careful with that. Okay, so that's it for function visibilities. So function are not the only entity in solidity that have visibility keywords. Variable can also have some visibility keywords and we're going to see this in the next video.
