00:00:07.370 - 00:00:19.040, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to the Hackfs Filecoin workshop. Making data useful with decentralized compute. Joining us today is Ali Hare, who will be taking us through this session. And with that, I'll pass it over to Ali to get the session started.
00:00:19.730 - 00:00:52.746, Speaker B: All righty, thank you so much and thank you for having me as well. Hello? Hack FS. I'm really excited to be back and champion decentralized data again this year at Hackfs and also meeting with all the awesome folks building in this community. So I did a workshop last year and I was just saying behind the scenes, like, how amazing it is, just how much content is available through the ETHGlobal channels. And I can't imagine how many startups have been built out of some of the hacks that have been facilitated by ETH Global. So big clap to them as well. But anyway, I'm ali.
00:00:52.746 - 00:02:18.322, Speaker B: I'm a developer relations engineer here at the Filecoin Foundation, and I wanted to chat today about our vision at Protocol Labs and Filecoin for a truly open and democratic Internet and Web, which you've probably heard a lot of. But also why we're building out some of the foundational tooling to enable that and where we're going with tooling for decentralized trustless and kind of open compute networks which will help make data really useful. In the filecoin ecosystem as well as kind of usher in the ability to build more internet scale, truly decentralized apps, which will kind of help maybe onboard the next billion people as well. So firstly though, a reminder on why we're doing this. I always like to start off with this quote from Juan because I really like it and to me it really encapsulates his vision and mission and what both Protocol Labs and the Filecoin Foundation are aiming to achieve. So the access that we have to data, as well as kind of the restraints that we have on using it, which depend on our geography, our country and censorships, or our resources or level of access to the Internet, are incredibly kind of important parts of what really defines our modern day human rights. And it's also and it's only getting more pressing with the advent of things like Chat, GBT and AI, in my opinion.
00:02:18.322 - 00:03:30.190, Speaker B: But anyway, this is also one of the reasons I went into tech originally, because of just how fundamentally this innovation and technological advancement can change and improve our lives as well. And really, if we have a look back, even just 100 years, we can see plenty of evidence of that. So advances in healthcare inventions like the sewing machine, washing machine and printing press, and then even onto the more modern era of computers, the internet and mobile phones. And in my lifetime I've seen that, so you can probably guess my age from that. But these things have really drastically improved the lives of millions and they've paved the way, support some major social changes and also a rethinking of the value and role of people in society as well, I would say, which is another societal challenge for us. But while tech creates some amazing new frontiers for us and including It, especially now with AI and Chat GPT rising into the mainstream and disrupting things as well, it's incredibly important that we're kind of making sure that this tech infrastructure we're building enables and even enforces the values that we need in it. That of fairness, trustlessness and openness we need from our tech.
00:03:30.190 - 00:04:39.266, Speaker B: And that this tech underpins the real goal for tech and scientific breakthroughs, which is to me, that of improving the human condition. Anyway, I will get off my soapbox. But this is really some of the motivation behind why I work at Protocol Labs and behind what we're trying to achieve here at Protocol Labs and Filecoin. So, as we all know, data is really essential to our daily lives, but a majority of our data is kind of held in these centralized monopolies in the Web two world and this leads to some really big engineering and social issues. So much like the DFI movement is aiming to democratize the financial industry and inject more trust and confidence into that, filecoin is aiming to democratize this data economy and the Internet by building out these purpose built internet scale distributed network for data. So back at the launch of Filecoin, this data storage blockchain in 2020, this was the first pillar of decentralizing its data infrastructure. And we've done that and we're providing a robust and scalable market driven network for this decentralized storage.
00:04:39.266 - 00:05:58.350, Speaker B: As you'd already of course know probably we've since recently launched FBM, the EVM compatible layer one for Barcoin. And this has opened up the bag a lot and opened up the data economy anyway enabling smart contracts, functionality, bringing new capabilities like auto renewal of filecoin deal making, enabling tokenization of data sets, which is a big one for me and kicking off the really exciting possibility for datadows as well as of course, enabling some specific DeFi use. Cases for lending and staking of filecoin in the filecoin network and many, many more use cases and some that I don't even know about yet, which is exciting too. So what's also really exciting for me is that in parallel, we're also now working on bringing computation over data to Filecoin with things like the Backlog project. So this is bringing the ability to really run complex and robust computations over all the useful data stored on Filecoin or IPFS already. And this is where we can really start to see some of those web scale apps emerge that I mentioned earlier, especially those that require kind of a massive amount of data processing in the background. And yes, that does include things like AI and ML processing.
00:05:58.350 - 00:06:56.420, Speaker B: So if we think about some of the data stored on the Filecoin ecosystem though, you can kind of get an idea of how expansive all these pieces together could be and how being able to make use of this data in complex and collaborative ways would be amazing. So maybe things like analysis on Clybar data action or collaborative academic research we're starting to create an open education library with Harvard. Or things like being able to run computation on large sets of public government data or city data and expanding on this. Also thinking about creating more open and community owned models for AI and ML. So things like decentralized AI and ML training and collaboration. And also by the way, check out the work done by the Barkland Foundation for the Decentralized Web who are leading a lot of these initiatives that are shown on this slide. They're a really inspiring bunch over there.
00:06:56.420 - 00:08:02.390, Speaker B: So anyway, how do we go about all this? Let's dive into the actual technicals behind the computer over data network and how you would build on it. So Bakuyao is a peer to peer open computation network, which you might have kind of guessed from some of my ravelings already. So it's a network of nodes which provides this platform for public, transparent and optionally very powerful computation. So, fun fact, the name actually comes from the abbreviation of Compute over Data cod cod, which is kind of Portuguese, which the Portuguese of is Bacquiao or a version of. So Bacchia was originally conceived to bring useful compute resources to data stored on the Ipings and Filecoin network. So it enables you to run arbitrary docker containers or WebAssembly images as tasks against data and makes it really easy to analyze large data sets while bringing kind of these same benefits of open collaboration on data sets stored in IPFS and Filecoin to generic compute tasks. And that's like a really big concept and really awesome.
00:08:02.390 - 00:09:10.460, Speaker B: So the too long didn't read is that Bacclia is a distributed off chain computation network. Insert the run all the things emoji here. Anyway, if you do want to see more about what the impact might be, I recommend this talk by Juan from last year as well some of the use cases or applications. Bacclia is kind of a really valuable tool for secure fast job processing on large scale data at the edge and it makes it really cheap as well. So it takes the power of compute to where the data lives. So some of the most exciting potential applications for Baccalau are for DSI as well as potential for distributed machine learning and decentralized AI, IoT, secure enclaves, fraud detection and many many more that I can't even begin to imagine as well. So if you want to dig further though into the DSI and decentralized AI vision, I really recommend this recent podcast chat with Wes Floyd who is amazing and has done a bunch of great work in this field.
00:09:10.460 - 00:09:52.326, Speaker B: Elon Musk. Talking about Elon Musk? Controversial. Anyway, so back we are in practice, let's dig into how we'd actually build on it. So this example of how you can both make an open this example is found in our docs. So it's how you can make both an open source text to image script in Python and then run it on a backlier GPU enabled node with just a few lines of code. So this is found in our docs and I've also got a video out on it if you want to dig even deeper. So, just for those of you that may not know, Stable Diffusion is just a machine learning model which is used for creating images from a text prompt.
00:09:52.326 - 00:10:31.126, Speaker B: So it's like the model behind Mid journey or Dali. So let's see how we could get started with this. So there's really only three steps involved in this process. So firstly you would write your script. So any script in any compatible docker or WASM language is allowable here, so a lot of scope there. So in this particular example, there's a Python script which uses an open source TensorFlow implementation of Stable Diffusion, which has some pre calculated weights, and it uses these to generate the images from a given text prompt and then displays the image. Like in practice, you'd want to return that image, not just display it.
00:10:31.126 - 00:11:21.154, Speaker B: So this is a basic version then to use this script on Bacchalial, you really just have to dockerize it and finally install the Bacchu CLE. If you're going to use Bacchial, you got to install it, but it's just one line of command line code, I swear, super simple. So you can then run this docker I script anywhere using the Bacchia CLE, as you can see here. So this will send the job to the Bacchuyao public node network, which is currently all free to use for computation. So this particular script is already dockerized, so you can try it out for yourself without any of the effort of actually making it as well. So go ahead and try some Stable Diffusion images using this script in your command line if you like. The output of this, once the job is run, is that the results are returned to a folder.
00:11:21.154 - 00:12:27.142, Speaker B: One of the cool things about Bapier is that it's able to save these results directly to IPFS and filecoin via Estuary. So you can also define different outputs for your configuration, but you can get back this Ipfscid because these jobs are saved to Estuary. So cool, we have a verifiable computation network and we have some idea of how to use it now. But how does this interact with FBM if I wanted to build on the FBM? Well, in terms of the filecoin and Fem network, as I kind of mentioned in the filecoin vision a little earlier, storage is really just the start. So architecturally we can think of the storage layer of filecoin as it's like layer zero. And then this ability to perform on chain computation or computation over state, which comes from FBM, brings these layer one capabilities to the filecoin stack. So Bacquio is then bringing this additional capability for off chain verifiable compute loads on large data to the network.
00:12:27.142 - 00:13:35.022, Speaker B: So in order to bring the power of this compute directly to your smart contracts, though, we kind of developed this prototype for relaying backlier jobs directly from your FVM smart contracts. So this early prototype is called Lilypad and it acts as an initial connector for these technologies. So Lilypad operates as this bridge for calling backyard opchain compute jobs from your smart contracts and for the dev here, it's also already deployed to the FVM calibration testnet and to the FVM mainnet. And you can check out the GitHub repo for more details on how to use it there. The architecture is fairly straightforward at the base layout. Lilypat acts as a bridge, as I mentioned, for calling any of the backyard jobs that you want and receiving those results back directly from sorry, receiving those results directly from a solidity smart contract. So a user contract would implement the Lilypad caller interface and to call a job they make a function call to the deployed Lilypad events contract with the docker spec that they want to use.
00:13:35.022 - 00:14:34.290, Speaker B: So this contract then emits an event which the Lilypad bridge daemon listens for and it forwards this onto the Bapia network for processing. So once the job's complete, the results are then returned back to the originating user contract from the bridge sorry, code. So, taking a look at this in practice, we have an example in the GitHub which is the same stable diffusion example as we saw earlier, but we are running this from the Lily pad bridge so calling it directly from a smart contract. So I'm just going to show you an example of how this would work so you would implement it in this smart contract. Like I said, we've already got an example on the GitHub that you can follow. There has been a few recent changes but basically you would call this stable diffusion job. And this is just in this video you can see this being called and you just saw the Bafia logs accepting and running the job sent.
00:14:34.290 - 00:15:27.954, Speaker B: So when the image results are returned in an IPFS CID, we can take a look at those images. And here's a raver unicorn that we saw just there. And so you can then use this kind of Lily pad bridge as the basis for all sorts of functionality on FVM, including this kind of early concept app which was an AI art generated NFT app on FBM, which is also a video on ETH Global. If you want to check out the full details of that. Or you can find the full tutorial on my blog@developeralley.com as well, if you want to dig into that. So we're really hoping this Lily pad bridge or this V zero of Lilypad is an early prototype that can help open up a lot of potential opportunities for things that maybe need to be built in the FBM and filecoin ecosystem.
00:15:27.954 - 00:16:21.746, Speaker B: So things like native filecoin and IPFS data applications, maybe some filecoin native Oracle like services. And also kind of excitingly to me, those decentralized AI and ML applications. And I think it could be a really good tool to try out for this hackathon because it's fairly simple to use as well. So in the future, we're really hoping to evolve this Lily pad V Zero concept into a more robust and trustless platform for decentralized compute jobs. And this includes ongoing work into the game theory of distributed computing and working with early adopters as well to identify their main use cases for the platform. So if this is you, or if this is something that you're like, yes, this is the future, this is something I want to be involved in, definitely get in touch with us. We'd love to hear from you or build out a project in the hackathon that really blows our minds.
00:16:21.746 - 00:17:02.766, Speaker B: We'd love to see that as well. So, just as an example of what's possible when you can combine the features of Blockchain with a decentralized off chain compute network, I wanted to show you Waterlily AI. So this is based on the Lilypad tech. So underlying this application, we are using both Bakia and Lilypad on a private network, but still and there's a full blog on this as well, you can go and have a look at that@developrawley.com as well. Anyway, what is it? Waterlily is like kind of this first of a kind, user facing app. And we aim to provide a more equitable paradigm for generative AI art platforms.
00:17:02.766 - 00:18:08.034, Speaker B: So when I built kind of my AI art NFT example utilizing Baffle and FBM, I was a bit like, oh, is this a good thing? Should we really be marketizing? I don't know. Making money out of things that we didn't even really create? I don't know. Something about it didn't really sit right for me. So one of the main concepts here was to provide this generative AI art platform that addressed some of these issues and kind of gave royalties back to original artwork creators, which is like a really cool thing that you can do with Blockchain networks. So this was the main concept, giving control back to creators and adding this potential new revenue stream for them to opt into and explore, while still giving a user an easy way to create these generative AI art and even NFTs that are kind of more ethical than the original versions, perhaps. So as a user, you can navigate to Waterlily. You enter a text prompt for an image you'd like to generate.
00:18:08.034 - 00:19:06.614, Speaker B: You can then kind of browse through a selection of both private artists and public domain artists, and you can choose a style that you'd like to generate your image in. So you can see down the bottom there, there's kind of some generated images that have a text prompt and a famous artist that you've probably heard of, salvador Dali, Wasili Kandinsky, Claude Monet. And what we've done is really fine tune this artist model based on some input art using Dreambrooth. And by the way, in the docs, in the backyard docs, you can find out how to do that for yourself as well, if that's something you're interested in. And we fine tune this model to this particular artist. And then each time a user chooses this artist, the artist is paid a certain amount of money for the images that are generated. So for private artists, they are paid directly to their wallet.
00:19:06.614 - 00:19:50.226, Speaker B: For some of the public artists we are donating those funds to art foundations, one of which is Gray Area, which is an amazing art community and foundation based in San Francisco. Anyway, the point of this is I just wanted to show you what maybe is possible with kind of some of this underlying technology. I'll move on and give you some more awesome hackathons ideas on what to build because it doesn't have to directly be FBM and Bacquio. You can build anything you like with the Bacchiao tech without interacting directly with a smart contract. That's just one way to do it. So some more ideas for Bakiao and Lurk by the way, which is the ZK Snark language and Lily pad. So you can combine the power of compute with data dows.
00:19:50.226 - 00:20:33.910, Speaker B: That's something I'm really interested in seeing. I think datadows are a really powerful tool in the Filecoin ecosystem and really unique to our ecosystem too. So I'd love to see them getting built out even further with kind of this backyard compute power. Then there's also using these trustless features of blockchain combined with Bacquio, Compute and or Lurk to solve unique challenges emerging in the AI space. Kind of similar to what we did with Waterlily. But I'm sure there is many many more ideas for which way you could go with that or different industries you could do that with. As well as some of these people mentioned in these Tweets, there's other example ideas we've come up with as well.
00:20:33.910 - 00:21:49.498, Speaker B: Decentralized research framework, there's fraud detection systems or something that's kind of been really interesting to me. Could we use kind of AI compute to analyze solidity contracts for security vulnerabilities? That could be something that might be of interest to you as well. Decentralized data aggregation, potentially decentralized gaming now I think for the decentralized gaming use case, what will be really cool in the future is IPC, which I think IPC crew did a lecture here at ETH Global. So IPC is kind of this subnet interplanetary connection consensus sorry, not connection, but it could be a connection interplanetary consensus layer for Filecoin. And it's going to work at whatever speed you like because it's got a bunch of subnets under filecoin. So basically a file coin layer two is an easy way to talk about that, but it can provide really fast transaction speeds which would be great for decentralized gaming, but in the meantime, there's still plenty of applications you could do there and just off on a target anyway. Decentralized data analysis.
00:21:49.498 - 00:22:51.620, Speaker B: Obviously with Bacquio and FBM for data analysis and insights generation, decentralized asset management, it could be cool to leverage Bacquio and FBM with some of the stuff that's happening in the DeFi ecosystem on filecoin. There's decentralized lending platform or even analytics for lending platforms, which is kind of a super important part of the filecoin market ecosystem and data ecosystem. So doing something like that could be really cool. There's decentralized insurance marketplaces and so many more ideas. In fact, if you do want even more inspiration, we've recently just held a compute over data summit in Boston and there is a bunch of talks from so many smart people. I was just sitting in the room going, oh my God, hopefully I get smarter from all these talks. So I recommend checking out the channel and seeing what's going on in this space because honestly, there's some real stars and some really cool projects happening here.
00:22:51.620 - 00:23:27.278, Speaker B: And not just from Baccalau, but plenty of people across the ecosystem as well. Even more examples, obviously. Go and check out the docs that could be like the spark that you need to get started and otherwise I am pretty much going to leave it there. I think I'm just on time, which is awesome because I didn't time that. So get in touch with us, be involved, join us on our Slack. We've got our own Slack there, bitly back of our project Slack. Or follow our Twitters or just get in touch with me on the Global Discord and I'll be happy to chat with you if you do have questions.
00:23:27.278 - 00:23:54.950, Speaker B: Exactly. I think Rory's just put in the chat there. Please feel free to drop them here and I'll be happy to answer them as well. Oh, yeah, I just wanted to show you we've got some awesome chats happening on ethical AI discussions in the Backyard Channel, which I've really been following as well. There's some really great people in there talking about some really interesting subject matter as well. So come and have a look at that. Or if you're interested, just come and join in or lurk.
00:23:54.950 - 00:23:58.680, Speaker B: All right. Otherwise, thank you very much, everyone.
00:24:01.650 - 00:24:12.742, Speaker A: Yeah, cheers. Thank you, Ali. Yeah. If there are no questions, thanks for the great presentation and thank you everybody for attending and we will see you all tomorrow for more workshops. So cheers. Thank you.
00:24:12.876 - 00:24:14.546, Speaker B: Happy building. Bye.
