00:00:01.160 - 00:00:22.678, Speaker A: What is up, guys? Taki here. And today I want to discuss the relationship between the price of bitcoin and Ethereum in gas fees. So if you like the content, please like and subscribe. Leave a comment in the comment section below. Link to the premium discord is in the description as well. So let's get right into it. So despite the price of bitcoin being at new yearly highs, it hasn't stopped, you know, the downward trend of Ethereum and gas fees.
00:00:22.678 - 00:01:07.526, Speaker A: It's actually sad if you kind of think about it, you know, like despite being bitcoin going higher, no one is really using the chain. And you kind of zoom out. In the past 300 ish days, you kind of get to see this trend where the Ethereum main at gas fees is in inflationary territory, right? Where the issuance of ether is exceeded by or, you know, the issuance of ether is more than the amount being burned. And we're basically back to levels that we saw in December of last year. And if you kind of look at the price, I mean, December last year, we were trading at like 1670k. Like, why is no one using the chain? So I thought it would be interesting to do like a little bit of like an overlay. So basically, you know, taking this and overlaying it with the bitcoin price to see if we can kind of see any relationship between these two metrics.
00:01:07.526 - 00:02:07.480, Speaker A: So one thing or the first thing I'll talk about is like, you know, whenever the price of bitcoin, or like whenever the price goes, price of like crypto goes down, you kind of see like this one off, like, you know, increasing gas fees, you know, because just because people are, you know, trying to sell stuff and they're trying to like save their positions from being liquidated. And the fear of loss is usually greater than, I guess, like the fear of making money or something because people tend to be risk averse. And obviously when price goes down, people become more sad and people aren't really incentivized to use the chain, especially with the higher risk associated with on chain activity. But I think it's kind of interesting to kind of draw a line here and kind of look at how maintenance gas fees react when bitcoin puts in these, like visibly large green dildos, right. I think that's more interesting because, right, like we just had a really big green dildo and there's like no activity. And this has been the case in other, like large candles, like in like mid March, right. There was like not that much activity here.
00:02:07.480 - 00:02:57.600, Speaker A: And also in early January, right, we had bitcoin ether, like lido goes up or, like, the liquid staking derivatives went up, but, like, nothing. Like, nothing really happened. And I think the reason for this is when you, like, you know, when bitcoin goes up, I think it typically catches people by surprise. And people, I feel like the first thing people do is they go to centralized exchanges and then they buy, like, whatever coins that they can, right, either spot or on leverage, right? Like, the first thing people do, like, they don't, like, you know, just bridge USDC from their bank to coinbase and then, like, you know, bridge that to, like, metamask. That's typically, like, not what people do. And you can kind of see that there's, like, usually like a lagged effect, right, where the price of bitcoin goes up and then the price of bitcoin goes sideways, and then people start to use the chain more. Of course, like, this spike here, right, was led by the USDC deep situation.
00:02:57.600 - 00:03:40.156, Speaker A: But this is, like, more pronounced here where, you know, like, bitcoin goes up, then it kind of goes sideways, and then, like, that's when on chain activity, like, really goes crazy. And of course, you know, this was unsustainable because it was led by meme coins such as pepe. I know people like this. I'm not like, super against meme coins and whatever, but, you know, like, this, this thing peaked at me, like, on May 5. That was also, like, when on chain activity peaked. I mean, yeah, obviously, like, not sustainable. So basically, like, I do predict that in the next couple of weeks to couple of months, we're going to slowly see more and more on chain activity as people kind of see, like a risk on signal and more and more on chain stuff becomes more interesting.
00:03:40.156 - 00:04:23.846, Speaker A: Again, I will say that, like, this Christmas tree pattern where, like, people, like, crypto influencers, like, make meme coins and promote it. Like, I mean, that's not, like, healthy, right? It's not something I want to see. I think for me personally, as like a defi maxi. Like on chain maxi, I wanted to see sustained on chain activity led by, you know, people actually, you know, using it for, like, for, like, economic reasons. So, for example, like, right now, like, we're in the inflationary stage, but, like, why can't we, like, just go to, like, 50? And it's like this kind of go sideways from here and it can look like the heartbeat pattern where, like, you know, maybe some NFT event happens. Maybe like some meme coins go crazy or someone gets liquidated and something like, this happens. I think this is more ideal than like, this Christmas tree pattern.
00:04:23.846 - 00:04:52.844, Speaker A: And I think, you know, as we get further and further along in this recovery year, which I believe we're in, I think, you know, we're gonna start to see more signs of life on chain, or at least I hope so. So. And I guess we can also do the same exercise for ether. I'm not gonna spend too much time on this because it's really similar, right. There's like, not that much difference. And I guess, like, you know, ether has been putting in, like, higher highs and higher lows typically, or just like higher lows in general. And ether isn't at its local yearly highs.
00:04:52.844 - 00:05:29.822, Speaker A: That is set back in April. But I think if bitcoin can maintain its strength, I think there's reasons to believe that ether can put in new yearly highs. So obviously the strength in ether, or, sorry, the strength in the markets, strength in bitcoin maybe is attributed to the Blackrock EDF news. Of course I'm not gonna share anything that you don't already know, but people are bullish because, hey, Blackrock must know something. They're not gonna file if they know they're not gonna be approved. They have a 575 to one record. And the only time they took a no was for this non transparent ETF, which makes no sense.
00:05:29.822 - 00:06:15.254, Speaker A: Or which kind of makes sense. And the SEC is literally approving two x bitcoin ETF futures ETF's, which makes no sense, right. Like, literally. I think there was like a study done on this where like, the bitcoin futures ETF, like the Bito ticker, it's not backed by physical bitcoin. So, like, the fees alone makes it like, under form bitcoin by like 20% or something, you know, because, like, they have to like rebalance and stuff. It's not really a retail friendly product. And, you know, if Gary Gensler is trying to protect retail investors, like, why nothing? Like, you know, create something, right? And I just, like, wanted to share this clip because I think listening to Larry Fink, right, Blackrock CEO, kind of gives you, like, a better insight on how tradfi and how legacy players think about crypto.
00:06:15.254 - 00:06:23.246, Speaker A: So let me just play this clip for like a minute, and then I'll get back to you on the other side and then we can discuss it more, like going forward, back.
00:06:23.278 - 00:06:43.360, Speaker B: Now, FTX created it. Its failure was. It's creating its own token. It was not a defi, it wasn't a ledger that was open to the world. It was a ledger. It was not distributed. So the whole foundation of what crypto is, it's supposed to be a distributed ledger that is across the system.
00:06:43.360 - 00:07:26.290, Speaker B: I actually believe this technology is going to be very important. Look, we have been part of the huge revolution in investing through ETF's. We believe that ETF's will be changing the whole way we invest. Many people still use it as a means. Oh, people are investing it for indexing? No, the majority of people who are putting money in an index in an ETF's are active investors that are buying exposure. The entire bond market is being transformed as we talk right now. I believe the next generation for markets, the next generation for security securities will be tokenization of securities.
00:07:26.290 - 00:07:46.918, Speaker B: And if we could have that distributed ledger that we know, every beneficial owner, every beneficial seller, we all have our code of who's buying, who's selling, instantaneous settlement. And think about it changes the whole ecosystem. You don't need trust.
00:07:47.094 - 00:08:45.728, Speaker A: I'm not going to spend too much time on this because you can watch it by yourself. But this was, like, November of last year, like, right after FTX collapsed, and that was, like, when sentiment was at its source, right? But he still seems to be thinking about blockchain, like, public blockchains and, like, defi tokenization of securities in a positive manner. And it definitely sounds like, you know, this guy knows that he's gonna get, like, a bitcoin ETF at some point because he talked about how ETF's changing or changing, like, the way people invest, you know, get. Or, like, you know, allow people to, like, get exposure to various markets. And I guess, like, also, like, the bull cases, like, the last time, like, the gold ETF got approved, right? Like, it, like, led to, like, this parabolic running gold, of course, right? Like, you can't. It's like apples to oranges. But, you know, the bull case is, hey, like, if, you know, like, maybe gold went up because financial advisors started to recommend, like, a one to 2% exposure and, like, in gold, right, for, like, portfolio construction.
00:08:45.728 - 00:09:39.540, Speaker A: And maybe in 2024, 2025, financial advisors are gonna say, hey, like, digital gold, put 1% of it in here, right? Like, the zoomers love this stuff, right? You know, like, yeah, so, like, maybe like, that's how, like, maybe that. It's as simple as that, right? Like, maybe, like, that's like, what catalyzes the next bull market or, like, the recovery year. Because, you know, people, you know, say market, like manipulation, whatever, but, like, you know, like, if you're bullish on crypto, like, you knew that the institutionalization of crypto assets was gonna come regardless. Right. But I think, you know, just like all these legacy players applying for these stratified, sorry. Bitcoin ETF's kind of speeds up the timeline. And, you know, I guess, like, maybe two months ago, bitcoin ETF's maybe it was like a later in the decade, like 26 story, but now people are forced to think, okay, like, maybe it's going to be a 2024 story.
00:09:39.540 - 00:10:27.240, Speaker A: And, hey, like, the bitcoin having is going to be less than a year. And the average approval time for an ETF is, like, roughly six months. So, like, maybe Blackrock is literally just trying to get this product out, like, by, like, early 2024, just in time for the bitcoin halving. And then, like, that can actually be like a strong tailwind for the entire crypto markets. I guess, like, the bear case is, you know, Eric Balachunis, he's an ETF expert, he still thinks that despite Blackrock's strong track record, he still puts the likelihood of this being approved by a 50% chance, which is much better than before, because back then it was 0% chance. It's impossible to know. And I guess maybe the prices for crypto assets are doing well right now.
00:10:27.240 - 00:11:06.862, Speaker A: But if you think about the average approval time, it takes roughly six months. And literally, the SEC has rejected so many bitcoin ETF's in the past. So this narrative, this bitcoin only narrative, might be like a buy the rumor event, sell the news. And if this does take six months, then people aren't going to be talking about this bitcoin ETF for the next six months. It's a hot narrative right now, but come August, are people still going to be talking about it? Probably nothing. I mean, either way, I still think that it's going to be a positive tailwind for markets. I'm operating under the assumption that it's going to be approved just because I'm just optimistic by nature.
00:11:06.862 - 00:11:49.460, Speaker A: And I think the market effect, like, the direct effect of this is going to lead to, you know, I mean, it's like twofold. So, first of all, let's think about the psychology of the bulls and the bears. So from, like, a bullish perspective, right? Let's say you already own coins, and before it's like, maybe, you know, you want to de risk, and then maybe your plan was to start selling coins between 30 and 40k, right, because this might be a dead camp bounce or whatever, but, like, maybe now it's like, oh, like hmm. Maybe if the ETF's gonna be approved, then maybe it makes sense to hold, like, my coins until, like, at least into the halving, right. And then maybe sell them, use it. Right. So it kind of strengthens the hands of, like, the, like, the bullish, bullishly positioned market participants.
00:11:49.460 - 00:12:34.380, Speaker A: Obviously, like, not all, but on average, I think it kind of extends time horizon for, like, the bulls. And let's now think about the psychology of the bears. Maybe before this, people were fearing a recession, calling for new lows, and maybe they were wanting to buy to the 20k or something. But given the news, maybe bears become more forward looking. And they say to themselves, you know what? I'm bullish crypto. I want to buy at lower prices, but instead of buying bitcoin at maybe I'll be happy to buying it roughly in this area, like, 24. To think, ultimately it's going to lead to shallower dips on average, and just improved sentiment in general, which I think is a reason to be constructive to markets and also, like, a reason why I'm constructive in markets.
00:12:34.380 - 00:13:17.528, Speaker A: Another hot topic that is on everyone's radar is bitcoin dominance. You know, obviously, you know, the bitcoin ETF, very strong narrative. And bitcoin dominance has been just going up and up and up all year. I drew this box at the beginning of the year, and if you've been following me, I've said that I hold a bunch of LP tokens, whether it be glP, truck crypto, other LP tokens. And I said that once bitcoin dominance enters this range, I'm going to take my LP tokens and then convert it fully into ether. Because LP tokens, like truck crypto can be a way to hedge against bitcoin dominance, even if you're like an Ethereum maxi. Of course, I kind of pulled out of my LP's maybe like when bitcoin dominance was like 48% ish.
00:13:17.528 - 00:14:00.910, Speaker A: Because I pulled it out, I bought some GMX, I bought some ether, and, you know, like, I don't really mind because, like, like, to be honest, like, in the bitcoin dominance, in, like five to ten years, it's gonna be like a boomer metric, right? Like, no one's really gonna care about it. Of course, it has a lot of cultural significance right now, which is, like, why people talk about it. But I think, you know, bitcoin dominance is gonna be, like in a structural secular bear market, right? As more and more crypto applications, tokens have more value, right, et cetera. So I still think that generally, the upper range of bitcoin dominance is going to be roughly 50% to 55%. Of course it can go. I mean, I could be wrong on this, right? I'm, like, more positive on, like, defi and altcoins than, like, the average crypto market participant. So I am biased in that sense.
00:14:00.910 - 00:14:18.184, Speaker A: But, you know, like, I mean. Yeah, like, totally. Like, the narrative is very, very strong, like, against altcoins. Right? Altcoins are going to get erect. And that has been happening, right? On average, I. And I will talk about, I guess, purpose coins because I guess people. Yeah, I think people want me to talk about it.
00:14:18.184 - 00:14:40.648, Speaker A: But before I talk about that, I do want to share this chart. Yeah. I mean, this chart is very painful, but this is an equation, right? So it's total three minus USDC and minus USDt. So total three is total altcoin mark cap. So it doesn't take into account bitcoin. Indeed. And I subtracted the USDC and tether market captain to get rid of stable coins.
00:14:40.648 - 00:15:01.768, Speaker A: It does contain things like dive racks, et cetera, but, you know, like, no. Like, no. Like, chart is perfect, right? And then I divided the altcoin market cap, excluding stable coins by the market cap of ether. And you can kind of see this is, like, in this structural downtrend. Maybe this is, like, entering support. But, you know, like, if I. Like, if you told me that this was a stock, right.
00:15:01.768 - 00:15:27.274, Speaker A: I would never recommend this to, like, anyone, right? Maybe only to my enemies. Maybe it's set up to a bounce. But, you know, like, generally, it's really, really hard to pick altcoins, of course. Like, I'm, like, full time in this space, and I try to identify strong altcoins or whatever, but I've been wrong so many times. I've gone wrecked so many times. But, you know, I do want to talk about it just because, hey, like, I think people want to talk. Want me to talk about it, right? In terms of content and whatnot.
00:15:27.274 - 00:15:52.024, Speaker A: And the one thing I've been talking about, I guess, is, like, it's like, purpose coins, right? Feel free to tune out if you, like, don't care about this anymore. But I've been talking about GMX, and I've said that, hey, like, I think we're near a trough in volatility, I guess. Let's actually look at the fee dashboard. Actually. It always takes a long time for this thing to load. Yeah. So let's kind of look.
00:15:52.024 - 00:16:39.280, Speaker A: So, yeah, obviously, like, the recently, like, no fees have gone. I mean, okay, maybe not parabolic but it's gone up. Volume has also gone up. And one of the reasons I wanted to, like, buy GMX was because it's like the number one leader in, like, the on chain perp space, I guess, like, behind DydX, but it's like the, like, the most crypto native. And I guess if you look at the overall trend, I still think that, you know, I mean, I showed this chart, right? What is this? This is, like, not a pretty chart. And, you know, like, if you think about, like, altcoins that can potentially outperform either, maybe it's literally altcoins that can offer, like, yield above that of the ethereum staking rate. This is hopium, right? It's not like strong conviction.
00:16:39.280 - 00:17:05.362, Speaker A: It's just like an idea. And maybe this isn't really, like, a reason people buy stuff. But, you know, GMX right now is like paying 12% in ether, right? Quote unquote real yield. On Wednesday, these fees are gonna update. And I believe that if you run the numbers, it's gonna be closer to like 4.3%. So a significant decrease, but it's still above the lido staking rate, which is like 3.9%. And as more and more either get staked, the staking rate does go down, right, on average.
00:17:05.362 - 00:17:42.364, Speaker A: So the bar to offer a neat staking rate is going to lower over time. And I think GMX has a reasonable chance from now to end of year to just perpetually offer just higher staking rates that pay eat overeat. But, you know, obviously there's, like, concerns about securities risks and whatnot. And, you know, even GOP is like paying like 48% paid in either, which is like, pretty crazy due to, like, the liquidations I've talked about the GOP market cap is trending higher. And I think it's reasonable to expect this to maybe hit all time highs. Of course, when v two launches, right. You know, GOP is slowly going to be sunset.
00:17:42.364 - 00:18:10.662, Speaker A: So I'm not like, really painting like a bullish picture on this. But I still feel like when there's market uncertainty, people like to LP for tokens, right? Because it pays actual yield. That's not being paid in the farm token, because people don't like that. I'll also talk about Mux, right? I talked about this protocol a month ago. The metrics seem to be pretty strong. They are a perp stacks aggregator. And, you know, I own some right through research, but, you know, TvL also trending up.
00:18:10.662 - 00:18:38.936, Speaker A: And I think as more and more of the. The. These perps like forks launch. I think there can actually be a market, you know, like a literal prior market fit for perp Dex aggregators and Dex aggregators like for like one inch per swap. Their literal job is to save you money so they can't charge you fees. But I think perp Dexs can charge fees because they have their own native LP pool. Right? So any volume that routes through their own native LP goes to token holders.
00:18:38.936 - 00:19:18.900, Speaker A: And also there's also that chance where you know if like if like Mux has like all these referral codes for all these cryptxes and can offer like lower fees like for, for like traders and they can capture some of the rebate and then like maybe some of that can go back to like token holders and stuff. Then maybe you know, like basically, like the point is like I actually think that prop Dex aggregator tokens can actually have value accrual whereas for Dex aggregators they cannot. But it's a working thesis. I'm not like fully convinced on this. This is also high risk. So yeah, I mean it's just something to be considered about. And ultimately like the bitcoin dominance narrative is super strong.
00:19:18.900 - 00:19:41.430, Speaker A: Like ET BTC doesn't look that strong right now. Right. I mean I still think that ultimately, ultimately like we're going to kind of be in this range and like you know, it doesn't make sense to be too bearish or too bullish. This like this ratio, I don't really expect the flippening to happen anytime soon. Right. I don't really expect it to happen in like the next three to four years. And I also don't expect it to go down here or something.
00:19:41.430 - 00:20:27.636, Speaker A: But who knows, right? And you know, this is, it's not loading. Yeah. So this is the professor from NYU, right? The business professor. This is kind of boomer ish, right? So like maybe this isn't like that important, but I do think it's kind of interesting to kind of think about crypto in this way. I think a lot of like short term attention shifts towards the traders because traders can like post every day because there's a bunch of setups. But like if you're thinking like a longer term about crypto, it's like, like, you know, like when gas fees are like this low, it's like what do I even talk about, right? It's like sometimes I have trouble finding things to talk about. And then you know, if you're trying to be an investor, you have to have a longer time, longer term time horizon.
00:20:27.636 - 00:21:14.422, Speaker A: You have to have a thesis patient's immunity from peer pressure and just literally stick to your guns. And of course be okay if you're wrong. Just constantly test your thesis. But it's kind of like monitor your ideas. And generally if you think about, just think about crypto people that you know, that you look up to that you think has made it. Like, what percent of them are like, crypto investors and like, what percent of them are traders? I would bet you that, like, most of them are like investors, right, because most gains are just like made, like buying tokens that you like, like holding it for a longer term and then like just, you know, compounding your gains up and up and up. Easier said than done, right? Like it's one of those things where, you know, like at the peak of the bull market, you look back to like people that bought coins in 2019.
00:21:14.422 - 00:21:39.208, Speaker A: It's like, oh my God, like, I wish I bought ethere in 2019 and held it until like 4k. It would have been so easy. But in reality, it's not easy at all. It's really, really hard, right? Like every week there's a Fud event. Every week there's like some, some exploit or something, right? Like some, some damn hack. It's really hard to maintain your convictions. But I think, you know, like, at this point, right, like, you just have to believe in the tech, right? I mean, I believe in the tech.
00:21:39.208 - 00:22:13.252, Speaker A: I think Defi is one of the best. Like it has, like one of the best product market fits when it comes to distributed ledgers and public blockchains. Of course, there's so much room to be had there. But I think one thing that, one thing that perpetuxes have against them is the high fees because right now on GMX, you have to pay 0.1% to open and close the position. To be honest, I own the token. I farm GLP, but I don't really recommend people to trade on there.
00:22:13.252 - 00:22:44.980, Speaker A: I mean, I guess I don't really recommend people to trade, like in general on leverage. But, you know, people love the centralized exchange experience just because it's cheaper, it's faster, you know, it's centralized, right. And you know, like, fees are like, fees on chain are like much higher. But I think we're also starting to see this trend of, you know, with the GMX V two update, the fees are going to be lower, I think. I mean, it's not confirmed, but I think it's very likely. And even like other competitors like Quenta, they're going to lower their rates. And I think, you know, Mux is also going to, like, lower their rates.
00:22:44.980 - 00:23:14.310, Speaker A: There's like. Yeah, yeah, there's, like, some proposal. So I think over time, right. Perp, dexs on chain. Dexs are becoming more and more competitive to centralized exchanges. And I don't really expect Dex volumes to flip sex volumes anytime soon. But I do think that, you know, as the tech improves, as the user experience, the interface improves, I think it makes sense to believe that the Dex to sex volume ratio is going to be up only from here to, let's say, 2034.
00:23:14.310 - 00:23:39.076, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, yeah, it's going to be like a slow process. It's not going to be something that, you know. Yeah, it's not like you can buy something and it goes up like ten x in like a week, and then you're, like, retired. Yeah, I mean, definitely not. You kind of have to play the long game. And that's definitely, like, the mindset that I am in, you know, like, who knows? Maybe I'm coping because I own heavy bags. I do own a very heavy bags, but, you know, I mean, that's just generally my views.
00:23:39.076 - 00:23:59.286, Speaker A: So, yeah, I'll wrap it up there. So hopefully. Right, to wrap it up, bitcoin goes up. Maybe that can lead. I have to realign this, but, like, roughly here. Right? Like, hopefully, you know, like, this leads to more on chain activity because, you know, like, that creates more activity on chain, which burns more. Either creates more economic value for on chain applications.
00:23:59.286 - 00:24:18.734, Speaker A: So that's something I'm looking forward to. If this does not happen, then maybe, right. This is, like, just literal supporting evidence that I am wrong on my bitcoin dominance idea. And it's gonna go, like, much higher. Who knows, right? Just monitor the data and we'll kind of see what happens there. So thank you, guys watching. See you guys in the next video.
00:24:18.734 - 00:24:27.302, Speaker A: And, yeah, like, if you want more content, I post three videos a week. Daily updates in the premium discord link is in the description. Thank you guys for watching, and see you guys later. Bye.
