00:00:00.320 - 00:00:28.118, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Way Refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Cisano, and today's the 1 November 2021. Alright everyone, new month, new, I guess like Upvember, right? We had uptober, maybe we're gonna have upvember now. I'm excited for, for November, actually. It's getting warmer here in Melbourne, so, you know, the, the better weather's got my, my spirits up. And of course ETH is pretty much near price discovery. Time of recording it's at like 43.
00:00:28.118 - 00:00:56.806, Speaker A: 43. So we're pretty much near all time high price discovery. So that's, that's pretty encouraging as well. But what else is encouraging is that the last seven days, Ethereum had its first week of negative issuance. For the whole seven days. Right? For the whole week. So what this means is essentially AIP 1559 burned more ETH than was issued every single day for the past seven days across both the proof of work and proof of stake networks.
00:00:56.806 - 00:01:49.564, Speaker A: Now this is absolutely insane, right? There were so many people who thought that ETH wouldn't be net deflationary until the merge because it would require 100 to 150 GUI constantly for us to be net deflationary. Now we've obviously, I think I went through a last week we had maybe the week before where we had like ETH's kind of like first net deflationary day, including proof of work and proof of stake rewards, whenever we just had the whole week. And it's obviously because the ETH gas prices have been quite high lately, the market's been hotter. There's a lot happening on the network, is extreme demand to use the network. And you know, I had a few people kind of like hit back at me, um, not, not so much on, on the tweet, but just like in general, whenever I talk about high fees, basically saying, oh yeah, you know, you're celebrating kind of like all these ETH being burned and all these high fees, but people can't use the network. Well look, I've been through it on the refill so many times before. You guys all know what the Ethereum kind of like design is for scaling.
00:01:49.564 - 00:02:27.896, Speaker A: So I'm not going to go through it again, but I think it just shows that people still, I mean, there's still a lot of people who are kind of like, they think layer one, Ethereum is the best Ethereum, Ethereum has to offer. Obviously, we have a really bustling L2 ecosystem that just keeps growing and that's still really early, though. That's the problem, right. There's still not very easy ways to onboard onto these L2s. Like I put out this kind of like tweet here, right. Basically say, you know, Ethereum in the back, L2s in the front if you know, you know, but it's very hard to say to someone, well, just on board onto L2, but then force them to go through layer one to do so, because the layer one bridging costs are still pretty expensive. They can be anywhere from $30 to $100, depending on which bridge you use.
00:02:27.896 - 00:03:17.694, Speaker A: Now, a new user is not going to do that. They're not going to go from a centralized exchange, you know, by ETH there, bridge their ETH into a theorem as they normally would, like, withdraw your ETH to Ethereum, paying a fee as well, depending on the exchange that they use, and then paying another fee to bridge to a L2. So by the time that they've paid all the fees that could have, you know, they could have spent a $100 worth of, worth of the ETH that they bought and they're finally on a L2. But what if they kind of like the L2 that they're on doesn't have the app that they wanted to use, for example? Because obviously we're still continuing this rollout of the L2s of all the apps and stuff like that. So when you think about it like that, the layer ticket system is still really, really, really early. We still need these kind of like centralized exchanges to really step up to the plate here. And I think the easiest thing for them to do, and I don't imagine this being very difficult on their part, both as kind of like on the integration side and on kind of, I guess the.
00:03:17.694 - 00:03:55.600, Speaker A: Not just the integration side. Sorry, what am I talking about? The deposit withdrawal flow as well. Because what they can do, this is really simple. They can just have a reserve of ETH right on the L2. So for example, say that Coinbase has a ETH account or an ethereum wallet or multiple ethereum wallets on optimism or arbitram, then have ETH in those wallets. And those are the hot wallets that people kind of like withdraw from. So all Coinbase has to do is keep track in their database of what ETH is going in and out and where it's going to users and just send that out just like they do for ethereum layer one, it's the same kind of process for L2.
00:03:55.600 - 00:04:26.002, Speaker A: So I mean, I know that Coinbase is a big organization. A lot of these centralized exchanges are. The integration work takes longer. And it's not just like the technical integrations, also customer support and stuff like that, and making sure that funds are secure, making sure that the L2s they are supporting is secure, even if they are centralized today, making sure that it's kind of like a reputable team behind it. They're not just kind of like supporting any L2, and they're supporting, you know, the big ones, the, the ones that are the legitimate ones, for example. So I get all that, but at the same time, it's, it. I don't imagine it being that hard.
00:04:26.002 - 00:04:54.282, Speaker A: And that is one kind of like really quick way for centralized exchanges to essentially alleviate that whole kind of bridging cost, because it would be near free bridging, sorry, near free withdrawal, I should say, because all Coinbase would be doing was, here's the deposit flow, actually, just. Sorry, the withdrawal flow. Just to kind of like, put this in, in simple terms, I'm a user on Coinbase. I have. I have one ETH. I want to withdraw this one ETH to arbitrum or optimism. On Coinbase's interface, I select optimism.
00:04:54.282 - 00:05:14.610, Speaker A: I select withdraw. And then I withdraw to optimism instead of ethereum layer one. So in that drop down menu, I would have the three options, ethereum, optimism, or arbitrum. I've selected optimism in this case. And then my one ETH goes from Coinbase's hot wallet on optimism to my wallet on optimism that I've selected. And that's it. It's pretty much.
00:05:14.610 - 00:05:38.914, Speaker A: I mean, I'm sure Coinbase would cover the cost of that. Or even, I mean, it's pretty much like near free anyway, considering that ETH transfer is the cheapest thing you can do. So that's as simple as it can be. It doesn't have to be more difficult than that. Now, obviously, I'm simplifying it for the example, the back end work is more than that. And as I said, like the customer support, social side of it, integrations, operations is different. But in terms of the technical load, that's the easiest thing that they can do.
00:05:38.914 - 00:06:24.916, Speaker A: But then on top of that, what they can do is if they don't want to do that, or kind of in addition to that, they can do batched onboarding, where basically they just collect a batch of withdrawals. And this is for the more active exchanges that process a lot of withdrawals. They can just batch them all together and then say, okay, well, you know, there's going to be like a half an hour wait to get your funds onto this, onto the aisle two, because essentially they're bridging directly from l one to l two. And they just kind of like amortizing the costs across all the users that are part of that batch. There's obviously direct fiat onboarding that these l two s can do that can go bypass centralized exchanges altogether. And the same concept applies there where essentially the provider that's letting you directly on board via fiat to crypto has a crypto reserve on that layer too, and then just pays it out through that. So, I mean, these things are solved issues.
00:06:24.916 - 00:06:50.718, Speaker A: This isn't going to be, this isn't something that needs to be worked out. It just needs to be integrated. The research, I mean, there's not even any research to do. It's just, we know how to do it, let's just implement it. And I think once that happens, the narrative is going to shift around people being like, high fees are bad, right? Because they're not going to feel it anymore. They're just going to feel the cheap and fast transactions of L2s while we still have the high fees at layer one, where how the anyone's going to play. I mean, I've explained it plenty of times to you guys.
00:06:50.718 - 00:07:23.450, Speaker A: Layer two is literally the. Sorry, layer one is literally the settlement layer for L2s long term. And I actually thought of an analogy today, and I don't think I'm the first one to think of this, but it really resonated with me when I thought about it today. Layer one, ethereum, is a private jet, right? Layer two, other commercial jets and commercial flights. A very small amount of people can actually afford to use private jets, right? They're super expensive, I think. Like they can cost anywhere from ten to $20,000 an hour to fly in one of these things. And it depends where you're flying, of course, and stuff like that.
00:07:23.450 - 00:08:16.784, Speaker A: Obviously it's very expensive because you, as in a private jet, you are paying for the fuel, the pilot, the stewardess, and the stewards in general, you're paying for all of that out of your, and all the maintenance, everything, blah, blah, out of your own pocket instead of amortizing it across, you know, hundreds of passengers, for example. So these L2s are basically that where they're spreading out the costs of the layer one with all of these users. But if you're rich, right? And I mean, you don't have to be that rich to use layer one ethereum today. You do have to have like, you know, an outsized net worth. But I'm talking like, you know, I mean, only, obviously only the mega rich can afford private jets. But eventually ethereum layer one will probably get to that point where fees are probably going to be like, I mean, they're what, 100, 150 guy right now on average that, you know, over time, I expect that to increase, especially until we get data sharding. I expect that to increase and keep going up to maybe 2300 way like average.
00:08:16.784 - 00:08:47.510, Speaker A: That's when it gets to kind of the levels of, you know, it might cost $300 for like a uniswap trade. Then you're getting into the parts where it's like, okay, it doesn't make any sense for like most people in the world to use this. And it's the same with the private jet, commercial jet kind of like comparison. And I mean, there's, there's tons of these analogies. It's like saying to people, well, you know, you could buy a, sorry, you could buy a property in Manhattan, in New York, right, an apartment there. It's going to cost you millions of dollars to buy it. Or you could buy an apartment in some kind of like, some place, like outside of the city, like way outside of the city.
00:08:47.510 - 00:09:22.814, Speaker A: It's going to cost you much less for various different reasons. But I do like the kind of like private jet, commercial jet kind of analogy because it's just so, I mean, it's very easily relatable for people because most people will never be able to fly in a private jet, just like most people are never going to be able to afford layer one ethereum. And that's okay. Just because you can't afford a private jet doesn't mean you can't fly. Just like, just because you can't afford a layer one ethereum transaction doesn't mean you can't use ethereum. You can just use ethereum in a different way at L2, but still get the, you know, a similar experience. Obviously on commercial flights as well, there are different classes.
00:09:22.814 - 00:09:59.078, Speaker A: But I'm just talking like, just as a general thing here, I don't want to get into the weeds of this analogy because analogies work when you just stay at the high level. You start getting into the weeds. They kind of like fall apart sometimes, but like, essentially you obviously get a different experience as well, right? And the funny thing is is that like, I think the layer one ethereum experience, even, not even accounting for costs is just simply worse than L2 from a user experience perspective because of the block time. Like, you still have to wait. You know, at most 13 seconds for an ethereum block, or if you get lucky, you'll do a transaction before a block gets mined. But really it's slower than L2. It's always going to be slower than L2.
00:09:59.078 - 00:10:40.364, Speaker A: So really your layer one experience is degraded not just by high fees, but also by the slower transactions and the risk of dropping transactions, having to speed them up to get your transaction in, getting your transactions kind of, kind of, I guess like reverting as we've all experienced before. That's just not going to really happen at L2. It's still going to happen, but it's going to happen way, way, way less. And it's just going to be much easier to avoid those issues from, from coming this from happening as well. So, and on top of this, I mean, Scott Lewis put it well where he said ethereum isn't going to be a consumer facing blockchain for all that much longer. And the funny thing is, is that people took this the wrong way to mean that ethereum is not going to be the, the blockchain that people use. What he really meant was that it's just going to be L2s.
00:10:40.364 - 00:11:07.470, Speaker A: They are going to be the consumer facing kind of like parts of Ethereum. And it's not just layers. Also, any scalability solutions that just hang off of ethereum, they're going to be consumer facing things. It's not going to be the ethereum layer one. Maybe if Scott said ethereum layer one isn't going to be consumer facing, people wouldn't be as confused. But I mean, he said, he went here and said, you know, ethereum as a settlement layer, shelling point for all L2s institutions. So essentially what I said before theorem, layer one is the settlement layer.
00:11:07.470 - 00:11:36.720, Speaker A: Settlement layers are not cheap guys. Like they're really expensive. And you know, the, the user layer is at the, at the, L2 there. So I thought that was an interesting way of putting it. But also I thought it was funny that a lot of people got confused and used it as a kind of like opportunity to fight Ethereum as they do. But yeah, still, still pretty funny to think about that. Another tweet from Scott Lewis here was highlighting a tweet from Ryan here, who was quote, tweeting the crypto punk sale from last week, the 500 plus million dollar sale from last week that was done using flash loans.
00:11:36.720 - 00:12:24.568, Speaker A: And I explained how that worked last week. It wasn't a real sale, it was just someone using a flash loan to basically show that this could be done. But you know, Scott Lewis, sorry, put put shared this screenshot of Ryan's tweet and Ryan, and he said, ryan's tweet said, nft people tell me this was a flash loan, meaning this individual took out a loan to fake someone buying it, bought from himself, then immediately paid the loan. And then Ryan goes on to say, who the hell gives out a $532 million loan to an individual, even for an instant? And then Scott Lewis shares a screenshot of that tweet with, by saying, the ethereum virtual machine, it's fucking magic. And then I commented, this is peak boomer tradfi energy, because it really is. Now obviously, Ryan doesn't know how flash loans work. He probably doesn't even know how Defi works in general or even like how crypto works, and that's fine.
00:12:24.568 - 00:13:20.368, Speaker A: But the funny thing is, is that like this kind of thing is going to keep playing out over and over again because, because what we have within DeFi with stuff like flash loans is a new kind of like primitive. It is not something that is possible in the traditional finance system. And that's hard for people who haven't kind of been exposed to this stuff to get their head around. And as I mentioned last week when I was talking about this crypto punk sale, flush loans are probably the wildest thing that we have in DeFi. Personally, I think my favorite thing in DeFi, because they just kind of like bring together what makes Defi magical, and that is the composability and also, and also kind of like the freedom for individuals to have just as much power over their finances as the institutions do over them. So with a flash loan, you can technically borrow, you know, up to as much money as you want, and as long as you repay it in the same block, you're fine. Now imagine trying to explain that to a tradfi person.
00:13:20.368 - 00:13:53.694, Speaker A: They would, you'd have to explain how ethereum works, how DeFi works, how ethereum blocks work, how transactions work. I mean, it'd be very hard to explain that. And this is not stuff that end users need to know about at all. I mean, if you like, flash loans are not really an end user thing. Like flash loans are used for good and bad, bad when they're used in exploits, good when they're used for like arbitrage and stuff like that. But generally, like a normal retail user doesn't really have like, you know, a lot of use for it in their day to day activities. Um, but you know, obviously if you want to get into the weeds of how it works.
00:13:53.694 - 00:14:24.568, Speaker A: It's more complicated to explain. And I think that's why Ryan here kind of missed the whole point of, of what happened. So, I mean, it's funny because, like, I did, I did, like, dunk on Ryan a little bit by saying, this is peak boomer tradfi energy. I don't think Ryan was trying to fud this stuff. I think he just didn't know how it worked. But again, I think it just shows this kind of, like, world that exists totally outside of Defi, that has existed for much longer than Defi, but doesn't understand what we're doing because they're just so far behind. It's too fast moving.
00:14:24.568 - 00:14:48.504, Speaker A: Like, could you imagine explaining to people that, oh, yeah, we had, like, defi. Now we have, like, deFi 2.0, and saying to them, yeah, it's a marketing term, but there are a lot of new features where the Defi 1.0 projects are kind of getting eclipsed by 2.0 projects because of this, this and this reason. I mean, just explain this sort of stuff to these people. It's, it's kind of like, I mean, even people in crypto, we get overwhelmed, right, by all this stuff happening.
00:14:48.504 - 00:15:22.354, Speaker A: We kind of, like, lose, lose focus of it. Or if we take a couple of days off, is really, really hard for us to kind of, like, keep on top of things. I know personally, as someone who covers this ecosystem, you know, every day, if I take a day off, which I haven't in, I mean, since I got into Ethereum, what, four, four and a half years ago, I have not taken one single day off where I didn't look at anything Ethereum related. I didn't look at the price, nothing like that. Not a single day. Even when I'm on a flight, I have used the Wi Fi to stay connected. And even on the flights without Wi Fi the most, I think it was, it was like 16 hours or something like that.
00:15:22.354 - 00:15:59.942, Speaker A: So 16 hours is the longest I've gone without checking, you know, news about Ethereum and, and, and the ETH price and all that sort of stuff. And I felt like I had missed so much. I remember I landed in Melbourne because I was coming back from somewhere, and I checked my phone, and you know what I had missed? This was back in the bear market, but essentially, I had missed the fact that I think China, China did something that was, like, really, really bullish. I can't remember exactly what it was, but it was really bullish for crypto. And Ethan. BTC rocketed up, and I'd missed that whole thing. Everyone was talking about a Twitter blow up about it, and I missed that whole thing just in that 16 hours window because I was on a flight and I didn't have wi fi on that flight.
00:15:59.942 - 00:16:23.050, Speaker A: So can you imagine these people that aren't in the industry, they're completely outside of the industry. They're not keeping up with it at all. And then coming in and seeing this kind of like, flash loan thing and trying to wrap their head around it, it's not gonna work, right? It's, it's a very. I mean, this is. Flashlight is an advanced thing. It's not something that a beginner should actually even look into or worry them themselves about. They need to learn all the other stuff first.
00:16:23.050 - 00:16:56.512, Speaker A: But it really does show, like, the disconnect here, which I don't think is going to get rectified. I think that what ends up happening with technological paradigm shifts like this is that the people, the kind of people that people refer to as kind of like, quote unquote boomers. And I'm not even talking about, like, actual boomers. I think boomers just become a term to refer to people who are just, like, behind in technology. More so than referencing the actual generation of people. I think that those people are going to be the laggards. They're going to be like the late adopters, and they're going to be using this technology when it's ubiquitous across everything.
00:16:56.512 - 00:17:31.047, Speaker A: Just like how, you know, people that adopted smartphones last, whether they be, I mean, you know, there could be any age, but it was typically kind of like the elderly that adopted smartphones last. It was just because it was ubiquitous, like. And the Internet as well, where, you know, having a smartphone was just a thing that you did have. Having access to the Internet was required to participate in modern society. The same will be true for things like an Ethereum wallet. It'll be a requirement for us to have an Ethereum wallet in order to participate in all the wonders of society going forward, at least in modern society. So at that point, you'll be at the late adopter stage.
00:17:31.047 - 00:18:16.566, Speaker A: It will not be early anymore. At that point, you know, ETH is probably going to be like 100k plus at that point, right? We won't even be talking like we are today about how, you know, it's impossible to keep up with, with a theorem. It will literally be impossible to keep up with Ethereum at that point because it will be as large as the Internet and as adopted as it. But, yeah, I mean, anyone who's not paying attention day in, day out, is definitely going to feel left behind. And it just the way it is if you want to be on top of the ecosystem, if you were actually interested in staying at the bleeding edge, obviously you watch the refuel, you read the newsletter, you participate in other things. Like, you go look at bankless and there's a millions, a million other things you could be doing. You sit on crypto, Twitter, but that's not for everyone, right? As Ryan, Sean Adams always says in bankless, like, we're on the frontier, guys, like, we're heading west, but it's not for everyone.
00:18:16.566 - 00:18:52.478, Speaker A: So from that perspective, if Ryan really wanted to, he could get into the ecosystem, spend time in it. Does he have the time to do it? Who knows, right? It's a big time sink, so. So, yeah. But anyway, it's still a funny tweet that I thought Scott put out here and me saying, like, it's peak boomer tradfi energy, I think I wasn't me using the boomer term to refer to the generation, I was using it to refer to people who seem to be just very far removed from this technology because they haven't been able to keep up. And, you know, it can be used as an insult or can be used as just like a way of labeling people. But at the end of the day, everyone has access to the same information within crypto. Like, it's just, I mean, a lot of the information is free.
00:18:52.478 - 00:19:11.632, Speaker A: It's out there. You can essentially go on to Twitter and get a lot of the information you need. But it comes down to, do you want to dedicate the time? Do you want to dedicate the effort? And most people don't. And those who do will, you know, get the spoils and get the rewards over the long term. And I hope that's a lot of you guys. Like, especially, I mean, if you're watching the refuel, it already is you. So I shouldn't say hope, but.
00:19:11.632 - 00:19:37.664, Speaker A: But, yeah. Anyway, I'm going to move on from that tweet. Got some stuff here from Polynyar, a great thread from Polynya today about decentralized sequences within roll ups. So you'll have heard me reference sequences before, especially around, like, arbitrum and when their sequencer went down. Basically what a sequencer is, it's kind of like a piece of software that batches together transactions and orders them and kind of like, puts them on. Sorry. Gets them ready to be put onto layer one.
00:19:37.664 - 00:20:10.302, Speaker A: And it's basically what, you know, every time you submit a transaction, you're submitting it to the sequencer in order for it to kind of like, get processed and everything like that. So Paulina's point in his tweet thread here was about sequences being powerless. They can only reorder transactions or withhold them. They cannot steal them. Now, you know, there was a bit of kind of like a discussion in here from, from Nick Johnson and Polynya about, you know, hand waving away the fact that sequencers being powerless. Right. For example, because reordering transactions is actually a pretty big power.
00:20:10.302 - 00:20:31.956, Speaker A: For example, as John, as sorry. As Nick points out here, reordering transactions mean you can do Mev. So if you're a sequencer and you're a centralized sequencer, you can do Mev. And Polina's response was that, you know, the people running the centralized sequences right now are arbitrary optimism. The teams. So why would they do MeV on their own users? They're probably not going to, because it's. It's not good.
00:20:31.956 - 00:21:02.830, Speaker A: It's long term unhealthy, but, you know, other sequences might. But again, decentralizing out the sequences will help a lot with this. And it also helped with withholding transactions, which is just another way of saying. Saying censoring transactions and decentralizing out the sequencer network and the validator network. Layer two is much easier than decentralizing it on layer one because you're not doing consensus decentralization. You're doing basically execution and sequencer decentralization, whereas consensus is a lot harder. You need to kind of like, get a security budget.
00:21:02.830 - 00:21:34.974, Speaker A: You need to kind of make sure that there's not too many validators. Kind of like concentrated in one bit. But, yeah, I mean, I suggest reading this thread from Polynya, and I also suggest reading the little conversation here with Nick Johnson. It was pretty interesting about MeV and kind of like both Polynya and Nick's views on this. So speaking of L2s, Mahaylo put out a tweet, just kind of like highlighting polygon, Hermes and how it's underappreciated, underutilized right now, and how they're going to change that. Now. Her maze is, I think, like a simple, kind of like payments roll up right now.
00:21:34.974 - 00:22:06.186, Speaker A: That's why it's probably underutilized. But the team is building the ZK EVM, which is basically going to be these generalized EVM compatible ZK roll up with Hermes. And, I mean, that's what I'm most looking forward to. You know, the funny thing is, like, what Stocknet is launch starkware is launching this month on Stocknet is not an EVM compatible ZK roll up. It is a kind of like Cairo language, which is their own smart contracting language and their own stock os. It's not an EVM. They do have a transpiler, but that's.
00:22:06.186 - 00:22:25.934, Speaker A: That's a different thing. Whereas the ZKVM wants to be a fully compatible, AVM compatible, even EVM equivalent, kind of like ZK roll up, which is obviously very important. It's obviously like the holy grail when it comes to EVM compatibility and equivalence. So. So, yeah, I'm definitely keeping an eye on that. And it's really, really cool. So.
00:22:25.934 - 00:22:51.630, Speaker A: And then, yeah, I guess, like poly says that, you know, polygon, Hermes just needs aggressive marketing and exchange integrations. And my halo says on it, which is really cool. Right. Because it means that they're coming. So, yeah, looking forward to that. So over the weekend, Uniswap over this weekend, or was it last weekend? I think it was last weekend. Uniswap passed $500 billion in total trading volume since its launch in November 2018.
00:22:51.630 - 00:23:21.644, Speaker A: This growth is absolutely insane. Obviously. This is huge. Do you know, it's funny, you won't hear it now, but the amount of people who were betting against Uniswap and who were saying that Amms wouldn't work and Uniswap wouldn't work, even all, you know, up to kind of like 2019 or even late 2019, it was staggering. It was the consensus that it wouldn't work. Then 2020 happened and defy summer happened and Uniswap rocketed up and now does billions and billions of dollars of daily transaction volume. And it's not just that layer one either.
00:23:21.644 - 00:23:40.498, Speaker A: As Uniswap says here, $2 billion of this volume was contributed by arbitrum and optimism, which is starting to see significant traction. They haven't been live for very long. Arbitrum one has only been live for a couple months. Optimism. Uniswap on optimism has only been live since July, which is only about three or four. Three months. I think.
00:23:40.498 - 00:23:52.774, Speaker A: I think it was like a mid July, late July deployment. So if you go like August, September, October. So a bit three and a bit months there. And obviously, optimism still has their whitelist. But, you know, it's growing. That's the main thing to look at. It's growing over time.
00:23:52.774 - 00:24:31.046, Speaker A: This is just absolutely phenomenal. You know, I was reminiscing today in the Discord channel a bit about this and about how, like, how different to two and a half years ago, Ethereum was just as an ecosystem, not just the apps, but, like, Ethereum itself. The amount of people who were, like, super bearish on Ethereum and ETH was. Was staggering. And then what, two years later, we have, like, ETH being the most bullish asset in crypto in terms of, like, the large cap assets, you know, gaining on BTC every, every other week, the flipping, becoming like an actual kind of, like, thing that a lot of people believe in. Ethereum's tokenomics being so strong, burning over 700,000 ETH, right. Having a deflationary week.
00:24:31.046 - 00:25:13.298, Speaker A: We've come so far in such a short period of time, relatively. I mean, two, two and a half years is such a short period of time. Can you imagine what this ecosystem is going to be like in ten years? Like, this is why I say we're still early, guys, because we're, you know, the prices that you see, all the market caps that you see may seem really big to you, right? For example, you'll see like, a two point, what, $2.8 trillion total market cap right now? And you'll think, wow, that's really big, right? It's trillions of dollars. As I've explained before, the total kind of like, market cap of equities around the world, I think, is anywhere from two to 300 trillion. So we're pretty much like, you know, still got 100 times growth left in it for total crypto market cap. And that's not going to be evenly distributed across everything.
00:25:13.298 - 00:25:48.680, Speaker A: There are going to be some things that go 1000 x. There are going to be some things that go 100 x, are going to be some things that only go ten x. But this is why I'm kind of like saying that we're so early in not just kind of like the price, the prices of things, but also the adoption, because the prices are very much for a lot of these things, or the market caps are very much ahead of their adoption. I wouldn't say ETH is. I think ETH is actually still undervalued relative to its current adoption. And then obviously, you put a premium on it in terms of, like, future growth, which there's a massive premium that you can put on that because its future growth is massive as well. And also, ETH is not just like a utility asset.
00:25:48.680 - 00:26:10.846, Speaker A: It's also kind of like a store of value, has a lot of money tariff premium to it as well. So from that perspective, you're better off comparing ethnic to nothing. ETH is a unique asset. It cannot be compared to an equity, it cannot be compared to a commodity. It cannot be compared to a bond, it is everything, and it is a new asset in of itself. Right. It's not limited to anything.
00:26:10.846 - 00:26:36.118, Speaker A: So from that perspective, the ceiling of its value is infinity. There is no ceiling to it at all. You know, over time, like, you know, maybe far into the future, ETH could be worth a million dollars because we burned so much, Ethan, that its market cap doesn't actually need to go to a million dollars. Its market cap would be. What would it be actually? It would be $100 trillion. It wouldn't even need to go to that because a lot of ETH would be burned at that point. Right.
00:26:36.118 - 00:27:06.758, Speaker A: So, yeah, I mean, I'm not going to get off a. Go off on like a super bullish ETH tangent here, but I just thought it was, like, interesting just thinking about it today, just how much has changed in such a short period of time and how much kind of like, how much growth there still is to come from this ecosystem. And we're really, really, really at the beginning still. Like, I mean, I say it a lot and I know it's a meme, but we're so early, like, it just. I can't not say that. So Tim Bico did his thread on the another called all core devs call that wrapped up last week. So lots of great content here to get through.
00:27:06.758 - 00:27:31.056, Speaker A: There were updates on the merge, there are updates on stateless ethereum as well, and a bunch of other things. Definitely give this tweet thread a read if you want the full breakdown of what happened on the old core devs call. I'm not going to read through it. I just wanted to highlight it and just for you guys, and I'll link it in the YouTube description below. A few more tweets to kind of like run through here as I'm coming up on time. I think I'm going to go through this one first and leave. I think these two are a bit longer.
00:27:31.056 - 00:27:48.056, Speaker A: Yeah, I'm going to leave that one for last anyway. So Australia's regulators have given a green light to bitcoin and ETF's. I really hate when people do this. Right, this. I know this. This is a bitcoiner account, the Bitcoin archive account. But they said breaking Australia's regulator gives green light to bitcoin ETF's.
00:27:48.056 - 00:28:16.874, Speaker A: And then they're linked to an article that literally has it in the title ASIC, which is Australian Securities Exchange Commission gives trading of bitcoin and ethereum. ETF's the green light. I really, really hate that this happens, but I mean, understandable from this account. That's why I, quote, tweeted it and said, you know, they also gave the light to ETH ETF's, which is awesome. I mean, I know there's a lot of aussies out there that listen to the show and kind of in Discord channel. This is great for us. Obviously, getting tax advantage kind of like access to, to bitcoin or ETH is a great thing.
00:28:16.874 - 00:28:36.602, Speaker A: And ASIC is basically our version of Australia's version of the SEC. So. So, yeah, awesome. I really want the SEC in the US to stop kind of like. I mean, these are spot ETF's, by the way. It's not futures ETF's. The bitcoin ETF being a futures ETF is like, if I'm being honest, it's just a good marketing thing.
00:28:36.602 - 00:29:08.706, Speaker A: It is so shit from an actual fundamental standpoint. Like, it's not actually purchasing the underlying bitcoin because it's futures. We want spot Btc Etf, we want to spot ETH eTF. But the SEC, being as they are, are just like dragging their feet on this while other countries leapfrog them. I mean, even Australia, which is one of the more conservative countries when it comes to these things, is leapfrogging the SEC. It's just, it's just frustrating. It must be really frustrating for, for us citizens as well to see their institutions failing them on this, just in the wider crypto ecosystem, but also the ETF space.
00:29:08.706 - 00:29:54.768, Speaker A: And I think that's why bitcoin kind of like it had its initial pump, right, got to 67, 68k. But it's come down and ETH is pretty much like outperforming it because I think that the narrative and the marketing of like a futures ETF just isn't enough to get bitcoin to be super strong from an asset point of view, whereas ETH still remains extremely bullish as an asset. Right. So yeah, I would love to see spot ETF's in the US market, but cool to see that australian regulators are more progressive here than the newest ones, which was a little bit surprising, but. But cool to see nonetheless. So Danny Ryan put out a great little kind of tweet thread here in response to Joseph DeLong, who, quote, tweeted Proto Lambda, who Proto is, I mean, was now an Ethereum core developer at the Ethereum foundation. He joined Optimism last week.
00:29:54.768 - 00:30:23.948, Speaker A: This is an absolutely massive win for optimism, by the way. Proto, for those who don't know, is a giga brain ethereum, kind of like core developer researcher. He is responsible for so many of the things that have happened within Ethereum core development and optimism. Landing him is an absolutely huge win. But then Joseph DeLong said, you know, quote, tweeted Proto Proto's tweet and said, this is going to keep happening. This being proto moving from Ethereum core development to optimism going to keep happening. Unless the Ethereum network can reward protocol developers proportionally to their value.
00:30:23.948 - 00:30:52.274, Speaker A: Maybe a block reward, maybe an airdrop on the east to merge. Post your ideas below. And then Danny Ryan posted his idea by saying, you know, let's make it a social norm for all daos and other network tokens building on Ethereum to allocate 1.5% of their tokens to the individuals building and designing the l one infrastructure they rely upon. These researchers and devs do more for most tokens than any BC. And then he goes on to detail how this would work. Committee controls a split split updated every quarter vest over three years quarterly.
00:30:52.274 - 00:31:27.866, Speaker A: Existing daos write a joint manifesto and can kick it off with existing tokens. New Daos to follow. Community lays on the pressure. And then Danny continues. If the upside to working on adapt protocol and ripping his Dao tokens is too asymmetric and potentially destructive to the balance, then share the upside. I think this is a great idea. I think this is a great middle ground because I don't, I mean, I don't think a lot of core developers, I mean, okay, going back to the premise of what Joe said here, Proto has not left Ethereum core development developing on optimism is very similar to Ethereum core development because, as you guys know, optimism is targeting EVM equivalents.
00:31:27.866 - 00:32:32.844, Speaker A: What that means is that you're basically doing what Ethereum does right at the core protocol layer, at layer one. So Proto is just gone. I mean, he actually said, in another tweet, he said the reason why he kind of like joined optimism was because it wasn't mainly because of the compensation bump, but also because he gets to work on problems that are more pressing within optimism, like scaling Ethereum, and more pressing than what's happening on the core layer, which is, which is totally fair, right, and totally cool. But, but essentially what Danny proposes here is like, let's make sure that the users of the Ethereum network, instead of kind of like poaching core developers, they can actually just like allocate a small portion of their tokens to core developers and allow them to kind of like share on the upside of these protocols that they may have may or may or may not have joined as founding members I think this is a great idea. I think it is probably one of the only workable ideas. I don't agree with Joseph saying maybe a block reward. We went through the notion of block reward funding, as in paying out a portion of the new ETH issued per block to a development fund for core developers.
00:32:32.844 - 00:33:14.024, Speaker A: This was discussed a lot in the in, especially in the bear market. And the kind of like, the kind of consensus was that no, we shouldn't do this for a variety of different reasons, but which I'm not going to go through now. An airdrop on the merge was also discussed, but again, it would require printing new ethics. It's just not worth messing with the Ethereum monetary policy, even though like I personally wouldn't be against it from like a, I guess, social standpoint, but from I guess like a wider kind of like con, taking into the wider context into account, it just wouldn't be good and wouldn't be kind of like net positive for the Ethereum network. So. So yeah, anyway, I'm overtime here and I got one more thing to talk about. Definitely check out this and check out the replies to Danny here.
00:33:14.024 - 00:33:46.530, Speaker A: Last thing to talk about was that kind of, I guess, exploit last week within cream that was due to x sushi. So it affected x sushi and the dpi token which holds Xooshi, but essentially it was. Aave was also vulnerable to this exploit. So. And they've since fixed it, or I think it's fixed by now, or they had a fix that was going through the time lock. But essentially this exploit resulted in cream losing over $100 million worth of, worth of assets. And are there being much bigger than cream in the billions of dollars worth of people kind of got spooked.
00:33:46.530 - 00:34:10.402, Speaker A: And Justin sun, who, I mean, it's crazy, but he owned, I think he had over $4 billion worth of stable coins and ETH in Aave that he withdrew as like a precaution. But I mean, it's just crazy that like he has so much money. I mean, he's added zero value to this ecosystem. All he's done is scam everyone. It kind of like hurts right when you really think about it. But I'm not going to get too harped up on that. But that was like kind of like the TLDR of that whole exploit shenanigans.
00:34:10.402 - 00:34:48.720, Speaker A: And I know there was a lot of drama over the weekend as well between Aave, especially Aave, and like the yearn kind of like ecosystem. I don't know, I feel like this drama, a lot of it is just, like, petty stuff that really doesn't have any bearing on the. On the kind of, like, long term kind of arc of this ecosystem. I would say that maybe it's good for some, like, short term entertainment, if that's what you're into. If you love gossip, if you love watching on as drama kind of like, unfolds, which, you know, if you admit it or not, a lot of people like, like, seeing that unfold and kind of, like, entertained by it, for better or worse. Um, but essentially that's kind of like what all it was. And I think in the end, really, the two protocols are just going to keep working as they.
00:34:48.720 - 00:35:10.900, Speaker A: As they normally do. They're not going to kind of, like, get tripped up by this. But that was basically the Tl doctor of all the stuff that happened last week. And I think are they should be safe by now? Um, I think it has gone through. I'm not sure. Maybe. Maybe by the time you watch this, it's gone through, but I'm not sure exactly how long the time lock was, but it was put into place, um, to kind of, like, mitigate this attack and to fix the bug there as well.
00:35:10.900 - 00:35:23.324, Speaker A: But I think on that note, that's it for today. So thank you, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone. Bye.
