00:00:04.280 - 00:00:43.094, Speaker A: Hey everyone, my name is Amy street and I'm really excited about this panel. We're going to be having a chit chat about fundraising and a bear. A very exciting conversation that a lot of us are probably interested to hear from. I'm extra excited about this panel today because oftentimes it's kind of a. We're hearing from VC's in this and we have a pretty dichotomous panel where we've got a founder on the panel as well as some people from the venture capital side. So excited to introduce you to these panelists. I guess we'll just go down the row, introduce yourself and tell us your involvement in the ecosystem, your history, a little bit.
00:00:43.634 - 00:01:31.648, Speaker B: Yeah, sure. So, hey everyone, I am Julian. I am one of the co founders at Elusive. And at elusive. We believe that privacy should be accessible to everyone and we're basically like trying to do that by building out the modular stack for privacy for web3. Basically, we are focusing on composability to integrate privacy into any existing web3 protocols and also on compliance. I think it's a good addition to the panel just before on privacy and policy on a high level.
00:01:31.648 - 00:02:20.344, Speaker B: You can just imagine elusive incognito mode for web3. And I got into the Solana ecosystem a bit over two years ago. I was still in university back then, worked part time for staking facilities, large infrastructure provider, and they took me to the first ever breakpoint conference in Lisbon. And a few months after that basically started building elusive on Solana with my co founders. Also with a lot of support from staking facilities. We then later in the bear market, raised 3.5 million seed round and been like building ever since.
00:02:20.344 - 00:02:22.028, Speaker B: Awesome.
00:02:22.116 - 00:03:20.760, Speaker C: Hey guys, Shaban here from Saison Capital. So Saison Capital is basically an investment arm of japanese financial institution which is mainly known for being the largest credit card in Japan in terms of users and transaction volume. And on the b two B side, we are also the largest wholesale lenders in Southeast Asia, India and pretty much like East Asia except China. And we basically lend out to different banks, non banking lenders, and quite a few like tech unicorns that have a embedded fintech business model. Like we help, if you guys are familiar with Grab in Singapore, we help them create like a $10 billion subsidiary called Grab Financials. And we were also like one of the early investors and try to add value that way. We are also working on different RWA initiatives since we are also pretty deeply involved in private credit and obviously defi for various liquid reasons.
00:03:20.760 - 00:04:25.254, Speaker C: And so I was previously working for more crypto native protocols and prop firms before coming to Saison and join Saison, because what we really lack is deep liquidity and getting some of the insti volume on board just so that we can actually focus on solving actual problems instead of scrambling for like a few cents or a dollar here and there. And for Solana, Mindy got involved way back in like 2019 on a protocol level and was pretty excited by it because prior to that, I was also doing something on Ethereum and AWACS, more on like a perpetual defi protocol and a bit of mev, but I kind of got really frustrated with the whole user experience on EVM chains and I just decided, like, I need something that's actually usable in a real world and that can actually make banks and fintech solutions look back and serve the other way around.
00:04:27.914 - 00:05:06.306, Speaker D: Hi, everyone, my name is Tushar. I'm co founder and managing partner at a firm called Multicoin Capital. We're a crypto focused investment firm manage over a billion dollars across public and private markets. In crypto, we invest across different stages, from seed rounds up to growth rounds, active on liquid assets as well as venture deals. We've been involved with Solana since pretty much the very beginning, led a bunch of their private rounds before they launched. So it's really exciting to be here and see what this ecosystem and community has really grown into. And it's because of all of you, the developers who helped make it happen.
00:05:06.306 - 00:05:08.094, Speaker D: So excited to be here.
00:05:09.074 - 00:05:44.064, Speaker A: So, as you guys can see, I'm really excited about this because we've got some real stellar leaders in the ecosystem here, and let's just kind of dive into it and kind of get into the meat of it, of what everybody's kind of thinking about. And that's when the topography of this space kind of changes with the market. We do see the raising side and the venture side change as well. So in the current market right now, how do you go about getting venture capitalist or venture capital and investment attention?
00:05:44.524 - 00:06:27.804, Speaker B: So, yeah, happy to, like, share our journey, don't like, take it. That's the only way to, like, VC attention. But basically, when we got started with elusive, so we're mostly based in Germany and Switzerland. There was a hacker house going on, a Solana hacker house going on in Prague. So we went there and it was like really early stage, first MVP was done. It was just us founders. And that was the first time for us to really get in contact with investors, but also with other founders.
00:06:27.804 - 00:07:45.154, Speaker B: And yeah, we shared our ideas, showed them our MVP got first feedback and after that Solana announced, I think it was riptide. That was one of the many global remote Solana hackathons and we decided to participate there and we didn't win anything. I think we received an honorable mention back then, but it was super helpful to get some feedback usually. And the judges are full of VC's and founders and can recommend everyone who wants to start racing to start by participating in a hackathon. And then basically from there we went to another hacker house in Miami and we pitched elusive there at pitching day. And that was the first time we really received some significant traction. VC's were reaching out to us and from there we basically kind of jumped into the cold water for fundraising.
00:07:45.154 - 00:08:21.500, Speaker B: General recommendation is like if you plan to raise plan at least three to six months right now, prepare, have your pitch deck and all your materials ready and yeah, then just get started. And in terms of reaching investors, I'd say the highest conversion rate for us was through receiving intros in person, intros from other founders. But yeah, interested to hear what VC's it.
00:08:21.652 - 00:09:26.464, Speaker C: So I guess for founders building on Solana ecosystem, for sure, hacker houses have been the best way so far for me to meet different developers, founders and other VC's as well. Because I don't know, like Solana Hacker houses I think are just built very different and it feels like pretty wholesome I guess in a way where you can actually have more organic conversations and stuff like the typical conferences that you kind of go to. And obviously like maybe definitely a lot of the things that Julian said. And maybe another addition, a few additions to that would be maybe to check out like the EVC's portfolio page and try to get a referral from one of our portfolio founders because. Or any warm referral as well because that just kind of helps to elevate like the priority level of replying to different messages all the time. Like obviously all VC's want to talk to every single founder out there, but unfortunately that would not be possible. And then on the second thing is, I guess in terms of understanding the different kinds of focus that a VC has.
00:09:26.464 - 00:10:12.834, Speaker C: So for example, for Cezanne, we are more focused because of our background. We are more focused on obviously more financial applications, a bit of a mix of CD five or any regulated on chain businesses. So anything that pushes that buttons out there that would be definitely very interesting for us. And if you come to us with gaming, we are sector agnostic on paper and we have done two gaming investments so far. But that being said, we would not be super interested in gaming as compared to the other sectors that we are keen on. So I guess just like how VC's try to get to know the founders try to get to know us before, like, you know, coming on a conversation and make the conversation fruitful for both of us.
00:10:15.094 - 00:11:01.214, Speaker D: A few things to say on this. I think fundraising in a bear market is quite different than it is in a bull market. And first, you know, let me tell you like what I think founders should be doing across markets and then we'll focus on the bear market part. So across markets, like what we're looking for is a founder has a unique insight about how some market is going to develop. It's very important that it's unique because as an investor we are looking to make better returns in the market. If you want to make better returns in the market, it's not enough that you're right, you have to be right and everyone else has to be wrong. That's the only way to actually make excess returns.
00:11:01.214 - 00:11:45.510, Speaker D: So the number one thing that I look for is what is your unique insight? And I like to see that in the first page of the deck right after the title slide. Tell me, why should I care and keep going. The next thing that we want to look for is a big market because you're not going to get a venture scale outcome out of a smaller market. And if you are intellectually dishonest about the size of your market, that's a pretty quick disqualification. You can't be like, well, our market is all financial services ever. That's not useful. I want you to show me your plan and what is your actual addressable market, not what the theoretical trillion dollar thing you could do is, though that's good too.
00:11:45.510 - 00:12:34.010, Speaker D: I want to see that level of ambition and then looking for thoughtfulness about how things might evolve and different trade offs that you have. One of the biggest pet peeves I have about fundraising conversations with entrepreneurs is when they say my approach is the right approach and there are no trade offs, this is the way it should be done. And I'm like, well, that just means you haven't thought hard enough about what the tradeoffs are. Because when you are operating at the efficient frontier of what's possible with technology and in markets, there's always a trade off. There is no one right answer. There's always a cost. And I want to hear you explain, well, I'm choosing to do it this way because of this and this reason.
00:12:34.010 - 00:13:12.188, Speaker D: And I know that this will be the trade off that I am paying in order to do it this way. So that I think is important. Across bull markets, across bear markets, across all markets. If you're trying to raise venture now in a bear market, what's really different about working with VC's is honestly we have fewer things to look at, right? There's fewer deals happening and you have a little more time. So what that means is cold outreach much more successful in a bear market. Don't be afraid to shoot your shot, right? Like multicoin. All of our DM's on Twitter are open because we want to get those messages right.
00:13:12.188 - 00:13:47.732, Speaker D: Our email addresses are easy to guess. If you can't guess them, then like, too bad, I guess. But I look at every single cold email I get. I don't respond to all of them them, but I look at every single one and I look for that first sentence. What is your unique insight? But in a bull market, you can't do that as an investor because you're just getting flooded. In a bear market, also, creating a false sense of scarcity just comes across as inauthentic and it's a turn off. We were like, oh yeah, we're closing next week.
00:13:47.732 - 00:14:15.752, Speaker D: Come in or not. We have this much committed. Hey, we know what the capital markets environment is like and we understand the game you're doing in a bull market. That kind of stuff really works, right? Because everyone has fomo and everyone's driving towards it. So there's some different strategies or flavors of strategies that can work in a bull versus bear market. But the things I was talking about at the beginning of this, I think are consistent across the board if you want to work with a high quality venture investor, I'm going to tag a.
00:14:15.768 - 00:14:32.388, Speaker A: Follow up question into that. Tushar, is there anything that you see that you see as a red flag in a deck that you wish people would kind of leave to the side that you're like, I would rather see this and not that. Can you give me this and not that that you would rather see?
00:14:32.556 - 00:15:16.830, Speaker D: Oh, there's so many. How long do we have? In no particular order, I'd say one of the things I hate seeing index the most is like, hey, look at this competitor. They're valued at x and therefore we are giving you a good deal. It's like, well, the dynamics are very different, right? Like, I understand that competitor might be valued at x and you're only valued at a 10th of x, but I think you're worth a hundredth of x, right? Like, I don't like seeing that. I don't like seeing we are raising at this valuation. As the entrepreneur, it is not your job to set the valuation. You are saying how much money you need to achieve your next milestone.
00:15:16.830 - 00:16:00.694, Speaker D: And it's the capital market's job to set your valuation. You're trying to anchor to a number and you will only harm yourself because either the number's too high and I'm going to say not worth the time, or the number's too low and you just sold way more of your project than you need to. Because why would I bid higher than the number in the deck? So I hate seeing that. There's so much stuff on team pages that I hate seeing where it's like we have 100 years of combined experience. The worst, absolutely the worst. And if you're going to have, you should have a team page. But I don't want to hear the boring parts of it.
00:16:00.694 - 00:16:28.314, Speaker D: Tell me, what did you actually accomplish, not where you worked? Because I don't think pedigree actually leads to better founders. What I'm looking for is not the people with the best education. I'm looking for the people who are hungry, smart and are just going to work 100 hours a week to try and accomplish their vision. That's only a handful. I could keep going for a while, but no, I love it.
00:16:28.354 - 00:16:48.984, Speaker A: We're going to just have to reschedule and get the rest of it. But going on from that, so let's say blue skies, you do get investor attention and I want to know what is the process like right now, getting a term sheet and what does that process look like?
00:16:51.524 - 00:18:19.454, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, in general, it just takes way longer. Due diligence takes longer. Receivers are slower in responding, as Tuchel also just mentioned that they can take more time to really understand the product, what you're building in general. For those who don't know general processes, usually after initial contact, you usually have first pitch, 30 to 60 minutes. And then if that works well, if you did a good job of telling a story, showing your USP, explaining your product, go to market and there's interest after that, you usually go through several rounds of due diligence. More on product tech, but during a bear market, you can easily plan three to six months for fundraising. Yeah, like also like from a founder's perspective, when you do receive a term sheet, like go through that with, I recommend like taking a lawyer, a professional to like review the term sheet as well.
00:18:19.454 - 00:18:32.244, Speaker B: And yeah, it's like the high level process usually. But yeah, just keep in mind, in the bear market, you need to play way more time in fundraising.
00:18:32.904 - 00:19:11.274, Speaker C: Sure. I guess for us, the process is pretty simple. Similar process to what we apply for non crypto investments. And we did back like 30% of the unicorns in Southeast Asia and India as well. And we typically try to move as fast as reasonably possible. So usually after we schedule a call or something, we usually keep the first call pretty limited to 20 to 30 minutes because I usually like to screen or rather complete first half of the call on telegram just to ensure we are kind of aligned. And this is the right kind of founders that we are looking at.
00:19:11.274 - 00:20:11.444, Speaker C: And then we kind of hop on a call so that we don't spend 1015 minutes just introducing one another again and kind of get right into it. And then usually after that call, we kind of follow up with, um, like, uh, like an excel sheet, which around like 23 questions that we kind of, uh, have in mind. And all those questions are kind of done in a compilation with, during our, uh, deal team meeting. So everyone's kind of from the team contributing to it, and then afterwards, like usually two more calls and then we kind of are pretty much near like a decision, like whether we are keen to go proceed or not. However, for crypto. Um, so I can't really comment on the term sheet part for crypto because currently we are not allowed to lead. But that being said, we did invest in different funds in crypto so far, like pretty much most of the tier ones, and we usually get some of our fund portfolios to come in to lead these rounds if we are really keen on certain deals.
00:20:11.444 - 00:20:24.324, Speaker C: And then afterwards, overall, for us, it takes maybe one to two months overall, if we are supposed to bring in a lead and start the investor process from ground up.
00:20:26.554 - 00:20:53.074, Speaker D: So I can tell you about what it's like at Multicoin. I can't speak for all the other venture firms out there. I think working with your lead vc investor is kind of like getting married. So let's go through the analogy at the very beginning. It's a quick intro conversation. This is kind of like the flirting stage. You are trying to tell the investor why you're interesting.
00:20:53.074 - 00:21:53.006, Speaker D: Why is this worth more time and attention? To get deeper. And there, like, you might be talking to one of the more junior analysts, you might be talking to one of the founders, you might be talking to someone in the middle. But it's all the same at most firms and at ours especially, it's a very flat organization. So if anyone on the investment team says, this is interesting, we're going to take a real look at it. Then next you go into the dating phase, where we're wondering, well, what do we like about this market? Do you actually fit those requirements? Is this what we are looking for? Is this what we want? And we're asking all of those questions. That's also when we're thinking about the competition. Who else can we get? Is this going to be, are we closing off some optionality in the future by doing something here? Then? Term sheet is kind of like popping the question you're going to go and ask, all right, these are the terms.
00:21:53.006 - 00:22:27.136, Speaker D: Are they acceptable? Should we get married? So then you put out the term sheet. Usually there's some negotiation around that. And then you go into the engagement period. So you're not married yet. You can still break it off. Term sheets are nonbinding, but as long as there's no huge red flag, you should probably get married. You've already done most of the work, but now here's where you do the legal diligence, where I want to see all of the major contracts that you've signed with your customers or what your agreements are with the company.
00:22:27.136 - 00:23:10.076, Speaker D: As a founder, I want to see all of the past fundraising details and see all of the little details. And then when you actually close, that's, you know, that's a big day. That's a day. Now you're married, and it's actually, I think, very important to look at this relationship like a marriage, because you're stuck with each other for a long time, right? You're gonna be working with each other. You can't really fire the other person, right? So any sort of divorce is quite painful. So, you know, you want to take your time. This is one of my biggest pet peeves about bull market fundraising, where it's like, I'm closing in a week.
00:23:10.076 - 00:23:26.904, Speaker D: Are you in or are you out? I'm like, would you get married in a week? Probably not. It's a terrible idea. Don't do that. Take your time. So, yeah, the process should take some time, and you, as a founder, should also make sure that you like the investor that you're working with.
00:23:28.604 - 00:23:48.884, Speaker A: Awesome. If you catch wind and your round does become competitive during this time, it's easier to stand out, I think. And if you are a standout and your round becomes competitive, how do you navigate that and pick your round? What would you say, Julian?
00:23:49.544 - 00:25:02.814, Speaker B: I mean, if you manage to do that in the current market environment, you're already doing a really good job. I mean, obviously, it depends on several factors, like the terms, for example. But I personally would always value the strategic value of an investor higher than the terms. And with strategic value, I mean can this investor help me to find customers? Can he eventually help me with the hiring process? Can he like basically follow on in later rounds or help me with interest to other investors? Also, I think it also depends a bit on geographical location. For example, if you want to enter the asian market, it might make sense to have a VC who's based in Asia. Or I personally also prefer to have at least one investor on your cap table who's like somehow close by, like we're based in Germany, it's nice to have an investor who's also based in Germany. I know that's not always possible.
00:25:02.814 - 00:25:24.384, Speaker B: And then, I mean overall, like reputation and track record of the fund play a role. And what's also like sometimes overlooked, but really, really important is taking the marriage example from Twitcher that just the overall chemistry is right.
00:25:25.684 - 00:25:26.796, Speaker A: Great answer.
00:25:26.980 - 00:26:26.986, Speaker C: Sure. I guess for us, for Cezanne, we've obviously been investing only since last year in crypto, which is when I joined. So I guess for how we kind of portray our value add is pretty much for the hiring side. We kind of rely on our team, although I kind of work for a bank now, but none of the VC team members are kind of bankers or in any form of the background. All of us have been basically part of companies or have been founders of companies from zero to unicorn state or something. And so we kind of relate what's happening. And in terms of the other technical support we offer is we've got more than 85 engineers across India and us where we kind of basically have these engineers just to help our portfolio companies and portfolio funds obviously depending on a selection basis, because they're obviously pretty full of different portfolio tasks.
00:26:26.986 - 00:27:57.118, Speaker C: And then secondly is if you're for example, a RWA platform and you know that, and if you did homework on Saison, you know that we do deploy like around $25 billion a year or something in southeast asian credit markets. So obviously if you're targeting that angle and you're looking for more regulatory support or getting some licenses, and obviously the most important thing is getting capital, like institutional level of capital, then that's something where we can also help a lot. And then secondly, we also have a pretty large vast portfolio of fund of funds, crypto and non crypto. Combined, it's easily like 40 full or something right now. And I guess in a bear market that kind of, those connections are super helpful, especially in terms of even if they do not invest, they always do make a lot of recommendations to different funds and some of those definitely kind of get slacked in. And then lastly is we also want to know like how we can, apart from the, for example, like on the DeFi protocols, what are you lacking? For example, for most perpetuals, you are mainly just lacking market makers and mainly the makers volume, to be honest, takers is pretty easy to get. And we pretty much have also invested a lot of the market makers, so we can always help get that volume whenever required.
00:27:57.118 - 00:28:10.554, Speaker C: And we have done it for some of our portfolios pretty much in a pretty short track record for Cezanne so far. And yeah, we just try to continue to do our best as if we are kind of working with the team.
00:28:12.654 - 00:28:35.754, Speaker D: All right, so if you have a competitive situation, first of all, congratulations. That's awesome. You're in a good spot. So how do you decide? Right. I think it's different answers for early stage founders versus later stage growth capital rounds. I'll focus on the early stage because I think that's what's most relevant to the people in the room. I can talk about the growth stage as well.
00:28:35.754 - 00:29:27.256, Speaker D: Briefly on the early stage, I think you need to look for a few things. I think, one, you want to look for an investor who actually cares about your product and your market. That's really critical because there are a lot of kind of indexing type strategies that venture funds will use where honestly they're just spraying money at everything within a sector and they're probably going to make some money if their sector pick is right. But they don't actually care. They're not going to spend the time with you. They're not there for you when there's a crisis. They're not testing out your product and giving you feedback.
00:29:27.256 - 00:29:53.856, Speaker D: They're not helping you think through things. And at an early stage, that's what you need the most. You need a partner who's going to help you think through things. You need someone that you are accountable to who's going to call you out on your bullshit. Because I promise you, you are the easiest person for yourself to fool and you're going to think that something is a good idea. Everyone has this problem. Literally never met a single founder who doesn't have this problem.
00:29:53.856 - 00:30:52.760, Speaker D: You're going to think something's a good idea and you may not get the pushback within your own organization that you need to tell you this is not worth spending time on. And time is your most scarce resource, time and attention. So you need someone who's going to call you out on that that's what I would be looking for by far is who tells you, hey, you're wrong about this. Who asked the most thoughtful questions when you talked about your product and how the market might evolve? And valuation is really secondary when it comes to early stage rounds. Look, now, if the valuation is like a huge difference, someone's offering you money at a 15 post and someone else offering you at 150, okay? You should have a conversation about that and think about that. Usually it's not that big of a gap, though. If someone's offering you money out of 15, someone else is offering you at a 20.
00:30:52.760 - 00:31:44.204, Speaker D: I wouldn't even think about the valuation. I would think about who do I want to be married to? Who's going to actually help me. Now? This changes as your company matures, as you get later and later stage, I think it becomes much more about valuation and structure of the deal because your course is a little more set right. You know what your product evolution is going to be like. It's a little more ossified and there's just less degrees of freedom. So kind of the intellectual engagement, while still valuable and can still be enormously helpful, becomes relatively less important than valuation. So, you know, if you're out there raising nine figures of capital, you're probably going to be focusing a lot more on the price than if you're raising seven figures of capital.
00:31:45.704 - 00:32:14.264, Speaker A: Love it. So I want to ask from the perspective of saison capital and multicoin, when you're specifically evaluating before this little pump that we had, what are the key metrics that you're looking for companies to present? Well, during a bear, is it like the thesis in the sector that it's in? Is it revenue? Is it user growth? What are you guys evaluating?
00:32:15.244 - 00:33:28.534, Speaker C: I guess for us, obviously it depends on which sector we are looking at. But if you're going to look at maybe just for simplicity's sake, maybe just some Dex or something, obviously getting to understand what market makers have they signed on. But I guess before going to the market maker's question, I want to first know what job are they doing in terms of firstly, getting more of the retail flow coming in because you're not going to get market makers to do anything even if you get them signed on, because you need more retail flow coming in. So that getting into that go to market understanding that go to market strategy will be of super important before whatever the market maker agreements are. And then second, is obviously trying to understand if the technology is safe and secure, because even we need to understand whether these smart contracts are pretty secure. So we have our own independent audit that we do ourselves. And lastly, is just trying to understand more about, you can have a trillion dollars in TVL, but that doesn't make a difference if you're not using that TVL, because that's just lazy capital.
00:33:28.534 - 00:34:21.364, Speaker C: And I think as a whole, Solana ecosystem has done a wonderful job of not having lazy capital. Because if you look back, way back, like maybe April this year, I think Solana was pretty much like the highest in terms of capital efficiency. So that basically means you have at least like, you may not have the highest number of users, but you have like, real users coming in for organic reasons and not just for airdrop farming, as we see it on other ZK l two s or something. So these small things are pretty important for us. And lastly, for early stage, just trying to understand whether your initial target phase is going well and afterwards you can scale horizontally. You can't be like, oh, I'm going to capture this segment of the market. If you're doing e commerce, you can't say, I'm going to get everything done.
00:34:21.364 - 00:34:24.664, Speaker C: You need to focus on one and then scale just horizontally afterwards.
00:34:27.644 - 00:35:25.374, Speaker D: All right, so I'll preface this by saying I identify more as a qualitative investor than quantitative, especially for early stages. So what metrics do we look at for an early stage investment? The thing that I look for the most is how quickly are you iterating, how quickly do you ship, and how quickly do you recognize what you're wrong about? Because time is the most important variable, you might ultimately get to the right answer. But if it takes you ten years, like, sorry, that's too late, you're going to run out of energy and money by then. So you need to show velocity. And that's probably the only metric that I care about at the very early stages. And let me add the negative part of this question. The metrics that I hate seeing.
00:35:25.374 - 00:36:50.204, Speaker D: If you show me a metric in your deck that is trivially civil, attacked, total active addresses or something, that's an instant demerit in my eyes, because that's not a useful metric. And it tells me that if you are willing to try and lie to me with that metric in your deck, because you know it's not a useful metric, are you lying to yourself? And that's the number one thing that I'm looking for in an early stage founder, is having some unique insights and not lying to yourself, knowing yourself and being able to be intellectually honest. And that, unfortunately, is just not something you can quantify you know, on a scale of one to ten, how intellectually honest are you? Not an easy question. If I'm looking at metrics for something later stage, we do look at much more quantitative things there and there. I'm looking for things that are hard to fake. If you have revenue, I want to see, well, how much did you give out in token incentives to get that revenue? And what does that actually look like? You have? Cash flow. Ok, well, what is the multiple you're asking me to pay on that cash flow? And what are your token emissions like compared to that cash flow coming in? And what is the token design like? There's a lot more sophisticated things at the later stages, but yeah, I think the early stage stuff is probably what's most relevant here.
00:36:51.224 - 00:37:17.512, Speaker A: Love it. We've just got a couple minutes left and I think that I just want to end it by kind of bringing it back to the home chain. And we kind of have spoken in broad strokes a bit. And I'd love to hear from you guys about what particularly interests you about Solana as a venture investor. And then for Julian, feedback you've received about building on Solana. So we'll start with Julian.
00:37:17.688 - 00:38:10.024, Speaker B: Yeah, sure. Maybe also to quickly share our original thesis on Solana. For us, we just wanted to build something that's only possible on Solana. Basically allow to have privacy without the user noticing a difference to a normal transaction and feedback from investors. It's different. So there's obviously a lot of funds, like Multicoin Assassin, who actively deploy into the slana ecosystem. But I mean, there's also a lot of more Eve Maxi EVM Max EV funds that just won't deploy into Solana projects, especially after FTX funds start to deploy a bit less into the Solana ecosystem.
00:38:10.024 - 00:38:40.854, Speaker B: We see more positive trend at the moment. Again. And in general, I think what we all can do, if you're a builder, build applications that users need and build applications that you can only build on Solana. And then we'll see increased investor activity from investors who haven't been deploying on Solana before.
00:38:41.154 - 00:38:41.894, Speaker A: Great.
00:38:42.834 - 00:39:22.568, Speaker C: I'll keep it quick. I guess. I guess for us, for me, based on my personal experiences, I highlighted before when the narrative about crypto came out, it's for mass user adoption or something. Then you look at Ethereum with $48 in gas, and that's basically 30% of an average person's salary in Turkey. You can't expect someone to pay that much in transaction fees. And at the same time, you make banks look way better so that's really bad. So for me, I want to back applications that are built on fiber optics, rails, and I don't want to back dial up applications because they're just going to die out soon.
00:39:22.568 - 00:40:25.254, Speaker C: And for an institution like for a bank, what we care about is obviously credible neutrality, which I think Silvana does have with the Nakamoto coefficient being the highest right now at 33, compared to Ethereum and its other chains, which is in lower single digits. And lastly, the main value add benefit for a bank or any traditional player is what's the main value that you derive from a new technology? And that's usually always just cutting costs. So for us, we tried around more than 60 different blockchains and we kind of came to the conclusion that on the backend, we kind of drop our costs from 8% to 34% or something. The 34% is usually more high trooper upgradable blockchains. And that's what we really care about, because for most FIS, the cost of income ratio is not the greatest. So anything to do to help improve that, it's like, great. So, like for Solana, and with Solana, you have an additional bonus of having like, one of the best developer ecosystem out here that feels like a mini family.
00:40:25.254 - 00:40:28.674, Speaker C: So, hands down, why not Solana?
00:40:29.934 - 00:41:20.010, Speaker D: All right, so I think the question was, what is our investment thesis on Solana? There's a few parts to it. Sorry, I know we're over, but hopefully this is interesting enough to keep you around. I think the most important question for the crypto industry, in my mind is, what is going to be money in an Internet native society of the future? It's probably not these fiat currencies controlled by politicians. It's probably not gold that you can't transport. In my opinion, the thing that is going to be money is the asset that is owned by the most people. And that's because money inherently is about coincidence of wants to. Both people in a transaction need to want the same asset.
00:41:20.010 - 00:42:09.860, Speaker D: So what asset are they going to want is the asset that the most people own in the world, and it needs to be fungible and transferable. I think that Solana can be that asset because it is the only l one that everyone can interact with. When we first met Anatoly back in 2018, his vision was, it will always be as cheap as possible and as fast as possible based on the technical constraints alone. It's a battle against the speed of light. That's how fast we're going to go. It's a battle against how much bandwidth can you fit through a fiber optic cable. And how fast and how many gpu's can you have doing validation of these transactions? And we'll always be as fast as possible and as cheap as possible.
00:42:09.860 - 00:42:36.808, Speaker D: We're not creating artificial scarcity here to boost fees and keep people out. We want everyone to use this. And that fit my thesis for what I think becomes money for the future. I don't think it's bitcoin. I don't think it's ETH. I think it is the token of the most used layer one platform. And I think users want very easy things to understand.
00:42:36.808 - 00:43:05.326, Speaker D: They want it to be cheap, they want it to be fast, and they want it to be simple. They don't want to deal with. Well, is my wallet pointing to this? L 02:00 a.m.. I on orbitrum. Am I on optimism? Am I on base? Am I on Polygon? What am I pointing to? They don't want to think about any of this stuff. They want cheap, they want fast, and they want simple. And I think if you can do those three things at scale, you have a real shot at being the next generation of Internet native money.
00:43:05.326 - 00:43:08.454, Speaker D: And that's my mega bull case for Solana.
00:43:08.874 - 00:43:29.054, Speaker C: I'd just like to jump in and add on the user experience side. So since 2017, I guess 2018, I also put protocols through this, something called grandma test. I get my grandma to actually try out protocols, and if she can do it, I believe anyone can do it. And so far, it's pretty good for Solana. So far, which is the most important one.
00:43:30.114 - 00:43:35.314, Speaker A: All right, guys, this has been packed with great information. These guys are going to be here all week, so they'll get connected. Thank you, guys.
