00:00:03.610 - 00:01:02.190, Speaker A: Hi everyone, thanks for tuning in to this week's news recap. First headline Center Blacklists an Ethereum address holding USDC The Center consortium, jointly run by Circle and Coinbase, has Blacklisted, an address that holds $100,000 worth of the stablecoin USDC. In response to a request from law enforcement, Circle said in a statement, quote While we cannot comment on the specifics of law enforcement requests, center complies with binding court orders that have appropriate jurisdiction over the organization. The Blacklisted address can no longer receive USDC, nor can any of the USDC in the address be transferred on chain. The Block reports that USDC balances in blacklisted addresses may be, quote, wholly and permanently unrecoverable. Next headline. Dozens of crypto companies get $30 million plus from PPP bailout loans.
00:01:02.190 - 00:02:19.580, Speaker A: More than 75 crypto and blockchain companies received over $30 million in payroll loans due to the Coronavirus Polychain Capital Consensus and CyberTrace, the latter two of which disclosure are previous sponsors of my shows, as well as Tron and Zcash's Electric Coin Company all obtained funds. For instance, Consensus received between $5 million and $10 million from Signature Bank. Bitrex got between $1 million and $2 million from Celtic Bank. Circle and Shapeshift each was granted between 1 million and $2 million from Silicon Valley Bank and Cybersecurity and Blockchain solutions firm Cryptoblocks appears to have obtained between $1 million and $5 million. Several others, including IOHK USA CipherTrace, Polychain Electric Coin Company and Blockfolio each received between $350,000 and $1 million. In a report, the Block said development firms accounted for 29% of the firms who got loans, while financial services companies received 25%. Trading platforms came in next at 12%, and eleven of the recipients had executed initial coin offerings that had raked in $341,000,000.
00:02:19.580 - 00:03:17.530, Speaker A: Next headline Ave brings under collateralized lending to DFI and NAB's $4.5 million in seed investment DFI Lending Protocol Ave launched a new service for credit delegation in which a user can deposit funds, earn a higher interest rate and lend those funds out to a designated person who has not put down any collateral. In the absence of collateral, the borrower and lender use a legally binding contract which specifies interest rates and repayment deadlines created by Blockchain based open law. The Block reports that if the borrower does not repay the loan, the lender, quote, can take him or her to court as long as they are in the same jurisdiction. Ave had some other news this week. ParaFi invested $4.5 million into what is currently the third largest DFI lending protocol.
00:03:17.530 - 00:04:15.322, Speaker A: Next headline the next year in Ethereum tyler Smith, a validator for Ethereum 20 testnets, wrote up a tweetstorm on Ethereum 20 saying it will be, quote, the most pivotal event in all of crypto since the launch of ETH 1.0. People talk about Bitcoin having events, and he said they are minor league compared to this. He said a lot of institutional money was waiting to see if Ethereum would deliver. However, he did also bring up a number of major concerns, such as how taxes should be handled for what he called east 20 Ether versus ETH 1.0 Ether asking the Ethereum Foundation to make an official statement saying that they were the same. Somehow I don't think the foundation is the final word on that. He also noted, quote, an additional tax headache will be accounting for staking gains while the tokens are locked on the beacon chain.
00:04:15.322 - 00:05:05.542, Speaker A: In the US. Mining rewards are taxed as ordinary income. But how are you supposed to pay taxes on Ether? You can't sell. Meanwhile, Larry Sirmac of the Block noted that Ethereum transaction fees as a percentage of minor revenue have been soaring to 18%, far surpassing Bitcoins, which are at about 4%. Next Headline Trump's former sanctions chief joins Chainalysis board as it raises $13 million in an extension Blockchain analytics firm Chainalysis garnered a $13 million extension to its Series B fundraising, which now totals $49 million plus. Chainalysis welcomed a new board member US. President Donald Trump's former Treasury Undersecretary for Terrorism and Financial intelligence.
00:05:05.542 - 00:05:37.378, Speaker A: Seagal Mandelker Hopefully I'm not butchering her name. Also participating in this round was actor and investor Ashton Kutcher. Michael Del Castillo of Forbes, who reported the story, noted that Mendelker's move was part of, quote, an increasingly clear trend of influential regulators joining the cryptocurrency companies they once oversaw. Next headline. Arca launches us. Treasury fund on ethereum with SEC blessing. Los Angeles based money manager Arca has launched the Arca US.
00:05:37.378 - 00:06:51.022, Speaker A: Treasury Fund, which is an SEC registered closed end fund whose digital shares trade via Rcoins AR coins on the Ethereum blockchain. It mainly invests in short term US. Treasury bills and notes the SEC gave it a notice of effectiveness on July 6, making it the first time the SEC has given its blessing to a fund represented by cryptographic tokens, with the approval coming after 20 months of effort. Time for Fun Bits The first Fun Bit story I'm sure you can all predict this was TikTok's dogecoin Challenge causes Price to Two x Seven days ago, Dogecoin was languishing at about one fifth of a penny. As of press time, the price has more than doubled with that rise beginning Tuesday, when a bunch of TikTok users began publishing videos urging people to buy Dogecoin and try to push the cryptocurrency to a dollar. The cryptocurrency is best known for being a meme cryptocurrency with its own mascot, a shiba inu who says things like much wow in comic Sam's Font. Bloomberg reports that some users are prodding others, to quote, all get rich and tell everyone you know.
00:06:51.022 - 00:07:47.858, Speaker A: Another user zooms in on an image of Dogecoin, while in the background plays the song Fly Me to the Moon. The block reports that the campaign resulted in Doge trading volume skyrocketing to 22 times the average daily trading volume in $2020 to $27 million, and says that Dogecoin hit the top popularity score on Google Trends, which is 100 and last fun bits DFI rhinestones. This tweet by Niraj Agrawal of Coin Center was too funny to not mention. For those of you blockchain geeks out there, some background to help. Maybe the newbies get the joke. Or those of you who don't know what rhinestones are. So, blockchain based systems are often said to be similar to a form of money from the Micronesian island of Yap, in which families would use large stones called rhinestones as money.
00:07:47.858 - 00:08:34.014, Speaker A: But because these stones were too heavy to move, they basically would just use this kind of, like, communal ledger system to keep track of who owned which or how much of any. Rhystone. And this even applied if a Rhythest stone had fallen into the ocean when they'd attempted to transport it by boat from somewhere else, because the stones themselves don't come from the island. So now, with that background, narash's tweet if someone wraps bitcoin on ethereum, then loses their bitcoin private key underwater, does that mean it can keep trading like a rhinestone? Okay, I'm sorry. For some reason, I just thought this was, like, the funniest thing I'd ever seen. Okay. All right, well, thanks for tuning in.
00:08:34.014 - 00:08:55.570, Speaker A: To learn more about Jeff and Coinbase, be sure to check out the links in your show notes. Don't forget, you can now watch video recordings of the show on the Unchained YouTube channel. Go to youtube.com slash slash, unchained podcast and subscribe. Today unconfirmed is produced by me, Laura Shin, with help from Anthony Yoon, Daniel Ness, Josh Durham, and the team at CLK Transcription. Thanks for listening.
