00:00:02.040 - 00:00:08.714, Speaker A: Ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen, welcome to the Blockcrunch podcast, the go to podcast for investors and builders in crypto.
00:00:17.214 - 00:00:41.710, Speaker B: And before we get started, just a reminder for you guys out there. The Blockcrunch podcast is intended for informational purposes only. Neither the host nor its guests or licensed financial advisors, and nothing discussed should be construed as financial advice. Views held by Blockcrench's guests are their own, and sponsorship messages do not constitute financial advice or endorsement. With that out of the way, let's jump right in. Today's episode of the Blockcrunch podcast is.
00:00:41.742 - 00:00:46.902, Speaker A: Brought to you by protocol apps the team behind Filecoin so to tell us a little bit more, is Colin Efrin.
00:00:46.958 - 00:00:49.238, Speaker B: Who leads ecosystem at protocol apps.
00:00:49.326 - 00:00:53.674, Speaker A: So, Colin, can you tell us what's one thing that people misunderstand about Filecoin the most?
00:00:54.334 - 00:01:47.254, Speaker C: One thing people don't realize is that the launch of smart contracts on Filecoin in Q one of this year will transform the Filecoin network into the world's largest open data economy and a full fledged layer one within web3. Most people think a filecoin is the world's largest decentralized storage network. And while that's true, the community onboarded 450 petabytes of real data in 2022, up 18 times from the beginning of last year. Q one of this year is transformational. The community is launching the file point virtual machine, where users can start writing programs to automate storage and renewal of data, pay for computation, and trigger retrievals, all of which is built on a permissionless market of hardware providers that is 15 exabytes in size. This will open the world's largest data economy and make Filecoin one of the most powerful layer one blockchains in web3.
00:01:47.634 - 00:02:30.950, Speaker B: Now, before we get started with today's episode, I've got some great news for you. Now, a lot of you have been asking for how I analyze projects that I bring on the show. That's why I decided to create blockchains vip to share with you all the heavy research that goes on behind the scenes. Now, every week or so, our team prepares an in depth research memo with things like sector analysis, technical concepts made simple, in depth competitor breakdown, and even interactive models so you can learn about the most important projects before they become important. And our team is putting in hours every week, scouring, discord, Twitter, forums and blogs to help you get an edge in crypto and understand the latest projects and themes at the deepest levels. That goes way beyond just an interview. Now, in addition, we'll also host exclusive AMA's with myself to answer any of your questions.
00:02:30.950 - 00:02:46.194, Speaker B: So all of these are only available to Blockcrunch VIP subscribers. And the good news is that while our interviews will always be free, the VIP tier costs less than one coffee a day. So head on over to theBlockcrunch.com VIP or click the link in the show notes below to sign up.
00:02:47.694 - 00:03:35.538, Speaker A: Hey, everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the BlockCrunch podcast. Now, our next guest is Miguel Morel, the CEO of Arkham Intelligence, which is a data analytics company that helps the anonymize and tag crypto wallets. And they recently stirred quite a large debate on crypto Twitter due to their intel to earn model, which pays users to de anonymize or dox other people's private wallet addresses. In addition, there have been some discussions around, you know, data collection in an intrusive manner, which I'm sure we'll address today as well. And I think this is a very important conversation to have just about the future of Crypto, whether it's about de anonymization and compliance or privacy and the cypherpunk route. And so I think this is not just an interview about Arkham, but it is about the future of Crypto's direction as well.
00:03:35.538 - 00:04:02.952, Speaker A: So for some context, Arkham also recently raised $10 million from two rounds of fundraising and just launched their ARKM token through Binance's launchpad, which, as you know us, we do not discuss token performance or anything. So we're going to skip that part. Now, in this episode, I'm really excited to dive into a really thorny subject, and I'm sure Miguel has commented many, many times in the past few days on the whole saga as well. But I'm really grateful and excited to have Miguel once again on the show. So thank you for coming on the show, man.
00:04:03.128 - 00:04:04.564, Speaker D: Thank you for having me, Jason.
00:04:05.224 - 00:04:05.536, Speaker B: Yeah.
00:04:05.560 - 00:04:11.736, Speaker A: So, just to set some context for listeners who may not be familiar, what is Arkham intelligence? What do you guys do?
00:04:11.920 - 00:05:08.162, Speaker D: Totally. So Arkham is a company that I founded starting in 2020, where for the first two years, we were developing technology in order to figure out how to take blockchain addresses and then find their rightful owners for the sakes of on chain analytics research. I think prior to that, many people, including myself, are very big users of etherscan, for example. So there's a whole area and niche of block explorers that exist. But a lot of these block explorers, they don't have very many labels. And so it's very difficult to actually keep track of what each blockchain address is actually for. And so in August of 2022, we released a private beta of the overall Arkham platform, which is a place where people can do on chain analytics research, and they can go onto our platform, they can search things up, they can create dashboards, they can set alerts for on chain analytics activity.
00:05:08.162 - 00:06:16.360, Speaker D: And they don't necessarily have to do that with a blockchain wallet. They can do it by actually searching up the name of an entity and using that as a way for them to get features out of it. So now I don't have to set an alert for a wallet, I can just set an alert for something like a binance or an Alameda research or something of this nature, and I can start tracking what the new activity is. The thing that we have announced that we're intending to launch is the intel exchange and the intel marketplace. The goal of the intel exchange and the intel marketplace is to bring together these two disparate markets that exist of the massive community of people who have demand for on chain analysis, which includes traders, researchers, journalists, and a variety of other kinds of people. And then the supply side, which is made up of on chain sleuths, people doing data analytics research, creating. Doing dashboards, producing threads on Twitter, and most of all, exposing rugs, scams, hackers and fraudsters by doing this kind of on chain analytics work, which they are presently doing for free.
00:06:16.360 - 00:06:42.704, Speaker D: So this is a place to actually match those two counterparties in a market where people can request information about on chain analysis and the sorts of things that they're looking to investigate into research. And then people can actually make submissions for those bounties by producing answers, producing the research reports and the work, and then via smart contract, they can receive a bounty for it so that they can actually monetize their on chain analytics research.
00:06:43.644 - 00:07:39.484, Speaker A: Yeah, thanks for that context. And this is not dissimilar to what I think other companies have tried to do before with, for instance, etherscan that allows you to publicly tag wallets, and Nansen, which has their own internal team. I think the difference here is you're incentivizing external players to come in and tag wallets. And I think while the ideology, I'm actually quite a big fan of this idea that allows people to track down scammers, but I think it's the execution that might lead to some compromises in user privacy, which we'll definitely talk about, which is the point of this episode. But before we dig into that, I love to just high level focus on the ideology a little bit, because right now I think you guys have about 350 million labels and 200,000 entity pages, according to the website. So I'm curious, like, who does this actually benefit? Is this supposed to be for funds who are trying to front run each other or for surveillance or enforcement agencies?
00:07:41.304 - 00:08:41.148, Speaker D: So if you actually break down. So there's kind of what you just mentioned, the metrics about our intelligence on chain. And then the second element is all of the users that prospective users that you described, or the kinds of prospective users that you described. So we have over a quarter million people using the platform, probably upwards of 300,000 at this point, because we've, you know, obviously we've acquired a ton of customers over the past several days of people who are interested in using the platform. And the overwhelming majority, obviously, as a CEO, I have to do customer research in order to understand, like, okay, who are my customers? What kind of product should I be providing to them? What are the best features? What are the worst features? What do we need to change? And so that requires me understanding who our customers are. And the overwhelming majority of the people who use our product are normal retail traders. They're just retail traders looking to do on chain analytics research.
00:08:41.148 - 00:09:10.364, Speaker D: They're analyzing flows on chain. They're trying to see who's buying what token. You know, they're whale watching. They're looking at exchange inflow and outflow in order to do risk management, et cetera. That's like the massive bulk of our user base, right? That's like upwards of 200,000 people now, potentially more at this point. Now, there's a second category, which is what I would describe as the professionals. And this is probably, I would say, 30% of the user base or so.
00:09:10.364 - 00:10:16.942, Speaker D: And these are people who work at trading firms, they work at market making firms, they work at exchanges, research firms. Like, there's so many different options. Journalists as well, are a huge kind of market for that as well. We have plenty of people from all kinds of publications using Arkham. And oftentimes if you look at a piece on something that has happened on chain, they'll cite Arkham and they'll say, well, you know, according to Arkham, 1000 bitcoins moved yesterday to a binance wallet, right? And so that is another whole kind of market. And the majority of the use cases can be boiled down to trying to find alpha, like you said, attempting to understand what other major players in the market are doing so that they can try and position themselves better for whatever is likely to come based on those large players activity, which is somebody who has fun experience. I'm sure you can appreciate as a use case, blockchains are uniquely capable of showing you what kind of positioning, what other people are longing, what other people might be shorting way more than anything in the equities market.
00:10:16.942 - 00:11:07.448, Speaker D: And so people are taking advantage of this, using our product. And the second one is to do either protective research to figure out how to better do risk management. So in the case of like, exchange inflows and outflows, people are doing that to see if there's going to be a run on the bank, right. They want to make sure that based on the on chain analytics, you know, these exchanges have the reserves that they're saying that they have. And additionally, if there's a lot of outflow, whether or not they should also potentially be outflowing along with those, right, so that they're not stuck on the exchange if there's any kind of problem. In addition to doing post mortems, right. So oftentimes there will be an exploit, a rug, some sort of hack or fraud, and then people will use Arkham to actually put together a case of all of the on chain data that leads to the evidence of what actually occurred and how the fraud was actually implemented.
00:11:07.448 - 00:11:17.484, Speaker D: And there's so many examples of these, like Celsius or Alameda or FTX, and those are the major use cases for Arkham from the types of customers that I just described.
00:11:18.224 - 00:12:04.944, Speaker A: Got it. So I think all those examples make a lot of sense in terms of exchange solvency, in terms of hacks or rocks or insolvent players. But I think it's the other use cases that are enabled, for instance, doxxing other users, doxxing your friends, doxing your enemies, and so on, that it might lead to some controversy, which we'll tackle later on. But first, I was trying to actually figure out why are people so skeptical of Arkham as a company versus other data analytics companies. And I think part of this seems to be driven by the fact that I think one of the investors is from Palantir and they have some government contracts. So I think there's been a lot of discussion about is Arkham working with government agencies? So I'm just curious, like, has any government agencies been in touch with you guys? And would you work with any of them in any capacity? And what scenarios would you entertain those conversations?
00:12:05.444 - 00:12:48.604, Speaker D: So, to your point about, I'll start by going through the investors, and then we can get to the government questions. So regarding the investors, I think many people want to draw strings where really there aren't any. Like, the reality is that this company started and continues to be like, basically a data analytics company and a data provider for the cryptocurrency space as a whole. And there are major investors from large companies like Palantir. Or another one of our investors is a co founder of OpenAI. These are companies that are extremely good at the things that we're trying to do. The machine learning, the implementation of creating useful data and finding insights from data.
00:12:48.604 - 00:13:31.804, Speaker D: The really big difference is, for example, with Palantir, it's closed contracts to government versus with us, it's an open community tool that anybody can kind of just sign up and get access to, really. Right. And so the reality is that from these people. So, for example, and I'll say, like the co founders of Palantir in particular, there's no business relationship there other than the fact that they're seed investors, right? The fact that they invested a couple hundred k in my company when we were super early on. But otherwise, there's no business relationship between us and Palantir directly. The Palantir people who invested in us are no longer at Palantir. They're running venture firms, right.
00:13:31.804 - 00:14:16.782, Speaker D: And so it doesn't necessarily mean that there's any kind of business development related connection. And just for the sake of, like, clarity, because I'm sure sometimes even when I say things like that, people misinterpret the words, there is no business connection between us and Palantir directly. The only connection that we have to our Palantir co founders is a seed investment and no additional business development related work or government related anything after that. Same thing for OpenAI. We have no connection to OpenAI directly. One of the co founders in OpenAI invested in us very early stage, and since then, you know, hasn't done anything additional for. For the company.
00:14:16.838 - 00:14:17.030, Speaker B: Right.
00:14:17.062 - 00:14:48.352, Speaker D: Other than maybe provide advice on, you know, how to operate, you know, machine learning platform. Right. So from that angle, I think that answers that question regarding government agencies and everything. You know, I think people also sort of want to draw some kind of ideas about how, you know, the government could be using Arkham or all of these kinds of things. But, you know, I would remind everybody that the Arkham platform is, like, available to everyone and is free, right. So people don't have to reach out to us in order to use the platform.
00:14:48.408 - 00:14:48.576, Speaker B: Right.
00:14:48.600 - 00:14:56.760, Speaker D: You don't have to message us. You don't have to get in touch. There's no business contract. There's no nothing. You know, we don't generate revenue right now, even. Right. It's still in beta.
00:14:56.760 - 00:15:27.826, Speaker D: And people can sign up there. Like I said, there's 300,000 people on there. We can just sign up either with a random email, with a personal email, with a work email, you know, whatever, and they just go on. And all of the data is public. There is no data that we have privately that would be, you know, released or that we would even intend to release or that we would intend to sell. The whole thing is based on publicly available blockchain information available to everybody. And come our public launch next week, you won't even need to sign up to use Arkham anymore.
00:15:27.826 - 00:15:31.706, Speaker D: You will just be able to use it as easily as you could use an etherscan or Google.
00:15:31.810 - 00:15:32.050, Speaker B: Right?
00:15:32.082 - 00:16:10.144, Speaker D: So anybody on the Internet would be able to use Arkham and look at all of the publicly available information that's actually on there. Right? And so that may include people who have government ties, right? We don't kyc users. I think it's too high a bar to say, like, oh, you're a data analytics company now. You have to kYc your users to make sure that they're not part of the government or they're not part of this particular hedge fund or they're not part of this particular exchange. When the reality is all of the data is public, we're just taking it, making it easier to read, keeping it public for all to see for free. Like I said, we don't generate revenues right now, despite what people are saying about selling data and all these kinds of things. Things.
00:16:10.144 - 00:16:18.824, Speaker D: And anybody in the world can use that, and we can't prevent them from doing it if it's a public website without changing the whole model.
00:16:19.684 - 00:17:01.914, Speaker A: So I actually have to double click on the public data point because you mentioned all the data is available is publicly available. It's on chain data. But there are also allegations that you guys collect data on users as well. I think someone on Twitter mentioned that in part of the terms of service, you also sniff and log user data, including binding their wallet addresses, device ids, locations, and so on, and makes that with the public data scrapped from the public sources. So that's very different from just scraping from completely public and open source on chain data. That's like actually tracking down my device data and so on. So can you kind of explain how that works? You know, how are you collecting user data in those fronts, and where is that data used?
00:17:02.534 - 00:17:45.302, Speaker D: I think that's a misinterpretation of the privacy policy in the terms of service. Right? Mostly for clicks, right? People like taking what can sometimes be benign information and then kind of exaggerating it for clicks. So the reality is that as a business, regarding the intelligence platform and our product as a whole, we do not inform the product or the intelligence or analysis of the product using our customer data. Full stop. That is the answer. We do not use customer or user data in order to augment, enhance, or make our product better, or provide new sorts of information or provide new sorts of analysis. It's not true.
00:17:45.302 - 00:18:42.426, Speaker D: That is absolutely, unequivocally false. What can happen is, though, if you're running a service, or if you're running an app, or if you're running a website on the Internet, users come in and they have to provide you with certain information in order to get access to either our services directly or the third party services that we use in order to then actually run the platform in efficient way. For example, if somebody is coming onto our website and they want to log into the beta, that login of the beta actually requires them. For example, providing an email, you have to come in and you have to provide an email to the company now, in using that email. That does not necessarily mean that that email is now being tied to a wallet or is now being tied on the Arkham platform, or is being uploaded to the Arkham platform. It is not. We don't use that data in that sort of way at all.
00:18:42.426 - 00:19:31.412, Speaker D: The way in which the data can be used is to provide the person a service. You provide an email now you have the ability to log in, and we track who can log in using what email. That's part of actually offering the service. The other sorts of things that can be included in that privacy policy or that terms of service are for other different areas of the business. If somebody is connecting to our website, when you connect to a website, you reveal the IP address that you're connecting to the Internet protocol with. And as a result, for example, third party partners, let's say, like something like Cloudflare, could potentially read that IP address in order to see if we're being ddosed. In the case of a DDoS attack, people are making requests to your service continuously by refreshing the page algorithmically, de facto.
00:19:31.412 - 00:20:14.816, Speaker D: And the way in which services like Cloudflare track whether or not what's going on is a DDoS attack, and who in particular needs to get banned so that the website can come back online is via looking at the IP address and then saying, okay, this person is refreshing and trying to ddos this website. And so this IP address is now banned, and therefore, now the website is back online and they can't ddos you anymore. Right. And so as a business, you have to look at certain parts of information in order to run it efficiently and to broaden people with a service. But like I've said before, we unequivocally don't use that information as part of the intelligence for the platform whatsoever. It doesn't, it's not part of the data set. It's not part of anything that people can see publicly.
00:20:14.816 - 00:20:20.524, Speaker D: It's not even part of something that we use to augment our own intelligence or analysis in any way.
00:20:21.304 - 00:20:58.524, Speaker A: So I think part of the concerns that users have is like, let's say a government agency reaches out for that data that is closed up from the intelligence engine, but they, let's say they want to find out what I'm up to, and they ask, hey, Miguel, could you tell us what address is tied to Jason's email and what is he doing there? Is that something that you guys can even entertain? So I think the good analogy is with some VPN companies. They deliberately don't even store any type of customer logs just so that if a government agency approaches them, they have plausible deniability. They basically just don't know. I can't even show you the data. So for you guys, why not choose that approach? Why collect the data?
00:20:59.164 - 00:21:42.710, Speaker D: Well, so for some of the data that we just mentioned. So, for example, for a VPN company, right, even in the cases of VPN companies or private services, like, let's say like wicker or something of this nature or signal or any of these private encrypted services, they do store particular kinds of information that would be available to the government. Right. It is not the case that there's absolutely nothing. When people go and they check oftentimes, maybe they don't have the search history, right? So say, let's use the VPN example. Maybe they don't have the search history of the user, but they may have, for example, the user's email, because that's how they log into the VPN. Or they may have the person's PayPal or credit card information because that's how they pay for the VPN service, right.
00:21:42.710 - 00:23:13.906, Speaker D: And so unless you are doing it completely anonymously, right, so you're not getting in touch with the company, you're not paying for their services, you're not actually providing them with any sort of information, then in those cases, that would be plausibly the only way. But I don't know of a single instance where a service like that could be used in a way that doesn't reveal any information from the user. So oftentimes with these VPN companies, if the police come, really what they're looking for is for the Internet traffic. And so when they're looking for that Internet traffic, they go to the VPN company and they say, hey, what is this person searching for? And thankfully, because that traffic is encrypted or they don't have it in the first place or it's still deleted after 30 days or something like this, they can say, hey, we don't have the Internet traffic, but the government can still subpoena them to say, what email did they sign up with? Or what personal financial info did they use in order to pay for your service? And so I think that with Arkham, it's not even as sensitive as, let's say, even an exchange. When you use an exchange, you necessarily have to connect your wallets because you're making deposits, you're making withdrawals, and they're logging your trading logs for compliance and KYC and AML purposes and so forth. And so with exchanges like, you know, there's a ton of information on there that is necessary for the user to put in because that is the only way in which they can use a service with Arkham right now, and very soon, that'll be gone even next week, is the need to just put in an email so that you can log in.
00:23:13.930 - 00:23:14.066, Speaker B: Right.
00:23:14.090 - 00:24:11.306, Speaker D: And that email could theoretically be a proton mail. After that, you don't have to upload any information to the Arkham platform, right? You don't have to put in any addresses. You don't have to add what your portfolio looks like. You don't even have to search for your own wallets, right? In all of these circumstances, you can try and use it with just like, a burner protonmail account and then exclusively search for other kinds of research that has absolutely nothing to do with you, in which case there's absolutely nothing there. Now, as far as, like, you know, being compliant, like, sure, if there's some sort of government request, you know, like a formal, like, legal subpoena with justification of fraud or something like this or of a scam. And the question is, like, okay, you know, by the law you have to provide, you know, this email, then that's a more complicated regulatory and compliance question, right? Because otherwise, you may be committing a crime otherwise by not providing that data. But, you know, to date, we've never had any such requests.
00:24:11.306 - 00:24:32.274, Speaker D: I don't expect to have and I hope not to have any such requests. And even if we did, again, users don't have to log any of that information within Arkham in the first place in order to use the platform, unlike the majority of other financial services providers or even the VPN case that you just mentioned. So my expectation is we shouldn't have any issues there.
00:24:33.254 - 00:25:07.354, Speaker A: And speaking of emails, I think one of the issues that people found was that with the referral system, for the email referral system as well, it was actually possible for people to see the email of the person that referred them, which obviously leads to some privacy concerns. And I think this was like, raised in November of 2022 and another time again this year. And the system seems, the problem seems to have persisted for a while. So I'm curious, like, was this, like, known internally? Why wasn't this rectified earlier? And what assurances can you give to users after this kind of breach of privacy?
00:25:07.784 - 00:25:51.638, Speaker D: So the one thing I would say is now the referral program is fully, after getting the user feedback, the referral links are fully encrypted and salted. And so now none of that information is connected back to the user. The way in which Arkham actually began was via a pilot program whereby early users, like our 1st 100 users, would be able to get on and actually provide direct feedback to people at the company. We had telegram groups with them, etcetera. And then we actually implemented. And the only way you could get access at the time was by a member of the Arkham team actually providing you with a login. So you'd have to give your email, and then we'd create a login for you.
00:25:51.638 - 00:26:44.704, Speaker D: You would go in, put in the password, and that's how you got access to the Arkham platform. After we moved beyond the pilot program. So let's say after we got past our 1st 100 users, we wanted to open up Arkham to a growing amount of community members, mostly because pilot people would always request, like, hey, how do I invite my colleague? How do I get other people on here? Etcetera. And so we created a referral system. That's actually how the referral system began. And so the way in which we did the referral was a, we wanted the person receiving the referral to trust who the person, that there was a person who they knew actually referring them, that they knew that it wasn't some sort of phishing link or it wasn't some sort of scam or something that was negative. And so we would show them who the person who was referring them was.
00:26:44.704 - 00:27:35.904, Speaker D: Right? You would click, somebody would send you a link being like, hey, sign off for this. You would click it and then it would say, Jason Choi is the person who invited you in order to do this. Once we did that, then, and we opened up those referral links with that information which was included both in the URL and actually when you signed up to the Arkham platform, it told you who the person who invited you was, and their email, which is common of many referral systems and traditional fintech companies and so on. Once we did that and we opened up the referral system, it spread like a wildfire. In nine months, we went from having 100 users to having 100,000. It spread like wildfire. We got feedback from some people being like, hey, I don't necessarily want my email to be on the website when people refer because I want to share it publicly.
00:27:35.904 - 00:28:42.994, Speaker D: Basically, what we did was we took it down from the website, but because we had a point system where we wanted to reward users for actually doing these referrals in order to them. You know, later on we discussed that we were doing an airdrop. This was then used to actually, these emails were then actually used to track those rewards and those referrals. So obviously, as soon as a large portion of the community was telling us, well, actually, we're sharing this all publicly, we don't want this in the referral link. We immediately change it to an encrypted and insulted version. And so now that problem has been fixed as far as the referral emails, on a go forward basis, and all of those who actually use the referral system within Arkham, which as far as we can tell, the number of referral links generated corresponds to only something like three to 4% of our user base. All those people are being rewarded for having used that referral system as part of our rewards program and on a go forward basis, anybody who's not in that 4%, all of those are encrypted and salted.
00:28:44.214 - 00:28:53.194, Speaker A: I'm curious mostly why did it take so long to rectify that? Because I think someone was able to tie hundreds of emails to addresses since January.
00:28:53.314 - 00:29:38.568, Speaker D: So that's not true. So that's not true. That has not actually been publicly verified. I think you would have a very difficult time finding any source where you could see that people's email addresses have been corresponding to any wallet in a way that is actually clear and verified. I think there are many doctored images and misinformation out there. Will, people will say that perhaps it's possible or that it can be done or that it has been done, but they will never actually show you exactly what that information is and how they actually made those connections. As far as we can tell as a company, it is impossible to do so because people's wallet addresses are not connected to their emails, either as part of Arkham data or potentially elsewhere on the Internet.
00:29:38.568 - 00:30:10.592, Speaker D: And so I think a lot of these images claiming these sorts of things are actually just doctored and they're people just trying to incite, you know, a reaction or an exaggeration from the community. And it's not actually publicly verifiable, and the data isn't actually available at all, and it can't be verified that that is even true. And when we did an analysis of whether it was true, we couldn't find anything that would actually be able to tie those together. Even our intelligence team, you know, was not able to find any source that actually revealed that information. That in particular, yeah.
00:30:10.608 - 00:31:08.196, Speaker A: And I'm sure you've seen that Twitter threat by that on chain analyst, this guy called NFT herder, which will link in the show, notes that he kind of included that screenshot of redacted emails and redacted hashes. So we leave it up to the listeners to figure out whether that's a real image. I don't think we can dive deeper into that. But I think the more important thing to discuss is the intel to earn part, which is the thing that I think started the whole controversy. So just to give some context, as you mentioned, the intel to earn model effectively rewards users for doxxing different wallets. And a lot of the critics have raised concerns that this actually incentivizes potentially dangerous behavior, such as users revealing personally identifiable information. And in the case of, I think a reason famous example is with Zack XBT, this famous on chain analyst, which we had on the show before going after just countless number of scammers.
00:31:08.196 - 00:31:24.904, Speaker A: And recently he was doxxed by one of the scammers he went after. And now he's under a pretty big legal threat. So I'm curious, first of all, are there any guidelines for what is acceptable in the intel to earn model and how do you prevent these potentially dangerous behavior?
00:31:26.084 - 00:31:46.724, Speaker D: So, yes, so there are many guidelines which will be published shortly regarding trust and safety within the Arkham Intel Exchange. The Arkham intel exchange. And this is one of the kind of ironies where the important thing is where people actually draw the line with respect to what sort of information should go on and what sort of information doesn't.
00:31:46.764 - 00:31:46.916, Speaker B: Right?
00:31:46.940 - 00:32:57.894, Speaker D: So many people have gone on the Internet after seeing the Arkham intel exchange, which, by the way, was a 32nd video and one line on Twitter is kind of what initiated this entire thing, right? Without further elaboration, without people waiting to hear the details. Naturally, this is how the Twitter mob kind of comes to their conclusions. They see one thing for 30 seconds with no further elaboration or details. You know, they try to draw conclusions without waiting for what the thing is actually going to look like. The reality is that the community wants to draw a line behind what information should go on and what information shouldn't, right? And we're very sensitive to that, and we want to make sure that we come up with very good rules, because any heuristic that you use is the kind of thing that could be treated even on a case by case basis, right? So you gave the example of Zack XBT, right? But in that example, you made note that he has doxxed countless numbers of scammers, right? And then, you know, and the community applauds this and the community looks at it. And I agree that I think that that is very good behavior, and that's the behavior that we want to incentivize in order to disincentivize fraudsters and the kinds of scammers that are being exposed from doing these kinds of things, right. From doing these rugs, from doing these exploits.
00:32:57.934 - 00:32:58.086, Speaker B: Right?
00:32:58.110 - 00:34:16.232, Speaker D: And in many cases, not only has Zack XVT docked docs those scammers, he's actually worked with the authorities, he's worked with government agencies like the FBI or the police of France, for example, very publicly in order to try to actually throw these people in jail. And the community applauds it. And then naturally, which I think is also correct, they got very upset when Zack XBT, one of these major influencers who he exposed, then attempted to dox him. Right? And I think that those are the kinds of lines that need to be drawn. Who are the good actors, who are the bad actors? When Zack XBT goes and does all of this research in order to figure out who's behind these exploits, undisclosed shills, these scams and the like, he's doing it for the good of the community against bad actors, right? And when that happens, then people actually applaud the fact that their information has been revealed. People applaud the fact that they're going to be held accountable, and they even applaud the fact that the government authorities get in and then go and arrest the person or bring charges against them for the negative activity that they did. Right? And I think that that is the general direction that the intel exchange is going to head in, where we are not going to allow personally identifiable information, such as a home address or a telephone number or anything that could actually put somebody in real danger.
00:34:16.232 - 00:34:53.431, Speaker D: On the Arkham intel exchange. It will not be a place for criminal activity. It will not be a place for people to just dox their buddies or dock somebody who they don't like, you know, something like this. It is a place where on chain analysts will be able to be rewarded for all of their research that they do, either regarding trading activity and market activity or exposing bad actors. Right. You know, looking at, you know, insolvent exchanges, looking at, you know, how to actually best recover the funds from these bankruptcies. These are the kinds of use cases that will be allowed on the intel exchange, not just kind of going and doxxing, you know, regular individuals without.
00:34:53.431 - 00:35:09.883, Speaker D: With. With private information. Right. That's the other thing that's not going to be allowed. You need to be able to prove that you found the information publicly on chain and you vetted it. And there's an enormous kind of trail of all of this publicly available information. That is what will be allowed on the Arkham intel exchange.
00:35:09.883 - 00:35:11.963, Speaker D: It will not be private info.
00:35:12.003 - 00:35:12.179, Speaker C: Right.
00:35:12.211 - 00:35:28.560, Speaker D: Because the lines need to be drawn on what kinds of individuals. Right. Where people may say, you know, Zack XVT can't be doxxed because he's an individual. But even though SPF is an individual, I'm sure they would love to see all of the wallets that he was using in order to commit all of the crimes that he's being charged of.
00:35:28.672 - 00:35:28.920, Speaker C: Right?
00:35:28.952 - 00:35:36.884, Speaker D: And so there is a line that needs to be drawn, and there's a lot of nuance in this conversation that cannot be captured by the Twitter mob, basically.
00:35:37.504 - 00:36:10.724, Speaker A: And doesn't this entrust a lot of power to Arkham to decide where the line is? Because for all of the people that ZagXPD goes after, I'm sure a lot of people think it's justified, but none of the people were officially charged with cases, or at least like, none of the cases were officially finalized. There's no verdict at the time of ZaG XPD going after them. And similarly for SPF, there are charges, but there's no verdict yet. So should Arkham kind of be the party to make the judgment call that says, hey, we think SBF is guilty, that's why we should be allowed to dox him? And how do you draw that line for yourselves?
00:36:11.064 - 00:36:39.400, Speaker D: No, absolutely not. I don't think the intel exchange is a place for deciding whether or not people are innocent or guilty. It's a place for information and discovery to happen. Right? You know, that that's the major difference. When people like Zack XVT or on chain sleuths go and publish all this information, it's evidence. It's not them necessarily deciding whether or not the person should be in jail. Right? We're not a courthouse.
00:36:39.400 - 00:37:19.786, Speaker D: That is ultimately up to the state and not for a series, a blockchain analytics startup. So that's not the intention of the Arkham intel exchange whatsoever. It's a place for additional information, which, by the way, many times when these on chain sleuths expose these rug pullers and scammers and people who have done exploits as far as the community goes, they might as well be guilty. That's the reality. When people go and somebody makes a post, especially somebody with as much of a reputation like Zach XBT, when they go and they make a post and they accuse somebody of something, the community decides that that person is guilty 100%. Nobody says, hey, let's wait for the court case. You know, let's wait for the judge to actually make a call.
00:37:19.786 - 00:38:10.034, Speaker D: Let's analyze. Let's hear, you know, the defendant's side of the argument. You know, it would be disingenuous to say that that's, you know, what, what occurs. What occurs is actually, then the mob goes after that person and says, like, you know, you're bad, and I'm glad that you're going to get in trouble for this. Right? And so the intention of the Arkham intel exchange is not to, you know, be the verdict of, you know, whether somebody has done something wrong or not, but a place rather, to. To put information where in a situation like something like an FTX, let's say there would be an incentive for people to go and actually analyze everything that's going on inside and try to figure out, like, hey, let's look at all of the Alameda wallets, let's look at all the FTX wallets, and maybe there could be a big reward at the end of the tunnel for me figuring out whether or not this thing is legitimate or whether or not it's a fraud prior to the thing becoming $30 billion. That's the intention.
00:38:10.334 - 00:38:22.074, Speaker A: And just to clarify, is there any type of gatekeeping for what wallets can be tagged and what tags can be surfaced? Like, are there any types of tags that if submitted, you guys would take a look and say, no, this is, you know, we can't do this.
00:38:22.774 - 00:39:03.164, Speaker D: So anybody who is, you know, not, like, notorious in any kind of way, has no sort of affiliation to anything on chain analytics related, and the information being submitted about them is private information. Those kinds of submissions will not be allowed on the Arkham intel exchange. Right. If there's information that is public on the Internet, is searchable, is already publicly available, it's all on chain. And the owner and the provenance of those funds is also publicly verifiable. With publicly available information, then in those kinds of situations, it's fair game, depending on whether or not it's something that the community would actually find valuable. Right.
00:39:03.164 - 00:39:30.124, Speaker D: That's another kind of major step. It's not just what are the requirements for what kind of information can go on or can't go on. The other question is, like, is this basically spam that nobody cares about? Right. So the Arkham intel exchange is meant to be info that's alpha info that's actually good for the community as a whole. And if it doesn't hit that bar of actually being valuable in some kind of meaningful way and being fully public, it cannot go on the archive intel exchange or marketplace.
00:39:30.824 - 00:40:09.050, Speaker A: And I think the concern is that someone's financial history is often multifaceted. It doesn't just relate to their activity as it pertains to one role in their lives. Like, for instance, this is a very real example. There are many, let's say, russian founders in crypto, and there's also a lot of people that donated to pro Ukraine causes when the war was breaking out as well. So if you. And obviously a founder of a large project is probably probable grounds for Alpha. So what if someone doxes their wallets and it's revealed that, hey, this russian founder also donated to a pro Ukraine cause, and you can actually expose them to, you know, legitimate political risk or personal risk.
00:40:09.050 - 00:40:26.814, Speaker A: So, you know, in the. In those type of, like, you know, muddier situations where you reveal the entirety of someone's financial history, and part of that history exposes them to certain personal risk, whose responsibility is that? Is that the doxers? Is that Arkham's? Or is that, you know, on the founder themselves for not having proper wallet hygiene?
00:40:27.474 - 00:41:13.254, Speaker D: So this is an amazing question that I think is exactly the kind of very nuanced and very direct kind of question that the community should be asking and that we should be, you know, kind of as a whole thinking about. Right. This is, we're entering unchartered territory. I think we're producing groundbreaking technology. And, like, with any kind of new groundbreaking technology, you have to ask questions about what the use cases are. And more importantly, like, you just asked what the edge cases are. I think that there are plenty of examples of other kinds of technology, even like something like AI, right, where people are very worried about, you know, deepfakes and computer generated images that people can't even tell are created by an AI, and they're not real, right? Both in terms of voice, in terms of video.
00:41:13.254 - 00:42:17.332, Speaker D: And that can be used in a very negative context. People being very worried about chat, GPT and GPT-3 and all of these kinds of word and large language models, which can be used to produce a bunch of misinformation and fake news and then spread it all over the Internet. So people were very worried, what if this stuff is being used for malicious reasons in order to produce misinformation? And I think that these are all legitimate hard questions that tech companies need to actually grasp with and battle when they are making these kinds of innovative products. And so, as a whole, my kind of general intention is to, number one, show everybody, like, look, you're using a publicly available blockchain in order to make public transactions. That is the nature of cryptocurrencies. Unless you're using a privacy tool, unless you're using a privacy coin, unless you're going out of your way to make a public blockchain private, then you are operating in a completely public network, and there should be no expectation of privacy. That's the reality.
00:42:17.332 - 00:43:12.548, Speaker D: Whether Arkham exists or not. And everyone in the crypto space must realize that when you are publicly broadcasting your transactions to everybody who is contributing to the ecosystem and operating a node, or every block explorer, every data analytics provider, you are permanently making a record of what financial transactions you are making on chain. And so people should understand that. So if you need to do something that's private or that might be risky for you, for example, in that very case that you just described, in terms of making some kind of donation online, if it's politically risky for you, the first step is the actual user themselves trying to add data protection. It's actually not revealing what is supposed to be private information on a public blockchain. I think that's the first line of attack for that. The second then, is the guidelines established by the Arkham foundation about how the intel exchange and the intel marketplace can actually be used.
00:43:12.548 - 00:43:54.478, Speaker D: What kinds of information is relevant, what kinds of information is not allowed. In the example you gave, where it's a large project founder, they have a very large community, the ecosystem is very interested in tracking their holdings in case they're dumping or in case they're doing something illegal. And then it happens to be the case, or they've been accused of something illegal, for example. And it happens to be the case that all of the information is publicly available on chain and via other public sources for you to tie that wallet back to that person. And then they have this other issue of political risk from some sort of donation that they made. And we notice that, and we say, okay, well, I don't know whether or not this is the right call. I think ultimately the right answer and the most crypto answer is decentralized governance.
00:43:54.478 - 00:44:41.814, Speaker D: Right. Decentralized governance. And that is how the intel exchange will ultimately be governed. And so in those situations, you could imagine a bounty being submitted by the community to be able to figure out our founders dumping somebody, making a correct submission which has been verified, and then that not being published by the foundation, but rather than being put up to a vote of the community to decide, should this particular wallet, like, how many votes is it going to get? Is it going to be yes or no? You know, do the people deserve to know whether or not this, this person has been dumping or has conducted, you know, unlawful activity within. Within the crypto space? Because there's no regulation for this right now at all. Right. When you have a public company in the equities market, like, you know, Brian Armstrong for Coinbase or Elon Musk at Tesla, you can look at all of their holdings.
00:44:41.814 - 00:44:55.044, Speaker D: You can look at what they bought, what they sold, what they're doing with those holdings. Right, but there's no such thing in crypto. People are doing it anonymously. And not only that, but the SEC is actually looking at every trade that these large public companies and their shareholders are making.
00:44:55.084 - 00:44:55.236, Speaker B: Right?
00:44:55.260 - 00:45:07.264, Speaker D: There's no such thing in crypto, too. So this is a way for us to establish self regulation. And I think, ultimately, to answer your question very directly, those situations will be put up to the community to decide.
00:45:07.884 - 00:45:08.196, Speaker B: Yeah.
00:45:08.220 - 00:45:39.488, Speaker A: And we've talked about whether some data should be surfaced. I'd love to talk about how the data is quite quality assured as well, just to give some context. I think, as you know, in April, there was a mislabeling from Arkham about a Mount Gox wallet. And I think people panicked. And, you know, people in my circle were certainly panicking. And bitcoin sold off about 7% after that, which is a very material impact for something as large as bitcoin. And then sometime in May, again, I think a user posted that, you know, us government was selling bitcoin confiscated in the Silk Road operation.
00:45:39.488 - 00:45:56.366, Speaker A: And turns out it was also mistake on the Arkham platform. So with this type of mislabeling, how do you guarantee consistency and accuracy, especially as you open the data to be tagged now not just by Arkham but by users as well?
00:45:56.510 - 00:47:00.124, Speaker D: So just to clarify, both of those things in terms of how those went down. So number one, the drop in bitcoin actually happened prior to the alert, not after. And I can send you all of the information proving, you know, when the times that the alerts were sent, when the Twitter posts went out. And then you can look at Coinmarketcap or Coingecko to see her training view or something to see when the dump actually started, because it was actually significantly after or, sorry, significantly before the dump started is when the alerts were sent out afterwards. So the reality is that those were actually mistakes on the users behalf where people. So our platform has the capability where on Arkham you're able to edit labels on your version of the platform. And so if you see a wallet similar to Etherscan, you see a wallet that is untagged, unlabeled, then you can edit the text on that wallet and on that label within Arkham in order to then track like, okay, I believe that this wallet is owned by this particular person.
00:47:00.124 - 00:47:53.052, Speaker D: And so there were a number of people who actually went and then put their own personal labels on Arkham and then would take screenshots of the platform with their own labels, which at the time would be indistinguishable from our labels and the private labels. It was indistinguishable because we wanted the platform to look homogenous. They would screenshot it, they would post it on Twitter, and then in both of these cases, it actually went viral. Now we've implemented again another trust and safety feature where now when users are actually creating their own custom label, now we highlight them in blue with a dashed line around the actual label so that the user knows this was not produced by the Arkham team, this was produced by the person. Additionally, labels verified by the Arkham team now have a check. They have a verified check. And so that's another way where people will know what is tagged by Arkham versus what is tagged by the members.
00:47:53.052 - 00:48:41.826, Speaker D: The one thing that I can speak to with respect to at least the first alert that you discussed, which was the DB Newswire alert, was that DB's alerts were actually broken at the time and then we needed to fix it. They had made a mistake in terms of which wallets they had set alerts for and had labeled government wallets. Their alerts were broken due to a bug in the Arkham platform. And then once we fixed that bug, then the alert shot out, and they thought that it was a USG. And so we apologize for the fact that their alerts were broken and then they went out. But ultimately, the mislabeling was on their behalf, not ours, due to that custom label problem, which we then fix. So I think that overall, when you're creating any kind of new technology, like I said before, it's going to be trial and error.
00:48:41.826 - 00:49:20.438, Speaker D: It's going to be a case of, okay, look, we're trying to make something good for the ecosystem. We want it to be as transparent as possible. We want as many people as possible to go onto the Arkham platform and to then be able to use it in order to bring transparency to the space, protect themselves, get Alpha, et cetera. You know, like you said before, there's more than 350 million labels on the Arkham platform. And the reality is, it's a really, really hard job. When you have 350 million data points in a database about what belongs to whom, all of the activity that's going on, it is impossible for you to get every single one of those elements correct.
00:49:20.486 - 00:49:20.694, Speaker C: Right?
00:49:20.734 - 00:50:09.894, Speaker D: It's too high of a bar. Now, that doesn't mean that as a founder and as a company, we're not going to try and achieve it anyway. We are. We are going to try and achieve 100% accuracy, no matter how many labels are in our database. But it's not impossible that on occasion, there can be a dispute or a missing attribution, just given the sheer scale of the operation that we're trying to run as an early stage startup. And so my answer to this is, we will continue developing technology in order to make the labels and make the attributions and actually pinpoint what wallets belong to which different entities and what on chain analysis is correct and which ones aren't. And that will continue to be done by a combination of AI machine learning models, data science tools, and general address heuristic matching.
00:50:09.894 - 00:50:28.474, Speaker D: And our analyst team. And our analyst team working to verify and to confirm that these things are correct. And now, ultimately, we're moving to the next stage, which goes beyond it being in the hands of Arkham to ultimately being in the hands of the community to decide what should go up, what shouldn't go up, what's true and what is false.
00:50:29.454 - 00:51:22.268, Speaker A: Yeah, and I'm sure we can spend a lot more time digging into how the data is verified as well. But as we come up on time, I'd love to kind of zoom out a little bit and talk about your beliefs and thesis for the space, because obviously a lot of people are very mad that you're creating a market to dox addresses, which they see as kind of antithetical to cryptos or like a pseudonymous nature. But I think the bigger issue to me is that this stocks thing won't even be possible if there is base layer privacy. We've seen so many projects try to do that. We've spent hundreds of hours studying them and published reports on things like aztec, but none of them really, really scaled. So I'm really curious about your personal stance about, you know, privacy enabled blockchains. Because on one hand, obviously, if those become the de facto standard, it hurts your bottom line, right? But on the other hand, it seems like something quite important.
00:51:22.268 - 00:51:27.624, Speaker A: So, you know, as CEO, how do you think about privacy blockchains and what's your personal view on them?
00:51:28.084 - 00:52:12.202, Speaker D: My personal view on them is that they should obviously exist. I think if people want privacy and they want to have privacy tools and they want to use those in order to make a public blockchain privacy, they should absolutely do that. I hope that they gain traction. I hope that people will recognize that if you want to make private transactions, you should be using a private blockchain or a privacy coin or a privacy tool. In general, I think that these privacy protocols and tools overall, I hope that they reach adoption because it means that people are actually understanding that they're using a public blockchain network when they really should be using a private one. I have absolutely no qualms with those at all. The only thing that I understand is that public blockchains, all of the information is already there.
00:52:12.202 - 00:53:10.736, Speaker D: All of the information is already public that can be aggregated and used for a very long time. Over a decade, it was aggregated and used in private by large institutions and not by the normal retail community. As you discussed, there are already other blockchain analytics companies that are doing labeling and gathering information with private scout programs rather than in public via the community. I think that this is an advancement. I think that it is an improvement on private analytics, private blockchain analytics companies that only work with large institutions and governments. The next level then was analytics for the community, driven in private by private blockchain analysts and private blockchain scouts going out and trying to find info. The next level will be it being completely transparent from the community what information is going on which one isn't, where it comes from, who found it, et cetera.
00:53:10.736 - 00:53:40.614, Speaker D: And that's the fully realized version of decentralization. Those who want to operate on a public blockchain network to extract opportunities from it can do so. And those who want privacy and who want to use privacy tools can do so as well. I think blockchains are going to be a lot like the Internet. Most people on the Internet, they're not pseudonymous. Crypto is very anomalous in this respect. The overwhelming majority, the thing that has the most users in the world on the Internet are Google and Facebook.
00:53:40.614 - 00:54:28.154, Speaker D: Facebook has a social media site, has billions of people using it, mostly under real name, overwhelmingly under real name Instagram, overwhelmingly under real name. These aren't just anons running around. We're very much in a crypto bubble here. And the reality is that those using the Internet, the majority of them use it in a very public way. But you still have access to privacy tools like, as you mentioned before, VPN's or maybe like Tor, or you can buy a burner computer or any of these things. I think crypto should be very similar, and it will turn out very similar where the majority of people continue to use public blockchains, but they will have the option to opt out and, like the regular Internet, use privacy tools in order to conceal who they are and what their activity is. And it will not be my goal to try to uncover who those people are.
00:54:29.414 - 00:54:44.110, Speaker A: Yeah, thanks for that kind of honesty there. And Miguel, well, we really appreciate you for coming on the show. I know the questions that we asked. We never ask easy questions in the show. So I appreciate you for taking the challenge and taking the time with us. And thank you so much for coming on.
00:54:44.302 - 00:54:45.190, Speaker D: Thank you.
00:54:45.342 - 00:54:46.670, Speaker A: All right, that's it for this week's.
00:54:46.702 - 00:55:19.336, Speaker B: Episode of the Blockchain podcast. So thank you so much for tuning in. If you enjoyed this episode, please make sure to subscribe on your favorite apps. And in case you didnt know, this interview is also available as a video on YouTube. And if you tag the blockcrunch on Twitter this week and tell us what you liked about this episode, ill be sure to respond to you as well. Now, if youd like to go even deeper, we have a vip tier where every week or so we write an in depth research brief or investment memo on a project and well have exclusive AMA's with myself where I answer all your questions as well. Now, we already have analysts from some of the top funds and companies in crypto as subscribers.
00:55:19.336 - 00:55:28.544, Speaker B: So if you're serious about getting an edge in crypto. Head on over to theblockcrunch.com vip to learn more. And once again, thanks for supporting the show, and I'll see you next week.
