00:00:00.160 - 00:00:45.642, Speaker A: I'm John Guerrell. My particular focus at Delphi research is infrastructure. I spend a good chunk of my time thinking about how blockchains will scale, how they will interoperate, and different kinds of blockchain architectures generally as accepted to be. The most popular blockchain is Ethereum. However, there's like lots of demands to use Ethereum, but not a lot of capacity to make transactions. And this results in, like, very high transaction fees at times. In the beginning of the year, it was already clear that Ethereum fees were going to be high and not suited for mainstream users.
00:00:45.642 - 00:01:33.910, Speaker A: And this encouraged, like lots of other blockchains, it is possible to categorize these different types of blockchains into, like, three buckets. The first bucket is what we'd call alternative layer ones or alt layer ones. These are smart contract blockchains. For example, Solana avalanche before it's collapsed Terra, where some of these, like, general purpose smart contract blockchains, they host all sorts of different applications, from defi to nfts to gaming and whatnot. In the second category, you have what's called layer two. S layer twos are blockchains that architecturally sit on top of another blockchain. And so the, the idea for layer twos is that these blockchains effectively will be able to inherit full security from the base layer.
00:01:33.910 - 00:02:22.334, Speaker A: So the idea there is that Ethereum is like the most, for example, economically secure blockchain out there. And so instead of, you know, launching a new blockchain, anybody can launch on top of Ethereum and inherit its security. And I think this year, arbitrum and optimism have made significant advancements in terms of adding these shared security tech into their blockchain. The third category is Cosmos app chains. But unlike the first category of alternative layer ones in cosmos, blockchains are more specialized. So they have more control over which applications they run. And this gives them sort of more sovereignty and more control over the user experience that they propose.
00:02:22.334 - 00:03:39.984, Speaker A: It's clear by now that we live in, like, this multi chain world. Biggest hurdles at the moment is that when you're on a particular blockchain, you can use any applications that run on top of it, and like all of those applications, compose greatly with each other. However, once you want to move to another blockchain, the user experience is really messy at the moment. Typically, a user would, for example, uh, had to exit the applications that she's using. That means, like closing, you know, any financial positions that the user may have, and, you know, transforming all assets across games into, like, fungible, tokens and then bridging those tokens, uh, to another chain, either through, uh, token bridges or through centralized exchanges. Not only the user experience of this is like quite, you know, messy, it's also like quite insecure, as we saw, like with many bridge hacks that happened over the course of last two years and recently with the FTX collapse, centralized exchanges have shown there are no better option either. So in order to go to next step, we need to really fix this interoperability solution, which is also, like, at the core of how these blockchains will effectively scale.
00:03:39.984 - 00:04:10.422, Speaker A: Ethereum was the most interesting one for me, honestly. Ethereum had went through a very major upgrade this year. It was called the merge. For those who don't know, merge refers to Ethereum's transition from proof of work to proof of stake. And so it was like literally the single biggest social coordination event in the history of crypto. Like, just in a matter of two days, the world's electricity consumption just reduced by 0.2% in a matter of two days.
00:04:10.422 - 00:05:01.464, Speaker A: And this is, I think was pivotal because proof of work was necessary in the very beginning where people didn't necessarily recognize the value of tokens, didn't have access to these, like, there was no way to distribute these tokens, etcetera. But I think it has pretty much served this, like, purpose. And I think this was a really good step towards making blockchains more efficient and more economically sustainable. So that was pretty interesting. The most surprising thing for me has been, honestly, bridgehacks. It was really admittedly painful to watch bridge getting wrecked over and over again. I've admittedly an embarrassingly lost count of them, like Nomad, Binance, smart chain bridge, Ronin, wormhole poly network.
00:05:01.464 - 00:05:59.978, Speaker A: I think the total loss is around like 2 billion or something like that at the moment. Some of these were like implementation bugs, smart contract bugs, which are sort of not necessarily specific to bridges, but some others were due to security models of the bridges and keys getting compromised. What we know now is that these bridges are like huge honey pots that are targeted by nation level actors. So like North Korea hacker groups and stuff like that were behind some of these hacks. And so I think moving forward, the key here will be standardizing the code. In some sense, they are losing market share through just like very brutal natural selection. Some developers make, you know, maybe months of work, but then a simple exploit, and then now the bridge is gone, and so all of the efforts go to waste.
00:05:59.978 - 00:06:53.262, Speaker A: I think people will still, like, continue to use them. I think there will be less appetite for new developers to be like, hey, you know, oh, let's build a new bridge with our own design. I don't think that's going to be like the default anymore. I think more of the mindshare will converge on, is there a standard for this ecosystem? And if not, can we develop that so everybody can leverage on top of this? Or if there is one, can we, you know, can we build some applications around that? So, for example, just like, just to make this more tangible, IBC in cosmos is like, definitely the best example out there. Like IBC is the. Is this standard code that 50 different cosmos chains rely on. All the developers are like, their best interest is for IBC to work safely.
00:06:53.262 - 00:07:37.510, Speaker A: And so I think that's like a way more healthy way to build these. I think the biggest trends for next year are MeV app chains and modular blockchains. MeV stands for minor extractable value. It effectively means miners or validators influencing the order of transactions in blockchain with the motivation to extract value out of them. So this could be like arbitrage, like front running, back running, sandwich, etcetera. The other narrative that's going to be big is app chains. App chain thesis is pioneered by Cosmos.
00:07:37.510 - 00:08:19.292, Speaker A: The difference of app chains from general purpose chains is that in app chains, the community around the blockchain restricts which applications that this blockchain will be running. So it can pretty much optimize the blockchain for the particular use case that it's being used for. And finally, modular blockchains. Modular blockchains is about layered blockchain architectures. So basically, it's about recognizing the fact that blockchains core functionalities can be broken down into smaller pieces. And blockchains don't have to own all of those functionalities. They can actually outsource them to other blockchains.
00:08:19.292 - 00:08:49.496, Speaker A: There are like four sort of core functionalities. The first one is data. So at the very minimum, blockchain nodes need to share some data. So this is about how we make sure that data is there. The second functionality is consensus. How do blockchains effectively come to order on that data? How do they order that data? Third one is execution. How do they interpret that data? How do they make sense of it? And you know, all the rules around that.
00:08:49.496 - 00:09:28.712, Speaker A: And then finally, optionally, settlement is how blockchains interoperability with each other. So in the modular stack, effectively, blockchains outsource some of these components to each other. And the idea, the general idea is that they specialize in their, in their own thing. And then collectively they achieve more. Basically, that results in a more scalable, more interoperable solution. Like, by far, the thing that excites me the most is modular blockchains. I think it's the most cost effective way for blockchains to launch, to operate, and to compose with each other, literally.
00:09:28.712 - 00:10:16.044, Speaker A: The idea there is that one make it very easy to launch new blockchains. You don't need to go through all this overhead of, like, you know, finding nodes to run your blockchain, distribute large sums of tokens in order to build your own consensus. All of these, like, things that make blockchain engineering lives hard. Like, the goal of modular blockchains is to make all of these things easier in their end state. Like, what's imagined is that, you know, there's going to be some execution layer. You can compute anything there, and then you will basically concise all of that computation into a very succinct cryptographic proof, which are ZK proofs and fraud proofs. And then anybody can run those proofs, hopefully in their smartphones in the future, and verify the integrity of all of the transactions.
00:10:16.044 - 00:11:09.132, Speaker A: So it's effectively the most cost effective way to shift the power structure from big guys to small guys. The two projects I'm very excited in the modular stack are Celestia and fuel. So Celestia tries to become the most scalable data and consensus layer. It tries to be the minimum viable blockchain out there. Basically, it asks the question, like, what's the least I can do in order for blockchains that sit on top of me to share security with each other? The idea is. The idea there is that, you know, other blockchains can dump their data to Celestia and then effectively, you know, Celestia would be ordering their data in same order, and this gives them the least possible ingredients for them to share security with each other. Fuel is modular execution layer.
00:11:09.132 - 00:11:59.194, Speaker A: What we mean by modular execution layer is that there's going to be multiple versions of fuel. Basically, fuel team has been developing their new virtual machine from scratch. It's called fuel virtual machine. It learns a lot of mistakes that have been done on EVM and other virtual machines. So it has some very interesting features that make it very scalable and fast. The interesting part about fuel is that their execution layer will be fraud provable, which means, like, you're going to be able to make a lot of fast computations, but then you will be able to prove them in a very succinct way through cryptographic proofs. Next year, both of them are going to launch on Mainnet, and I'm pretty excited for their launch.
00:11:59.194 - 00:12:45.136, Speaker A: Technological perspective, it's easy. I'm super bullish. There's lots of builders out there and a lot of these rails are being built. There is significant advancements in modular blockchains, in fraud proofs, in ZK proofs, in technologies like data availability sampling, which would scale the data, you know, published across the blockchains. One of the things that I'm looking forward is EIP 4844, which is an, you know, Ethereum upgrade. It will reduce the fees on roll ups by few x. And then also, I think there's lots of developer activity on Cosmos for next year.
00:12:45.136 - 00:13:17.508, Speaker A: There's going to be like, quite some, like, high performance chains coming up on Cosmos, which could be interesting. We're going to go up. I think that's my expectation, but it's going to be more, you know, slow, no moon action. That's my guess. If you look at the end state, like, I would be disappointed if, like, most of what we call money isn't on chain. And I think there's like, a good chance of that actually happening. The future that I'm imagining is like really thousands and millions of chains.
00:13:17.508 - 00:14:01.914, Speaker A: Cosmos vision is more like community computers. They have their own social consensus, they have their own participants, but they're not necessarily, you know, fit into this, like, oh, there's no governance kind of rule. There can be still a governance, but it's like the rules and everything is defined by, by the participants there. So the access to state can be more restricted and whatnot. But I think basically current regulation, it could shape into these sort of blockchains. And so this could, you know, bring real world assets on chain. And I genuinely believe in the end state, we're just going to see pretty much all real world assets tokenized in one way or another.
00:14:01.914 - 00:14:37.994, Speaker A: Call me bullish, but that's what I believe. Mass adoption will happen through a combination of, like, technologies that are being developed. Like, there's no magic secret sauce here. I can summarize these in like, four, I think, main categories. It's just like, one is, privacy is a big one. So I know a lot of people, like, around me, my friends, they just don't wanna, they don't want people to know, like, which coins they buy and sell and whatnot. And they use centralized exchanges as a way to, like, lose their trace.
00:14:37.994 - 00:15:04.526, Speaker A: Right. The other thing is definitely scalability. So a lot of people can't afford these chains. That's, that's pretty obvious. And the other thing is interoperability. So a lot of people use, again, centralized exchanges to switch, you know, blockchains, swap, swap their tokens and whatnot. So we need like decentralized and secure versions of bridges and applications, like cross chain applications, basically.
00:15:04.526 - 00:15:59.174, Speaker A: And then finally we need better access control. What I mean by access control is that currently in the blockchain space, access control is literally binary. Like, you either own a private key, which, you know, gives you exclusive and irrevocable rights over your tokens, or if you lose that key, too bad, right? Like, nobody can help you. That thought is like a very scary thought for a lot of people, and rightfully so. Right? So, you know, we can't, we can't, we simply can't, like on board mainstream with that kind of like user experience of self custody. So we need better solutions there. Like one of the, one of the solutions that I'm really excited for is account abstraction, and account abstraction, you know, it's been around, it's been like discussed since a few years now.
00:15:59.174 - 00:16:34.884, Speaker A: It's actually nothing new, but I'm pretty confident that it's going to be sooner or later implemented. In fact, some of the roll ups like Zksync and Starkware already have some forms of it and fuel as well. Basically what it does is I can summarize it as like, it makes everything about self custody very user friendly. So you can have, you know, social recovery, you can assign different signers for some of your funds. You can have recurring payments. You can have, you know, you can have like gas sponsored transactions. Like somebody else can pay gas for you, some application can subsidize your gas cost for you and whatnot.
00:16:34.884 - 00:17:04.038, Speaker A: So all of these things that, that will make interacting with blockchains much, much easier and much more like user friendly. I think it's going to be a combination of these. That's, that's how we reach mainstream, basically. I love this question because I have a great answer to this. So there's this new sort of movement. It's called collaborative finance, or in short, ko fi. And this movement is about creating a better, superior form of money.
00:17:04.038 - 00:17:51.964, Speaker A: It's like simplest way to understand. This is basically like, it's a very silly, but also very easy thing to understand. If I owe $3 to Bob, and Bob owes dollar three to Alice and Alice owes dollar three to me, the only thing that we have to like, recognize is that we need to be aware of this loop, right? We don't actually need $3. We, we can just like basically write off our debt against each other. And so, in such a circular loop, we actually don't need to inject any liquidity, any tokens in there. That is effectively how liquidity is saved. And if you think about commerce, every business effectively have account receivable, account payable, and they effectively send invoices to each other, and they make trades with each other.
00:17:51.964 - 00:18:18.054, Speaker A: And so these loops actually exist in the economy. And there's actually a very, like, highly ambitious project in cosmos that is built by informal systems is addressing this problem. So, yeah, that's like, that's like a very, very ambitious thing. But I think, like, if that become a reality, I mean, that's good. That could save a lot of that could save a lot of problems that we have in the current money system. Actually, Facebook.
