00:00:06.090 - 00:00:34.630, Speaker A: Good morning. Good afternoon. Good evening. Depending on where you're calling in from, we have Leona here from the African NFT community doing a workshop on can blockchain and self sovereign identity systems address the Refugee Cris. This seems like a super interesting workshop, so super excited to see what Leona is going to be presenting to us today. And that being said, any questions you have can go into the chat, and otherwise I'll pass the mic off to you, Leona.
00:00:37.530 - 00:00:51.206, Speaker B: Hi, everybody. Thank you. Thank you, Anna. Thank you for having me today. Thank you, ANC community, for the invitation to speak. My name is Leona Leo. I'm an illustrator and iconographer.
00:00:51.206 - 00:02:00.910, Speaker B: I create NFTs, and I participate in a range of DAOs. I was initially asked to discuss the ways I utilize blockchain technology as a preservation tool, which is usually what I tend to do within my artwork. But I decided to kind of shift my focus onto a different topic that is near and dear to me because of how much it affects my personal life and my family, and because I believe this topic is in need of immediate attention. And this is the global refugee crisis. And I would like to ask questions about are there ways that blockchain technology excuse me. Can address the refugee Cris and provide some relief to a lot of the issues that individuals are facing? Before we get started, I wanted to go through a couple of keywords decentralized identity, which is a system of identity management for people, organizations, and more, operating on a decentralized ledger technology like the blockchain. Next would be self sovereign identity.
00:02:00.910 - 00:03:19.910, Speaker B: This concept of self sovereign identity is a framework for digital technologies and identities that restores the power back to the individual for them to control and gatekeep access to their digital identity and the information that is contained within their digital identity. And the final definition that we are going to cover is a hyperstructure, which is essentially this is defined by Jacob from Zora. Hyperstructure is a crypto protocol that can run for free and forever without the need for maintenance, interruption, or intermediaries. So in the last few years, the world refugee crisis has risen to an alarming scale. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees, or the UNHCR, has recently reported in June of 2021 or June of 2022, that 89.3 million people have been forcibly displaced by the end of 2021 as a result directly of persecution, conflict, violence, or other human rights violations. Oftentimes they are required to leave their homes without much preparation, and they end up arriving at refugee and aid camps without any types of form of identification or documentation.
00:03:19.910 - 00:04:32.960, Speaker B: Others are also losing their personal documents during their journey to the camp. While they're trying to get there, they may lose it. And others are also coming into camps from states and nations whose governments have collapsed and are maybe unable to issue ID cards, for example, like Syria or Somalia. Following the collapse of its previous government. Not having a proof of citizenship also creates problems for nation states who are accepting refugees for relief organizations. Most refugees and displaced persons arrive at camps with no proof of identity or documentation, and out of desperate need, humanitarian relief organizations are resorting to registering and identifying people in the meantime. Unfortunately, these databases that they're creating tend to remain and stay siloed within these aid organizations, and this is going to drastically impact how quickly people are receiving aid later on down the road because they are not able to take these forms of identification with them if they happen to leave.
00:04:32.960 - 00:06:14.730, Speaker B: By Blockchain's nature of being of immutability decentralization and ownership, this technology of tomorrow's Internet gives us the potential for it to be transformative for humanitarian work if we are able as the Blockchain community to approach these very specific problems with an intention of finding an ethical solution. IDs are extremely crucial to accessing basic human rights and necessities, like registering for a bank account, registering for a phone, applying for school, or even accessing a Facebook account nowadays is going to require you to have some form of government issued identification in order for you to log in. Nowadays, many refugees and individuals are left stranded with their palms up without any types of ID. Without proof of identification, refugees and migrants are also unable to travel through these official checkpoints at the international borders. This means that they're going to have to turn to some more dangerous channels in order to reach their destinations, such as smuggling. Without a form of identification, refugees who are seeking asylum are also turned away by issuing blockchain based digital identity solutions. We are able to build on top of a decentralized ledger to alleviate some of these issues that displaced people are having.
00:06:14.730 - 00:08:12.970, Speaker B: In the last few years, relief organizations have been attempting to close the ID gap with decentralized identification. Decentralized identification refers to a system of ID management for people, organizations, and more via the use of decentralized ledger technologies like the Blockchain. In order to create a portable form of identification, organizations like the UNHCR or the World Food Program are currently utilizing the Blockchain to issue out identity cards. The UN has designed an initiative which will basically apply the Blockchain Identity Registration Service to areas that are region specific. So like in areas like Jordan or in Syria, in order to alleviate an issue of lack of identity, the UNHCR has launched the Population Registration and Identity Management Ecosystem, or it's shortened to Primes. Primes is basically an initiative, and this initiative is a collection of information services that promises the refugees a recognized legal identity that will be tied to biometric ID. In Jordan, the UN's World Food Program has launched an initiative called Building Blocks, and this initiative is basically designed to help the World Food Program distribute cash for food, for food aid, and to over hundreds of thousands of refugees who are currently stranded in Jordan.
00:08:12.970 - 00:09:46.140, Speaker B: However, in order to sign up for this program, refugees are required to submit are basically required to submit personal information and biometric data once again, which will be stored in an experimental storage facility on a centralized, UN server. Centralized storages of biometric data which is tied to identity is extremely invasive and dangerous. And while there is an obvious emphasis that forgery and counterfeit needs to be prevented, there also needs to be an emphasis added on the data security of the individuals in a way that allows for them to retain ownership of their information that they are providing. Requiring users to register personal information onto a centralized database and then tying their digital identity with biometrics seriously violates the refugees privacy rights. I don't believe that any of us would want to have to do an eye scan in order to register for a government issued card. What seems invasive to a lot of us is going to also be invasive to a lot of refugees as well. And we have to be mindful of these actions when we are creating tools to address their problems.
00:09:46.140 - 00:11:29.514, Speaker B: There needs to be an effort made to protect the data and the privacy of refugees. How can this technology be leveraged in such a way that dramatically improves the quality of life of most marginalized groups without asking them to compromise more than they have already given? The answer may lie with a concept called Self Sovereign Identity Management Systems. Self Sovereign Identity Management systems are a digital ID system that is built on top of the blockchain technology where the information is being provided by, and continues to be owned by the user. And in this case, the user would be the refugee, the displaced person, the asylum seeker, the individual who needs a form of ID. In their desperation, they're not required to have to give up ownership of their information to a centralized entity. They are able to retain that ownership of their information. This framework of digital identity gives power back to the individual and it allows for them to control and gatekeep access to their digital identity as it's being contained within their wallet, whether it is a portable wallet in a larger meta system or if it's in a portable wallet that they're able to carry around with them.
00:11:29.514 - 00:13:03.430, Speaker B: For example, like something like a MetaMask. As we are building this future where blockchain technology becomes ever more infused into our daily lives, we also need to be making a similar value code applied to the tools that are being developed for marginalized and underserved communities, which means protecting their privacy. We can implement privacy layers such as selective disclosure or zero knowledge proofs in order to add an added layer to protect their privacy. Selective disclosure essentially means that the individual who owns the information is able to generate a proof from the attributes of the credential. So for example, if you are going to the liquor store and you would need to basically purchase a bottle. You would need to show a piece of ID to demonstrate that you are above the legal drinking age. In order to show that you're above the legal drinking age, you shouldn't have to succumb to also brandishing your home address as well.
00:13:03.430 - 00:14:51.950, Speaker B: So the selective disclosure basically would allow the individual to generate a proof that they are above the age, that they are above the legal drinking age, and they are able to purchase the alcoholic beverage. The next tool is a zero knowledge proof. And in a zero knowledge proof, basically you're able to attribute from the credential without necessarily having to reveal anything personal. So, for example, in the example that I had been talking about earlier, if you are trying to purchase some alcohol and you need to verify that you're above the legal drinking age zero knowledge proof would basically allow you to prove that you are above 18 years old without having to necessarily reveal the exact date of your birthday. So now I would like for us to consider this concept of a self sovereign identity registry as a hyperstructure. And a hyperstructure, as Jacob had presented during the technical summit here at ETHGlobal a few days ago, would be an ideal model for a user driven ID management system. In his presentation, Jacob defined hyperstructures as being crypto protocols that can run for free and forever without the need for maintenance, interruption or intermediaries.
00:14:51.950 - 00:15:58.534, Speaker B: They basically would be running entirely on chain and they are a public good, which would create a positive sum for any participant. Hyperstructures are transparent. They are unstoppable, free, valuable, expansive, permissionless, decentralized, incredibly neutral, which essentially means that they are free of politics. If anybody has not had the chance to listen or watch Jacob's presentation, I would highly recommend giving that a watch, because the way that he ended up describing the functionality of hyperstructure was what inspired, which is actually know, crossed some T's and dotted some I's. For me, when I was coming up with this presentation myself. Self sovereign identity would essentially act as a base structure, would act as a base structure and it would be supported by the blockchain. And as it being a base structure, we would be continuously building on top of it.
00:15:58.534 - 00:16:54.840, Speaker B: An ID system operating as a hyperstructure would allow ID to be portable and accessible anywhere. An absolute necessity for refugees and displaced persons as they are trying to reach their next destinations. An ID hyperstructure, if the international community recognized it as an incredible form of identification, would essentially act as an interoperable global ID card. Should a refugee arrive from Libya in Italy, the border officials could check their identity on the ledger housing the refugee's ID. What makes this revolutionary is that the refugee could then choose to reveal only as much about themselves as needed for the particular transactions they are undertaking. Utilizing the privacy tools we talked about earlier. This would restore control and ownership of the information right back to the refugee and empower them.
00:16:54.840 - 00:18:32.418, Speaker B: An efficient ID management system requires efficient coordination at the local, the national and the international level, as well as coordination between governments, between nongovernmental organizations, and between private sector actors. Democratizing Web Three and the blockchain may look like creating a decentralized hyperstructure as a foundation for an internationally recognized and accepted self sovereign identity system. While the first layer of self sovereign identity hyperstructure may focus on the Iad essentials such as name, date of birth, country and country of origin, and perhaps family size, the implication of a permissionless structure indicates that more apps and tools can be built on top of the hyperstructure. So this means that later developments may allow users to verify their education, their employment history, and so on. There is a serious need for impact driven solutions to some of the issues that the most marginalized groups of our society is continuing to face. And these issues are becoming more and more exacerbated as time compounds. The impact driven blockchain solutions the future society requires does not compromise the values of Web Three when they're being developed for marginalized groups.
00:18:32.418 - 00:19:56.580, Speaker B: Self sovereign identity systems operating on the blockchain have the ability to hedge against political turmoil and enable refugees to maintain power and dignity of proven identity. Despite the political collapse of their nation's government and their physical circumstances, refugees who were forced to abandon their homeland and lost connection with any physical evidence of their past are now losing ways of establishing a future. Having an ID is such a crucial form to participate in an economy and to resettle into society. Blockchain is an opportunity for us to protect the identity of refugees and to provide ownership of their credentials. Refugees become empowered once again when we approach ID ownership from a user focused approach, as the focus will be to protect the personal identity of the individual. I bring these topics up because we deny ethical progression of our society when we put blinders on and ignore the needs of underserved communities. We commit a disservice to humanity by not actively seeking ways in which we can develop blockchain technology to improve their lives.
00:19:56.580 - 00:20:31.108, Speaker B: Impact driven solutions are approaching problems thoughtfully and intentionally. It is utilizing our time, our talent, our resources in ways which will advance equity, effectiveness and system change in our world moving forward. Thank you everyone, for your time. And thank you, Iqovo and African NFT community, for the opportunity to speak here today. Awesome.
00:20:31.194 - 00:20:37.320, Speaker A: Thank you so much. Leona, that was super interesting. Well, looks like you have a question in the chat.
00:20:40.900 - 00:21:50.542, Speaker B: Okay, I see. Thank you for good. Okay, so could we see a demonstration or a website? This is something that I have been working on for something over a year now. Once I do have something tangible like a website, I will definitely showcase and share that with you guys. But as of right now, I don't have anything I would be able to provide other examples. Individuals are utilizing self sovereign identity, so I know that Emerge Tech Labs is an example who is using self sovereign identity systems in order to empower marginalized groups and allow them to have a mechanism to carry ID documentation with them. I think that they also add another layer where they allow a more holistic approach to the individual.
00:21:50.542 - 00:22:26.266, Speaker B: So people are also able to include like employment history, diplomas, any education that they may have and that sorts onto the application. So that one is an incredible development. It's called Emerge Tech labs. I'm trying to think of another self sovereign identity program. I think it's called Tyken tech. They're another self sovereign identity platform. I think they are based in the Middle East as well.
00:22:26.266 - 00:22:49.060, Speaker B: I want to say Turkey, but they're doing some fantastic work with trying to empower individuals by giving them ownership of their identity. No problem. You're awesome. Thank you for showing up. You said thanks. Awesome.
00:22:49.150 - 00:23:18.900, Speaker A: I think that's all the questions we have for today. Leonardo, that was really interesting. I also really enjoyed listening to this talk. Really excited to see where this technology can take us in terms of these types of situations and use cases. Thank you so much for taking the time to do this for metabolism and on such short notice as and thank you to the rest of you for joining in listening to Leona's workshop.
00:23:20.600 - 00:23:42.680, Speaker B: Yeah, I appreciate everybody for coming. Thank you, Anna ETH Global ANC Community, again for giving me the platform to even talk about this. I feel like I've been ranting about the potentials of self sovereign identity to my community for so long now. They're just like, talk about it. Go. So it was great to have the platform and I appreciate you guys immensely. Thank you.
00:23:42.830 - 00:23:52.930, Speaker A: For sure. And yeah, with that being said, I guess we can end this here and I hope everyone has a great rest of your weekend. Bye everyone.
00:23:53.300 - 00:23:53.790, Speaker B: Bye everybody.
