00:00:05.120 - 00:01:19.100, Speaker A: My talk will be about what's next for the gas station network. And I am Laraz Siri, the CEO of Tabuki and the problems that we're working on are removing roadblocks to the mass adoption of decentralized finance. And the gas station network is an important part of that that. So when do we get to mass adoption? We think that we're going to have to figure out how do we create the type of familiar experiences that provide the ease of use of Web Two. But if we're going to be putting life savings of people at risk, then we also have to make it secure. And it's best if we figure out how to do that in a way that doesn't compromise on the decentralized security of Web Three. So we want to get to Web Three but with an experience that's very familiar and you don't really have to know what's going on behind the scenes.
00:01:19.100 - 00:02:47.780, Speaker A: So the next step is clearing the path to mass adoption. And we have three phases for this. The first one, creating the gas station network, essentially allows users to interact with the Ethereum blockchain without needing to worry about having to pay gas for transactions. We abstract that away so it's like we're creating this toll free road for Ethereum and this is something we deployed live on Mainet, but it right now requires support of GSN. The support of the GSN war logic inside the contract that wants to benefit from the GSN. So the next step, which hopefully I'll have time to demo quickly here, is the GSN sponsor model that allows us to extend this toll free road so it can interact with any contract, including contracts that have already been deployed, which are the big contracts right now that are getting some usage like the MakerDAO contract. Otherwise if we don't figure out how to do this, then adoption for this new standard would be dramatically slowed down because we would have to wait until everybody redeploys their contract.
00:02:47.780 - 00:04:07.404, Speaker A: Now what's interesting is that we figured out how to extend the GSN to existing contracts in a way that also allows us to solve one of the cybersecurity issues that are also a roadblock to mass adoption. So right now if you want to benefit from decentralization, you need to deal with the complications of not only having to pay for gas, but also understanding key management and worrying about the security of your devices. And we think it's possible to create a new standard where that is not a concern. And we have this as a working POC right now that's going through security validation. And the goal is to establish like a wide alliance of support so everyone can benefit from this and you don't have to be like a cryptoner or a cybersecurity expert to use all this stuff. So essentially the users in the system we're creating, they're interacting directly with a gas station network and then they're being routed their gas fees are being paid for through GSN sponsors. This could be infrastructure providers like infura that now get to monetize all their traffic.
00:04:07.404 - 00:05:11.700, Speaker A: It could be wallet providers or it could be smart contract protocols like MakerDAO. And the demo I'll be showing will be a collaboration that we have with MakerDAO that allows gas to be paid in Dai. And this would work in principle with any token that has a uniswap ETH trading pair. So then you're routing through the GSN and then the sponsors are paying for the gas and they might be charging you in Fiat. And to get this to work, you have to represent the user on chain somehow. This is where the sponsored user vehicles come in. Essentially, we're putting everybody on this toll free road by creating this proxy account for them that they interact with everything else, every other contract, there's an opportunity there to introduce some neat features.
00:05:11.700 - 00:05:50.720, Speaker A: So the gas station network is done and the sponsor user vehicles are something that we're working on. So just a quick recap. DAP onboarding was a mess before the gas station mean it took us a month to KYC, link our bank account to an exchange and get ETH to pay for the first transaction. And many users that would be a good fit for the ecosystem don't even have a bank account. So if we're talking about banking the unbanked, that's a major roadblock. Many parts of the world people don't have access to bank accounts, so it would be hard for them to get ETH. So the gas station network, it's very direct.
00:05:50.720 - 00:06:50.848, Speaker A: Essentially it's a web, could be a web two experience. If you don't need ETH, you don't need a wallet. And this is something that is now working live on Mainet and our partners have helped us get to that point. So the Ethereum Foundation consensus MakerDAO provided grants, opensuplin have done security auditing, porters have done a lot of the UX work and we have these great demos with burner wallet thanks to Austin Griffith. So quickly running out of time here. So with the gas station network, instead of interacting directly with Ethereum, you would be interacting with relays that then route to GSN aware contracts, but then that limits you only to contracts that have support for this. So the next step is baking all of the logic for working with the GSN into a separate GSN sponsor contract.
00:06:50.848 - 00:07:46.160, Speaker A: And then this contract can route your request to any contract. But because the user is not actually represented on chain the other way, they don't necessarily even have a wallet. Then you need to create an on chain representation for them, which is the user vehicle that I've been speaking with just to keep with the road metaphor. And then that's an opportunity. So the GSN sponsor, it allows us to create business models for wallets and infrastructure providers that currently maybe are trying to figure out their options. And essentially this is a way of allowing wallets to charge a small transaction fee in a way that actually adds value. So you could do something like sell your users $5 worth of gas for like $6, right? And you don't even have to KYC and AML them because you're not sending them ETH, you're just paying for their gas behind the scenes.
00:07:46.160 - 00:08:18.144, Speaker A: So that should make it a lot easier. And the DApps can decide to subsidize their users as part of the onboarding cost. So that's also an option. And what's nice is this also solves a key problem in getting decentralized privacy mixers to work. And you have the problem. How do you withdraw from a decentralized privacy mixer if you don't have an ETH? So, looks like we have time for a quick demo. And this is a collaboration with MakerDAO and essentially changing the MakerDAO contracts is too hard.
00:08:18.144 - 00:09:09.840, Speaker A: But if we bake all the logic for paying for the gas in Dai, for example, we don't have to change the contracts. So you might want to do this because it's inconvenient to have to maintain a separate balance in ETH. If you already have Dai and you have uniswap support for it, why not just figure out a way to take care of that, which is what we've done. So essentially you have this specialized Dai sponsor and you're committing to paying for your gas in Dai and it takes your Dai and it swaps it out for ETH. It pays for the transaction and gives you the remainder. And I think I have exactly time to do a demo. Hopefully this works, just not a given.
00:09:09.840 - 00:09:49.128, Speaker A: All right, so this is an Etherless Wallet demo. Right now I'm going to be doing this on Rinkabee because it's going to be very hard to do this on Mainet right now with the demand on chain. So there's no ETH here, there's no Token. This is just a signing account and we wouldn't necessarily even need MetaMask to do the signing. We could bake the logic into some other part of the application, but this is convenient for demo purposes. And then I'm going to be transferring to this other wallet, which also doesn't have E. I'm going to be transferring one bot, one basic attention Token.
00:09:49.128 - 00:10:20.836, Speaker A: Okay, so one bot and the fees will be paid for Indie. So this is a real transaction right now on the Rinkobee testnet, MetaMask asks me to sign the transaction. I don't have any ETH, so it's just a signing function. Already ran out of time. And I won't wait for this to mine. I'll show you what this looks like when it is mined. So essentially the transaction is not coming from the user because the user doesn't even necessarily have anything on chain.
00:10:20.836 - 00:10:55.332, Speaker A: It's actually coming from one of the GSN relays and then that's being routed to another part, the relay hub contract, which is part of the GSN. Then if you see down below here, then the user is paying for the gas, like sending the GSN, die sponsor, $1.4 as the maximum gas prepayment. And we actually transfer the bots. And then it turns out the transaction was a lot cheaper. It just cost $0.09. So we charge a transaction fee, we give the user $1.29
00:10:55.332 - 00:11:26.510, Speaker A: back and we swap out fifteen cents for ETH to pay all the participants in the system. And that's it? It just works? And maybe yeah, the transfer was complete. We have a transaction and that transaction no ETH was involved. Everything was paid for and die. And imagine we could just do this from a browser. So yeah. Thank you.
