00:00:00.120 - 00:00:38.340, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Gray Refuel, where we cap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host and the Nissan signer, the 17 January 2023 alright everyone, let's get into it. So a nice little recap thread on the KZG ceremony from Trent van Epps today. One of the architects of the ceremony, you can see here, he starts off by saying the KZG ceremony went live last Friday and already has five, seven K contributions, making it the largest event of this time type. And actually this was before. How long ago was this? I think this was about what, 16 hours ago. Since then, we're now up to over 7000 contributions of the KZG ceremony, which is great to see.
00:00:38.340 - 00:01:35.390, Speaker A: And then Trent goes on to say, if you had issues where working on a fix for session signouts, hope we to have it live this week. And there's also this blog post here, which was the, which was published just yesterday, announcing the KZG ceremony, which I don't think I highlighted. And this is from the Ethereum foundation. So you can go check this out for yourself and read the rest of trends thread here. But yeah, I mean, it's great to see that we're already at around 7000 contributions. I know I said that I expect to see tens of thousands and potentially up to 100,000 contributions, but as I mentioned yesterday, and I think last week, the quality of the contributions is what's important here. And I'm hoping that the, I guess people behind this slash the Ethereum foundation really supposed more than when the summoning is or when the ceremony is over in 55 days, where they basically give us a bunch of stats like how many website hits they got, you know, where, how many, well, how many unique wallets interacted with the protocol, if they noticed any cyber activity or airdrop farming activity, all that sorts of stuff, which I'm sure there's going to be that.
00:01:35.390 - 00:02:15.520, Speaker A: And I'm sure there's probably someone already working on a dune analytics dashboard or something to track this as well, because a lot of it happens on chain, you can track all over it already, but there are obviously things that happen off chain, like stuff happening within the sequencer. The sequencer is run by the Ethereum Foundation, I believe, here. And so I think that that data is not going to be publicly available just yet, but we'll get that eventually. And I'm hoping that they do something, which I think they will. And maybe if they're not, maybe they're listening to the refill right now. Or maybe I'll just reach out to Trent and say, hey, it'd be cool for you guys to do a post mortem at the end of the ceremony to recap how everything went during the ceremony from all those things that I just mentioned. But yeah, anyway, you can go participate.
00:02:15.520 - 00:02:35.096, Speaker A: As I said, you've still got 55 days left to participate. And don't be dissuaded if your participation is taking forever to get included. As I said yesterday, it is random, so it's not like you're in a queue. So you can leave if you have to go somewhere else or you can't leave your computer on and you could try again. And if you time out, you can try again as well. There is no rush here. You've got 55 days.
00:02:35.096 - 00:02:56.344, Speaker A: And as I said, it's not a queue, it's randomly selected so you can keep trying. And I mean, I think it's worth trying. You're basically being a part of Ethereum history here by doing this. So definitely don't give up. And I think they're going to be adding improvements to this as well over time to make the experience more seamless. But yeah, just don't give up. That's the advice I have there for you guys.
00:02:56.344 - 00:03:44.384, Speaker A: All right, so Rodrigo here from the Ethereum foundation has announced the second EF academic academic grants round with up to $1 million to fund academic research in Ethereum. The first round awarded grants to 39 researchers in 18 countries, and you can now apply to the second round until February 27. And there is obviously a detailed blog post here with a bunch of things you can read and an faq as well, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. Now, I remember covering the first one originally, back when they gave, I think it was about the same amount of money, or maybe it was a little bit less or something away to these grantees. But as I said, there is $1 million up to, up to $1 million up for grabs for all of these things. And the deadline is February 27. So just definitely go check out the blog post.
00:03:44.384 - 00:04:25.734, Speaker A: If this is something that interests you, I'll link that in the YouTube description below. But just in case you guys wanted a quick tail day of what this is, it's basically for researchers with academic backgrounds, as it says here, or that have worked in stuff like research centers, universities, think tanks. Educators in general are interested in matters related to Ethereum, and ecosystem are encouraged to apply. So if you're a researcher of any type or educator of any type, this may be up your alley and you can check this out for yourself. As I said, it'll all be linked in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so I haven't spoken about swell network for quite a while, but they have an update for us today. So they said Svelte Network is back with an exciting protocol update.
00:04:25.734 - 00:05:13.436, Speaker A: We are opening ETH staking deposits in late Q 120 23. Now, just a quick refresher here, Swell Network is another liquid staking protocol for Ethereum. They're trying to be a decentralized liquid staking protocol, so similar to rocker pool and stakewise v three and they, I believe, came out of stealth last year. But aren't I? I believe they are live on Testnet and they're going to be live on Mainnet as they said here in late Q 120 23. So I'm guessing March 2023 here. And they're introducing in this thread the SW ETH token, which is obviously the LSD token that represents ETH staked with swell network permissioned and permission less op node operators deprecating the old architecture supporting current stakers and the new protocol features coming in 2023. There is a blog post here and an updated lightpaper that you can check out.
00:05:13.436 - 00:05:56.810, Speaker A: So in the blog post they detail all these things that I just mentioned with from sweat to everything else that I talked about there. And then the light paper goes into even more detail, which obviously both of these things will be linked in the YouTube description below, but the lightpaper will just show you much more detail than the blog post. So if you are interested in diving deeper into swell network and what they're all about, you can do that here as well. Now, I said a while ago, not in the context of swell network, but in the context of LSD's in general. I mean, I've been saying this for quite a while, there's going to be more and more competition as time goes on. I actually didn't foresee something like stakewise, I guess, radically changing so much because they've changed their architecture pretty substantially with stakewise v three, which isn't live yet. I believe it's going live on testnet soon.
00:05:56.810 - 00:06:40.836, Speaker A: But they've changed that a lot because they saw, I guess, a gap in the decentralized LSD market, right? Because there really is only rocket pool. I'm not saying that that's not, that's a bad thing or anything, but we want more than Rockapool, right? Like Rockapool is awesome, but if we only have one decentralized LSD provider, that's not very great from a number of different angles. So I think having at least two or three is a pretty good, pretty good deal here. So rocket pool, swell network and stakewise v three right now, I think there's going to be others out there that come online too. But there's not going to be that many winners. There's like, if you really look at it this way, if there are going to be, I guess, LSD's, they, a lot of them, I mean, they all rely on liquidity, right? And liquidity begets liquidity. So just by nature of that, there can't be that many winners in that category.
00:06:40.836 - 00:07:16.996, Speaker A: But we hope that the winners are the most high quality LSD's and the least centralized ones as well. Because right now, obviously Lido has, I actually checked today it's down to almost 29% of the network. But obviously that's only because other, other staking providers have gone up in market share. Lido itself can't go down because the withdrawal is unenable yet. But Lido got to that 30% mark like really, really quickly and that wasn't good. It wasn't good at all. And then obviously Rocketpool came online, has been chipping into that other kind of staking providers are online like Coinbase and Binance, adding their own lsd token like CbEth and be, which is eating into that.
00:07:16.996 - 00:07:59.396, Speaker A: But generally, I think that we're not going to have hundreds of different staking providers out there. Obviously, when I talk about staking providers, I'm talking about kind of node operators in general. So Rockerpool has, I believe, under 2000 node operators. Today, Lido is obviously around 29 node operators. Then you have solo validators, which each individual solo validator is considered a node operator. But it's very hard to gauge like how many of those there are because I mean, unless you were to KYC all of the solo stakers, which is obviously never going to happen, you wouldn't be able to have certainty that that identity maps to that, you know, that node, that validator and so on and so forth. But we can, I think we can safely say there's at least up to 10,000 solo node operators out there.
00:07:59.396 - 00:08:23.874, Speaker A: I'm just randomly throwing that number out. But from what I've seen, that doesn't seem to be too far fetched from a solo validator point of view here. But then if you're talking about all the other operators, node operators, you know, Coinbase is a node operator, binance, Kraken, all that, there's not going to be hundreds of these things. So I'm not talking about the solo validators here. I'm talking about those known node operators that we can kind of map. When we look at things like the rater.net work website, for example.
00:08:23.874 - 00:08:55.299, Speaker A: I expect there to be long term, maybe ten or so, maybe even less than that, big winners. And big winners is like maybe 5% or more market share. Because when you think about it like there's only, there's only a certain amount of market share that each player can have. And if you were talking about big players, each having 5%, well, you know, with ten unique services here, you could go up to 50%. And that's not including solo validators. So let's just say solo validators are 20% of the network. Well you don't have much more room from there to add more operators if we're, if they all have that 5%.
00:08:55.299 - 00:09:36.478, Speaker A: So it's going to definitely, I guess, concentrate with like it has already, I guess, so to speak, in a relatively small number of operators having a healthy chunk of the network, say five to 10%. But as long as those operators are distributed and some of them are decentralized, some of them are centralized, as long as they're like that, I think that's a very healthy makeup of the beacon chain because it's a pipe dream to expect that every operator is going to be decentralized. One, I don't think that's going to happen at all. And it's a pipe dream to think that every operator is going to be a centralized one. Like, I think both of those realities are not going to happen and it's not already not a reality. Right. But I really, and I also think it's going to be as a pipe dream for things to be equally distributed too.
00:09:36.478 - 00:10:07.258, Speaker A: So I think what's going to happen is you're still going to have those big, big winners, maybe one or two, kind of, maybe, maybe even three of these providers with around 15, 20% of market share. But then you'll have these other ones with like five to 10% or something like that. Right. Or 5%, around 5%. My ideal world is none of the providers having more than 15% max of the, I guess, like market share here. But I'm also realistic in that it's, it, you know, it's possible to happen, but we don't know because we haven't had withdrawals enabled. So we don't know what the makeup's going to look like.
00:10:07.258 - 00:10:45.522, Speaker A: So I'm personally looking forward to seeing what the staking makeup, or I guess like the nerd operator makeup looks like in a year after withdrawals are enabled and we won't have to wait long. We're basically waiting, what, 14 months from today if withdrawals go live, the end of March. So we won't need to wait long. And a year might not even be enough time to see because they can keep changing, obviously, over time. It depends on the market dynamics, too. Is it a bull market? Is it a bear market? You know, are we just sideways? What's demand like? There's a lot of extra protocol factors that can play into it too. But the thing that we can do is keep supporting these new teams spinning up, especially if they're spinning up decentralized LSD's and making sure they keep growing.
00:10:45.522 - 00:11:11.034, Speaker A: I want to see rocket pool way higher than what it is today. Like, I think that Rockerpool, only being 2.2% of the network, is way too low. It needs to be much higher than that because it is a decentralized taking pool. It is the next best thing to solo staking, and we want to be encouraging that. I don't want to be seeing Coinbase binance, and I know Lido has different sets of operators, but they do have that monolithic LSD token across all of them. I don't want to see those dominating for, you know, especially post withdrawals.
00:11:11.034 - 00:11:40.378, Speaker A: I definitely want to see more of these smaller players, especially the ones that are reliable, because there are smaller players that are unreliable and we really don't want to be pushing too much adoption on them. But Rocketpool is extremely reliable. It has distributed node operators because of the people running minipool. And not all, just, you know, the Rocker Pool foundation, for example, or 30 different node operators. You know, there's thousands of those people and there's going to be thousands more. Especially when things like the LeB eights and fours come in where you can spin up mini pools with a lot less eat than you can today. That's all going to happen.
00:11:40.378 - 00:12:15.480, Speaker A: So I personally, that's why I'm supporting those things and supporting the smaller players, because they need to grow to take market share from the bigger players, especially if they are better for the health of the beacon chain, from a decentralization perspective and from an effectiveness perspective as well. Because at the end of the day, we want to be as distributed and decentralized as possible. But that doesn't necessarily mean that every single service has to be decentralized. It just means that every, every single service needs to have less than. In my mind, this isn't based on any kind of, I guess, hard data. It's more of an. More of a, more of kind of like my take on things.
00:12:15.480 - 00:12:39.282, Speaker A: In my mind, no operator should have more than 15% share of, of the network at least. Ideally, I would love to see it below 10%, but I'm trying to be at least somewhat realistic here. And today, really, only one of them does, that one being Lido. I don't. I mean, from memory. Besides solo validators, I'm pretty sure Coinbase and Binance and Kraken don't have over 15%. No, the second place is coinbase with 11.5%
00:12:39.282 - 00:13:18.026, Speaker A: here. So, yeah, if we can get Lido down below 15% without, you know, that lido, I guess market share going to a coinbase or a kraken, and rather going to something like a rocker pool or another decentralized lsd, that would be a huge win for the ecosystem. And it's not just going to happen on its own as well. I think there will be needing a concerted push post withdrawals to make this happen. And I'm confident that the community is going to keep on top of this because the Ethereum community obviously really cares about these things at large. And the rocketball community and the small network community and the stakewise community, they all have a vested interest in seeing, obviously the protocol that they're a fan of, that they're invested in growing. Um, so they're going to be pushing for that as well.
00:13:18.026 - 00:13:40.698, Speaker A: And competition, there's nothing wrong with it. It's extremely healthy. And I can't wait to see what things look like. Obviously a year post withdrawals, which is about 14 months from now. All right. Another thing that I wanted to quickly touch on about staking was a tweet that I put out today where I said bitcoin maximalists, asking where does the yield come from? Because they don't understand how ethereum proof of stake. Stake works is incredible.
00:13:40.698 - 00:14:21.674, Speaker A: It always amazes me how confident they are in their own stupidity. And the funny thing is about this is that where does the yield come from? Is a legitimate question to ask. Like, there's nothing wrong with asking the question, but the way they're asking this question is that they've done absolutely zero research on their own and anyone who gives them the answers is laughed at. Or they're, you know, Ethereum is called a ponzi, or Ethereum is called unsustainable, and the yield is being given out by the Ethereum foundation or something like that. Right? There's all these conspiracy theories. So I just wanted to quickly break down where the yield comes from for each staking and relate it back to how it is very similar to bitcoin, with only a couple of key differences in how it all works. All right, so let's break it down quickly here.
00:14:21.674 - 00:15:13.326, Speaker A: There are three places that the yield comes from for ETH staking. The first place is protocol issuance, aka consensus layer rewards. This is the new ETH that is created, right? That this gets paid out to stakers for performing, to validators, I should say, for performing three different tasks, attestations of blocks, which all validators obviously do quite regularly, being part of a sync committee, which is very rare, but it happens, right? And proposing a block, which again is quite rare, but it happens. And you can expect to propose a block once every 60 to 90 days on average per validator, right? So that's where the first bit of yield comes from. From the core protocol stuff from new ETH being issued, the second bit of yield. And, sorry, I guess I should say the second and third bits of yield come from the execution layer. So the second one is called a tip.
00:15:13.326 - 00:15:55.222, Speaker A: Now, obviously, those who understand how AIP 1559 works and how the current gas market on Ethereum works, there are two parts of it. There is the base fee, and there, there is the tips. The base fee is the fee that everyone has to pay no matter what, right? And the base fee is determined by demand for block space at any given time, right? Now, the base fee is 15, and that means that that base fee is burned. That does not go to validators. That is not part of the yield. That is burned forever taken out of existence, never coming back, right? But then there is the tip. Now, the tip is an extra part of the fee that you would pay, and the tip is determined by how much, like how fast you want to get your transaction into a block, right? So the total fee you pay is the base fee plus the tip.
00:15:55.222 - 00:16:14.200, Speaker A: Now, the tip is not burned. The tip goes directly to validators as yield. So that's the second part of the yield there. Then the third part is mev rewards, which comes from the mev boost network. Now, this is where it differs from bitcoin, because bitcoin doesn't have mev. And I'm going to explain how the first two relate to bitcoin. But this is what bitcoin doesn't have.
00:16:14.200 - 00:17:43.184, Speaker A: So the third portion is where I think people get maybe potentially confused here. So the mev rewards come from the mev boost network, which means that if you are using mev boost relayers and through the, you know, whether you're a solo validator or you're part of like a smoothing pool in rocket pool or you're obviously part of a, you have Steve that gets paid out and distributed evenly across the STE holders, right? You get rewards from the people who pay the MEV boost network to get their transaction included in the Mev boost bundle. Right? In the bundle that gets relayed or it gets built by the builders and it gets relayed on the MEV boost network. So in plain English, it's just another form of fear of renew, right? Except it's specific to the MEV boost network. It is not, I guess, specific to the ethereum core protocol itself, but it is still considered an execution layer reward because it gets paid out as part of the execution layer, as part of the fee revenue, right? And it doesn't go to the consensus layer, it goes to the execution layer. So hopefully that explains those three parts to you now, where it's exactly the same as bitcoin is the first two, the protocol issuance is the exact same thing as how it works in bitcoin. Every single block that's mined in bitcoin issues new BTC to the miner that proposed that block, right? And then on top of that, the second part, every single block contains fees, right? Fees that people pay to move their BTC around on the bitcoin network.
00:17:43.184 - 00:18:11.022, Speaker A: That is the exact same thing as the fee that's paid in Ethereum, right? Whether that be the base fee and tip, it doesn't matter. Bitcoin doesn't have fee burning. So it's just for the sake of the argument, just a tip in bitcoin, right? So that is also going to the miner that proposed the block. So I guess like the pool. I should say not. I mean there's obviously everyone's pulled together, so it's more. So the poor and the pool will distribute that right to, to the set of, of miners there.
00:18:11.022 - 00:19:01.504, Speaker A: But it's the exact same thing. Protocol issuance and fear of renew. Exact same, right? So when the bitcoin maximalists find it hard to understand where the yield for each staking comes from, it blows my mind. Because it's the exact same places that the yield for bitcoin, you know, the yield in bitcoin comes from because bitcoin mining produces a yield for the miners, right? That is still a yield that they get. Yes. They're not putting up BTC as collateral like you do within Ethereum staking and you're not getting a yield on your BTC, but you were still yielding something by being a miner, right? You're getting a yield on your mining equipment, so to speak, right? So it works the same way. And that yield that you get is determined by, uh, I guess in bitcoin is determined by what pool you're a part of, you know, how successful they are at getting blocks, what it looks like over time, you know, and there's no mev in bitcoin because there's no mev opportunities in bitcoin.
00:19:01.504 - 00:19:21.840, Speaker A: But if there was, again, it would work the same way. It would still be mev rewards in Ethereum and maybe rewards in bitcoin. So I just wanted to break that down for people because you'll probably get people asking you this as well, maybe. And you might want to answer that. That's how you answer it. Basically, there are just three parts to it. You add all those up together, that becomes the staking yield that you see.
00:19:21.840 - 00:20:14.548, Speaker A: Now, as I explained yesterday on the refuel, this yield is highly volatile because, you know, a significant portion of it belongs to execution layer rewards, which go up or down, you know, quite significantly depending on the demand for block space on Ethereum, because fear revenue goes up when demand is high and mev opportunities go up as well, which means mev rewards would go up. And then the opposite is true. Protocol issuance is also variable, but in a less extreme way. So protocol issuance goes up when there's more ETH being staked and it goes down when there's less ETH being staked. But that's overall protocol issuance, right? Whereas issuance going to, to the stakers. So the yield going to stakers actually goes down with more ETH being staked and the year, and goes up with less ETH being staked. So that's another distinction there, which I guess is different to bitcoin, but it's still the same principle, right? Where bitcoin has protocol issuance.
00:20:14.548 - 00:21:01.430, Speaker A: It has it till 21 40, right? And Ethereum has protocol issuance as well. Same kind of thing gets paid out to the, to the block proposers, right, in bitcoin, but in Ethereum, I guess, like it's a bit different as well, because the protocol issuance doesn't just go to block proposers, it goes to everyone, right? Goes to people testing on blocks, which doesn't happen in proof of work, and it goes to sync communities as well. But the core premise of protocol issuance remains the same. So hopefully that breaks it down for you guys and you probably understand it better there. That is where the yield comes from. And actually something that I haven't mentioned yet that I think is very important, even though this should be kind of obvious to people. So people will often ask, okay, well, you know, who's, you know, who's paying for this yield? Like, well, no one's paying for this yield, right? Like, no one's paying for the protocol issuance.
00:21:01.430 - 00:21:54.770, Speaker A: The protocol was just issuing you ETH. And anyone paying the, I guess, like fees on Ethereum are the regular users paying for to use the block space. Right? Same with Mev. And then people often ask, well, how is this sustainable? Well, it's sustainable as long as people are buying ETH, basically, and people are keeping ETH valuable as the same reason that bitcoin is sustainable, that, you know, bitcoin mining is sustainable at a certain amount, is because people are actually paying real money to buy BTC. And then there is a market for it, which means miners can sell BTC into the market in order to cover their expenses. And the same is true for proof of stake, where stakers can sell and realize that yield as well, because the yield is ETH denominated, right? It's not USD denominated, but obviously, if you want to realize that into us dollars or another fiat currency, currency, you would sell it. And that is why people stake, because they're like, okay, well, I can stack more ETH and then potentially down the line, I'll sell this ETH and realize it and be able to buy other things with it.
00:21:54.770 - 00:22:32.978, Speaker A: There is a market for it. That should be obvious. I don't even know why I have to explain that. But that's how it also works. So the yields, ultimately, the yield, all the yield in all of crypto comes from, I guess, demand and from the marketplace in general, for there to be a market here. And the better the market is, the more valuable and more liquid the market, sorry, the more liquid the market is and the more valuable the asset is, the better, I guess, like yield or the high quality yield you're going to get because it's all well and good for someone to say you're going to get 20% APY or 20% yield on some random proof of stake shitcoin. But if it's not worth much in us dollars, you're not really going to be getting much right for that.
00:22:32.978 - 00:23:04.518, Speaker A: And it's less attractive. And also, if the market's not very liquid and if the price is extremely volatile, it becomes less attractive than something like ETH. But yeah, I spent too much, too long on this topic here. I said I was going to be brief, but I've gone over time there. But yeah, that's just an explanation of where the yield comes from in ethereum proof of stake. All right, so one last thing about staking is here from Mike McGuinness again. He created a new meme about Eigen layer and restaking more broadly and how he thinks it's bullish for ETH as an asset.
00:23:04.518 - 00:23:29.842, Speaker A: So this is the meme of the. I believe this was the CEO of the, one of the. I think it's WWF, the wrestling company or whatever it is. I'm not into wrestling, so I'm kind of butchering the explanation here. But you guys know the meme where he's sitting in his chair, and then he progressively gets more hyped up about something. So the first part of the meme is that, you know, AIP 1559 burns 1% of the ETH supply per year. And he's like, oh, that's interesting.
00:23:29.842 - 00:23:56.592, Speaker A: And then the next part of the meme is daily ETH issuance dropped from 15,000 ETH to just under 1800 ETH post merge. Then he starts getting a bit more excited. And then the next part is, ETH is officially deflationary and more scarce than BTC. He gets a bit more excited, and then it shows that ETH staking yields are above 4%. And then he's getting real excited. And then the last part of the meme is Eigen Lair opens the door for ETH restaking and even greater yields. And then he's about to fall out of his chair.
00:23:56.592 - 00:24:35.764, Speaker A: So I thought, this is a great meme to describe, I guess, what can potentially happen with restaking services like Eigen layer. And this also is going to, I think, confuse the shit out of bitcoin maximalist, because maybe they'll finally get their head around where the yield comes from for vanilla eats taking. But as soon as restaking enters the mix, and as soon as that's live, they're gonna, there's gonna be some crazy staking numbers for ETH based on restaking yields. And they're gonna be like, oh, my God, this looks like a ponzi. But in reality, the new yield that you're getting for your staked ETH is coming from the I got an eigen layer network or another restaking network. And you can account for that. It is not some kind of ponzi yield.
00:24:35.764 - 00:25:12.012, Speaker A: It's coming from here. And if demand for the token that's being paid out as part of any of these networks is. Is low, or if there is low demand, not just from protocol issuance on these networks, but also on the demand side for block space, then the yield isn't going to be very high, obviously, because of that, too. But, yeah, I just thought that was a great meme to explain a lot of what I was just talking about and beyond. All right, so Casper here from the hero dotas. I think that's how you say it. But Hiro Dota's team put together a thread where he starts off by saying, as the number of L2s has grown, so has the fragmentation of the ethereum ecosystem.
00:25:12.012 - 00:26:00.954, Speaker A: Most chains today generally run in isolation, so the state of one chain is not easily accessible on another. Now, I've talked about this a lot on the refill before about this fragmentation across L2s and how we have, I guess, a pretty good solution with bridges today that work to basically allow you to bridge within a few minutes between different L2s. And you pay a small fee for doing that for the convenience there. But I have mentioned one thing in the past that kind of fizzled out, but is gaining steam again, which is this concept of being able to essentially talk cross roll up while not bridging your assets. So essentially what you would do is you would, I've used this example before, but I'll use it again. Say you wanted to trade a token that was on Arbitrum's version of Uniswap, but you're on optimism, and you don't want to leave optimism. You want to do the trade and settle it all on optimism.
00:26:00.954 - 00:26:25.242, Speaker A: So what you would do is you would essentially send a message to a service that would relay this message to arbitrary. You would do the trade on Arbitrum, and then you would get the asset that you traded for back on optimism without you having to do anything. And this would all happen in the background within, ideally, you know, a few Ethereum blocks or less here. There were some solutions looking at this. There was, Starkware was building one. I can't remember exactly what it. What it was called.
00:26:25.242 - 00:26:50.520, Speaker A: Rari was working on, on one called Fuse, which I believe fizzled out. I don't know what's the status of Starkware's. One is, which is basically this concept of arbitrary message, message passing between different protocols. But now hero dotos here is working on this as well. So just another protocol that I came across that I wanted to highlight for you guys that is working on this, which I think is actually pretty important for the Ethereum. Ecosystem. And obviously, as L2s get more adoption, it's more important for that as well.
00:26:50.520 - 00:27:29.994, Speaker A: But you can read this thread from Casper, I'll link it in the YouTube description. It just, it describes this a bit better than, in a bit more detail than I have achieved just then. All right, so curve finance has added a chinese language support to their front end here. Now, I just wanted to highlight this, not because I can speak Chinese or anything like that, I'm sure there are some of you out there that do, maybe you appreciate this, but because I've gone on a lot in the past about how I think more of these front ends need to be supporting more languages. They can't just support English and maybe a couple of others. They need to be supporting at least, you know, the top ten, top 20 most popular languages in the world. And they need to be doing it natively because Google Translate is cool and all.
00:27:29.994 - 00:28:10.790, Speaker A: But there are a lot of terms in crypto that don't exactly translate one to one because there are a lot of new terminology or a lot of crypto specific terminology. So I think that DeFi finance doing this natively and making sure that it all works for their users is critically important, especially because Ethereum is, as I've said before, trying to be a global network, not trying to be just a english speaking network, so to speak. And there are plenty of people in the world that don't speak English at all, billions of them, in fact, that we need to cater to that. We need to add support for across all of these defi finance. So great to see that curve has added chinese language support here. I'm not sure what other languages they support, but I think that they support a lot of the major ones. So you can definitely go check out curve for yourself.
00:28:10.790 - 00:28:58.418, Speaker A: If you are a native chinese speaker here and you're interested in that, and even if you're not, maybe they support one of the languages that you speak and you speak and understand better than English. As I said, there are billions of people out there that do not natively speak English, and we shouldn't expect them to, and we should definitely build for them. All right, last up here, just a quick shout out to the Fe language project here. They announced that they're starting the second round of their bug bounty contest, which you can read about in this blog post and obviously in this tweet thread as well. So if you are someone who is interested in participating in this bug brown t for the FE Smart contract programming language here, you can check, check this blog post out and check the tweet thread out, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. But yeah, I think that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching.
00:28:58.418 - 00:29:05.114, Speaker A: Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
