00:00:00.320 - 00:00:23.006, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deli Gwei refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Cesarno, and today's the 9 November 2021. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So Ens is finally live, or should I say the Ens token. So I'm sure a lot of you have already claimed your EnS tokens. It has been a wild last 24 hours on Ethereum Twitter, that's for sure. I woke up this morning and there was just so much that happened.
00:00:23.006 - 00:00:56.184, Speaker A: You know, obviously the EnS token went live, Rockerpool went on Mainnet, a few other things. I mean, I'm going to go through it obviously on the refuel, but it's just great to see kind of like these events kind of unfold in real time. I think the last time that I felt kind of like that, I guess overwhelmed when I woke up was back on when the uniswap airdrop happens. And it kind of like, I mean, I think I didn't, I don't think I woke up to it. I think it kind of got announced at like what I think was 01:00 p.m. My time and everyone, everything just blew up about it, of course. And then it was just crazy to see the following 24 hours everything that happened.
00:00:56.184 - 00:01:38.848, Speaker A: And it was a first of its kind as well, in that it was such a large airdrop to so many people and it was worth so much. And the same has kind of like happened with ENS, which is crazy because I said yesterday that I expected the ENS token price to be like a minimum $10 because that would be a $1 billion market cap, which was similar to what Gitcoins was, I should I say fully diluted value. It's gone more. It's gone to more than that. I think the current price of ENS is $40, which is a $4 billion fully diluted valuation. So, you know, depending on how many tokens you got will obviously dictate the size of your airdrop. But I think the airdrops were anywhere from, you know, maybe a couple hundred tokens if you'd had your Ans there for a little while, to thousands of tokens depending on how long you had had it for.
00:01:38.848 - 00:02:22.834, Speaker A: So obviously if you got 1000 tokens, that is a $40,000 airdrop right there. Crazy, right? These airdrops have literally changed people's lives. And I saw, I mean, I saw someone, I think it was Mike DeMaris, the founder of the Rainbow Wallet. He got, I think, a million dollars worth of Ens tokens in the, in his airdrop because he had so many ens names for so long and he's been a big supporter of them. Just, I mean, I think this early supporting of kind of like people through token edge, sorry, this early supporting that people do for protocols and then get airdropped, the token is such a unique and such a crypto or ethereum kind of based thing. It's just amazing how, how many times this happened and how many times it's probably going to happen into the future. And, I mean, you know, there's plenty of projects left in Ethereum that haven't done an airdrop yet.
00:02:22.834 - 00:03:26.034, Speaker A: And I'm sure they got there, they're going to do that in the future. And it's kind of become a thing now where it's like you can't launch a token without doing an airdrop anymore, because if you do, the community is kind of going to be like, well, what the hell? Like, where's my airdrop? Not just that, not, not out of a sense of a sense of entitlement either. Maybe some people are like that, but also out of a sense of, well, if you didn't airdrop the Tokens, where are the tokens going to? Like, if you're trying to decentralize the protocol, then where are your tokens going to? And I went, I went through AnS's distribution on one of the refills the other day and how I thought it was actually a very fair distribution, but for any protocol that doesn't do an airdrop, okay, well, then you're like, okay, where are all the tokens? Then they'll say, you know, a lot of them are in the treasury. I'm like, okay, well, then if the community has no tokens from an airdrop, then the treasury is de facto controlled by the team and investors. And again, another beautiful thing about ENS is that it had no investors, no VC's, nothing. 25% of the supply went to the airdrop, 25% went to early contributors and core team members, and 50% went to the treasury. A nice clean distribution of tokens without any VC's or funds sitting in there.
00:03:26.034 - 00:03:43.290, Speaker A: And we know there's vesting on the team and core contributors of four years. No vesting for the airdrop. It's a pretty liquid market right now. So if you wanted to sell, you can. But, yeah, just an amazing day to be an Ethereum. Ethereum, really. And I had people asking me about who they should delegate the ENS tokens to.
00:03:43.290 - 00:04:27.348, Speaker A: If you're planning on holding your ans tokens, there is actually a list that comes up when you go through the claims process and it says, you know, who do you want to delegate to the top delegates right now? Uh, as Corey ETH kind of says here, there's a, there's a list. Basically, Coinbase was number one when, when Corey put this tweet out. I think it's changed a bit. But Coinbase, uh, actually, the fact that Coinbase put their hat in the ring to be a, uh, to get involved with ENS governance is pretty amazing. Coinbase has always been such a great supporter of the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm really excited to see them continue being that supporter because we need, I mean, in the Ethereum ecosystem, we need decentralized exchanges to support us, uh, from like a fiat gateway perspective, but also from an onboarding perspective and getting those kind of like l two supported and stuff like that. So yeah, really cool to see them there.
00:04:27.348 - 00:05:00.380, Speaker A: But also the, the rest of the leaderboard reads as follows. Brantley ETH, which is one of the Ens core developers, rainbow Wallet ETH, which is, as I said, was Mike Demaris, who got a large, large airdrop there. He's been a longtime Ethereum community member, longtime Ens fan. Nick ETH, former Ethereum core developer and also an ENS core developer. Mike Damaris, as I kind of mentioned before, kind of same as Rainbow wallet, fire eyes, dao. They're a kind of like a group of people that do a lot of advising for different projects around their tokens and daos and things like that. So they're a great group.
00:05:00.380 - 00:05:36.266, Speaker A: Absar, which is Alex van DER sand, who I mentioned yesterday, I think Simona, she has been in the ethereum ecosystem for quite a while now, has worked on ETH bounties and with gitcoin and things like that. Corey ETH, which is the Corey that's tweeting this, he created the ETH burn bot and has been basically involved in the ethereum ecosystem for quite a while. Left Harris, who I think I mentioned yesterday, the creator of the rocky portfolio accounting app and a b, we are going to make it dot ETH. I don't know who that is. I. Maybe someone's going to call me out for not knowing who that is. But essentially, basically, these are the top delegates right now.
00:05:36.266 - 00:06:07.220, Speaker A: I mean, any of these choices are good. I would probably encourage people not to choose Coinbase just because we don't exactly know who Coinbase is going to be using this governance power. I personally prefer to select individuals because I actually know who's going to be wielding the power. I haven't claimed my ENS tokens on Sassle ETH yet because I was waiting for gas to be cheaper, at least under 100 way because there's no rush to claim it right now because I don't plan to sell those tokens. So no rush to claim. And claiming is pretty expensive. I think it was $250 at one point.
00:06:07.220 - 00:06:45.764, Speaker A: When I checked earlier today I was like nah, I'm not spending 2050 in gas fees just to claim these tokens that I'm not even selling because you've got until May 2022 to claim. So I'm just gonna wait for gas to be a bit cheaper because gas went crazy today obviously because everyone was trying to claim and, and trade it and stuff like that. But I think I'm going to probably delegate to, maybe I shouldn't say who I'm going to delegate to actually because I don't want to kind of like influence your decision. I don't want to kind of like make it so you be like oh well, Sassle's, you know, delegating to this person, I'll follow him. I'm not going to tell you I'm going to delegate to, I have a few people in mind. You know, they may or may not be on this list. There's plenty of good delegates out there.
00:06:45.764 - 00:07:13.604, Speaker A: But yeah, as I said, like you can always ping me in the Discord channel and I'll answer if you want a review of a delegate and I'll tell you if I think that you should delegate to them or not. But great to see that there's already a really, really strong list here on the leaderboard. So awesome. I guess like in terms of ENS going forward, I think that this is really only the beginning for the project. I mean everyone's going to have a dot ETH name. It's as simple as that. Like if you're an ethereum user, you have to have a dot ETH name.
00:07:13.604 - 00:07:46.988, Speaker A: That is just the way it's going to be. Everyone's going to want to have one. I'm actually really looking forward to seeing what ENS does with L2 because obviously registering on layer one is not cheap and I can't wait for them to actually be on a L2 where people can register their Ans names there and do it for a much, much cheaper than it is today. But if you, you know, it's funny because if you compare it to, I guess like registering a domain name, for example, like a.com, I don't know exactly how much that costs, but it's not free. It's like, it's at least tens of dollars, I think, the last time I checked. So if we can get the cost down to that for an ENS name, I think that's good enough.
00:07:46.988 - 00:08:25.488, Speaker A: And that's exactly what these L2s will do, probably even cheaper than that. But I think that obviously, no one's going to want to spend hundreds of dollars to set up their ens. Like, that's a bit ridiculous, and it kind of, like, turns people away. So I'm looking forward to seeing what they do in the L2 arena going forward. All right, so ludicron from hot protocol put out this really great Twitter thread, basically as a call to arms about getting uniswap liquidity incentives on arbitrary and optimism. Now, I've discussed this before and about how L2 is growing nice and steady, but to really supercharge the growth and to bootstrap it, you need token incentives. Now, arbitrum and optimism do not have a token right now.
00:08:25.488 - 00:08:57.124, Speaker A: They may or may not have one in the future. I'm betting that they will, but who knows when that's going to be? So it's really on the ecosystem projects to kind of like, put some liquidity incentives there to bootstrap the growth. And I, you know, that's basically what little Cohen has done in his thread here. He's put together reasoning why he believes this should happen, and then put together kind of like a temperature check on the governance forum and then a snapshot vote for it as well. I think this will pass, to be honest. It's just kind of like ironing out the details of how many unitokens should be paid out of the treasury to the. To these kind of like, L2 solutions.
00:08:57.124 - 00:09:38.512, Speaker A: How long should the program last for what should be the target? Where are the KPI's things like that? Because at the end of the day, I know that projects don't want to be responsible for bootstrapping the entire ecosystem on one of these new networks. But at the same time, Uniswap is one of those projects where essentially they're only on arbitrary and optimism. They're not even on the polygon pos chain, right? They're only on arbitrum, optimism, and ethereum layer one. And there are obviously, like, forks of Uniswap, like Pancakeswap on BSc and stuff like that. But uniswap itself is. Is only on those three networks, right? Now. And so they have a really unique opportunity here to put those uni rewards to work and get people to use arbitrary and optimism.
00:09:38.512 - 00:10:20.290, Speaker A: But at the same time, I don't think it's just liquidity incentives. It's also on ramps, as I mentioned before, we need places like Coinbase to just do on ramps to these things because without that, it's going to be very hard to convince people to pay, you know, massive bridging fees from layer one to get to these L2. So I'm looking forward to that as well. But I think that the funny thing is, is that I think people will be fine paying those bridging fees if there's liquidity incentives as well. And then once they're actually on L2, it's fine, they can just stay there. They don't have to pay those bridging costs again, as long as they bridge in enough, enough value and they can just play around and stay there. And there's no real need for them to, to kind of like off offload unless they're going to fiat or something like that, or unless they want to use some other protocol that's not on these L2s.
00:10:20.290 - 00:10:42.454, Speaker A: But there's bridges for that, that kind of like pass through. I mean, hot protocol is one of those bridges. There's, there's plenty of others out there like connects and stuff like that as well. So. So yeah, give this thread a read. I'm definitely supportive of this, this idea because Uniswap's treasury has $11 billion sitting in it right now. So obviously putting that to use is going to be very, very net positive for the Ethereum ecosystem, especially at L2.
00:10:42.454 - 00:11:07.886, Speaker A: So rocket pool is finally live after how many years? Like five years or something like that. Rocket pool is finally live on the Ethereum main net. And in just 2 hours, there was 94 nodes across 28 time zones being registered. Registered. I think there's a lot more now. There's actually a website that you can use, which I'll link in the YouTube description here, that lets you track the kind of status of the network. I think this is a really, really cool website, but it lets you track the status of the network.
00:11:07.886 - 00:11:41.932, Speaker A: There's 149 nodes now across 36 time zones, and you can see kind of like the minimum kind of like RPL required to become a node. You can become a node with 16 ETH as well, which obviously, I mean, 16 ETH is to become a node in the rocket pool network. It's not, you don't have to use 16 ETH to participate in rocker pool, you can use it, I think, as low as 0.01 ETH, which is, which is awesome. But as I mentioned yesterday, I'm so happy to see Rockerpool finally live. I know the community is stoked for this. I know that there are a lot of people who have been waiting to stake a stoked for this as well.
00:11:41.932 - 00:12:05.500, Speaker A: Just stake with lower values. I mean, you can now stake with just like one ETH. I mean, the funny thing is you have to account for gas fees. So if you've, you've only got 0.01 ETH to stake, well, it's probably not going to be worth it because you're probably going to spend that much in gas just to be able to stake to begin with. Um, but you know, if you've got like one e or something like that, then you can definitely stake that through rocket pool. Yes, you're going to probably still suffer from like the higher gas fees, but you're still going to be able to get in there.
00:12:05.500 - 00:12:48.184, Speaker A: And I'm wondering if that, if Rockerpool is going to do a kind of like, uh, batched on boarding where they basically pull together funds and then be able to kind of like split the gas fee or amortize the gas fee across, across users, maybe that's on their roadmap. I haven't checked, but, but still really, really cool to see this. Um, you know what's funny? I actually, you know, there's 149 nodes right now. I'm curious to see what that number looks like. You know, in a few months, I'm planning on spinning up some, some rockable validators with some ETH that I've still got that isn't in ETH two staking under my own validators, because I really want to help the network here and keep it decentralized. But could we get to a point where there's like thousands of these rocker pool nodes and the rocker pool network actually becomes more decentralized than some of these layer one networks. That'd be really, really cool as well.
00:12:48.184 - 00:13:17.850, Speaker A: So I'm looking forward to seeing how rocketpool evolves, and I'm just really happy that it's finally live on the Ethereum main net and the community. I went in there today again in the Discord Channel, in the rocker pool Discord channel. They're awesome. Always, always a good time in there. So definitely join their Discord channel if you want to kind of like, get a vibe with the community about everything Ethereum. So across protocol is now live. So it's now live on the Ethereum main that it is, or they claim it is, the fastest, cheapest and most secure l two to l one bridge.
00:13:17.850 - 00:14:00.510, Speaker A: And they say any potential across token will be distributed in the fairest way possible. And apparently all the users, the community will decide who will be deciding who gets it. And across says here that we are all co founders essentially, of across protocol, which I think is a cool approach. They're basically starting from like a community first approach where they're basically like, well, it's in the community's hands. We're going to do like a fair fare launch where basically the community gets to decide what the token distribution looks like, which is super awesome. But essentially if you want to use the protocol right now, for any future airdrops that happen, you can go to across to transfer ETH, USDC and Uma from Arbitrum to layer one other assets and l two s to come. I haven't tried it yet.
00:14:00.510 - 00:14:20.566, Speaker A: I've been meaning to try it. I just didn't get around to it today because just so much stuff was happening. I literally spent like 6 hours today just non stop trying to keep up with everything. I recorded a podcast with Eric for Ethub. It was just crazy. And I had a painter over as well today and it was just like mayhem. So I haven't really had a chance to check it out yet, but still go check it out, use it.
00:14:20.566 - 00:15:02.728, Speaker A: I mean, obviously use it for it for if you want to kind of like airdrop farm, but also use it if you're going from arbitram to l one and see how it kind of works there. You can read the across light paper as well. It's based on UMA's optimistic oracle here, which is really cool. It's really unique, as I mentioned before, and across protocol is actually being audited as well by open Zeppelin. So this isn't just some kind of like early kind of, I guess, thing that's unaudited. You can trust that open Zeppelin, one of the premier kind of auditing and development firms in the Ethereum ecosystem, been around for quite a while, has audited it, and it's been built by engineering talent from UMA protocol as well. When UMA is kind of been audited before as well, and been around for quite a while too.
00:15:02.728 - 00:15:40.668, Speaker A: So definitely go check out across protocol at across to and check out their blog post for more details about their quote unquote Fairfair launch and about how they're going to be distributing tokens to the ecosystem. So Sam McPherson from from the protocol engineering group at Makerdao has put out this kind of like, image teasing die Maker, kind of like l two. So you can see here that optimism, polygon, Hermes, Zksync, Stocknet, arbitram fuel are all listed here as kind of like altoos that Maker wants to support. And I think there was another quote tweet from this where someone else from the. From. I think it was not from the maker team. Chris.
00:15:40.668 - 00:16:09.592, Speaker A: Chris here from. He is. He's the L2 researcher at makerdao, but also one of the people who was involved with l two beat. He quote tweeted and said, I'm so excited for what's coming for cross chain maker that it hurts. And I've gone through kind of like cross chain maker, sorry, makers plans for cross chain before and cross l two and how they're planning to work it out there. They essentially want to have it so that there's, like native bridges between all these l two s, so that they can keep track of the dye supply. And then it all happens and, like, die minting happens at layer one.
00:16:09.592 - 00:17:11.622, Speaker A: So. So, yeah, I mean, I'm super hyped to see what makers final implementation looks like for their cross l two kind of like features. I think that aave has, you know, as I did, as I went through on the other day, when Aave detailed v three, they have a really good approach where they're using their a tokens to go cross chain and cross l two. But I think that when you keep it in the family and keep it just to the l two s, you can do even more stuff because you don't have to worry about kind of like trusted bridges and different kind of like networks and stuff like that, because all these things are going to be going through ethereum layer one, of course, and like. And ethereum layer one is going to be powering all of them and they're all going to be able to talk to each other in a really nice way. So I'm very much looking forward to seeing what Maker does here with Dai, with the maker protocol on cross chain and cross l two. So, speaking of l two s, Mata labs, the guys behind, or the team behind, I should say, zK sync, have raised $50 million in a new funding round led by a 16 z, with participation from other investors like placeholder Dragonfly Capital and one Kx.
00:17:11.622 - 00:17:56.190, Speaker A: Now, full disclosure here, I participated in this round. Very, very proud to participate in this round. Of course, ZK sync are building amazing things, building their ZKVM, ZK rollups and ZK Porter I mean they are one of the premier L2 teams out there right now. But what I found really interesting about the way Zksync did the, sorry the matter labs did their series b round here is that not only did they include kind of like obviously these big name VC's are pretty much like in every round these days, but they also have strategic partners with angels, but also a lot of different projects within the ecosystem. So you can see here that they have financing from partners such as blockchain.com, comma, crypto.com, comma, consensus people at leadership of Aaver, Powerswap, lido, gnosis.
00:17:56.190 - 00:18:33.694, Speaker A: I mean look at, look at all the things that connects. And the reason why you would do this is because essentially what Zksync is trying to do is trying to get everyone on board to support them as early as possible. So when they go live with their main net ZKVM and their mainnet ZK Porter, they want to be able to get all these infrastructure projects to, to support them all the bridges from day one, getting kind of like centralized exchange on ramps, getting all the DeFi projects to onboard and integrate and everything like that. So this is very, very smart, I thought. Yeah, but yeah, amazing raise $50 million. That's going to give them a lot of, a lot of kind of Runway here. And Zksync have confirmed that they're doing a token before as well.
00:18:33.694 - 00:18:56.540, Speaker A: So there's no need to speculate here. They have literally said they're doing a token. If you want to airdrop farm it, there are a couple, only a couple of ways right now to do so. If you've used Gitcoin to donate using Zksync, well, then you've already done it or receive donations, then you've already got it. But then there's one other way, I think, where you can use curve that's on the Zksync test net. It's been on there since like November last year. But using that may qualify you as well for it.
00:18:56.540 - 00:19:16.210, Speaker A: So those are the couple ways. But there's going to be more ways going forward. I mean, they have the uni swap port as well. They ported to their ZkvM, which you can use. You can find that on their blog post as well, or on their Twitter account. But essentially, as I said, there's no need to speculate. They have said they're going to, they're going, they're going to have a token and they've also said that they're going to be distributing that token.
00:19:16.210 - 00:19:46.270, Speaker A: The majority of it to the community as well. So very much looking forward to that. But I guess congrats to matter labs. This is, I mean, pretty much like every L2 team has done a series B round so far. You know, obviously Albatrum did one, Starkware's done one, Polygon hasn't really done like done you kind of like series A or series B because they have like a liquid token already. So they've just been selling tokens in kind of like a strategic sales and stuff like that. And who else is there? You know, optimism is probably doing one.
00:19:46.270 - 00:20:12.746, Speaker A: I don't know, there's probably like plenty of kind of like, of these teams still raising and raising these series B's. But as I said before, it's rare for a crypto team to go beyond a series B. So it's kind of like series B then tokenized sort of thing. So curious to see what happens. I think 2022 is really going to be the l two wars, where all these l two s are going to have tokens. They're going to be fighting for each, for everyone's liquidity, fighting to get projects, fighting to get infrastructure support. And we're going to have a true year of l two.
00:20:12.746 - 00:20:40.394, Speaker A: I thought it was going to be this year, but I think it's going to be next year now because tokens really do lead to bootstrapping growth and going to lead to much more growth than they would have without a token. So, yeah. Once again, congrats to the matter labs team on this awesome raise here. Very proud to be an investor as well, of course. So Uniswap have announced that they're kind of like changing their branding of the Uniswap protocol. So you can see here that basically. Actually, no, they've got three different kind of brands that they're going for.
00:20:40.394 - 00:21:25.964, Speaker A: So the one on the left is what they're kind of assigning to the Uniswap protocol itself. It's kind of like a shield with the unicorn, I guess, like a unicorn, the shape of a shield. Then you have a uniswap labs, which is which. Which is a shield with the kind of like inverted and kind of like uninverted XYK kind of curve here, which is how Uniswap works or how the aim works. And then you've got the Uniswap grants program on the far right with a shield with kind of a bit of, kind of like decorations pointing out of it. Now, I know that branding and kind of like logos are super subjective, right? This is not something that everyone's going to agree on. I've seen some people kind of criticize it, saying that it looks too, I guess like Normie and it looks too much like the traditional finance system that has a lot of, kind of like shields for their logo, especially a lot of universities.
00:21:25.964 - 00:22:01.134, Speaker A: But I actually think it strikes a nice balance between what uniswap is and kind of like what Uniswap wants to be. It wants to be like a premier kind of product and service. On a theory, it wants to be taken very seriously, but it also wants to keep its ethereum roots and it's kind of like crypto native roots, which is what I think the, the fact that they're splitting the brand up or the logos up into three different kind of things here, depending on what it is, definitely makes a lot of sense to me. So I'm a fan of it, of course. But obviously you're all going to have very different opinions there and I think that. I think it's going to. Yeah, you can, you can share feedback through the governance forum as well.
00:22:01.134 - 00:22:13.590, Speaker A: This is definitely not the finalized as design. So if you want to share feedback, you can go to this link. It'll be linked in the YouTube description. But I think that generally I like it. I don't know. I really do like it. You know, I like the pink.
00:22:13.590 - 00:22:33.062, Speaker A: I've always liked the uniswap pink. It's very distinct. And I've always liked the uniswap, kind of like unicorn branding. So yeah, it makes a lot of sense to me. But definitely go check this out and kind of give your feedback if you, if you want to. So this the discord CEO found. The CEO of discord has teased Ethereum integration with discord today.
00:22:33.062 - 00:23:14.096, Speaker A: So you can see here that you'll be able to connect your Ethereum wallet via metamask or wallet connect in, I guess, like an upcoming release. Now, what I wanted to kind of like focus on for a bit here is not so much the kind of like tweet teaser, but the fact that if you go to the quote tweets, like if you click the quote tweets here, you are going to see an endless amount of people kind of hating on discord. You can see it here, like, fuck you, discord. Please God, make it stop. I'm going to quit using nitrogen. There are so many of these, literally thousands of these responses, and it really all comes down to these people are anti NFT for one reason or another. I mean, the two main reasons I saw was that they think they are ponzi or kind of like scams.
00:23:14.096 - 00:23:37.736, Speaker A: And secondly, they think that the environmental impact is too great, which they don't really understand how blockchains work. They don't understand that if nfts aren't being used on a blockchain, it doesn't matter. Ethereum is still going to produce produce blocks whether there's nfts or not in those blocks. Right. Because the NFT network, sorry, the Ethereum network, does more than just nfts. And the second thing, calling it a scam in the ponzi, I mean, that's just uninformed. I mean, obviously a lot of it may be a scam in a ponzi.
00:23:37.736 - 00:24:06.514, Speaker A: I mean, that's just. I mean, a lot of life is a scam in a Ponzi, but there's a lot of fundamental value here as well. So, yeah, I mean, if you want to scroll through it and kind of like just see the craziness, you can do that. But I mean, there's nothing of real value there really. It's just a bunch of people yelling into the void, I think. But yeah, I hope Discord doesn't pull this kind of like feature integration to please some kind of like really loud people who just don't understand the technology. Because this would be really cool to be able to connect your Ethereum wallet directly into your discord account.
00:24:06.514 - 00:24:43.662, Speaker A: You know, I'd love to connect hassle east to this and just have it natively within discord, because I use discord all the time, so. Yeah, great to see that from, from jason here. So Coinbase now has a wallet extension. So if you have used the Coinbase wallet in the past, essentially, I think the Coinbase wallet extension allowed you to do a few things before, and obviously the Coinbase wallet mobile app has allowed you to do even more. But now the Coinbase wallet extension is basically a metamask competitor. So it'll allow you to connect to any kind of like web3 enabled website if you install this extension. And it'll allow you to do what you've done with Metamask before.
00:24:43.662 - 00:25:29.644, Speaker A: And the funny thing is about this is that Metamask has competitors now, and I've spoken about this, I think, a few months ago on the refuel, but Metamask has a lot of competitors now. But I don't know how successful these competitors are going to be at getting people to migrate away from Metamask. Like, I know Metamask is missing a lot of features and it's not really a feature rich kind of platform. It has a lot of issues, but I can trust that Metamask is safe and secure, at least under the hood, right? Obviously there are kind of like ways that hackers can get access to your funds through metamask and you should be keeping all your funds on a hardware wallet anyway. But I pass through metamask through my, through my hardware wallet a lot of the time. But for me to change from Metamask to Coinbase wallet, I mean, I just probably not going to do it. Like, to be honest, I have no real reason to change.
00:25:29.644 - 00:26:06.968, Speaker A: I'm a desktop power user. I don't really need all the fancy bells and whistles. I use other tools for that, like Zappa. But this is cool because it just puts pressure on metamask to kind of, I guess like add more features, do more things, and it's just another kind of like browser wallet extension that's in, in the fray here. And speaking of kind of like metamask having to do things to maybe kind compete here, Joseph Lubin has actually teased that. I mean, iceberg here put out a tweet where they took a screenshot of the Coinbase wallet extension announcement and said metamask is going to have to drop a token. And then these journalists from Coindeck Coindesk said not going to happen.
00:26:06.968 - 00:26:36.616, Speaker A: JPM, being JPMorgan, owns at least 10% of metamask controlling entity being consensus. They don't want tokens on the balance sheet, I bet. And then Joe Lubin, the CEO and founder of Consensus said Andrew Consensus has thousands of tokens on our balance sheet. Consensus is vigorously controlled by its employees, which includes me, and we are driving towards decentralization of several of our projects. When Mask stay tuned. When objective journalism, sir. So Joe Lubin basically dropped the mic here while also teasing that metamask token is coming.
00:26:36.616 - 00:26:53.102, Speaker A: So I think this is all the confirmation you need. People have been speculating about this for a while, but for Joe Lubin to say when masks stay tuned. He didn't just say when. Mask is kind of like the meme. He said when Mask stay tuned. Which basically means that it's coming. But, you know, we don't know when just yet.
00:26:53.102 - 00:27:40.044, Speaker A: Now, this kind of got people talking today. It's like, how would you distribute metamask tokens? The easiest way for them to do do it would be if you have used the metamask swap feature, they can get collect all those addresses and then airdrop tokens to those kind of, those sorts of people that have used that. But that's really the only thing they can do, because metamask doesn't know what addresses you have connected or kind of like created on the metamask wallet. They just don't have access to that information, so they wouldn't be able to tell. And also on top of that, there's no real way for them to kind of like, I guess I could do a civil resistant way, civil resistant mechanism either. So they would have to go through the swap feature. Now, because of this and because of Joe's tweet today, I'm sure there's going to be a lot of people trying to game this airdrop right now, but maybe the snapshot had already been taken.
00:27:40.044 - 00:28:15.906, Speaker A: I don't think Joe would be kind of like saying this, unless the mask token was, was close. So it probably is happening soon. If I had to kind of make, make a bet there. But there is one other way they could distribute the token, and that's basically checking the inferior log. So this is maybe a bit esoteric, so I have to explain it a little bit. But when you install metamask, you have your RPC at the top, right? Your network that you're connected with, connected to, and it'll say like the Ethereum main net or like a testnet or one or another network, like arbitrum optimism or something else. Now, when you're on the Ethereum main network, when you first install metamask, it defaults to the infura endpoint.
00:28:15.906 - 00:28:57.726, Speaker A: What that means is that all of your transactions that go through metamask are routed through Infuria's full nodes that they run, the infrastructure that they run, and then that gets it into the mempool, which then gets it mined, and then obviously your transaction gets processed. Now, I don't know if Infuria keeps logs for a long time. Maybe they have, I don't even know if they log for this sort of stuff. But that's another way they could do it, because essentially they'd be able to say, well, check all the people who used infuria, because they would have used it through metamask and airdrop metamask tokens to those people. Maybe that's a way they're going to do it. But those are the only two ways that I can think of. Maybe someone else can come up with something that I haven't thought of, but I definitely do not think that there's anything else.
00:28:57.726 - 00:29:34.046, Speaker A: Like, I've asked other people that I know, I've asked other people that, that kind of like, know, kind of like how metamask works under the hood and how infuria works and all that sort of stuff. Really, those are the two, the only two ways that I can think of. So I guess if you haven't used the swap feature yet, maybe it's worth using it, just in case they haven't taken the snapshot at this point. And all you have to do is go to metamask, click swap, and it's like the centralized exchange swapper, but it also carries a fee with it. I think it's a 0.8% fee on top of the fee that you'll take for interacting with a decentralized exchange as well, which is normally like 0.3%, but it may be worth it if there is a metamask token or when there is a metamask token.
00:29:34.046 - 00:30:13.020, Speaker A: I'm sure a mask token is going to be coming very, very soon, so keep an eye out for that for sure. All right, so finally here, Tim Bico from the Ethereum core devs has put out a kind of like message here saying that they are looking for AIP editors or Ethereum improvement proposal editors. So eips Power Ethereum, they allow anyone to propose a standard for either the protocol itself or applications. Right now, only two people act as part time editors, and we're looking for others to help. So more info here in this link, which will be linked in the YouTube description. If this sounds like something you would like to do, if you're looking for your front door, front door. If you're looking for the front door into getting your foot in the door, that's the, that's the kind of.
00:30:13.020 - 00:30:35.704, Speaker A: That's what. That's the saying I was looking for. If you're getting, if you're interested in getting your foot into. Into the door for crypto, this is probably a really, really awesome place to start. So if you all have a background in kind of like technical writing or kind of like writing documentation, stuff like that, this is probably something that will interest you, but I'll leave a link to it in the YouTube description. You can go check it out, but I think that's going to be it for today. So thank you everyone for listening and watching.
00:30:35.704 - 00:30:42.544, Speaker A: Be sure to subscribe to that channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
