00:00:01.230 - 00:00:18.562, Speaker A: You all right? Hi, guys. Welcome to this session on Web three economics. And strap in. We're going to have a very, very fun time. It's going to be very intense, so be prepared. Today I want to talk about three key things, and it's going to be for beginners. I don't want to assume that everyone knows everything.
00:00:18.562 - 00:00:45.342, Speaker A: So we're going to start off with economics design model canvas. When you're designing an economics, you want it to be self sustaining, self financing. How do you create a very sustainable economics model? And I'll share a canvas with you to get started. Then we're going to look at the role of nfts. A lot of people have been talking about nfts in all these games. Land, virtual assets, pfps. What are the pros and cons to this? What are the problems that exist in web two, web two games that we can learn in web3 games, because there are a lot of things that we can learn.
00:00:45.342 - 00:01:18.630, Speaker A: And lastly, there's a lot of conversation. There's a conversation moving in games. Where do we even need tokens anymore? Why do we need tokens? And what is the future of tokens looking like in games? Because a lot of games are web 2.5 instead of completely web3. And what does it mean in your economics? So we'll get started with the economic model canvas. How do you start an economic model? How do you start a healthy economy? It starts in three very simple steps. The first one is to understand what is the value that your economy is bringing.
00:01:18.630 - 00:01:54.958, Speaker A: A lot of people migrate to the US because there's a lot of great value that the US brings. So what is the value that you are producing in your economy? Why are people going to your economy? This is very similar to any business model value or any business model canvas. Think from that angle. What kind of value, what kind of intrinsic value you can create from your economy that attracts people there. Then once we have that started, we are attracting people now we need to understand how do we build a very robust system. We're going to look at them in three different ways. The first one is, and these are all rules of the economy, just like creating the legal constitution, these are the rules of how you should behave in the economy.
00:01:54.958 - 00:02:30.474, Speaker A: And we're going to look at three kind of rules. The first one is how should the market behave? So who are your buyers and sellers? Who are the participants in this market? And this market is clearly your game. The second thing we're going to look at are what are the transactional pathways when people come into your game, they interact with each other or they interact with the game, they interact with smart contracts. So we need to understand what are the rules that all these different transactions are abiding by. And lastly, we're going to look at what are the rules that the assets are being governed by. When you're interacting with people, you're interacting and trading assets, trading some sort of things that has intrinsic value. And these intrinsic value assets, they have to abide by some form of rules.
00:02:30.474 - 00:02:53.142, Speaker A: And we can embake these rules in there. That's why games are so fun, because we get to define these economics from all the different angles. And lastly, we're not just stopping there. There's life ops you talk about. There's also treasury we need to talk about and how do we manage the funds in the economy moving forward. So you probably know all of this already, and this is nothing new. What I want to do is how do I turn this into a model canvas, just like business model canvas that we have.
00:02:53.142 - 00:03:41.170, Speaker A: What does this look like from an economy model canvas perspective? How do we use all this information to start a very simple model to get you thinking and get you started on how do we create a very sustainable economy that's self financing and self organizing? So you see the first part, we talked about value proposition. So we start with value proposition and then the three different rules. We talk about market design, mechanism design and token design. How do we design the market of your system? Looking at the economic agents, looking at the key transactional pathways and the key assets that will be in place. We don't have to write any rules here right now, just figuring out and labeling, just listing who are all these things in your market, what makes up your market? Then we look at mechanism design, what makes up the transactional rules, the different pathways of trade. Look at governance. We look at desired behaviors and undesired behaviors.
00:03:41.170 - 00:04:15.962, Speaker A: That's it. In economics, it's all about what kind of behaviors we want to incentivize and disincentivize. Why do you think the Fed increases or decreases the rate to incentivize our behaviors in spending of the US dollar? So this is something that we need to understand. And lastly, tokens design, understanding what kind of tokens are there in the space and what kind of rules should be embedded within the tokens. Whether we're talking about nfts, non fungible tokens, non tradable tokens, reputation tokens, so bound tokens, currency form tokens, these are all the different kind of questions you need to think about. In this section. And lastly on treasury, we look at outflows, balance and inflows.
00:04:15.962 - 00:04:50.182, Speaker A: These are the different ways to think about of how do you manage treasury. Of course, when you're starting up, when it's completely new, you don't have to think so much about treasury. You don't have to have specific rules for treasury, but it's good to have that at the back of your mind. So as the game grows, as the game develops, as you have increase in user retention of your game, treasury is something that you absolutely have to think about. It's not going to fix itself. So what does that look like? In more specific questions and each of these sections, there are more questions to think about. But very specific to games where we look at key assets.
00:04:50.182 - 00:05:22.594, Speaker A: Things like how do native tokens derive utility? Whether it's spending, is the utility coming from the ability to spend, the use case of spending, is it from holding, is it from representing underlying assets? Everyone just thinks of them as tokens. These are just assets. But these assets come from very different kind of first principles. First principles, utility for it to generate value. So we need to distill all these different aspects down. We're just creating a very big canvas. And then from there listing all the different areas we need to look at, we need to understand and then figuring out what's the first principles.
00:05:22.594 - 00:06:17.830, Speaker A: What is the primary demand drivers or supply driver to incentivize certain kind of behaviors, not just behaviors of users, but behaviors of assets as well. And for the design, the token design aspects we're looking at what are we incentivizing? Are we incentivizing user acquisition? Are we incentivizing user retention? Are we promoting certain kind of season passes or certain kind of new game launches? Everything we're trying to do is to affect and impact people's behaviors through incentives. And we can do all these different incentive rules design in the game economy. So with that in mind, I hope that gives, even if you're a beginner, that gives a very good foundation of what to think about. What are we talking about in economics? Economics is not just about this is Len, this is PFP, this is sort and content economics to upgrade in level of the games. There are a lot of things we need to think about from first principles perspective. A game is just like a country.
00:06:17.830 - 00:06:51.614, Speaker A: We need to think about how do we increase birth rate of people, how do we increase attraction of talents coming in? How do we increase immigrations coming in? How do we increase entrepreneurship, value creation, not just exchange in secondary market, but also primary market. So with that canvas in mind, we are looking at economics from its first principles and understanding how to build a very robust and sustainable economic model. But you can get all of this online. You can get a lot of this in web two books. So I want to focus a little bit more on web3. The first part was just to give everyone a very simple introduction. Now we're going to talk about nfts under myth.
00:06:51.614 - 00:07:14.810, Speaker A: The common mistakes in NFT design for web3 games. Can I have a show of hand? How many people created games? Experience in creating games involved in game development. Okay, a lot of people. Now raise a hand if you're doing NFT. Sell in your project, a few of them. Great. And raise your hand if it's a scarce resource that you're selling.
00:07:14.810 - 00:07:29.918, Speaker A: All right. No, it's fine. That's fine. Don't worry. With economics, it's not as good or bad. It really boils down to what are we trying to incentivize. Then we can identify if the thing that the incentive is good or bad.
00:07:29.918 - 00:08:04.966, Speaker A: So I want to talk about three different common mistakes that we see. There are a lot more that we can talk about, but I just want to focus on just these three. The first one is the virtues of scarcity. The second is scarcity for user acquisition, using scarcity to drive user acquisition. And lastly, what is natural market creation? So when we talk about virtues of scarcity, one of the main drivers that a lot of people do is to have limited nfts for sale. And these NFT could be pfps, it could be land, it could be certain kind of digital assets, it could be blueprints to craft certain kind of assets in your game. And that's really normal.
00:08:04.966 - 00:08:52.730, Speaker A: It's very common with scarcity. You want to limit the amount of supply available and you want to drive prices. And it's not unreasonable to think that way because you're more likely to sell nfts to raise, fund and bootstrap your economy. However, one of the problems is that it creates a first mover advantage. It means that these first movers start gatekeeping the game because they are the one who have access to this asset, be it a land, be it blueprint, be it certain kind of virtual asset that helps you to level up in a game. And the problem with that is that it moves the entire conversation away from playing the game to understanding this as a speculative asset, because there is a speculative value to it. And that defeats the whole entire first principles of the game.
00:08:52.730 - 00:09:42.102, Speaker A: Game needs to be fun. Game needs to increase user retention to play the game. If people are coming in because they see that, okay, as a first mover, I can get all the value, I can extract all the future potential value coming in, then you're changing the whole dynamics of the game. You're changing the kind of market that you have, the kind of buyers and sellers, and the kind of behaviors that they will provide and they will show because they are the wrong economic agents in the first place. So it's not just about creating nfts and making it limited, but understanding how does that impact users behavior? How does that impact the different kind of user? How do you attract the different kind of economic agents in your space? And so basically, the first thing is that it moves from gameplay to NFT speculation. The second thing is scarcity for user acquisition. In user acquisition, one of the ways is to bootstrap your economy.
00:09:42.102 - 00:10:11.758, Speaker A: That's it, right. A lot of things in blockchain, in web3 is that we want to bootstrap economy. We want to create our own economic models. So with NFT tokens or with releasing tokens earlier, we get to bootstrap our economy, we get to have user acquisition at a lower cost, and it becomes a very, very good marketing tool. And that's fantastic. Well, what happens with that? Again, it goes to the first problem of creating first mover advantage. The second order, the second derivative of that problem is that it prices out later, late joiners.
00:10:11.758 - 00:11:07.862, Speaker A: And this is not a very good reason to. This is not a very interesting and attractive way for people to come and join your system later once everything is up and running, because they would definitely lose out if I don't have all the key assets I need to play the game. I need to constantly buy and constantly pay a certain kind of utility tax on buying and renting these assets to play the game, to even enjoy the game. Then it really price out the late joiners and then again moves to speculation being the key aspect of the game. And this implication is that we move the value creation of tokens from being fun and really enjoying the game to speculative and gatekeeping like rent extraction. Because these holders of NFTs, these holders of assets, that's mandatory to play the game, you need a blueprint or you need this land to participate and play the game. Now, these people who own the assets are gatekeepers and you don't have a very robust and healthy economy that way.
00:11:07.862 - 00:11:33.758, Speaker A: And that becomes a big danger. And lastly, it's market creation. So it's market creation here. I'm talking a little bit more about secondary market creation. And whether you like it or not, the markets just are being created naturally. That's just how the economic of markets work. And this is laissez fair, the free hand economics, where when there is a supply and demand, when there's a mismatch in gap in the market, the market will kind of try to resolve the problem themselves.
00:11:33.758 - 00:11:54.014, Speaker A: So markets will be created, especially when we have scarce resource, scarce assets. And it happens a lot in the secondary market. And we see a big shift in their understanding. A lot of developers, a lot of protocol creators and game creators, they understand that. And what do they do? They tax secondary market. So yeah, I want new markets to exist. I'll take secondary market and I'll keep getting returns.
00:11:54.014 - 00:12:38.578, Speaker A: And you know what? For better, for worse, it has been about a one and a half years experiment. And you see that all the secondary market taxation is now zero, the royalties is now zero. Because that doesn't really help to create a very robust and healthy economy. It might be a short term gain for the game developer because I get a new way of revenue, but it's a long term loss because I don't get user retention anymore. Because to play the game, to even enjoy the game, I have to spend so much money to even get started. And that becomes a huge disincentive for late joiners to come in. And so even if this is not the intention of the game developers, just by having a very speculative asset and the asset that is a key ingredient to playing the game, then you're creating a kind of natural secondary market.
00:12:38.578 - 00:13:10.874, Speaker A: And this can result in price bubbles. And we see that in a lot of games. Just look around with all the games over here, you've seen that they have all experienced price asset bubble. But you have to realize that it's not just because you're an NFT, you get a bubble. Pfps versus land, they're quite different with land assets, with blueprints, with assets required to play the game and to level up in the game, you see a higher likelihood of asset bubble as opposed to PFP. And that's because you don't need PFP to play the game. PFP is an extension of one's identity.
00:13:10.874 - 00:13:47.062, Speaker A: And the intrinsic value of that has a very different first principles, economic value as opposed to our land and all the other virtual assets. So then the main question comes in. We talked about NFTs already. Now what about the other kind of tokens? All the problems in nfts, we can always resolve them. These are all about creating new rules to design a more efficient system. That's why economics is beautiful, because we get to design brand new kind of systems once we understand the limitations out there. But as nfts, what about tokens? What about fungible tokens? We have hot currencies and soft currencies out there.
00:13:47.062 - 00:14:51.366, Speaker A: We have a lot of other stablecoin mechanisms out there. But when you're creating a game, do we still need tokens? What is the use of tokens in web3 games now? And how should we think about tokens if we want tokens, not nfts, but fungible tokens, how should we think about them when creating very sustainable economic design models? And the key question, which I do see a big shift in the economy these days. Initially, a lot of tokens were started as a way for user acquisition, which means to attract more people in the space, to increase the market, to have more buyers and sellers, to increase the probability of transaction. The conversation I want to move to right now is how do we start thinking of using tokens as user retention? Which means you already have a very existing huge pool of players, and these players really love your game. These players enjoy playing your game. How do we move the conversation to using these tokens as an incentive to keep them in the game, to retain them, and to allow them to create long term value creation. And that's very important because in value creation we talk about in all these economic models, there's long term value creation and short term value creation.
00:14:51.366 - 00:15:11.122, Speaker A: Long term value creation is the best thing we all get to share. We grow the pie and we get to slice the pie. Short term value creation can be very extractive, can be a zero sum game. I win at a cost of you. And that's the fastest way to win. Because long term value creation, you have to think about discount model value, your discount rate and all that kind of stuff. So it's very important to balance between both.
00:15:11.122 - 00:15:43.146, Speaker A: We need short term value creation to attract people and to stay in the game. We need long term value creation to keep growing the pie and make sure that people are really loyal to the game and really dedicated to this game. So with that in mind, I just want to end this with a report that we have created a framework to create sustainable game economics model. And it's a PDF that you can just download or you can go to the link there to read. And with that in mind, I told you we're going to have a very intense session. We cover three key topics. The first one is for beginners.
00:15:43.146 - 00:16:10.638, Speaker A: How do you start building a very robust economic model using the economic framework. The second, we look at NFT, which is a very new asset in web3 that you don't really have in web two. In web two, you have the dark markets. But in web3, we have big public markets to understand nfts. And how can we create rules to make sure that this generates long term value creation. And lastly, we talk about tokens. We need to shift the conversation from tokens as user acquisition to tokens as user retention.
00:16:10.638 - 00:16:36.930, Speaker A: And with that, thank you very much. I found the company economics design, and we design economics of games. We design games infrastructure, layer ones, defi, anything that has economics to do with it. So I hope you get a lot out of this, and it helps you to start thinking about how to create very sustainable economic models. Thank you. Thank you so much. Lisa.
