00:00:00.250 - 00:00:54.410, Speaker A: Welcome back to the Defiant. Today we're discussing DyDX's most recent upgrade, their move off of Ethereum, and how you can get involved with the brand new DyDx chain. Originally founded in 2017, DyDX has announced their latest update, and it might be their biggest one yet. Being one of the earliest adopters of Ethereum layer two solutions, the massive decentralized exchange has made an ambitious move onto their own standalone blockchain, the DyDx chain. The pivot signifies a large step in the protocol's pursuit of true decentralization and a new chapter in one of the largest DeFi derivatives ecosystems that exists today. Dydx Chain marks the full decentralization of DyDX, which is a big step towards democratizing access to financial opportunity. Still in its early release stages, the new DyDX chain presents plenty of opportunities for early and active participants.
00:00:54.410 - 00:01:54.270, Speaker A: So today we're going to walk you through what's new and how you can get involved. After years powered by Ethereum layer two, Starquare DyDx announced in June 2022 their intent to move onto their own native chain. Built on the Cosmos SDK, which allows for custom blockchain app composition to suit the niche needs of many developers. The pivot was inspired by the team's intent to take the next step in decentralizing DyDX, while also boosting the protocol's performance capabilities. Developing a blockchain dedicated to its native protocol allowed for full customizability over the chain and validators during Testnet. This set DyDX chain up to build a decentralized off chain order book system while keeping latency low, allowing for increased throughput and therefore higher transaction volume. Under this design, DyDxchain can handle significantly more transactions in the order book format desired by both institutions and pro traders, while of course maximizing decentralization components.
00:01:54.270 - 00:02:46.394, Speaker A: All fees on the DYDX chain accrue to validators and stakers are distributed predominantly in USDC and rewards can be claimed on a per block basis. This creates a rewards mechanism that isn't inflationary towards the native token and provides real world utility for validators and stakers. Now that the software has been fully released, product development is in the hands of the governance community. The governance community is commonly referred to as the DAO. It consists of all DyDx stakers, validators and subdows formed within the ecosystem. These subdows are formed by specific contributors that have certain skill sets that are beneficial to the mission of each respective subdao. The subdao ecosystem is expected to grow and be pivotal in future development of DyDX, but it's currently broken down into the operations subdow and the grant subdao.
00:02:46.394 - 00:03:43.390, Speaker A: As per a governance vote. The operations subdao is responsible for monitoring general chain activity and deploying a front end index of software for DyDx chain, while the grant subdow is responsible for, you guessed it, facilitating grants that can contribute to the growth of DyDx chain's ecosystem. Following the official launch on October 26, the protocol was in what's referred to as the postgenesis phase, which refers to the Genesis block of Dydx chain. There are two stages in the postgenesis phase, alpha and beta stages. Postgenesis Alpha is a preliminary stage to the full production of DyDx chain focused on security and stability of the network. This security and stability is bolstered by the amount of DyDx that's staked across the network's validators. Now that security and stability requirements have been met, the Dydx community successfully voted to move to the beta stage, which is the current stage.
00:03:43.390 - 00:04:55.818, Speaker A: The beta stage introduces trading functionality, adds 33 plus markets, and all fees accrue to validators and stakers during this stage. The beta stage is intended to explore full functionality of the platform prior to a full production launch. Now that we understand a little bit more about the postgenesis phases, let's explore how we can play our part in securing the network and testing the Dydx chain. For those of you who wish to get involved or have already been active DyDx users, we'll take you through how to get started with DyDx chain being a layer one chain, a layer one token is needed and the Dydx governance community voted in support of the DyDx token, which requires the migration of Ethereum native Dydx, referred to as ETH Dydx, into the DyDx chain. To begin the bridging process, we'll start by visiting an applicable bridge user interface. From there we can connect an Ethereum wallet holding ETH Dydx, which will then automatically generate a Dydx chain address for us, entirely linked to the original Ethereum wallet. Next, you'll be prompted to enter the amount of ETH Dydx you wish to migrate and to choose a recipient address on DyDx chain to migrate to.
00:04:55.818 - 00:05:45.290, Speaker A: You'll notice our auto generated DyDx chain address is already selected for us, but we can choose a different address manually if we'd like. After filling in the desired amount to bridge, we can click on preview migration to double check the details. Everything here looks good, so we can confirm the migration with our Ethereum wallet signature. Migrations can be checked on at any point until arrival, and for security purposes, it'll take roughly 40 hours to receive DyDX tokens on the DyDx chain. Now that we have our DyDx chain ticker Dydx, we can move forward and begin staking to help secure the network. Staking on the DyDx chain can be done through the Kepler wallet interface. To install the Kepler wallet, visit slash wallet and follow the very simple instructions.
00:05:45.290 - 00:06:43.098, Speaker A: Now with Kepler installed, we can import our DyDx chain wallet by clicking on import an existing wallet and then selecting used recovery phrase or private key. In order to obtain our 24 word recovery phrase, we're going to revisit the original bridge interface page. Click on our address in the top right hand corner and select export secret phrase. This can then be imported back into the Kepler import page and if done successfully, we can now set up our wallet which will allow us to search for Dydx, where our bridged DyDx tokens should be waiting. Armed with a successfully integrated Kepler wallet, we can now navigate to the DyDX Kepler dashboard or any other suitable staking dashboard or solution and select the staking tab. This will open up a full list of active validators for us to choose from. It's important to note that anyone can deploy a validator, and sufficient research must be done to ensure you're not interacting with a malicious contract.
00:06:43.098 - 00:07:43.530, Speaker A: The DyDX foundation has an informational article on their website for a brief intro into choosing validators. Now, once we've successfully chosen a validator, we can allocate up to 100% of our DYDX tokens to a single validator, or we can diversify amongst multiple validators to improve decentralization. Once staked, our DYDx tokens can be unstaked, but will typically go through a 30 day unbonding period before the tokens are fully within our custody again. Now that we have successfully staked, we can return to the dashboard and find all of the information on our stake, including voter power, total amount staked, and of course pending rewards. To claim rewards, we have to hit the claim button right here in the top right hand corner. All claimed DyDX tokens will be updated within our dashboard and we can then proceed to restake them if we so please. Now that DyDx chain has moved forward into its beta stage, limited trading capabilities and new onboarding mechanisms have been implemented.
00:07:43.530 - 00:08:22.934, Speaker A: Within this phase, a more streamlined alternative to bridging is available where users can deposit their assets from their Ethereum wallet straight into a DyDx chain based account. So we'll start by visiting the DyDx trading interface. From here we can select connect wallet in the top right hand corner. Now, after selecting your wallet of choice, a DyDx chain address will automatically be generated for you if you don't already have one. From there we can select deposit which is also in the top right hand corner. You'll then be prompted to select the source chain, the asset you'd like to deposit, and the total deposit amount. Then we're going to click on deposit on the bottom of this interface.
00:08:22.934 - 00:09:13.658, Speaker A: Our wallet will now prompt us to approve a specific spending cap and to pay the appropriate gas fee for that transaction. Once the deposit is confirmed in our wallet, a deposit is pending. Notification will appear in the top right hand corner of your screen and most deposits take about 15 to 20 minutes to complete. After the deposit transaction is completed, we can now view our newly deposited assets by clicking on the portfolio tab. And just like that, you've deposited into the DyDX chain and can now begin trading. DyDX's move off of Ethereum has been carefully built out over the past year and a half, and in the spirit of true decentralization, all further protocol development is now governed by the DAO. The protocol could bring a successful DyDX governance vote and if the DyDX community decides, could move into full trading by the end of November to the start of December.
00:09:13.658 - 00:09:53.570, Speaker A: The Dydx chain offers greater speed, scalability, customizability and decentralization, which should be beneficial to everyone involved in the ecosystem. This move provides greater utility for the DyDX token through governance and staking to promote good protocol behavior. With this new governance model in place, a finely tuned custom tech stack and a proven product, DYDX is continuing to cement itself as one of the top names in defi derivatives. I'd like to thank everyone for tuning in today and if you find any value in the work we do, please consider subscribing and hitting the bell button as it really helps with the algorithm. We'll see you in the next explainer video and until then, stay defiant.
