00:00:00.240 - 00:00:39.134, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deli Gray refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host and this is the 22 January 2024. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So just wanted to quickly mention a tweet that I put out over the weekend where I said that the deadly way refuel now consistently has 4000 viewers slash listeners per episode. Pretty amazing, honestly, that it's at 4000 considering the content that gets put into the refuel. Right? You guys know that the refuel is definitely not for the noob to crypto, definitely not for the noob to Ethereum, definitely for the more advanced person. Just because I don't tend to talk about the new stuff, newbie stuff, I tend to talk the more advanced stuff.
00:00:39.134 - 00:01:10.336, Speaker A: So the fact that there's 4000 people that check in every day, you know, via YouTube and the podcast is pretty humbling, honestly. And it's pretty amazing that that's, that many people are getting that much value out of my show. Because, you know, it's a week, it's an every or almost every weekday show. There are some rug fuels here and there, but almost every weekday show where, as I said, I discussed, you know, the, the most in depth, leading edge Ethereum things. You know, I'm always talking about like core dev calls and Ethereum research and Ethereum roadmap. Like all this stuff is not for the faint of heart. It is not for the noob kind of noobs out there.
00:01:10.336 - 00:01:36.404, Speaker A: It's definitely for the more advanced Etherea. You know, I usually direct noobs towards something like bankless because they're definitely targeting that market a lot more and try to break things down for the newbie audience. Whereas for me, if I was doing that every episode, it would just become extremely repetitive. Right. I do know that I repeat myself quite often, but I think that's because I like to give extra context and just like to remind people about with that extra context for things that I'm covering. But yeah, I just wanted to shout out and thank everyone for tuning in every day. It really means a lot to me.
00:01:36.404 - 00:01:59.740, Speaker A: As you guys know, the show is completely free. No ads, no sponsors, no referral links, none of that stuff. And there's never going to be any of that stuff. I do it because I love it and I do it because I know you guys get a lot of value out of it. And I hope to continue doing it for, you know, as long as I can. Honestly, I don't, I don't really see any reason why I would stop doing it? Because it's just, it is on, honestly, the highlight of my day most days. You know, some days are better than other, obviously, but it is definitely the highlight of my day most days.
00:01:59.740 - 00:02:39.782, Speaker A: And I really do feel disappointed whenever I have to do a rug fuel, whenever I have to miss an episode for one reason or another. So really just glad to continue doing it for the foreseeable future. So yeah, once again, as I said, thanks to everyone for tuning in. Hopefully we can get those numbers higher and higher. But as I said, like it is a very, you know, the daily way is definitely not a noob, a noob friendly ecosystem, but at the same time, the deliberate Discord channel is. So if you are a newbie and you want to learn more about Ethereum and maybe you don't understand a lot of things that I say on the refill because you're just, you just new to the ecosystem, you can definitely, definitely jump into the deliweight Discord channel and there are lots of friendly faces in there willing to help you with really any question that you have. So anyway, moving on from that to some news.
00:02:39.782 - 00:03:29.824, Speaker A: So this was about the all core dev call that happened last week. I actually missed a couple of things in that call that Christine Kim ended up covering here. So the first thing that I missed was basically that the devs had actually landed on a few aips that they feel comfortable basically, including in the Petra upgrade. So the Christine Kim says here the three eips that the devs were most aligned about for Prague were ERp 61, ten 7002 and 25 37. The first two are staking related code changes that will support ERP 7251. 72 51 is the max effective balance increase, as Christine says here. So yeah, there are already aips that the core devs are already feeling comfortable with, and I'm really happy that it's the aips that are basically prerequisites or basically required to support EIP 7251, which is probably my favorite eip of the up that upgrade so far.
00:03:29.824 - 00:04:35.290, Speaker A: And at the same time, I think I mentioned basically last week that I thought the chances of the Verkle tree related AIP is going into Petra were quite small. And Christine Kim echoed that here. While she said, well, I think the chances of the going into Prague is slim, I still think the ambitious nature of ETH devs will cause them to include other eips in Prague that make the upgrade hard to ship by end of this year. And I did, I think, mention that last week as well where I said that, you know, I guess like optimistically we could ship it this year, but realistically, probably early next year just because of the fact that, as Christine says here, you know, the core devs will probably want to include a lot of these eips because of the fact that there are a lot of really important eaps that, that are being proposed and that might push things out, especially if there are like bugs or there are unforeseen kind of things that comes up with the clients. As we saw with Den Kun, for example, with 48 44, there was something that basically pushed that back from being able to be shipped in November to shipped in March. And that was, I can't remember exactly what it was, but it had to do with erp 48 44. And the Devs basically agreed that they'd rather do that now than wait until the next upgrade to do it.
00:04:35.290 - 00:05:10.822, Speaker A: And if it cost, you know, a couple of months worth of, worth of time there, then it was worth it. And of course it happened during the holiday period, so kind of threw things off a bit. So the same thing could happen here by the end of the year. You know, gets, gets around to November and people are maybe expecting testnets to start or stuff like that. And then something happens and then we'd start the test nets in like January like we have with Den kun, but again, not really a big deal. And honestly, these eips, the ones that have been proposed so far, I don't know if I'd call any of them directly user facing. I mean, besides 7251, which obviously is solo staker facing, but also just like stakers in general facing.
00:05:10.822 - 00:05:42.136, Speaker A: And also that has downstream effects like 72 51 going to the network could allow us to do things like essentially increase the blob sizes which are user facing because it means that l two s get cheaper for users or roll ups get cheaper for users. But I don't know if there's anything directly user facing here. A lot of these things are definitely more geared towards developers helping developers out, just hardening the network, setting the groundwork for future upgrades. That's, that's what this kind of stuff is. And again, like, that's the reason why we push so much stuff to L2s, guys, because layer one changes. Like most of them are not user facing. They're not.
00:05:42.136 - 00:06:04.180, Speaker A: I mean, they're not directly user facing. Right. But anyway, that's just some of the things that I missed covering last week that I just wanted to cover. But you can go check out Christine Kim's tweet thread for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so this is something I wanted to talk about today for a little bit, actually. I'm probably going to spend a good chunk of time on this because I think it's important to talk about this again.
00:06:04.180 - 00:06:54.088, Speaker A: But just to give some context here, nevermind had, or the Nethermind Ethereum execution layer client had a bug today that affected validators that were connected to it. So I think around 10% of the network was basically offline for a couple of hours or a few hours because Nethermind forked off of the main chain onto its own chain due to a bug. Now, this bug was quickly fixed and then people could upgrade their nodes and be on their merry way and the network basically self healed like it usually does. But the reason I wanted to spend a bit of time on this today is because client diversity has once again become a big topic. Because we had obviously the Besu bug a few weeks ago, and now I've had the nethermine bug and everyone's like, okay, well, you know, how can we do client diversity when you're encouraging people to use clients that aren't Geth? And Geth is the only client that hasn't had a bug recently. It's like, well, okay, for starters, Geth isn't their only client that hasn't had a bug recently. There are other clients out there.
00:06:54.088 - 00:07:32.036, Speaker A: And secondly, just because Geth hasn't had a bug doesn't mean it's not going to have a bug in the future, right? And I think this is what trips a lot of people up where they, when they, when they kind of push back on this, they don't actually understand what the value of client diversity is. And I actually had this discussion with some friends today and I managed to define it in kind of so many words. I said to my friends, I'll just quote what I said. I said the entire point of client diversity is that we know that there is no way to be 100% sure that any client won't have a bug in it at some point. So we limit the damage by trying to be sure, sorry. By trying to ensure that no one client has a supermajority. So here's two scenarios to consider.
00:07:32.036 - 00:08:02.276, Speaker A: Right now, Geth has a super majority on the network, right? If Geth has a bug that leads to finalization on a bug chain. So let's say Geth has a bug that leads to fork off and onto its own chain. And because Geth is the supermajority it finalizes on that, and that becomes the canonical chain. To fix that would require a social coordinate, socially coordinated hard fork. That is not something that can be fixed in protocol. It would require extra protocol fixes, which basically means social coordination, to fix that. Now, just think about all the negative externalities that come off of that.
00:08:02.276 - 00:08:40.472, Speaker A: Just think about all the consequences of that, and think about how much of a shit show that would be right on par with the Dow. Just like 100 times bigger, because the ecosystem is 100 times bigger than it was back in 2016. Right? So obviously, that is the worst case scenario, and that can realistically happen if Geth has a bug in it that causes it to split off of the network. And as I said, just because Geth hasn't had one of these bugs yet doesn't mean it won't. There is absolutely no correlation between the popularity of Geth and the stability of Geth up until this point, with its chances of having a bug or not. Get is not static software. Get is the same as every other execution layer client in that it has to upgrade at least once, you know, every so often for the network upgrades that go into place.
00:08:40.472 - 00:09:10.254, Speaker A: Right. It has to upgrade to that. So to say that, you know, get these safer because it hasn't had a bug in a while, or because, you know, it's used by so many people, it's very popular, is completely wrong. So that's the first scenario, that that's what would happen today, because get is still the super majority client. Now, let's consider the second scenario, which is, in my opinion, the better scenario. No client has a supermajority, so no single client has the, you know, two thirds of the network, or basically takes up two thirds of the network. And let's just say that any one of those clients has a bug.
00:09:10.254 - 00:09:38.690, Speaker A: So let's say that even Geth was to have a bug, the network would degrade. Let's say that geth accounts for 30% of the network. Okay, well, 30% of nodes would basically, or validate validators, I should say, would basically be offline. That means that we are running at a degraded capacity. That means that finalization is still occurring, but the network is running at a degraded capacity. But let's even say in the worst case that it's 40% get, and then get has a bug, and now we're down to 60%. Well, that means we're down below the finality threshold, which means that we're not.
00:09:38.690 - 00:10:44.996, Speaker A: The chain is no longer finalizing, but the chain is still online. The same chain is still processing blocks at a reduced rate. Right now, the fix for this is released within a couple of hours from the Geth team and everyone upgrades and everything is fine, right? Every. Everything is fine because finality is restored. And then the only penalties were the inactivity leak penalties for, and the missed block block proposals for people running geth for those few hours at most. So which scenario would you prefer? Would you prefer the first scenario where it requires the socially coordinate, coordinated fork to fix, which is the worst case scenario and something that we want to avoid at all costs? Or would you like the second scenario where no client has a super majority, even though that may increase the risk of there being, you know, a big part of the network being on a bugged client? I always prefer the second scenario because it doesn't matter if there is a bug in, even if something has like 50% of the network that is still okay because of the fact that the bug will get fixed relatively quickly and it doesn't lead to a finalization on a super majority clients that was bugged, right. That that is the worst case scenario, as I said, because it requires social coordination to fix.
00:10:44.996 - 00:11:14.190, Speaker A: And the term fix here I'm using very lightly, because fix then becomes subjective because everyone has a different opinion on what you would want to do. Like, do you roll back the chain? Do you, do you do in a regular state change, do you accept this new bug chain as the canonical one? Or what if the bug is an infinite mint bug of ETH? You wouldn't. No one's going to accept that. No one's going to accept that. There's just going to be infinite ETH out there that would crash the price of ETH to zero. So in that scenario, let's just, you know, let's just put some hard kind of facts on this. In that, in that scenario, there is no way that anyone would agree to keep that as the finalized chain.
00:11:14.190 - 00:11:52.684, Speaker A: So it would require an irregular state change, or it will require a full blown chain rollback, which it is extremely messy. Guys, I can't even describe how messy this is. This, this, the amount of coordination that would be required here as well. Not just between the core devs, but everyone running Ethereum kind of node software, full node software, staking software. Anything got to do with the Ethereum network, all of the infrastructure providers, everything, right? It would be a massive lift, and it would completely destroy Ethereum's credibility. It would completely destroy Ethereum's kind of claim to fame of being, you know, reliable and secure and never going offline, like, that would be gone if Geth had a bug. And we finalized on that, on that kind of bug chain.
00:11:52.684 - 00:12:13.024, Speaker A: And then we had to read, we had to basically roll that back, essentially. So this is why people bang the drum about client diversity. Because at the end of the day, it doesn't matter if clients have bugs. The whole point is that we can't ever be sure that a client will not have a bug. And that's why we need to make sure that no client has a supermajority on the network. And this applies to every single network guys. This doesn't apply to Ethereum.
00:12:13.024 - 00:12:26.600, Speaker A: It applies to every single network. Even bitcoin. Bitcoin only has one client. That's basically 99% of the network. There are some other offshoot clients. But bitcoin core, for all intents and purposes, is the network, is the spec as well. Like, bitcoin core dictates what bitcoin is.
00:12:26.600 - 00:13:06.024, Speaker A: So if there was a bug in bitcoin core, that lint that led to infinite mint, you bet your ass that they would fix that, right? And. But the thing is, they would have to fix that by doing a rollback and doing a hard fork on that. But the thing is, is that that, again, is extremely messy. That that kills a lot of bitcoins credibility and it kills a lot of, you know, bitcoins, I guess, meme as being super reliable and super stable. So, like, the fact that bitcoin doesn't have client diversity, in my opinion, is very bearish. And any chain that doesn't have client diversity for me is really bearish. Because on a not long enough time horizon, the chances of having a bug, right, approaches 100%, especially if the software is changing, which it is in Ethereum, like, this software is not static, guys.
00:13:06.024 - 00:13:53.562, Speaker A: Like, even outside of network upgrades, it's changing because of the fact that the client teams put in, you know, work on their clients, they do optimizations and stuff like that. And some of those optimizations can lead to buds, which I think was the case with Nethermind. So when you really think about it and you really break all of this down, it is always better for no client to have a supermajority, and it is always better for client for there to be client diversity, even if the other clients have, have bugs in them, and if any client has bugs in them. And I think that's the point that I've been trying to get across to people both privately and publicly. And I hope that I was able to get that point across to you guys. But now I'm not going to spend too much longer on this, but I do want to finish up by saying that the problem is, is that we only need a couple of the big staking entities to change off of Gethsemane in order to fix this issue. Coinbase and Lido node operators, if all of those changed off of.
00:13:53.562 - 00:14:21.544, Speaker A: Off of Geth, they could even use, I mean, rough math here, but they could probably still use 50% geth. And we would be able to get Geth down to, from being a supermajority if 50% wasn't, you know, wasn't being used on get there as part of Coinbase and Lido. But let's just say that they changed off of it. That would be enough to move the needle here, guys. And then people say, well, okay, well, let's get, you know, other people to move as well. It's like, yeah, that's fine. But the thing is, is that if you're talking about percentage terms, Coinbase and Lido definitely have the biggest percentage here.
00:14:21.544 - 00:14:34.944, Speaker A: And Coinbase alone has the biggest single entity percentage. I mean, last time I checked, what they were like 14% of the network or something like that. Probably more. I'm gonna, I'm gonna go look here. You know, 15%, 15.3% of the network. So they stand to lose the most.
00:14:34.944 - 00:14:52.762, Speaker A: Yeah. I actually said this to my, to my, to one of my friends as well. I said Coinbase actually stands to lose the most in this scenario. And this scenario being if there was a bug on Geth that led to a super majority canonical chain. Sorry. Led to a bug chain finalizing. They are the biggest single entity staker by far.
00:14:52.762 - 00:15:12.722, Speaker A: And this will be a shitstorm of pr for them. It is in every one of their best interests to swap over from Geth, or at least swap over and still use geth as a backup. And I don't understand why they haven't done this yet. Like, I mean, okay, I'm not gonna say I don't understand. I do understand. They're a big operation, right? Changing over is a big thing for them. It's also risky, and especially in the light of them seeing bugs in base who are.
00:15:12.722 - 00:15:51.614, Speaker A: Nevermind. They're probably like, okay, well, get hasn't had a bug yet and gets been reliable. We're not really kind of wanting to switch over. But at the same time, when you think about it and when you think about what I just talked about, it would still be better for Coinbase to go over to a minority client than it would be to stay on Geth. Even if there was a bug in that minority client, because as I said, they could quickly switch over to Geth or quickly switch over to another client, there's no need for them to just run one client. I'm sure they have backups already. So all we're really asking of Coinbase and Lido, not operators, is, hey, you can still run Geth if you want, just don't connect your validators to it as the primary execution layer client, connect them to Nethermind, connect them to Baesu, and then have Geth as a backup.
00:15:51.614 - 00:16:27.266, Speaker A: So even if there is a bug in Nethermind and BaesU, it won't affect your performance. And they aren't super majorities, super majority clients, which means that we won't have that worst case scenario. So no matter which way you look at it, client diversity is the most important thing when it comes to Ethereum bar nothing. I actually believe that in the, in terms of stability and security and reliability of the Ethereum network, client diversity is the number one thing and we need to fix it. So please, if you know anyone at Coinbase, put pressure, pressure on them, tweet at them, you know, call them out. I know that they said the other day they were going to switch off of Geth, but they're still on Geth. And I understand it takes a while for them to do this.
00:16:27.266 - 00:17:04.132, Speaker A: They have it, their big operation, whatever, whatever else is going on there. But put pressure on them, put pressure on Coinbase, keep talking about it, keep being loud about it. Because as I said, worst case scenario is really, really bad for Ethereum and it is really, really bad for those single, large, single entity stakers like Coinbase. Like, could you imagine, like the pr shitstorm that would ensue for them? Like, I actually think it would affect their stock price as well because Ethereum is such a huge part of their business as well, because of base. You know, don't forget, they aren't, they aren't just having ETH staking, they also have base, which they're putting a lot of resources into. They have a lot of tokens that trade that are ERC 20 tokens. They have a lot of things that they're doing with the l two s.
00:17:04.132 - 00:17:45.944, Speaker A: So when you look at it from that perspective, it's in literally every one of their best interests to get off geth anyway. That's the end of the rant there. I know I went Ranty about that, but I'm getting pretty frustrated at this point that essentially people aren't trading client diversity as you know, as, as critical as it is when it is, it is the most critical thing, in my opinion, in Ethereum, because if Ethereum layer one goes down, all the L2s go down. Guys. Yes, they could probably still process transactions off chain using their own sequences, but, like, then they're really just de facto not. I mean, I wouldn't even call them a L2 at that point, because then if Ethereum layer one doesn't really go, you know, it doesn't go back up for a while, you're basically just trusting the l two to process those. And then there's all kind of like extra trust assumption there.
00:17:45.944 - 00:18:26.110, Speaker A: It just becomes very messy. So ethereum layer one needs to stay online 100% of the time, or at least we want to try to keep it online 100% of the time. And doing that requires client diversity. So, yeah, anyway, I'm gonna end that rant there for today. Moving on to something a bit more positive, I should say, which is just a tweet that I saw from Stephen Goldfetta here, who is the co founder of off chain Labs, as you guys know, build the arbitrum ecosystem. So he basically said, arbitrum orbit, which is their answer to, I guess, the op stack and the polygon CDK. He says, arbitrarium orbit l two on ethereum, arbitrary orbit l three on albatron, one, arbitrarium orbit, althrion, arbitrary nova, et cetera, et cetera.
00:18:26.110 - 00:19:15.488, Speaker A: Endless possibilities. And I talked about this last week about how arbitrarium orbit chains are now able to basically settle to anywhere, whether that be ethereum l one or arbitrum one, l two, or another l two, or, you know, use another data availability layout. Don't have to use ethereum, right? They don't have to be a roll up. They can be a validium, things like that. But the reason I want to talk about this a bit more today was because, like, this is the freedom that the modular approach offers you as a builder, right? Like previously, if you were building on a theorem pre l two s, you wouldn't have any freedom to do this. You'd basically be tied down to the rules of the Ethereum layer one, and you'd be limited by the ethereum layer one, and you would be able to not affect any change there. And that's why we've seen so many l one's kind of, I guess, like spin up over the years because people wanted to experiment with different things, but there was just no way to do that on ethereum l one.
00:19:15.488 - 00:19:42.822, Speaker A: So obviously we saw these other l one spin up and say, hey, you know, we're not evm, you know, we don't use solidity. You can do this, you can do that, and you can experiment with this, you can experiment with that. Oh, hey, we're not, you know, we're not proof of work. We're proof of stake. You know, theorem isn't proof of stake yet, but we are when reality, I mean, they're like delegated proof of stake, which is just the worst version of proof of stake, in my opinion. But, you know, they're that, right? Or they're like, you know, we don't like the way that a theory is doing this, we're going to do it this way. So I understand that from that perspective.
00:19:42.822 - 00:20:49.214, Speaker A: But the l two s and the l three s now cover most of what the, you know, most of the experimentation that people want to do outside of wanting to experiment with things like consensus mechanisms and maybe some, some more intricate things there, which honestly is not something that I think was a differentiator for, for networks, to be honest, uh, from, for most networks. And I don't really think it's something that's going to get you product market fit with actual end users. For everything that would get you product market fit fit with, I should say, developers and end users is the fact that you can experiment with different, uh, virtual machines, different programming languages, and different types of apps that aren't limited by Ethereum L1. And that's exactly why a lot of these l two teams are targeting these markets. You know, letting people build their own chains, letting them kind of put their data wherever they want to put that, put it. Letting them code in things, or make smart contracts in things that aren't solid, giving them more control over how they do their fees. You know, I mentioned, I think, a couple months ago, that immutable X was offering, or immutable ZKVM was basically offering to allow people to basically subsidize the fees for their users and offer free, free transactions, all that stuff.
00:20:49.214 - 00:21:22.268, Speaker A: So, yeah, I mean, there's endless possibilities there, as Steven says here. So I just figured that was worth bringing up again and worth talking about again, because the l two space is getting real crowded now. I mean, it's been crowded for a while, but it's getting even more crowded. It's becoming like grifty as well, which I don't like. There was the l two recently, I think, Manta network or something that did their airdrop. But, like, they have this weird ass hybrid approach where they're using Polkadot for something and then like, they're not even really an l two by the definitions that we use. And there was like, and then they're, I think they are RPC kind of like couldn't handle the traffic or something.
00:21:22.268 - 00:21:57.388, Speaker A: I didn't look into it too closely, but like, there are a lot of, there's going to be a lot of grifty l two s out there and there's going to be a lot of grifty projects that, that say they're an l two, but in reality they're not. Or kind of try to capture the l two marketing hype. This always happens, guys. I mean, the same is true for something like restaking like any primitive or end availability as well. Like any new thing that comes to crypto always gets grifted on really, really quickly. And Ethereum has had its fair share of grifting on as well. Obviously people forking the EVM and basically saying, hey, we solved all the scalability problems of Ethereum, when in reality they're just using the EVM and they've cranked up the gas limit and centralized everything like that.
00:21:57.388 - 00:22:37.360, Speaker A: Or maybe lowered block times as well. Right. So yeah, just keep an eye out for that. But generally, as, yeah, as Steven said here, endless possibilities, but also maybe endless possibilities for grifters too, unfortunately. But that is what, that is what comes with, I guess, the territory when you're a permissionless ecosystem. So something that I sure I saw, shared a bit on Twitter over the weekend was there is a prediction market right now for what the prices of blobs will be one month after EIP 4844. Now, you guys know, you guys know that once blobs go live on the ethereum network, they start off at basically, I guess, like basically one way because no one's using them at the very start.
00:22:37.360 - 00:23:18.548, Speaker A: And they have their own fee market, so they're completely separate to the normal execution layer fee market, where fees are currently 14, which is probably the lowest they've been in a little while. If you've got anything you need to do on ETH one, probably now's the time and people are betting on, you know, what the cost will be in ETH terms here, which is, I guess, like if you translate that to gwei terms. So you can see here that, I think most people think it's going to be between 0.001 and 0.018. And you can see that the percentage chances that, of that, that's, I think, 77 combined percent chance there. And then I guess, like, there's a, there's a bit more money to be made if you're right on the other chances. And the funny thing about this is that no one really knows because there are so many unknowns here.
00:23:18.548 - 00:23:57.052, Speaker A: If you think about it, there's unknowns in the fact that like how many l two s are actually going to be using blobs or how many roll ups are going to be using blobs after a month? Is it going to be spammed with inscriptions? Is it going to be spammed with other types of trends, other types of kind of like transactions that just fill up the blob space? We don't actually know. And I think that a month after we'll probably get a pretty good idea. But at the start we're know. So it's pretty cool. This is doing one month after EIP 4844 goes live because we did it like a few days after it probably wouldn't give you much signal. But after a month I think things start to become clearer and we start to get a clearer picture of what things look like. Yeah, but yeah, I'm going to keep an eye on this, see what the odds kind of go like.
00:23:57.052 - 00:24:09.324, Speaker A: I'm not placing any bets myself because honestly, I just don't know. I think there's too many unknowns to place. Place a reasonable bet here. But if that's something that you're interested in, you can go check this out. I think it's on. I don't know if. Yeah, so it's linked here.
00:24:09.324 - 00:24:29.968, Speaker A: It's on polymarket. You can go check out this all. I'll link this in the YouTube description below. But yeah, I mean it'll be, it's close, guys. Like it's very close now, as I said, like there's no main net date yet for dengue, but like mid to late March. So you know, two months away basically from now until we see Denkun go live, hopefully so we won't have to wait much longer. And then I guess like a month after for this bet to resolve.
00:24:29.968 - 00:25:03.808, Speaker A: But I guess within the first couple of weeks we'll probably start to see exactly how people are going to be using blobs, which is going to be an exciting thing to see. All right, so just the last thing here from the Ethereum attestation service. They have announced something called the attestation fellowship. It is a six week build the program taking promising attestation founders from idea stage to demo day in front of a leading ecosystem partners. You can apply to the inaugural batch at this link I'll link it in the YouTube description below. And they say here we're helping idea stage founders switch from bounty hunting to business building. So apply before February 18, the top ten teams will be selected.
00:25:03.808 - 00:25:26.258, Speaker A: Five weeks of intensive building with mentor support, prep for your demo day and pitch in front of leading ecosystem partners. So if this at all interests you and you're a builder or an aspiring builder, as I said, you can go apply to this. The link will be in the YouTube description below. And then I think deadline. The deadline here is February 18. You have about three weeks. Yeah, just over three weeks I think from today to go apply three and a half weeks.
00:25:26.258 - 00:26:11.002, Speaker A: Just working out the math in my head quickly there and I couldn't think of a better team to work with, honestly. The Ethereum attestation service team is great. I've had a number of calls with them, I've spoken to them, I've met them in real life actually at Denver last year, but they have been great. And the thing is, the Ethereum manifestation service is a public good as well. This is like kind of completely open source public good. They haven't taken any vc money as far as I know. They're not trying to monetize this, they're just trying to be a nice, credibly neutral open source public good on Ethereum for attestations, which I think obviously is solely needed and something that is going to scale quite well as we begin to build out more identity solutions, as we begin to do things like what Coinbase is doing with base, where they're basically tying Ethereum addresses to Coinbase accounts in order to offer perks and things like that, the possibilities really are endless here.
00:26:11.002 - 00:27:02.078, Speaker A: And if you haven't listened to it yet, there was a great Bankless podcast with the Ethereum metastation service, our founders, I think there's a little while ago now you probably can probably just search through matter station service bank list and it'll come up and it explains exactly what it is, what the possibilities are and all that good stuff there. So you can go check that out for yourself. I'll just google that and I'll link this thing in the YouTube description below for you to check out. Now finally, I've got a few minutes here. Wanted to quickly talk about the markets a little bit because it's just kind of funny how like these things play out, and it's funny how I reflect back on what I said even a couple of months ago, and it's kind of playing out exactly how I said, not that I not to say that I'm an oracle of the markets or anything like that. I get a lot of things wrong. But one thing I just wanted to mention was that I think I said, like a couple of months ago, or maybe even less than that, maybe a month ago, that the market was very confused about what to do post BTC ETF spot approvals.
00:27:02.078 - 00:27:51.190, Speaker A: Now, I did say that I thought that the market would rotate into ETH, which it did. ETH BTC went up and it seems to have bottomed for now, and the sentiment kind of shifted there. But I also said that the market was in this like limbo state where essentially no one knew if the ETF stuff was going to be like sell the news or buy the news, and that basically meant that things went sideways. Now, of course, it ended up being kind of both into the approvals where there was an initial spike of buying, but then there was a sell off and then it's kind of bled since then. But if you actually look at what BTC has been doing, it's, it's really been in this kind of range, right? Like it had a massive run up from twenty five k to almost 50k on the ETF hype. But obviously I think that most of the move was twenty five k to forty five k because to 50k was like just a bit of a spike and then it sold back down. But it's still kind of in that 40 to 50k range.
00:27:51.190 - 00:28:15.382, Speaker A: Now. Whether it goes lower or higher from here, I don't know. But really, I think the market is still in that kind of indecisive phase where it's like, okay, well, we had all the ETF hype. It went up a lot. Now people are taking profits, right? They're taking the trade profits. They're rotating into other things like ethics, but still they're confused about where we go from here. And that's totally normal for the market to do because there was a consensus trade leading up to the ETF and now there's not really a consensus trade.
00:28:15.382 - 00:28:45.504, Speaker A: Right. There's not really something that people can point to as an obvious signal. I mean, besides the spot ETH, ETF's which right now don't have that much hype because they're still pretty far away. And also they don't have as big of a chance as the bitcoin ones did. And I think the market, the market kind of is, knows that to an extent. Not just not to say that I don't think that ETH is going to definitely, you know, have a lot of that hype as we get closer to think the final deadline is in May. But, you know, I think that we have to kind of go through this hangover after all the hype of the BTC ones, then we can.
00:28:45.504 - 00:29:02.280, Speaker A: We can start again. But really, I just view it as consolidation. After everything went up a lot. Like, guys, some stuff went up. Just absolutely crazy amounts over the past few months, right? I mean, like, just picking out some of the most obvious ones, like the meme coins, they went up so much. And like, so many of these other coins that had no reason going up went up so much. Right.
00:29:02.280 - 00:29:28.580, Speaker A: Just based on pure hype, based on pure rotator capital. And as I've said, like, I still don't really see that much new money coming in. There has been new money that came in, but it mostly went into BTC. And I think ETH to an extent, right. I don't think it really went into anything else. I think the money going into everything else came from people selling their BTC and ETH as it went up and rotating it in crypto natives, I should say, and rotating it into other things. In terms of actual full blown Normie users and Normie money coming in, there's barely any of that right now.
00:29:28.580 - 00:29:52.500, Speaker A: And as I've said before, that doesn't really start until things hit all time highs again. And it doesn't last for very long either. But at the same time, right now, in the market conditions that we're in, I feel like we could just crab for a little while here. I know I've said before that I, you know, I feel like we could go to all time highs in Q two, but at the same time, I did. I did say that that was like a coin, a coin toss. I gave it like a 50 50 chance. It could happen in Q two or it could happen in Q three.
00:29:52.500 - 00:30:18.390, Speaker A: That's still my window here. But, and I think I've mentioned in the past as well that things can go sideways for quite a while. Guys. Like, actually, you know, BTC could realistically go sideways for like, six months here. Like a full six months. I know we have the harvening coming up in April, but usually that just leads to a hype pump into it and then sell back down because it's the same capital rotating through again. But realistically, you could see BTC range between, like 40 and 50k for six months from here, and that's totally healthy.
00:30:18.390 - 00:30:41.330, Speaker A: There's nothing wrong with that. But also, you could see things start heating up again for one reason or another. Right? So there's too many different variables, I think, to call anything here. And really all it boils down to me saying is that it could go up, down or sideways. But I think the point of what I'm saying here is that like, I think the bull market is still intact, it's still fine. This is completely normal stuff here. And things going sideways doesn't mean the bull market is off.
00:30:41.330 - 00:31:07.128, Speaker A: I mean, we're not in a bear market. We're just basically correcting off of an amazing run that we've had across most crypto assets over the past. I guess you could say like four months now, four or five months now, especially on BTC when. Which went up only for like six months. Like that is not sustainable, guys. It's not something that's going to sustain itself, especially in the face of things like people taking profits off of the ETF trade. And also there's been a lot of outflows from GBTC because people were trapped in GBTC and now they can get out.
00:31:07.128 - 00:31:24.382, Speaker A: But I think a lot of those outflows are actually being. Actually just going into other ETF's. So. And I think people are just playing that narrative as well and kind of like a trader narrative. But yeah, anyway, I think I've gone overtime on the episode there for today. Didn't want to spend too long on the markets, but that's basically how I see things. But yeah, I think on that note, that's going to be it for today.
00:31:24.382 - 00:31:32.174, Speaker A: So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet. Give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
