00:00:03.920 - 00:00:45.540, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and thanks for joining us today. For another Q A. Thanks for joining. We have Scott, our program lead, and Jamie, our CEO, and you also have me. I lead on deal flow and I make sure everybody gets a chance to, to get looked at for this accelerator. Scott, do you want to quickly introduce yourself? Jamie, you're on mute.
00:00:52.060 - 00:01:22.870, Speaker B: Scott, are you introducing yourself? Shall I just jump in? Me. Okay, everybody, for those of you that don't already know me, I'm Jamie Burks, CEO and founder of Outlive Ventures. Been around for quite a while. Few bears, few bulls. Sadly, it looks like we're probably in a sideways bear at the moment. But as we all know, with every winter there comes a spring. So we're always optimistic for this stuff.
00:01:22.870 - 00:01:43.050, Speaker B: Excited to open up a bit later to questions, but today we're just going to give you a high level introduction to what is basecamp, what we're trying to do, what the program looks like, our thesis, and how you might be a fit. Scott, are you going to say hello?
00:01:43.500 - 00:01:45.850, Speaker C: Yeah, I'm going to say hello and hopefully I'm going to say hello.
00:01:51.040 - 00:02:39.976, Speaker B: All right, Scott's not allowed to talk for the rest of this thing, so should we crack on? Who's in control of slides? You, Anna. All right, would you mind taking me to the next one so I can recognize a few faces here already in the chat. So I know to some of you we're not totally new. That said, we always attract lots of new projects with every kind of month that we're around. So outlier has been around. Since 2014 we've advised, invested in over 60 projects. We're looking to add 100 a year or accelerate 100 a year every year moving forwards.
00:02:39.976 - 00:03:47.136, Speaker B: And because we're now doing concurrent programs, which Scott might talk about a bit later if we let him, often that means we'll be doing, it's usually ten a cohort and we'll be doing multiple cohorts in parallel. So we're going to very quickly get to our hundredth portfolio co potentially even before fall. So we're growing great knots. And of course, one of the benefits of an accelerator is its ecosystem. And so as our portfolio grows, so does the value that we can bring to new startups that are going to join it. So one of the things that we've always been really pushed for across our portfolio is high synergy, both as a byproduct of our thesis, but also because we've invested at all levels of what you might call the web three stack, what we now increasingly refer to as the open metaverse OS, the open metaverse operating system. But effectively we've invested really low down in the stack at infrastructure levels and protocol level.
00:03:47.136 - 00:04:47.270, Speaker B: We've invested at the middleware layer where teams are making those protocols usable, and now increasingly at the application layer. That said, in every cohort we often have a mix of middleware, application layer, and often one or two fundamental primitives that we think are critical to enabling web three. And as a consequence, what happens both proactively and just by virtue of people reaching out to one another, is that there's a high degree of collaboration across our portfolio. That's not all down to us. We do encourage it, but we are agnostic, certainly technology agnostic to the startups that come into our base camp proper. And then we do have now some accelerators and programs that are run specifically for protocols. And again, Scott will probably talk about that a little bit later, one of which is filecoin, but we're imminently about to announce a couple more.
00:04:47.270 - 00:06:07.628, Speaker B: But what that venture as a stat means is that whether it's the teams and protocols and technology sets within our direct portfolio, or the protocols that we're collaborating with within the ecosystem, it means that every project can help accelerate the other. So we've now got a team of around 30 people, crypto natives across every area, that you would want assistance with, ranging from a course investment. Primarily that's why people join base camp, is for us to help them raise in a seed round. Sometimes it could be a later stage seed round, but also it could be to launch either a fungible token or increasingly an NFT franchise, non fungible part to their business. And so they might have a very mature business, but a very immature token proposition, be that fungible or non fungible. And so we have people who can work across token economics, who can think through drop strategies, listing strategies, structuring. We know how to advise on how they're structured, both in terms of them being securities or not, and as you would expect, venture building.
00:06:07.628 - 00:07:31.000, Speaker B: So a big part of what we do is product market fit, which of course you would expect from an accelerator. But of course that increasingly means different things in the context of being a web three startup. Whether that's because you're decentralized, whether that's because you have this mix of proprietary equity, part to your business, and an open source, tokenized or token optimized component. Because we've been around for so long now, and by virtue of the volume of projects that are coming through the program, we have this ever expanding co investor network I believe it's over 1000 co investors now from tier one two, three vcs, either with dedicated crypto funds or an element of their capital is allocated, but all the way through to syndicates, community pools, and that's globally. So both North America, Europe and Asia, and actually having both knowing how to sell or not into various jurisdictions, knowing which communities to engage and when and how to structure that sale all the way through from if it's token your private sales, all the way through to that public sale. So we have full spectrum of helping you do that. And talk a little bit later about some of our portfolio that are good examples.
00:07:31.000 - 00:08:04.180, Speaker B: If you could go to next slide, please. Anna. So as I said, we've been around a while, we've been through lots of different cycles. We're always active, irrespective of market conditions. So I often refer to ourselves as evergreen. So actually in the last crypto winter, we were the most active investor in Europe by deal volume. So despite that and despite these conditions, we are actively investing ourselves and we're helping projects fundraise.
00:08:04.180 - 00:09:07.204, Speaker B: And I'm happy to say that despite the conditions in the secondary market for tokens, at the early venture stage, things are still very active all the way up to later stage seed. Almost every week there's a new crypto fund that's being launched either to invest early stage or later stage in kind of more of a hedge fund capacity. So there is still money out there, you just got to know where to look and you got to know how to position yourself. It is of course more competitive, and I would argue, unlike when you're in a bull market, perhaps the investment is a bit more considered, it takes a little bit longer, and the due diligence process is more professional, more venture like. But that said, money is still here. So we've helped projects raise over 130,000,000 in early stage funding. We've eight networks that are live, ten going live in the next two quarters.
00:09:07.204 - 00:10:13.116, Speaker B: I think two are going live in the next two weeks. And of those eight networks that went live, of course these numbers change now because of the market, but I believe at least four of them went out at billion dollar networks out the gate within their first week or their first month. And I would hope that they would say that as a direct contribution from us both Wasa at basecamp. But how we help projects when they graduate base camp, and I believe at current valuations, which of course are very depressed, current portfolio value is over a billion dollars. And so what's important out of all that, I guess is ultimately that we know how to help projects raise irrespective of market conditions. And so whilst we like to be evergreen, we also help our projects be evergreen. So for example, in the bull run, or despite the bull run, we were very disciplined in telling all of our portfolio that it needs to close what money they could at those valuations in order that they had an 18 month Runway, should the market correct.
00:10:13.116 - 00:10:47.752, Speaker B: Lo and behold, market corrects. But all of our projects are well financed and assuming it doesn't go beyond 18 months, are just busy building product. Some of them will be launching token networks, as I said, ten live in the next two quarters. But they're not having to do that for fundraising. They're actually doing that to just launch the network, have a distribution event, because they want that token optimization to happen in their network. And that's all as a byproduct of having the discipline of fundraising with us in their early stages. If you could go to the next slide, please.
00:10:47.752 - 00:11:44.730, Speaker B: Anna. So this is the thesis. It's a pretty expansive thesis. At the same time, there are some specific areas which we're most interested in. So for those of you that have known us over the years, of course our thesis evolves with the market, our understanding of the market, and where we believe we are in that technology cycle. So we have this long heritage in what you would call a new data economy. So if you look at some of our historical portfolio, from ocean to fetch to enigma, now secret network, there's been a heavy focus on enabling a new data economy, the commodification of data, but in a more trustful or trustless environment with enhanced privacy and the sovereignty of the user around the ownership and control of their data.
00:11:44.730 - 00:12:56.012, Speaker B: And that still holds. But of course, now where we're looking at web three, the kind of the applications that we're seeing web three happen in the most of course DFI, which has been a well established trend for the last couple of years, and of course now nfts more so in the last year or so. But actually we see all these things coming together, enabling a new operating system, which we call the open metaverse OS. Maybe Anna can drop the link to the paper below in the chat area, but effectively for us, the metaverse is when the virtual and the physical become indistinguishable. And of course we're beginning to see increased progress in areas like spatial compute, VR, AR, in the context of gaming virtual worlds. And so we believe that actually there's huge opportunity in leveraging web three infrastructure to make that metaverse more open. And again, based upon principles of sovereignty of identity, data and wealth.
00:12:56.012 - 00:14:02.224, Speaker B: We believe there's huge amounts of digital wealth currently trapped in platforms, be that social media platforms, gaming platforms, or the general creator economy. We think that's kind of low hanging fruit of collateral and assets that could be unlocked through the use of nfts and then turned into forms of collateral for borrowing and lending in DeFi. We believe that is the low hanging fruit for DeFi. Of course, we have invest and continue to invest in DeFi projects that are looking to bridge CFI and DeFi, but we believe that's kind of more of a long term play of bringing institutional capital in and engaging with all the regulatory compliance that comes with it. We think the low hanging fruit is people kind of looking at shorthand, the creator economy and how that can be unlocked. That said, a lot of things fall within or under the open metaverse. And so what I would say is you don't have to be a b to c use case, although lots of, kind of the sexy stuff that you'll see us talking about is in gaming.
00:14:02.224 - 00:14:49.510, Speaker B: It's in fashion, it's in music. We also have investments that are projects that are looking to do seemingly quite boring things, but fundamental to bringing new forms of collateral, yield, bearing collateral, real world physical assets into DeFi. And we're interested in those equally, if not more. So ultimately, we see lots of opportunity. The open metaverse is just a framing. So what I would say is if you're doing anything with fungible or non fungible tokens or anything that's looking to integrate into DeFi, make an application, go to the next slide. I believe this is where I hand over to Scott, who hopefully has solved all of his technology problems.
00:14:50.760 - 00:15:15.660, Speaker C: Testing, one, two. I have no echo. Excellent. Hey, folks, you probably worked out. I'm Scott, running the accelerator programs. So I guess we're just going to quickly recap how we achieved some of the results that Jamie's highlighted up top. So if we just jump to the next slide, Anna.
00:15:15.660 - 00:15:42.870, Speaker C: All right, super consulting slide. But really, there's three things that we do with people. We've gone through a process in terms of helping people set goals, understand what you're doing, and kind of embedding best practices as you move things forward. Sorry, guys, I actually have feedback my Jamie, can you do a strong one?
00:15:43.960 - 00:16:44.570, Speaker B: Yeah. All right. Scott's banned from Everdinis again. User error, I think they call that. So we have kind of three areas that we help now, in many ways, basecamp is a accelerator like any other accelerator, right? There's some basic hygiene that we have to do, which is helping you develop your pitch and proposition. It's refining the narrative, the story, thinking through the go to market strategy, and of course, helping you with fundraising. On the other hand, as I said, much of what we're trying to help with is new and novel, or at least more complex as a consequence of introducing in web three business models, or how you can adopt that underlying technology stack in a way that it doesn't add friction to you acquiring users and establishing product market fit.
00:16:44.570 - 00:17:56.012, Speaker B: So the kind of basic hygiene of that is process, right? We're just very good at helping you and your teams get into a process that allows you to focus on the goals that are really going to move the needle and allow you to establish a flywheel. Flywheel being something whereby you can begin to unlock capital at an increasing premium in order that you can invest it in growth. Ultimately, investors want high growth startups. And so what we do is to try to help you generate that momentum during the program. And often you do that by reducing down the things that you're doing and having the discipline of reporting those in based on an OKR or whatever it may be. And so we then help you and your team establish that discipline and track performance and allow for a process of reflection and iteration. And so what we do is we push you really hard on really assessing if what you're doing is the right thing and if not, what you can do to adapt.
00:17:56.012 - 00:18:56.980, Speaker B: And we've had some projects pivot entirely in like week one or two, once we start to put them in front of people, which is the next section to validate their proposition. We've had others that weren't that dramatic, but as a consequence of really taking a data led approach to establishing product market fit, have kind of significantly changed their go to market strategy. So this is the second part, which is people, which is a combination of things. As I mentioned at the top, we have over 30 people now who are in house specialists within all the various domains that you would want as a web three startup. And these 30 people have been in the space for a very long time. Many of them have been an outlier for a very long time, and as a consequence have pretty much seen it all before. Right.
00:18:56.980 - 00:20:05.604, Speaker B: And we help you shortcut decisioning. There's a lot of complicated decisions that need to be made on a short Runway often and with a handful of people that might not have much mental capacity because they're kind of trying to run the business, you're trying to acquire customers alongside fundraising. And so we enable you to access these specialists. And then we kind of have a core team of people who run the program, who are your day to day reports, and they're the ones that kind of establish this process to the left. Alongside that we've got some amazing mentors, which include some of the world's leading web three founders, as well as people from our investor landscape, both the kind of VC and community side. But ultimately what we do is we pair you with one or two mentors throughout the program. Often those mentors will also invest and they become your kind of interim advisor.
00:20:05.604 - 00:21:03.128, Speaker B: Many of them actually go on to formalize that advisory relationship in order to give you feedback. And so it's not just feedback coming from within outlier. And actually in the early stage we kind of do this dating thing where we kind of connect you with the appropriate mentor or the appropriate mentor with you. And that's as a byproduct of this kind of speed dating couple of weeks where basically we put you in front of a load of people where you have to pitch continuously. Everybody hates it, but the output of that is the narrative gets perfected. As I said, sometimes people pivot entirely, but then also you find people within our network that resonate with your proposition and they go on to either become a mentor in a structured way through the program, or a more informal advisor. And then we have partners, and those partners come across from the whole ecosystem.
00:21:03.128 - 00:22:06.370, Speaker B: We introduce them at various stages and they could be a large enterprise that's a target customer. As I said, it could be an investor. And we have investors that join very early into the program because they want to meet you guys and see how you evolve. And then we have some that we introduce at the later stage when the proposition is a bit more rounded and polished. If we don't have people in our network, we don't have the exact people in the network that meet your criteria, primarily from a kind of customer partner perspective, then we go and get them. And often what's amazing about accelerators is because they allow for individuals or organizations to engage with startups at scale, rather than on this very kind of ad hoc, messy basis. We generally get a much better response than just an individual startup reaching out cold when they're a very early stage startup, because we invite this target partner into the program to engage with us.
00:22:06.370 - 00:22:24.730, Speaker B: And often they realize that they might be interested in you and or a number of other projects in the cohort because of the strength of the theme. Go to the other slide, Anna so this is the program roadmap. Anna, I don't know if you want to do this one.
00:22:27.420 - 00:23:27.848, Speaker A: Yeah, sure. So, program roadmap. So this is your first three months of the program. As Jamie mentioned, the first two weeks, we start off with this mental madness, which is basically very similar to dating process, where you receive super intense feedback. So most of the teams are pitching every day, all day for two weeks, which means ten days worth of pitching, probably seven to 8 hours a day, and meeting all sorts of people, meeting mentors, coming from your industry, coming from your domain with your domain expertise, understanding the business in very in depth and the market in depth, all the way up to people that may be your potential users, potential customers, or people that may not even be that close. So you receive a 360 feedback on the business. So once we actually sit down in week three, we can see how people perceive us at all different levels, how all the stakeholders are perceiving the business.
00:23:27.848 - 00:24:20.380, Speaker A: And this is where we can sit down and decide what direction we need to take with you, and how we need to plan out the next twelve months and then work backwards the next six months and three months to make sure we deliver the most impact within the program. Once we have this and we've defined the goals for the program, basically, month two is all about execution. It's all about getting your pitch down, your story down, and executing on what people want to see from you. So some people come with products, some people come very close to products. So it really depends on the stage of the team. We work with everyone on a one on one basis. For that reason, about halfway through the program, we start getting ready more formally for fundraising.
00:24:20.380 - 00:25:01.080, Speaker A: So we always have fundraising in mind. We always think about fundraising whenever we do something with you. But halfway through the program is where we actually really start kicking off this formal process. Whenever you're ready, we start introducing you to people. We start holding these internal investment events where early into the program, our pitch days are with much friendly investors. And later down in the program, we start getting people that are actually giving you money. So it's a scattered process, and you get exposure from all sorts of people at all different stages.
00:25:01.080 - 00:25:49.050, Speaker A: Then the program basically finishes like month three finishes with a headline, investor Day. We absolutely hate demo days, so what we do instead is the diffusion conference. By the way, we're doing this at the end of the month, so stay tuned. But diffusion is basically our demo day. But it's a conference where we showcase every founder, every founding team, alongside a panel of experts talking about a very big topic or big problem in their industry. So, for example, if you're building a tokenization of real world defi assets, you can take a lot of different approaches to that. But the goal is to position yourself as an expert in the industry alongside a couple of really big names that already paved the way.
00:25:49.050 - 00:26:28.710, Speaker A: All of these panels are normally followed up by A-Q-A session where you do a very quick pitch and your moderator that's normally coming from the outlier team will be doing a quick questions and answer sessions so people can actually get to know you. So you talk to investors, you talk to potential users, it's a conference with a really wide reach. It's about 2000 people coming in. So yeah, it's global, so you get to see people from all over the world. So yeah, it's pretty cool event. Jamie, do you want to move in?
00:26:29.160 - 00:27:00.332, Speaker B: Yeah. So as you saw, the base camp, proper runs for about three months, but you saw the kind of timeline went beyond that. I think it showed five months. So it really depends upon how you're raising money, how you're structuring your proposition, I. E. Whether you have an equity based business and or fungible or non fungible part to the proposition. So the fungible token could include a foundation.
00:27:00.332 - 00:27:52.188, Speaker B: For example, base camp really has typically been for early stage startups. The kind of minimum requirement really is ideally you come with an MVP, but we do have much more mature teams joining that with a product revenue, and some often have already raised a couple of million. We've even had a couple of enterprise spin outs from Boeing and Daimler. Right. So the maturity part is perhaps a misleading. So you could be a very mature business, but you are looking to launch a fungible or a non fungible token, or figure out how you can integrate that into your business. And that thinking or roadmap could be very immature.
00:27:52.188 - 00:28:34.350, Speaker B: So you might have just begun some very basic design. So we have a range of startup, a spectrum of startup. Ideally they are teams of people, and ideally those teams like a couple of co founders. And ideally at least one of those co founders is technical as a CTO. The reason is because if a commercial team enters the program without a technical person, they basically spend the whole of the program trying to find a CTO. That said, we do help with that. We do have specialist recruiters that both technical and nontechnical, that we give access to projects going through the program.
00:28:34.350 - 00:29:23.836, Speaker B: But as I'm sure you'll all appreciate, not having a technical co founder in web three, trying to find a smart contract developer is very time consuming. So often we ask for teams that don't have that to go away, try and find one, and then come back and reapply. That said, apply now. Anyway, we'll always take a look at your proposition and if we think there are a few things you need to do to be ready to join base camp, then we will kind of give you that advice. And many of the projects that end up joining a program have applied one or two times before and end up coming back later. Crucible is a great example. I think they applied a couple of times, got in on the third time.
00:29:23.836 - 00:30:21.532, Speaker B: Anna, could you just go back to the previous slide? The focus really of basecamp is kind of either helping you raise that money, your kind of late seed round for equity and or begin to design, model and raise for a token. Again, fungible or non fungible. We then have the ascent program. So all projects that go through basecamp that pass a readiness score, that are along nine criteria, and that's the whole point of going through basecamp, is that we make sure you would and should be ready to launch a token. But we have that readiness criteria. If you pass that criteria, you can enter a second program called ascent. So we use that mountaineering analogy.
00:30:21.532 - 00:32:01.424, Speaker B: Ascent is effectively for later stage projects that are anything from six to eight weeks away from launching a token. And we have a very intensive, dedicated program specific to a token launch, which includes listing strategies, secondary market, community building, market makers, everything we do accept projects that haven't gone through basecamp into ascent. I think you can go to outliventurescent and apply directly if you feel that you're too late stage for basecamp in that you've already closed a large seed round and you already have a product and you already have pretty mature proposition around the token. What I would say is that we often have projects that think they're ready to join ascent and often on closer conversation, what happens is they end up joining base camp because there is a really big difference between just launching a token and establishing a very small cap price, especially in these markets, and going out with a meaningful network launch where there is significant liquidity in the market and significant community momentum. So previously with Ascent, our goal with projects that go through Ascent was to help them reach a billion dollar network. Obviously in these market conditions that's a little bit tougher, but we're probably tracking something like anything from 150,000,000 to 300 million market cap out the gate. And so that's what ascent is there to do.
00:32:01.424 - 00:32:49.360, Speaker B: If you go through base camp and you meet a readiness score, and that's our whole goal. Then you would automatically apply for ascent. And it's on the same terms as base camp, basically, so it's all inclusive. However, if you don't go through base camp and you are sufficiently ready, then you can just go through Ascent directly. We've had a couple of projects do that, including Polkadex, unique networks and several others. And if you go through so kind of typical core activities that we have, so we have expert workshops. This is everything from pitching, branding, storytelling, HR talent sourcing, how you source talent and scale teams.
00:32:49.360 - 00:33:44.640, Speaker B: Product tokenomics. These are structured programs, workshops that everybody can opt in or out. Some of them are compulsory, but others you can opt in and out of. And you have that kind of structured program which everybody participates in, but then the same supply for investor relations. So effectively, there are key moments in the program, beginning actually with the first week, but at various points midway through and at the end where we introduced the cohort to investors, which we believe would be a strategic fit. And again, that's based upon their go to market strategy, the kind of product proposition industry. And then also if there is a fungible or non fungible token, et cetera.
00:33:44.640 - 00:35:03.370, Speaker B: We have bi weekly founder AMAs one of the benefits of being such a high growth accelerator is we've now got successful founders that have been through outlier, coming back as mentors, doing amas, both recent graduates who of course can have some advice that's perhaps more immediate to where you are and the current market conditions, and then also teams that have gone through a couple of years ago and that are kind of a different stage of development to kind of give you some directional watch outs. We're also very fortunate to bring in many of the leading web three founders that you'll hear on our podcast, founders of Web three. They often drop in for amas. We've had everybody from Stani of all the DeFi protocols that you could think of, and increasingly now nfts. I think we've had Roham of Dapper Labs and a few others. Earlier we mentioned this thing about the stack venture as a stack. So again, we've got lots of projects in our portfolio that are actually looking to new cohorts as users, customers.
00:35:03.370 - 00:36:08.476, Speaker B: And so we have direct access, as you would expect, to their kind of key management team founders, and we can fast track how you are treated as a prospective client or partner equally. That's true for many of the protocols that we're now working with. As I mentioned, Filecoin is somebody we're running a structure program with now. So if you were applying to this cohort or you're applying into base camp now, we would actually assess your fit to Filecoin, even as simple as you using ipfs that could give you access to both their money and their network. But again, we also have several other protocols, top 20 protocols that we're launching accelerators with over the course of this year. We have direct access to their foundation teams, ecosystem teams, founders partners, et cetera. One of the really powerful things about that, especially in a bear market, is that many of the protocols have established investor ecosystems around them.
00:36:08.476 - 00:36:57.432, Speaker B: Of course, they have their own money that they're investing, often through us, but they also have funds that have dedicated pots of money specifically to invest in startups building on that protocol. And so we kind of help you access not just the protocol, but their entire ecosystem. Equally, you may or may not have seen Aravan amas. He does tech Tuesdays where he introduces. We have kind of structured sessions where we help you figure out what web three stack is a good fit for you. We are agnostic beyond the specific programs if you already preselect them, specific protocols that you preselect. Other than that, we'll just help you determine which ones are the best fit for you based on your specific requirements.
00:36:57.432 - 00:37:42.380, Speaker B: And we often get these guys to come in and do demos and how to's to kind of fast track your developer learning curve, if perhaps they're new to blockchain. And then of course, finally there's social time. A lot harder to do virtually than physically, but we still find ways to get drunk on Zoom and do lots of forced fun. And one of the benefits to that, as horrific as it sounds, is that as a cohort, there are lots of synergies. So we kind of have, aside from, I don't think we show up to these drunk, or at least I haven't. Maybe this week with football I did a couple. But we do kind of regular calls across the whole cohort where you kind of stand up and update, you, share learnings.
00:37:42.380 - 00:38:11.990, Speaker B: What are your experiences with dealing with community pools at the moment, which investors are squeezing you on terms, learnings around, conversations with exchanges, if you have that progressed. So there's huge benefit derived from being part of a cohort, from learning together and all roughly being at the same stage. Scott, is Scott able to talk without hurting us all.
00:38:16.200 - 00:38:24.152, Speaker C: The suspense is killing me. I don't have echo. Do you guys have echo? No. Wonderful. Third pair of headphones in.
00:38:24.286 - 00:38:26.696, Speaker B: Sorry, everyone, I'll let you take over.
00:38:26.878 - 00:39:30.590, Speaker C: No, man, you pretty much covered it all. I think the next slide, Anna, covers what Jamie's saying, which is that the whole point of accelerators is joining networks of people, right? You get massive access to a whole bunch of other portfolio companies that we've got some at the same stage as you, some further on, some of our community partners, investors enterprises. Really what we're doing here is giving you guys the platform to go off and do what you need. And then hopefully some of the people that we've got here as well can chip in and help and get everyone up to speed on what we're doing. I guess the ecosystem chart you've got up here is just like a snippet of what we've got. I always like to put this in context, and I think three years ago, the ecosystem of itself was probably around ten to 15 companies. And I think now once you look at just the portfolio and then also the protocols we're working with, we're easily clearing a couple of hundred founders within the community.
00:39:30.590 - 00:40:06.010, Speaker C: So, yeah, I think that's just really the worthwhile point to iterate. They could be customers, they could be partners, they could be advisors. More commonly as well, they're becoming investors, reinvesting in their ecosystem. It's one of the excellent things about web three is the ability to invest in other people in a relatively short time period with your success, and kind of help build the future that you actually want. I think next up, do you want to take them through how they can apply? And then, as Jamie says, we'll take the questions.
00:40:06.620 - 00:40:57.636, Speaker A: Yeah, absolutely. So, very quickly, on applications, what we're looking for in a founder is actually quite simple. In the past seven years, we have gathered enough insight to come up with basically five basic points of what makes a decent founder. We go through 200 to 250 applications per program. So we review a lot of teams, we speak with a lot of people, and generally the things that we are actually looking at when we're speaking with these teams is team dynamics founder mindset. So when it comes to founder mindset, are you scrap enough? Are you ambitious enough? How far do you want to take this? We've had people coming and say, I want to sell within two years. And we've had people coming saying we want to build billion dollar networks.
00:40:57.636 - 00:41:44.280, Speaker A: So that really matters. When it comes to metaverse or technology fit, as Jamie said, we are looking into teams that mostly have tech founders. Hiring one is not necessarily not impossible, but it's quite difficult, especially hiring a co founder within three months is a very intensive process. Network growth and diffusion potential. This is where we look at the synergies and how we can plug you into our network. So that goes into our decision whenever we're putting together cohort. A big part of this is how can these people work together and how can we add value to them within our network, we also look at domain expertise.
00:41:44.280 - 00:42:32.730, Speaker A: So if founders are building something super niche or they are attacking like a really big market that's super fragmented and they really need to find their positioning, we would be looking for domain expertise and how well the founders understand the market. And last but not the least, legal regulatory compliance. This basically means, can you pass kyc? Funnily enough, some people cannot. So these are generally the things we look at when we're looking at the cohort and when it comes to the applications itself. So the application process starts on our website, outliveventures IO basecamp. The applications are open for base camp six. They're open up until the end of this month, so make sure you get your applications in by then.
00:42:32.730 - 00:42:56.396, Speaker A: We are already reviewing applications on a rolling basis. We have investment meetings every week and we are meeting teams every week. So the earlier you apply, the better chance you have that we'll have enough time to meet you, you and your co founder, and also you'll have the opportunity to meet us. So successful candidates.
00:42:56.588 - 00:43:34.670, Speaker B: I was just going to say, Anna, is it worth saying that we're pretty much constantly recruiting? It's just the sooner you can get in, the easier it is for us to potentially get you into any given cohort because we do those running quarterly. So what I would say is, if you don't feel ready now, just put in a quick application. At least we can track you and then we can help you figure out when to apply. But at the same time, we're always recruiting, so feel free. You've got the URL there any time of year, any day. Make an application whenever you feel ready as well.
00:43:37.200 - 00:44:17.432, Speaker A: Yeah, absolutely. We like seeing teams at all stages, so if it's too early, don't hesitate. We're also running office hours, Scott, if you can just drop the link. Yeah, we're running office hours with myself and the program managers, so if you're worried about something, if you're unclear about something, feel free to book these in. And yeah, our process is pretty straightforward. There needs to be an application. We review the application internally, we reach out to the team, we start talking to you as a team, on a technical side, on a commercial side, and then from there we have let you meet more of our team.
00:44:17.432 - 00:44:50.390, Speaker A: Including myself, Scott, Jamie, a domain expertise and we take it from there. Thanks everyone for joining. I think it's time to answer some questions. We have five questions. Thanks people for getting these in. So I guess we start bottom stop. So for being a part of your accelerator, how far should we be into the startup? Is the MVP important or not? Scott, do you want to take this?
00:45:01.660 - 00:46:01.980, Speaker C: We have taken teams with no product right the way through to teams with fully fledged products and live tokens. So I think that using product as a proxy for how advanced you are and the things we can achieve together isn't necessarily the right way to look at it. I think what's worthwhile is like looking at yourselves and kind of saying, where are we advanced in other areas that might necessarily be on product? And also how quickly are we able to deliver product? And this kind of echoes back to one of the comments that Jamie made earlier on around having a technical element to your team. I'm going to contradict Anna and Jamie slightly. In the last six months, we've backed two solo founders, both of which were developer talent. So the key thing is the developer talent there. And if you have co founders, you're generally more resilient, et cetera, et cetera.
00:46:01.980 - 00:46:17.490, Speaker C: But your original question was around product, and we're happy to talk to you. If you don't have product as an investment opportunity, you tend to have more, I guess, leverage when it comes to raising money.
00:46:21.590 - 00:46:22.734, Speaker A: Cool. Thank you. Scott.
00:46:22.782 - 00:46:41.740, Speaker B: I think there's a couple of people asking questions in the chat. If you could put that question in the ask a question button, everyone should be able to see it. Should have a number five. You should have people ask a question in the lower footer. If you could copy and paste your question. When you ask a question, just make sure we don't miss it. Thanks.
00:46:44.810 - 00:47:01.920, Speaker A: Yes. There we go. So it turns out I do have the powers to turn people's messages into questions. So I think one of them is, what if my team is currently at another accelerator? Is there a way we can still be friends?
00:47:03.250 - 00:47:44.234, Speaker B: Let me take this one and then I'll let Scott build on it. I love this question because we have had to fix projects that have gone through other quite regularly. The answer is yes. We do take projects that have been or are in other accelerators as long as it doesn't impact their commitment to our program. And there's perhaps an economics component depending on what that accelerator is taken by way of shareholding or something like that. Maybe Scott could build on that, but yeah, absolutely. And you're absolutely right.
00:47:44.234 - 00:47:48.620, Speaker B: What are you thinking of going to another accelerator? But let's not dwell on that.
00:47:50.110 - 00:48:41.660, Speaker C: Yeah, I think Jamie's hit nail on the head there around economically, does it still work for you to do so depending upon what the other accelerator is working with you on? In terms of terms. But the other thing which is more important, to be honest, is are both accelerators combined additive to what you're doing? And if they're not, then it's kind of not a fit. So I'd kind of want to understand a little bit more about what you're looking to achieve with that other accelerator, what you want to achieve with us. If they're complementary, then we do play nicely with other people. We're super happy to talk to the people at the other accelerator program, make sure things work, and leverage both networks in a way that makes sense. But flip side of that is, obviously, if it turns out doing both things isn't going to be good for you, then we'll probably tell you you shouldn't do it.
00:48:46.410 - 00:49:17.620, Speaker A: Yeah. Again, if you have some of these really specific questions, feel free to book some office hours with us. These are some of the things we're answering on a very personal one on one basis, and we can guide you through the process. So we've got one on linking the universe and the metaverse. I think that's for Jamie. Someone's working on technology, communicating physical and digital. Do you want to elaborate a bit more on that?
00:49:17.990 - 00:50:11.966, Speaker B: Yeah, so that sounds exactly in our wheelhouse, as I said at the top, the metaverse, just generally for us, is this merging of the physical and the virtual, so they become one and the same thing. And we've actually got a couple of projects in a portfolio that have been working on primitives that make that happen. Boson protocol is one of them. Boson actually went through, I think it was our first accelerator cohort. So we've been around for over seven years, but the accelerator Itself has been running for a couple of years. And I believe they were in the first cohort and they were then raising throughout the last winter. And I think if you look at where they are now, incredibly well capitalized, but they're working at the intersection of physical to digital redemption.
00:50:11.966 - 00:50:49.502, Speaker B: So I would say that that is definitely something we should talk about both for us, but also I know Boson would be quite interested in that. And they have their own fund now where they are investing in projects. So we've already had two projects through our accelerator. I think both Crucible and Oroboros have received grants from boson. And again, this comes back to that stack concept. We've probably got technologies that you could integrate with. They've got pots of money that they're deploying alongside us to accelerate their ecosystem.
00:50:49.502 - 00:50:52.020, Speaker B: So short answer, definitely apply?
00:50:56.160 - 00:51:14.630, Speaker A: Yeah, absolutely. That's the flywheel spinning. So if you want to take part of this, you should definitely apply for the program. I think we have a couple of more minutes for a couple more questions. I think our top question is terms. How much equity do we take? Do you want to take this one?
00:51:16.200 - 00:51:44.270, Speaker C: Sure. So our standard terms, we take 6% equity and 6% supply. Generally, that's to be clear, token supply. Thanks. That's standard across all of our programs, whether it be filecoin, base camp, or any other ecosystem fund or ecosystem accelerators that we're working on and be launching soon. We've seen that's kind of in line with the market at the moment.
00:51:46.960 - 00:51:47.276, Speaker B: Where.
00:51:47.298 - 00:51:52.050, Speaker C: We fit into your lives. Once we're in, we never leave.
00:51:53.140 - 00:52:21.560, Speaker B: It's worth saying, for those that are interested with ascent, I think it's 2% of supply with a 1% option. And if people are interested in ascent, as I said much later stage, go to outliveventures IO ascent. I think Scott's just dropped in the office hours link where you can book in office hours with Anna, and I think some of us also dropped in. Any other questions, Anna?
00:52:24.140 - 00:52:52.800, Speaker A: Yeah, plenty. But we have a couple very specific about the startups. So for these ones, please book office hours call so I can actually give you feedback one on one specifically for your startup, because we're trying to generalize things here. So if it's for more people. But Jane, we have one question. Since you have seen 60 projects, what are some of the common challenges that you help early projects solve to make it really worth parting with that level of equity?
00:52:54.820 - 00:54:10.590, Speaker B: Yeah. Well, what I would say is this, you can do some quick math on it if you think about the range of things that you're going to have to make a decision on, how long it's going to take you to make that decision, and whether you currently have any expertise to make that decision. Well, and you add all of that up, and it will probably be, if you're lucky, a year, up to two years worth of time. And that's assuming you have all the right people with all the right competencies, let alone how much it's going to cost you for all those people in salaries and stuff. And so effectively, the goal of an accelerator is in its name. Right. We accelerate that process so we give you access to all of those competencies and knowledge sets from people that have helped others make those decisions daily for several years with the network and the knowledge of that network to help connect you to the right partner if it involves somebody else as quickly as possible.
00:54:10.590 - 00:55:07.500, Speaker B: And so of course, many of you could go out there and do this yourselves. I would argue it will take you longer. And things taking startups longer either cost them lots of money, which means them having to raise money and sell equity, or they die. 90% of startups die because they run out of money answering these questions. And so I would say we significantly derisk a startup's lifecycle. And that's actually why we've got over 1000 investors now that come to us for deal flow, because the startups that graduate from our accelerator fail less. In fact, I can only think of of 60 startups we've had no more than three outright fails.
00:55:07.500 - 00:56:15.188, Speaker B: Most others are active in market growing, either growing by network value, growing as a business with revenue and customers. Most of them are very well capitalized. And so that's for a reason, right? It derisks it for the startup, it derisks it for the investors. We've saved them all their due diligence time. We've helped derisk the startup by getting through the kind of hardest hurdles of product market fit, becoming well capitalized. And so when you got a blank piece of paper, 6% might seem like a lot, but when you look back a year on having gone through something like outlier, where hopefully you're valued at, if it's a token network in the hundreds of millions, billions, if the market's going well, or you're actively closing your series a or upwards in the seed round. So what I would say is we've got a big portfolio now.
00:56:15.188 - 00:56:22.950, Speaker B: Reach out to them, ask them if they thought it was worthwhile. We think it is.
00:56:25.800 - 00:56:37.560, Speaker A: Thanks. And Scott, one for you. Yes, last question we can take today. So, brilliant team and vision. Is there a way I can join the team and be part of bringing this to fruition?
00:56:39.580 - 00:57:04.850, Speaker C: Yeah, there is. I'd start off by looking at whether our portfolio companies are hiring. To be honest, that's like where the action actually is. A lot of them have either recently closed or are currently closing. Money will be looking for people to join the team. We are also looking for a few new positions. So if you dive into the jobs page on our website, there's a few things out there at the moment.
00:57:05.300 - 00:57:38.540, Speaker B: I think we got them on LinkedIn as well, right? So we are hiring. We do have roles. In fact, I think we've got, we're doubling in people as we speak over the next quarter. But yeah, if you kind of drop us an email with your details as well, we can share in the alumni channel. I imagine across the whole portfolio there's probably about 100 job specs currently being recruited for. So if it's not us, we can potentially also connect you up to portfolio.
00:57:40.320 - 00:58:19.950, Speaker A: Yeah, also, startups are hiring all levels of seniority, while in the earlier stages people are looking for more senior level people. There's always a need for people to intern. There's always a need for new graphs to join in if they're scrappy enough and ambitious enough. Generally, people need more people around operations and around sales. But a lot of the time there will be technical talent and community talent that's really looked after. So if you just don't hesitate, either drop us a message or take a look. We've got 60 portfolio companies on our website and take a look what they're looking at.
00:58:21.040 - 00:58:21.452, Speaker B: Cool.
00:58:21.506 - 00:58:36.560, Speaker A: So thanks everyone for joining us today. It's been a great session. Thanks for the great questions. Hope we delivered on our promises and looking forward to see you again at Diffusion or the next Q A. Whatever comes first.
00:58:36.710 - 00:59:20.350, Speaker B: Yeah, so make sure you go to diffusion event. You'll see the latest cohort graduates across two day period, as well as some sessions with some leading web three founders. Last time I keynoted we had a fireside with Roham of Dapple Labs. Prior to that I think it was Joe Lubin, and prior to that it was CZ. So we've got some great founders talking about their founder experiences and of course, as well as the graduates from this program will be on panels with their investors and partners and stuff like that. So you'll see the polished graduate and hopefully that will inspire you to apply.
00:59:24.000 - 00:59:25.656, Speaker A: Thanks everyone. Bye.
