00:00:23.960 - 00:00:51.270, Speaker A: Great. We are live. So I have Eric Vanderwal here with me from the Nervous Team and we're going to do things a little bit differently today due to technical errors. So I'm going to play a pre recorded workshop video from Eric, and Eric will be here to answer any questions as we go along. So feel free to pop your questions in the chat and we can take them as we go. Eric, anything to add before we start?
00:00:52.040 - 00:00:58.888, Speaker B: No, nothing at all. Just excited to be here and to connect with the community. Super.
00:00:58.974 - 00:01:02.330, Speaker A: In that case, I'll play the video and enjoy.
00:01:04.380 - 00:01:41.750, Speaker B: Hi everyone, and welcome to my talk here. This is no community, no cake for you. So here's my promise to you for this talk. If you manage to stay awake and not fall asleep and stay engaged and everything like that. By the end of this talk, you're going to have some practical actionable tools, something you can actually use to build your community and of course know why you want to do that and why it's so important. So again, pay attention as best you can. Turn off your phone, put down your pencil or pen or whatever you're doing and let's take it from the top.
00:01:41.750 - 00:02:21.200, Speaker B: Now, I was told by the head of marketing not to use too many, you know, of course. I absolutely did. Oh. My name is Eric Vanderwald and I am the head of developer relations and support engineering at Nervos Network. And I'll talk a little bit about Nervos later on, but for now, let's talk about why you're actually here and that's to talk about community. And before I jump into that, I just want to tell you what's on the menu so you have some understanding of what's going to happen. And I think that sort of helps to absorb the knowledge better.
00:02:21.200 - 00:03:33.610, Speaker B: So what is community? Where is my cake? Getting that cake that's not cake and baking together. So we have a bit of a mystery meat here, but we're going to talk about what's community, why that's important, how to improve that and what's not community and how we can sort of do that together. And so I've actually given this talk a couple of times before, and I continue to give this talk because not because I'm lazy, necessarily, but because the message becomes more and more true as time goes on. And in the past I've given other talks, maybe like ten years ago in my previous career, and I can't sort of reuse those talks in any sort of way because things really change. But when it comes to community, instead, it's not so much that there's like a fundamental change in our understanding of community, but we're just building further and further up on that understanding. And so this talk just gets built up more and more. And every time I give it, I really actually do believe more and more this is completely applicable to what we're doing in Web three.
00:03:33.610 - 00:04:25.092, Speaker B: Last time I gave this talk, like a version of this talk, it was called if you build it, they will come. And so you may be familiar with that from the movie Field of Dreams, depending on how old you are with Kevin Costner came out in 1989, so not to date myself too much. And in the movie it was like the Kevin Costner character had a ghost come to him and say if you build it, he will come. And I think it got misinterpreted. If you build it, they will come. But the point is here is that if you build something awesome, you have a really good idea, you got positive vibes and everything, your customers, your fans, your community, they're just going to come to you, right? And it's going to be successful. While I hate to tell you and probably you may already know this, that's bullshit.
00:04:25.092 - 00:05:28.764, Speaker B: It's just not the way it works, right? Just because we build something awesome doesn't mean that people come. And the reality is we're in sort of the creator economy or we've been in the creator economy for a bunch of years with Web Two and it's become easier and easier for people to create content. And now with Web Three it's easier for people to create certain kinds of technology and this sort of stuff. And the issue is not about the creation so much anymore, although of course that can still be a challenge. It's about discoverability, right? This has become a really big issue. And there was a study that MailChimp commissioned and it was done in 2019 and they had hired like a third party company to do this and they reviewed 505 small businesses in the US. And they had either all developed something or launched their business or had done it within the last two years.
00:05:28.764 - 00:06:13.344, Speaker B: So they're all sort of fresh new businesses and this should probably resonate with our industry because this is where we are. There's not many products that are more than two or three years old here. And the name of the report was why Small Businesses Should Start Marketing on Day One. A MailChimp report. So they felt that was the most important part to highlight in their study. And I agree, right, why we should start marketing our business on day one. So who's marketing their businesses on day one or before they've launched anything? Before they've done anything? Well, these people are.
00:06:13.344 - 00:07:20.408, Speaker B: And if you don't know what these are, these are all video game covers. This is an example. But basically any major media these days is marketing what they're doing long, long before it's out. Teasers and trailers and concept art and leaked information and announcing celebrities who are going to be part of the project or all this kind of stuff to build up community, a hype, an excitement, a marketing around it long before there is a project. And I think this is something that we need to take note of, especially we're smaller businesses, typically we're smaller projects, but we need to pay attention at least to sort of what bigger projects are doing and learn from sort of their lessons and their mistakes. And even if we're not going to do exactly what they're doing, we can learn from that. So you probably came to this talk and you're thinking, okay, I thought you're going to tell me what's community? I thought we're talking about community and not marketing, but here it is.
00:07:20.408 - 00:07:47.404, Speaker B: This is a quote from Greg Eisenberg. Community is the new marketing. You don't build a community to promote your product. You build a community so you don't have to promote your product. And perhaps this is a little bit jaded like to think of people as marketing and stuff like that. And certainly that's just one aspect of it, but that is the aspect that we're talking about today and it is an important one. So who is this? This is a growth advisor for TikTok.
00:07:47.404 - 00:08:26.424, Speaker B: He was a product strategist for WeWork, an advisor to Reddit and things like that. So he really does know what he's talking about. Now that we've covered some of the preamble here, I do want to talk about what is community. And I'm not going to get into this too much at an academic level or anything like that. We'll go over sort of a few things. But I do want to talk about it a little bit so we can get into some more details after that. And in order to do that, I want to talk about the sense of community theory.
00:08:26.424 - 00:08:58.410, Speaker B: So this is not new. This was created in 1986 by David McMillan and David Chazz. And the study of community actually is its own field of study. It's a fairly serious one for people if they want to go down that path. And of course, we're all parts of communities whether we want to be or not. So we've all had also our first hand experience. But looking at it from this point of view, I think can help us break down some of the details so we can learn where we can do things better.
00:08:58.410 - 00:09:33.764, Speaker B: So their definition of community is a feeling that members have of belonging. A feeling that members matter to one another and to the group as a whole. And a shared faith that members needs will be met through their commitment together. So they break it down into four parts here membership, influence, fulfillment, and shared connection. And so while I'm talking about this, please step back. Think about your own product or the things that you're building. Your side projects, your work projects, whatever it is, and think about the community around it.
00:09:33.764 - 00:10:07.760, Speaker B: Whether that's like two people or ten people or 100 people, it really doesn't matter. It's not the size, it's the community itself. So membership, so membership here means boundaries, emotional safety, sense of belonging, common language and rituals. Influence here is really about the feeling of mattering. So there's some give and take here. It can't be one way. If people in your community don't feel like you're listening to them then they will leave.
00:10:07.760 - 00:10:44.168, Speaker B: So you need to have influence on each other. This is not just you influencing them, but them also influencing you and of course each other. So fulfillment here. So we're talking here about the fulfillment of needs. Did they get what they wanted by joining the community and what problems were they trying to solve? And this is initially how a lot of people come to communities. They're looking for some sort of fulfillment, they have a problem, they need to be solved. It could be like a technical one, maybe it's a financial one, maybe it's a need to mint a piece of art for example.
00:10:44.168 - 00:12:29.470, Speaker B: Right? So there's a lot of reasons that people come to the community in the first place and they do need to have that sort of fulfilled in order to typically stay and be part of the community. And what that leads to next is a sense of shared connection and this could be like bonding through shared hardships or quote unquote war stories or things like this. And in crypto often this is sort of the ups and downs of the markets when things get really low and we commiserate with each other and things are really good and we're really happy together and sort of the more extreme the situations, the more strong that the shared connections there are. And because of sort of the strong financial links here between crypto and blockchain in general and finances and how that sort of impacts us fundamentally, it really does build strong shared connections quite quickly. So communities have their own subcultures language rituals in this sort of stuff and I almost want to talk about that just so I can put these memes here and it says what if in the future we only communicate through memes? And I think the one beside this is hilarious. So go ahead and take a moment to read, know a crypto community, crypto, Twitter and all these sort of things even discord. We have a shared sense of language and again sort of our own subcultures within subcultures and our own rituals whether it's saying good morning, good night or these sort of things.
00:12:29.470 - 00:13:12.532, Speaker B: These are all classic hallmarks of well established communities and communities within communities. Okay, so we just finished talking about what is community and sort of breaking down a couple of the fundamentals of that but now we're going to talk about where's my cake? And honestly this is sort of like why do we care? What's the benefits, what's the reasons that we want community? And we touched on that a little bit but we can get into that a little bit deeper. So here's another good quote. I love good quotes. Software is no longer sold it's adopted. So if you're a DAP developer, you are essentially somewhat, I guess, selling software. It's a sort of user facing software.
00:13:12.532 - 00:13:53.812, Speaker B: It's an end product, but it's true. And this is something that coming from developer relations and I'm talking to you guys as developers. You know that software is no longer sold, it's adopted. And this is true for lots of products, right? We build our identities around them whether we want to or not. And we try to resist, but it sort of leaks into our culture, whether you're an iPhone user or you wear Lululemon or you're a BMW driver, if you're that lucky in life, or unlucky, I guess, if you don't like BMWs. And so, again, that's about the community and the culture around. You know, big companies spend like a ton of money to stay up to date with consumer research.
00:13:53.812 - 00:14:53.930, Speaker B: But as new smaller companies and products, really, we just don't have the money for this. But what we can do is stay closer to the metal, right? And we can be part of our communities and get that instant feedback from them and have that back and forth without needing to do essentially consumer research, which takes time and it costs money. And we can get feedback from our users right away by having a community built around things. So essentially being a smaller company or a smaller product, your superpower is community. So a lot of big companies spend a lot of money to try and build up a community identity and to directly connect with their community and things like that. And that's something that we can do ourselves right from the very, very beginning. So again, community versus marketing here.
00:14:53.930 - 00:16:04.050, Speaker B: Community is essentially a much lower cost of commitment here, although a much higher time commitment typically. And communities are based off of spending time with people, engaging them rather than paying for ads and clicks and these sort of things. Community at the same time compared to marketing, actually can give us a much quicker turnaround time, right, versus like setting up ads and having them go and people clicking and falling through and then having to engage with our community anyways, and potentially a much smaller one. And frankly, we just don't have the time in web3, right? I joke that we have regular time, we have startup time and that we have crypto time and we are in the business of crypto or blockchain probably, if you're at this talk. And we are living in Blockchain time, right? And if you're five years as a standard developer, some people are telling you're still probably a junior. I don't think that's true, but if you're five years in Blockchain, you're like an OG, right? Our time goes by really fast and we need to pivot even quicker. And having that community as that barometer of change is very important.
00:16:04.050 - 00:16:49.100, Speaker B: Okay? So let's get that cake. So what we're going to be talking about here is talking about some practical steps and things that we can do to improve our community or understand our community. And this is the social Identity cycle. So communities are essentially shared social identity and participation, as we've talked about. And it goes on a little cycle like this. So we have identity, participation, validation, and then identification, participation, validation, and so on and so forth. So for identity or identification here, we're talking about they're attracted to the social identity of the group.
00:16:49.100 - 00:17:20.132, Speaker B: And this is maybe how people come in. And then people take some small steps and they participate in the group in some way. Now then the group rewards them for their participation. And these can be all kinds of different rewards. These could be such as financial rewards, these could be like kudos. They can be internal motivations or like I said, kudos are external motivations and all kinds of things. And then when that happens, they more strongly identify with the group, which leads to more participation and further validation.
00:17:20.132 - 00:18:02.870, Speaker B: And it goes around in a cycle like this. So for the identification, right? So they could be just someone who's interested. They could be a fan, they could be a superfan, maybe they're a super committed community member. And maybe they join the development team or something like that. For participation, it could be joining a discord, filling out a form, sharing something on Twitter, becoming a member, maybe making some infographics or things for you, writing an article and this sort of stuff. And for validations, validations can start small, like welcoming new members seen by the community as knowing something. Maybe a kudos for a good meme or an upvote for a share.
00:18:02.870 - 00:19:09.620, Speaker B: People being seen as an expert or a moderator can fulfill our sense of validation. So from a practical point of view, if your community is not doing well, try and break it down into one of these three steps and say like, okay, are people not identifying in the community? Are they not participating? If they are participating, are they being validated for it? And try and figure out sort of where these cycles work into your community and how you can build them up a little bit further. And as people go through these cycles, typically they either fall forward or fall back in this. And you can see my wonderful PowerPoint art here. Super awesome. And people start off as passive members, become more active, become essentially power members, and they become leaders. And we can look at this in a sort of a different way, because just looking at it this way is not super helpful for me, right? And I want to show you this.
00:19:09.620 - 00:19:55.716, Speaker B: And I believe this was actually created by Douglas Atkins. And this is called the community commitment curve. So Douglas Atkins was the head of Community for Airbnb. And what it is, is we can break down sort of these groups of people, whether they're passive, active, and leaders and put it on a chart because we love charts. As developers, we love things to be organized and we could even add numbers here to feel like even more empowered. But at the beginning we're going to measure things through the cross section of commitment and time. The more time or the more committed they are, the farther they are up on the curb, right? So at the beginning they're just going to maybe read the purpose of the project or maybe check out some of the members profiles.
00:19:55.716 - 00:20:26.720, Speaker B: Maybe they're going to become a member as they become more active or read forums, blogs, write blog posts. Then they might move past being the active stage into the leader stage and so on and so forth. So here's another version of this. This is slightly different, but sort of the same concept here of discovering onboarding engagement and leadership. Now what I want you to do is actually sit down. This is the practical part of this. And you can either pause this now or you can come back to it after.
00:20:26.720 - 00:21:52.572, Speaker B: But I would really encourage you to actually do this and think about your project and think about all the different things or all the different ways that they could interact with your project right now, right? Or your side project or whatever you're working on. And it could be joining the discord, seeing the Discord, seeing your Twitter, following your Twitter, right? This very low stuff, maybe checking out the website and these kind of things. I want you to make a list just like you would if you were doing Agile, right? Make all you can cut out little pieces of paper and write them on there and put on the floor, then all the way up to the other side, right? So this one says like, attend a rally, but join your development group or whatever your end goal might be, or a possible end goal. Then I want you to rearrange them all based on essentially the amount of commitment or time that it would take. And it helps to sort of do it on the floor. I'm a very tactile person and you're going to end up having this big list of things and then you essentially have your community commitment curve. Now when you're dealing with people in your community and you see them maybe going through step 12345 on this, but then not progressing past seven 8910, you need to think to yourself, okay, why are they not progressing from one point to the next? And what's missing in that community commitment curve that you could add that is a step between, right, that it's difficult for people to go into signing up emails to joining your development team, that's just typically it's not going to happen.
00:21:52.572 - 00:22:55.650, Speaker B: There's always exceptions, right? But people sort of take all these incremental steps to get there. And by doing this, I want you to look and see what kind of incremental steps are you missing that you could add or create in order to onboard people up this time? Community commitment curve. And I think this is one of the most practical things you can do to see some of the holes in your community and how you could onboard people better. Okay, that's not cake. So now that we've talked about, hopefully one of the most practical examples you can do to build out your community or even think about pre building your community before it happens is I just want to talk about a couple of the pitfalls and myths of community because I think these are almost as important to think about. When we think about what is community, we need to think about what is not community. And one of the biggest pitfalls and miss people think, okay, my community is a failure because it's not an instant community.
00:22:55.650 - 00:23:19.780, Speaker B: Community takes time to build, right? And what goes in hand, in hand with that is that size doesn't matter the most. The myth is that size matters the most. It really doesn't when it comes to community. And we can see a lot of communities that are not necessarily communities. We see this on Twitter all the time. We see people who have a lot of followers, right? And those are audiences. Often they're not communities.
00:23:19.780 - 00:24:10.984, Speaker B: And there's a big difference between having a community and a big following, right? And with followers, typically the information is mostly going one way and when it's a community, there's going to be sort of this interconnected web of connections with each other and of course you or your product or your app or whatever it is. So there's a difference between audience and community. And it is very easy in theory to build up a very large audience. To build up a big community is a completely different thing and that takes time. And sometimes a community of like 1020, 30, 40 people is much better than an audience of tens of thousands of people because it's about being engaged and active more than rather than just listening. So another myth is there's a simple hack to building community that's not really true. The number one thing about building community is simply being present.
00:24:10.984 - 00:25:07.436, Speaker B: You actually need to be there, you need to be authentic, you need to be who you are and the community will follow that. And for better or worse, the more extreme or more authentic you are, the more likely you are to find people who are similar to you. And again, I think we see this a lot in politics, right? The more extreme that the politician is, sort of the more extreme their followers and the more loyal their followers are. So I'm not saying go out there and be an extremist, but I'm saying be yourself or be the community that you want to see. And for the most part, you will attract those types of people to community and other people will fall away. And something for us at like Nervosis is really important to us is being there for people, being authentic with people, being helpful to people, because that's how we want to be treated and so that's how we like to treat other people, right? So there's no simple hack. It takes time.
00:25:07.436 - 00:25:54.168, Speaker B: Be who you are and hopefully that will bring more people. So the other one is all communities are successful. This isn't really true and we sort of went through this at Nervos and maybe we're not supposed to talk about our failures, but I think it's important to talk about our failures and for our newest product is EVM compatible L2 and it sits on our L One and we decided to do a whitelisting. It was fairly experimental at the time and we built a bit of a community around that. But honestly, that community just really didn't turn out the way that I had hoped it would. And that wasn't on the people themselves, but really just sort of the way we structured things. And not all communities will be successful, but that doesn't mean you have to give up.
00:25:54.168 - 00:26:27.556, Speaker B: And based on those learnings, we started another community called Build Club, which has been fantastically successful for us. And I'll talk about that after. But just because something doesn't work out, of course you don't always need to continue down that path. The sunk cost fallacy here where just because we've invested some time, we should continue to invest forever. Sometimes it's okay to reboot your community into something that's better with the lessons that you've learned. So another myth is it won't take that much time. I think we talked about this, but yeah, it takes time and that's important.
00:26:27.556 - 00:26:52.956, Speaker B: You need to be part of your community. Communities are organic. Yeah, this is mostly not true, right? We need to go out there and actively attract people, maybe bring in friends at the beginning to start or with coworkers or people that we're like minded with and then start reaching out and building the community. Most communities are not organic. That's mostly nonsense that's made up to sell a story after the fact. Members are there to be sold. Yeah.
00:26:52.956 - 00:27:24.902, Speaker B: So this is not true. Basically, we did talked about this before, but you have to fulfill the needs of your community and this really should be a two way street. Community is just marketing by another name. Again, just saying this makes me feel like icky in my mouth, but it's definitely not the fact. Yeah, so here's me, this is a real picture of our team and I'm in the middle. At the bottom. But communities building is hard.
00:27:24.902 - 00:28:45.822, Speaker B: You think you're going to be at the top of the pyramid, but the fact is you're pretty much at the bottom and you're going to spend a lot of time at the bottom. So a few final parting tips here on the community aspect is make community a home, make it a place to be accepted and make it a place that you want to be. Even if you can't stand being in your community for that long, then it's probably not a great community, right? So allow ownership within your community to allow people to have a sense of purpose, create rules, enforce those rules, have daily rituals or weekend rituals or whatever it may be, good morning, good nights and design spaces that are authentic and sincere. And I did want to leave sort of one last thing here, one last thought on community. And this is one that I feel that's come up quite a bit. And again, so hopefully these sort of authentic thoughts with you is when it comes to gatekeeping, which is an interesting you know, there's a lot of accusations being thrown. Know, I wouldn't say just recently, but sort of always, especially on crypto, Twitter and things like, you know, gatekeeping this and that, sort of, you know, for communities to grow and thrive, there does need to be a certain amount of quote unquote gatekeeping.
00:28:45.822 - 00:29:49.640, Speaker B: And at first that might sound bad, but communities are built around specific topics or ideas or products or things like that. And if people are there to talk about other products or other ideas or other things that don't fit in with that community view, essentially over time it will start to erode community. And so maybe we don't want to call it gatekeeping, but there should be ownership within the community, there should be rules and those rules should be enforced to create a community that is safe and comfortable for the people who are part of that community and to keep it a fairly high quality. So I do encourage people, of course, to create a sense of inclusiveness, but also to make sure that people are following the general direction of the community. So let's bake together. Yeah. So as I mentioned before, we did sort of a whitelisting for our EVM compatible L two and I'm actually wearing the shirt here, which is this Godwoken is what it's called.
00:29:49.640 - 00:30:40.166, Speaker B: And that didn't work out the way we really wanted to. So what we decided to do was create a new program called Build Club. And Build Club has been absolutely amazing for us. The response from the community has been excellent. And when it comes to technology at the building level, we are starting to see the fact where EVM is an EVM, is an EVM and the underlying technology can be incredibly different. And I am over the moon about our underlying technology, about being decentralized and long term sustainable and having just these great token economics and built on top notch security and all these things. I could go on and on, but when it comes to sort of the EDM layer and things like that and when it comes to your apps, you're going to be faced head to head with competition, right? Where.
00:30:40.166 - 00:31:26.006, Speaker B: You sort of have a very similar type product, and what is going to be your differentiating factor here is the community. And that is absolutely true for us, for this EVM layer, is that our community, that the support that they give each other, that we're able to give them, and all these sort of things is one of the most important things because ultimately, life is built around community. And so if you guys are interested, definitely follow the links here. Join our discord. Come check out Build Club. Put in your application for Build Club, build with us and see the difference that a community can make. So everyone, I salute you for making to the end of this talk.
00:31:26.006 - 00:31:52.240, Speaker B: And if you've made it here, I believe that you've picked up a couple of practical examples that you could put towards your work, your side project, your upcoming DAP, which I really wish you luck with again, you know, come touch base with us. Touch base with me on Twitter, Discord, Build Club, and let me know what you're building. I'm super excited about it, and we can chat more about it. So until next time, guys.
00:31:59.650 - 00:32:03.300, Speaker A: Great. Thank you. Eric's. Here to take any questions?
00:32:04.950 - 00:33:00.100, Speaker B: Yeah, so I got one question here in the chat that says, as a solo founder wearing a bunch of hats, I feel like I neglect my community on Discord, though I do see the value in terms of marketing and feedback, et cetera. In an ideal world, I'd like to have someone to be as active as I'd like to be. Do you think the founder needs to always have the presence in the community, regardless of size and position? So no, I think the founders don't always need to be present in the community, especially as communities start to scale in size. So, for example, at Nervos, we're a fairly large blockchain company. We have hundreds of employees, and so it's just not feasible for our founders to be active in the Discord. However, that being said, we have moderators that I think are value aligned with our vision and the things that we want to accomplish, and that that's very important.
00:33:07.340 - 00:33:09.080, Speaker A: I was mute.
00:33:16.240 - 00:34:11.570, Speaker B: Yeah, I was just saying I think it's important to have people that are value aligned with your product or whatever else, because that will attract those types of peoples to your community. So it's important whoever's representing you has a similar type of feeling around the community. Could you please write your Twitter hallendal again? Yeah, totally. So I'll share that from which platform we have to build community? Initial project. Yeah, I'm not sure I quite understand this question, but obviously Discord is the popular chores here for web3, and you only need a couple of people who pop by every day just to say good morning, and that's the place to start. So yeah. What are the key aspects to take into account when starting your community? When you're less than ten members.
00:34:11.570 - 00:34:56.284, Speaker B: What's the key aspect? I think a commitment to be regular on your behalf. When you're such a small community, you have more time than money, and you need to show up, and you need to be present and let people Know that you're present so that that Community continues to fulfill. And you need to fulfill the Needs of that community. So people come there for a reason, typically to start off with, and you need to help them with whatever technical issues they have or whatever they want to do, and then move it out from there. People have limited time and attention. How do you attract people considering this? Yes. That's a good question to think about that I'm not sure there's, like, one easy and right way to do this.
00:34:56.284 - 00:35:54.284, Speaker B: Right. So, again, I think that community commitment curve or sorry, not the community commitment curve, the Cycle that we looked at before and looking at whether people identify whether you're solving problems, whether People are committing, whether they're getting kudos and these types of things are pretty important. And if you're not fulfilling all of those steps in the cycle, then you're going to start to lose people. So make sure that you're fulfilling all those steps. What's the difference between Dow Building and community building? I would say I'm certainly not an expert on a Dow. So what's the difference between Dow Building and community building? I Think there's not necessarily a huge difference in the Sense of that a good Dow should be a community, and it is just potentially a community with other aspects built into it that a non Dow community might not have. So I'm not sure if you guys are familiar with Developer Dow, but certainly go check them out.
00:35:54.284 - 00:36:01.430, Speaker B: They're quite a large builder Dow that I'm a part of, and I'm there regularly, and there's lots of great Web three Builders there.
00:36:04.600 - 00:36:14.116, Speaker A: Thanks, Eric. We're running a bit short on time, but what we can do is follow up over Discord if you have any questions and yeah, thanks.
00:36:14.218 - 00:36:16.630, Speaker B: Absolutely. Thank you so much for having me today.
00:36:17.480 - 00:36:19.424, Speaker A: No worries. Enjoy your day. Bye.
