00:00:10.990 - 00:00:36.746, Speaker A: Cool. And we're live. Hello everyone, and thanks for joining us for the Basecamp Q A. Here with me I have Jamie, the CEO of Outlier, who will start off telling you a bit ourselves how we started the firm, how we evolved and reached the level that we are at today, what portfolio companies we invested in, and how we can help your business.
00:00:36.928 - 00:01:29.526, Speaker B: Jamie, everybody. All right, so let's start from the top. Hopefully everybody can see the screen. So you probably know we're out live ventures and you probably know our accelerator is called Base Camp. Base Camp is a dedicated accelerator specifically for web three, designed over several years. And we're here today to encourage people to apply for what will be cohort five of the accelerator applications close on the twelveth of March 2021, and they are officially opening this week. So why outlier? Well, we believe we pick winners and have been doing so since 2014.
00:01:29.526 - 00:02:26.320, Speaker B: We've advised, invested in over 40 projects specifically within web three. We were the first dedicated blockchain investor in Europe over seven years ago now, and we've invested at every layer of the web three stack, including in the early days, much deeper down at the protocol layer, and increasingly nowadays, as that stack is maturing at a middleware layer to onboard developers and the application layer, as the web three stack is beginning to be applied to particular industry verticals. Because of that, we've got a very strong thesis, I'll talk about that a little bit later. That's evolved over those seven years previously. We've called it things like the convergence thesis. More recently, I believe in next couple of days, or whenever you're going to be viewing this video, we might have already released what's called the open Metaverse OS, which is the updated version of the thesis. I'll talk at a high level about that a little bit later.
00:02:26.320 - 00:03:54.120, Speaker B: But effectively, we've looked at the web three stack as a series of composable synergistic protocols that allow for web three to happen at scale, a web three based on user centricity, user sovereignty, self sovereignty of identity, associated data, and increasingly digital forms of wealth. But also it's represented for us what we've called a new data economy. And as a consequence, lots of the investments that we've made are highly synergistic, either protocols that work in combination, highly specialized protocols that work in combination. But increasingly, as we're moving up the stack with our portfolio, we've got projects at the application layer leveraging combinations of this stack, of these protocols. And so we've got lots of very experienced web three founders who can help accelerate your project, but also that gives us a very nuanced understanding of the web three stack. We believe it makes us better investors because we have invested at so many levels, both at kind of a market layer and at the infrastructure layer. So we understand the limitations and we can help projects pragmatically make decisions in order to not have to compromise on being able to serve a customer and serve customers now and be high growth companies.
00:03:54.120 - 00:04:55.290, Speaker B: But at the same time make sure that the dna of web three and these kind of principles that we care about, that I mentioned earlier, are part of their dna as a team. And I think we'll talk again about this a little bit later. We have over 30 crypto native people working for us full time in our platform, ranging from experts in token economics. We were the first fund to publish a token design paper a few years ago. Now we've got people that are in house securities lawyers, we've got several people that are experts in helping accelerate very early stage projects. Pre seed seed, CTO, technical team and analysts, you name it. Basically a complete team for any project looking to navigate web three, both in terms of kind of technical decision and governance token design, but also kind of the regulatory complexities, of course, especially in the context of tokens.
00:04:55.290 - 00:06:22.790, Speaker B: Also as a consequence of being around for so long, we've got a very rich, deep and diffuse co investor network, not just here in Europe where our people are primarily based, but also North America, Asia, and again across the full spectrum of various tiers of VC, all the way up to tier one and later kind of more growth stage vc, all the way down to much more kind of crypto native syndicates and pools, which of course have a very different value proposition to an early stage project. And so basically we know all of those. We reckon it's around about 1000 different investors, be that individuals, family offices, VC firm or syndicate pools. And that's why we've been able to be so successful in helping projects raise money. So what does that look like? Well, in the last six years we've worked with over 40 startups. Almost 30 of those have been in the last 18 months, and a good chunk of those, at least half of them were in what was previously the crypto winter. So we have consistently been the most active investor in Europe by volume, not of course by capital invested, because the kind of tickets that we personally write are much smaller.
00:06:22.790 - 00:07:21.020, Speaker B: And that continued in crypto winter, it will continue if there is another bear market. We like to think of ourselves as evergreen, so we've been around for seven years. That portfolio is of course six, and we hope to be around for at least another decade doing what we do. So as a consequence, that means we've been through several of these cycles before, including 2017, and we have helped projects both raise in both environments, ball and bear, but most importantly, survive bear markets. And several projects in our portfolio have weathered those environments and gone on to be very high growth, some with 1000% growth, over 1000% growth in the last twelve months as they came out of that winter. We've helped projects raise over that time period over $130,000,000 and growing. We've got at least five networks live.
00:07:21.020 - 00:08:20.382, Speaker B: Ten will be live in the next couple of quarters, probably about five a quarter minimum. It might even be more than that. Of the live networks, four are over 50 million diluted cap 300,000,002 in the last seven years, over a billion cap from their all time high. So we've been pretty successful. We like to think, in helping projects raise money, but also build sustainable token networks, and we've had a very low fail rate. I can think of only two, possibly three, projects that have outright failed in their first year over those 40 startups, which in the context of precede sea stage investing, is incredibly good. On average, 90% of startups will fail in their first one or two years, and even those that go through accelerator might only improve by half of that.
00:08:20.382 - 00:09:40.680, Speaker B: So we've got a very good hit rate, and we're very good at building sustainable and evergreen startups, not just ourselves being an evergreen player. So as I mentioned earlier, our thesis is evolving, as you'd imagine, over that seven year period, probably four and a half years ago, times a bit of a blur. Maybe more than that. We wrote our first substantive research paper on our thesis, which was called the convergence thesis convergence ecosystem. And that was really looking at how web three enabled a new data economy, both at the IoT level, helping kind of harvest data through to the DLT level, and data marketplaces, commodifying data, but centered much more around user centricity. And then at the machine learning layer, we believed it was AI, machine learning that would be making the most from these things. And so that's led us to make investments in things like ocean for data marketplaces iota way back in terms of dags and IoT, and then at the machine learning level, fetch, as well as lots of oracles and stuff mixed in there, like deer data.
00:09:40.680 - 00:11:03.054, Speaker B: However, since then, especially looking at 2020, d five has really taken off, I'd say probably one third growing to about half of all of our portfolio are in DFI in one way or the other, both directly or indirectly. And more recently, of course, nfts, non fungible tokens, have become a really high growth area and we believe actually combinations of these things. So deFi and NFTs combine where NFTs could be collateral in DeFi, or equally, NFTs can be a form of loyalty mechanism in DeFi to stop promiscuous behavior around liquidity mining. And so we're starting to see an interplay between these two things. However, if you combine new data economy, DeFi and NFTs, we believe this represents something called the open metaverse. And we are, as I said, about to release, or if you're watching this, at some point in the future from when we're recording it, we would have already released this latest thesis called the Open Metaverse OS operating system. And we believe that's important framing, because we believe directionally, where all of this stuff is heading is the metaverse.
00:11:03.054 - 00:11:44.670, Speaker B: And we believe there are different ways that the metaverse can play out from being very closed to one that's being more similar to web three. And if we look at how the web is today, highly closed, proprietary extractative platform monopolies, that isn't what we want to see happen. As we look at virtual worlds and all the wonderful things that are starting to happen now with VR, AR, massively multiplayer online role playing games, and just gaming generally. Again, they kind of represent similarly what we're seeing with all of these fangs and close platforms. We're seeing gaming engines and everything else. So we believe Covid has really accelerated the metaverse, I. E.
00:11:44.670 - 00:12:33.230, Speaker B: Where we are beginning to spend more time in a virtual world, or where the virtual world bleeds into the physical world and vice versa. And we want to make sure that web three serves as an operating system. So the dna of the principles of it around sovereignty, as I mentioned earlier, identity, data and wealth can happen in the metaverse, where we can have transferable wealth. Wealth isn't just locked into a single platform. So I'm looking forward to releasing that paper very soon. And that effectively frames how this stack of technologies that we've been investing in begins to play out in the context of a metaverse. That said, a lot of projects might be working in Defi and not think of what they're doing at all in the context of the metaverse.
00:12:33.230 - 00:13:53.898, Speaker B: So you don't need to be thinking about the metaverse necessarily to join the accelerator, but it's really a kind of a ten year view as we've updated it from our last one, which has played out pretty much as it was previously described, or we'd hoped it would, we're now setting a new kind of North Star with the next ten years. So I mentioned earlier some of the portfolio that we've worked with all at very different stages from Enigma, which is now secret network, Ocean Fetch. Cudo more recently went out with great success and going through our later accelerator program, biconomy has just kind of closed a very large seed round. So the portfolio is at very different stages. Boson is getting ready for a very big public sale this quarter, Q one 2021. And we've got loads more that don't have a logo on here yet that will be coming to market, as I said, in the next couple of quarters, so specific to the accelerator. So you notice there were some time differences when I was talking about portfolio, been around for seven years, but when we're talking about the accelerator, I was talking about recruiting for cohort five.
00:13:53.898 - 00:15:11.380, Speaker B: So we're actually almost midway through cohort four, which is ten startups. This cohort five is another ten that we'll be looking to recruit. But basically what we decided about 18 months ago, as I mentioned earlier, was there was a lot of infrastructure that had been built just generally in web three and then of course within our portfolio. So we believe that we would begin to focus more of our time at the middleware layer and application layer, middleware layer, making all of this infrastructure usable for more developers. The 99% of developers that are not yet onboarded into web three and then equally begin to see it applied to different market verticals. NFT has allowed that to increasingly happen in the creative industry. And so we're working with everything from NFT, art, music, audio music and stuff like that all the way through to, as I said, defi, and really kind of the plumbing for a new financial system that's going to be native to the Internet, but with decentralized characteristics, including actually how that integrates with CFI and existing institutional world.
00:15:11.380 - 00:16:01.170, Speaker B: So as we've seen this kind of trends play out, we've decided to concentrate and condense a lot of our learning over the last seven years into a three month accelerator. In the past, we'd worked for several years with infrastructure projects, both in their design launch and then scaling them in market and things like governance. Now we're condensing that into a three month accelerator program. Actually, I say three months. It's often three months plus additional support, and we'll talk about this a little bit later. But effectively base camp is the thing that helps you close your seed round in order to progress to the next stage. And if your token project, I think in the current cohort, of the ten that are in there, nine plan to launch a token in the next two quarters.
00:16:01.170 - 00:17:01.794, Speaker B: They then have the opportunity to graduate into something called ascent. And ascent is where we have an intense six week program to effectively launch that token cell. And the most recent project come out of that was QDOs, as I mentioned, which ended up going out at a billion dollar market cap. And then I think the next one coming off the ramp anyway is boson protocol, which we've got similar aspirations for. But effectively, in that three month program, we believe that there are some key things we can do to help accelerate a startup that isn't having to build all this infrastructure, that is leveraging upon a lot of the work that's been done already over the last decade or so of crypto. And as I mentioned, a lot of that was in the context of the open metaverse, I'd say the current cohort is, half of them are NFT related, half of them are defi, maybe a couple of them are hybrid with new data economy. But basically there's two ways of looking at this.
00:17:01.794 - 00:17:43.700, Speaker B: On the one hand, an accelerator is an accelerator. It's doing all the basic stuff that nobody thinks they need to be taught or nobody thinks they need to do. But when they're in the program, they really value, which is effectively fixing your pitch, stress testing that with investors, helping you structure how you do your raise, making sure you're focused on the right growth targets and measures in order to close that investment, and then to kind of level up to the next phase. But on the other hand, doing that in web three is very nuanced. So on the one hand, you might be thinking about a token. Hopefully you are. That's definitely an emphasis for us, certainly in a bull market.
00:17:43.700 - 00:18:46.280, Speaker B: Alongside that token is you have to think about the monetary and fiscal policy, about how you're designing it. You have to think about your technical dependencies. Do you have protocol token fit? Is that token going to scale? Is your business model going to scale? Do you have protocol market fit? And effectively? So there's one, the business proposition and the business model, which will be very different if you're being a true web three startup. How you treat data, how you treat proprietary technologies, how you build a defensible moat in parallel, how do you design for governance pathways to decentralization, all these various things. So we help you with these decisionings we effectively fast track those decisionings. And then, of course, there is the shifting sands of the regulatory environment. So if you look at regulation in the context of issuing a token, it's highly location specific.
00:18:46.280 - 00:19:36.200, Speaker B: It's how you structure it, it's how you promote it or how you don't promote it. It's making sure you do KYC and AML and all these good things. And so we often see a lot of discipline go out the window in a bull market because effectively there's a seller's market. A lot of projects feel that they're having lots of money thrown at them. We do have a lot of projects coming into the program already having closed several million. But often the way that we frame it is, look, you don't necessarily come to base camp just to close your seed round. You might be able to do that effectively yourself, but it's how do you gear up to level up and effectively target being a billion dollar network in a bull market rather than a small cap? That kind of just stagnates around 20, 30 million.
00:19:36.200 - 00:20:09.250, Speaker B: And it can be for very early teams precede, but it can be for mature projects as well. So don't think that because it's an accelerator, you're too late. Stage. As I said, sometimes we also have projects go straight into ascent. It's rare if they pass a readiness scoring. So I'm going to pass over to Anna now, who will talk about some of the kind of key elements of the program and exactly where we help. So over to you, Anna.
00:20:13.310 - 00:20:47.794, Speaker A: Thank you. So thanks for joining us today. So, as Jamie said, we really are focused on accelerating of web three projects and startups. So we are definitely focused on getting your business to the next level, whether it's a network, a made aware project, or an application layer. So there's three main ways we do this. So we help you set up your processes. We basically help you to get things done in the most efficient way.
00:20:47.794 - 00:21:35.490, Speaker A: So most of the teams that join us are normally just the founding team, two, three founders, but we also have worked with slightly bigger teams. We've had companies join us with ten to 15 people teams. The problems you see in this size of teams, they're slightly different. So because of our background, we can work and help you set up the process there. So we help you with performance tracking, goal setting, we help you define your flywheel and then execute on that flywheel. So at the end of the program, you're up and ready to fundraise and to attract a lot more smart money. Because as Jamie said, it's bull market syndicates are out there again, so you should be selective with that.
00:21:35.490 - 00:22:13.022, Speaker A: So another thing we focus on is we have the human capital to execute. So we have a lot of in house expertise. We are all crypto natives. A lot of us have lived through web one, a lot of the people joined in web two. Some of us have been in web three since the very beginning. So we are the users of your product. So we understand the problem, we understand the needs, and this is where we can help you with our network of experts, our in house team and our broad network of mentors and founders of the Web three.
00:22:13.022 - 00:23:13.310, Speaker A: So we do have access to some of the biggest founders and the biggest names in crypto. So a lot of the time we can help you get plugged in into different networks very quickly. Obviously in terms of our network, we have multiple partners, so we have investors, enterprise and research, so we have people from all walks of life. We have a really strong network of venture partners and then a more extended network of basically friends of our live ventures who will take you on board. They'll help you with advice, mentoring, or some of them may even become your clients as we've seen in the past. Jamie, can you get the next slide please? So with a program roadmap, we focus on execution within 13 weeks. So the first few weeks are normally focused around mental madness.
00:23:13.310 - 00:24:10.450, Speaker A: This is where you meet quite a bit of the people we mentioned, our wider network and the friends of outlaw ventures. It's very intense session, very intensive feedback. Most of the teams actually spend eight to 10 hours every day pitching for two weeks straight, obviously weekends off, but it is definitely crazy. And then week three, we define the vision. We sit down with the founders, we look through all the feedback and we decide the direction they should be going together with the founders. And then onwards, week four to twelve, we basically focus on execution on all of these levels and we help you track that progress on a pretty much weekly basis. Week four, normally we get an internal pitch day.
00:24:10.450 - 00:25:08.322, Speaker A: That means everybody now there get to hear your pitch after you had about two weeks of pitch coaching. And then you receive the third degree burn from our partnership and also staff. So you get back, you iterate, and then we go out and get you ready basically to get in front of investors because a lot of the investors will be expecting a certain level of the pitch from you. So you need to have your storage trade, you need to have the funding strategy done, you need to have quite a bit of things ready, you need to have traction, and if you don't have traction. You need to be able to work around that, especially with these very first initial investor conversations. We have multiple events and we work with the founders a lot on a one on one basis. So as every accelerator we are programmatic.
00:25:08.322 - 00:25:51.800, Speaker A: We do have workshops, but every single workshop is followed by one on one work. So we understand web three inside out. We know what the businesses need, we know what the founders need, and we tailor everything towards the business needs. The founders needs their expertise, and then we plug in our network or our internal team. So the program normally finishes with diffusion, which is our not demo day, so everybody hates demo days. So what we decided to do is to make a conference out of it. So in the diffusion conference every team gets a panel and a q and a session after this.
00:25:51.800 - 00:26:51.462, Speaker A: So you get to speak alongside recognized experts in your area of web free. And normally we get a couple of thousand people watching this, so you get a really good exposure to close off the program. But obviously we continue working with the teams after that, so you're not on your own. So as Jamie mentioned, we have two programs, basecamp and ascent. So what happens after Basecamp is for the people who are ready to jump into the next stage with a token launch, obviously, if it makes sense for your business and if this is the direction you want to go, we have a program called Ascent. So this is our graduate program for early stage teams where once you raise about a million and work with us, you get to get continuous access to the outlier Ventures team. But this one is a lot more focused on getting the token launched on.
00:26:51.462 - 00:27:23.460, Speaker A: So there's a lot of work focused around the legal side, the community side of things. There's a lot of work focused around the technical side as well, because you need to have a certain amount of development done, as well as token economics. We have an in house token expert who guides everyone through design optimization, simulations and so on. So we have a lot of in house expertise. And this is where for twelve weeks, the teams get ready to go out and execute on their token distribution event.
00:27:23.910 - 00:28:17.640, Speaker B: Without any hiccups to build on that, basically. So every project that goes through base camp, if they were to plan to have a token, it's our aspiration that they would go into ascent. Ascent has a very high acceptance criteria, so we score readiness. We do set that expectation very early in basecamp. Of course the project is free to launch a token outside of ascent, but effectively we run ascent. Currently it's three times a year, and any project that's gone through basecamp and is ready like passes readiness score can go into any one of those ascents. So some will go straight from basecamp into ascent, others might wait for several months to build out their product to gain customer traction as they're ready to kind of put the network live.
00:28:17.640 - 00:29:25.126, Speaker B: So the timing question really comes down to the project. But earlier, when we're talking about this kind of three months plus base camp is three months ascent is the plus bit, right? We do have projects that are not going to do a token. They're very rare now, but they do exist, believe it or not. And in that instance, they often get a couple of months extra aftercare support to kind of help them close a large seed round. But as you can expect in this kind of market, we're seeing, and we obviously naturally heavily bias towards projects that have a token, have a propensity to get that token out in a relatively short period of time. I think the other thing worth saying for projects that we accept into base camp and ultimately into ascent is it is our aspiration, if we're bringing you into base camp, that you at least have a shot at being a billion dollar network. And for projects that go into ascent, that is of course projects that have shown us and demonstrated that they during base camp have that potential.
00:29:25.126 - 00:30:28.154, Speaker B: They've removed some of the execution risk and they've shown traction in things like key growth metrics, fundraising momentum in terms of how they structure fundraising from private sales, maybe a couple of private sales up towards the public sale. But ideally projects that go through base camp would go through ascent and that is included in the commercial terms. We do have some projects, third party projects that go straight into ascent. If they have a very mature product, they have revenue generating users and or they've raised several million already. We even have some networks that are already live networks, but that went out too early or they didn't optimize their launch effectively enough. And we work with them to effectively relaunch that network. So for a project to go through basecamp and join Ascent, they have to meet a similar kind of grade.
00:30:28.154 - 00:30:48.760, Speaker B: It's like very competitive to get into ascent, but what we do is as soon as you join basecamp, we walk you through the readiness criteria and then people like myself, Scott, Anna and our program associates work with you on a weekly basis to make sure you're kind of hitting that criteria in order that should you graduate and want to go into ascent, you can.
00:30:54.710 - 00:31:45.698, Speaker A: Yeah. So as I mentioned, we have a fairly programmatic approach that's follow up with everything happening one on one in terms of actual work with the teams. So some of our typical activities are expert workshops, so we provide world leading experts in their areas. For example, pitch coaching, brand design, people coming in if you need some product help and legal help, fundraising, token economics, and so on. These people are normally leading their workshops and then offer to provide one on one support to our teams as well. Structured investor relations so this is where you'll probably see me the most. We do arrange informal settings to meet investors throughout the entirety of the program.
00:31:45.698 - 00:32:28.250, Speaker A: So especially early on you'll probably meet more of our friendly investors who will provide a lot more useful feedback. Whereas towards the end of the program you will get to see the people who may or may not be the same that will have more structured conversations about investment. So that includes people ranging from vcs, angels, angel syndicates, family offices. We have a really wide network. At this point we have over 1000 investment firms in our database, so we are friendly with a really good proportion. Out of these. Our bi weekly founder AMA is actually proving quite useful for the founders.
00:32:28.250 - 00:33:24.862, Speaker A: So we have some of the best founders out have. For example, we had the founder of Numerai coming in in the last program, and this time around just yesterday, we had actually Jordan Lyle talk about meme and answering our founders questions directly. So this is not an opportunity you get everywhere. So it's definitely proving quite interesting. We do stack introductions and demos, so we are building our portfolio in a way where everybody should be collaborative and everybody is collaborative once they have their products out and other people building products on top of that. So for example, right now one of the biggest issues in the application layer is gas fees. And then how do you obscure the backend, for example, like using metamask with Matic.
00:33:24.862 - 00:34:02.318, Speaker A: This is a very difficult experience for a lot of people. So for example, a company like biconomy jumps in. They're part of our portfolio and they help other portfolio companies obscure the backend and help with the meta transactions. In this way they're helping to provide great onboarding experience. So we've done this with multiple projects from our portfolio. So you do get very early access to our alumni network, and as you've seen, there's some really big networks and very useful middleware projects. And last but not the least, social time.
00:34:02.318 - 00:34:37.050, Speaker A: So in times like now, where we're just sitting on Zoom just talking about work every day, all day, we should be taking time off for social. So about every two weeks we do a social with the entire cohort and the entire OB staff. And every now and then we also bring external people in just for a social chat. We try not to talk about work at all or even minimizing the crypto chat because it can be quite overwhelming. So we are providing quite a bit of activities on all fronts, as you can see. Jamie.
00:34:37.710 - 00:35:30.084, Speaker B: Yeah, I was just going to build on some of these, actually. So with the workshops, and sometimes it's structured, as you said, like it's programmatic, it's predefined before you join the program, because we know there are key things, considerations, and it's quite sequential. You need to do this before you do that. That said, what often happens is needs emerge. Common needs emerge across more than one project, and so we can be quite responsive as well. If there's more than a couple of projects that face the same challenge, that could be anything from what feels quite generic, like hiring. We've got a lot of projects in this current cohort that have been around for quite a while, but are professionalizing how they structure things.
00:35:30.084 - 00:36:26.470, Speaker B: They're now defining roles, they're having a proper hiring process. We'll bring somebody in specifically to help with that requirement versus, let's say again in this cohort, current cohort, we got a lot of people interested in governance tokens. So we're bringing in experts in governance tokens, both in terms of analysts, but also projects founders that have implemented proven successes in governance tokens. This feeds into the biweekly founder AMA. Some of you may be familiar that I do something called the founders of Web three podcast. Pretty much most of the founders on that we have access to, and should they have the availability, we'll bring them into a program a to give founder perspective, just generally what it's like being a web three founder. But then of course, specifically to NFTs or DFI or whatever it may be.
00:36:26.470 - 00:36:31.450, Speaker B: So there are some kind of key areas there as well.
00:36:34.700 - 00:37:23.050, Speaker A: So here you can see an example of our entire ecosystem. So we are working very closely with enterprise startups from our portfolio and not just from our portfolio. As Jamie mentioned, with the founders of Web three, we know some of the best and the biggest founders in the industry. We are plugged in into the developer community as well. As you can see, we have multiple partners and we even run a hackathon in 2019 in Berlin when we could still go out and meet people in person. And then we have a really wide network of investors as well. So we are basically prepared to cater to the need of different types of projects within the metaverse and outside of it with our enterprise support as well.
00:37:23.050 - 00:38:13.800, Speaker A: So here are some of the examples of our mentors. So we have people from enterprise leaders like Iona. She's a really big name in city, really big investors, domain experts and connectors. So in terms of investors, we know people across all stages out there and we can bring in people that will be ready to invest in you now, for example at the angel and precede level, people that will be investing at you at the end of the program, for example, the seed and late seed stage. And people should you go down the token, the equity path. We have people in series a and later stages, vcs. We have pretty good relationships with quite a few of them, so we can help foster the relationships.
00:38:13.800 - 00:38:47.520, Speaker A: We also provide office hours throughout the program. So every team has at least 1 hour of all the staff of each staff member. So for example, we have 30 crypto native staff. We are the users of your network. We can provide useful feedback, especially in the application layer, but also our tech team can feedback quite a bit in the middleware and infrastructure layer as well. Our team is global. We are based in London.
00:38:47.520 - 00:39:39.072, Speaker A: We have people in Amsterdam, India, Prague as well. So we have a very global outlook and relationships in quite a few countries. Our in house team is actually also quite experienced. That includes individuals coming from background like Maryland, JP Morgan, CME Group, HSBC and so on. So we do have people that have experience work at really big organizations coming from financial service industries, but also more broader backgrounds. So we can help you in quite a few layers, including structuring, legal, fundraising and so on. Our skills also very complementary.
00:39:39.072 - 00:40:08.590, Speaker A: We have skills across angel investing. A lot of us angel investing on our personal time. A lot of the people started businesses before or have been in corporate venture or venture builders before. So we do have this 360 overview and we are complemented by over 250 mentors that after the mentor madness, you get matched with a couple of the mentors where you continue more long term work with them.
00:40:09.520 - 00:41:18.980, Speaker B: One thing to add, not everybody knows, but we're actually structured as an LLP partnership. So what that means is, aside from the 30 plus staff that we've got who are kind of dedicated specialists performing specific roles, we have the benefit from over 25 partners, all active angel investors investing both within and outside the outlier partnership, and each with a very vague background. Anna highlighted some of them there. But for example, Rumi Morales headed up the venture arm at CME and did all of their major investments in some of the biggest blockchain companies in the know. We've had people that have decades of experience in securities law, which helps around compliance. We've had somebody that's led m a merging acquisitions within the insurance industry. So we've got a lot of different sets of experience, but always kind of with an investor angel discipline about how it can be relevant to you as an early stage startup and network.
00:41:20.680 - 00:41:57.424, Speaker A: Yeah, and this is your beloved program team, so you'll be seeing a lot of Jamie, myself, and Scott in that program. So Scott is our program lead. He's a venture builder with a focus on product. He's been a CPO and a CCO for quite a few years. He's built ten startups and took, I think, five to seed and three to series a, so he understands the found experience inside out. He's been on both sides of the table, both as a mentor, an advisor, and an investor. So he's here to accelerate you and help you throughout the process.
00:41:57.424 - 00:42:46.610, Speaker A: He's been with us since the very first base camp program, so we've been evolving together. When it comes to myself, pretty much a crypto native VC, I've helped and was instrumental in over 40 deals, both of the precede and seed stage of investments. I spent four years in investing, started off with launch hub ventures, more traditional generalist investing, and joined Outlier in the spring of 2018. So I've been investing in bull, I've been investing in bear markets. So we have that comprehensive overview where we can prepare you for pretty much any market conditions out there. We are also complemented by program associates, so every team gets a dedicated program associate. These are normally people with five to ten years of experience.
00:42:46.610 - 00:43:15.050, Speaker A: Some of them even come from MBA programs. And normally these are people who have very wide experience in investment banking, consulting, or former founders who are just looking for the new thing. They join us for four months and then they become an extension to your team. So the way you think about them is basically, what would I do if I had 10 hours extra as a founder every single week? And then you just plug them in when you need them to.
00:43:15.900 - 00:43:46.020, Speaker B: Yeah, it's almost like having a second or third co founder in your team for that eight week period, which is then augmented by Scott and Anna, which basically manage and curate your access to all the in house expertise at Outlier, and then also our external partner network. So it's like ten xing yourself or your team giving yourself that boost, turbo boost over this kind of three month period.
00:43:47.960 - 00:44:36.784, Speaker A: Yes. So how to apply? Our applications are quite simple, but let's first talk about the founder selection criteria. So this is basically what we look in a founder from our seven years of experience in the market so we have done over 40 investments out there and we have spoken to thousands of founders. I'm probably speaking to 1500 founders every year myself. Jamie is probably topping this up with another 1500, and Scott's probably the same. So what's a successful founder is somebody who has a founder mindset, somebody who's a self starter and just starts things, researches, answers people's needs and gets things done. Somebody who's a metaverse fit.
00:44:36.784 - 00:45:33.456, Speaker A: As Jamie explained, the way we see the metaverse is a bundle of a couple of different areas. So there should be a founder who's got an experience in either domain areas or understands the problem and the need of the people in these areas. Network growth and diffusion potential this is basically where founders need to grow their networks continuously. So having a founder support network is incredible during your founder journey, because especially if you're a solo founder, it is a very lonely and it can be very overwhelming experience. So having a network of support is great. But also this is a trait of a successful founder, because normally in the first one or two years of the business, you don't really have the bandwidth to hire or the money to hire a salesperson. So you have to be that salesperson.
00:45:33.456 - 00:46:30.312, Speaker A: That means you need to lead on business development, on sales. So a lot of the times the founder led sales are what makes or breaks the business in the first couple of years when it comes to domain expertise that ties into understanding the value proposition and understanding the people's needs and the problem inside out. So we are looking for people who have some experience in the markets they're working on, either as users or people that worked in and served these markets. So you understand the problem firsthand, you've experienced it and now you're solving it. Legal, regulatory and compliance we are normally looking at founders who have some basic understanding of business. So we don't expect you to be a legal expert knowing every single compliance law out there. This is why we're here, to augment you and help you.
00:46:30.312 - 00:47:17.350, Speaker A: Also, you will be supported by a legal advisor throughout pretty much your entire company's lifecycle. But not to get into in order to avoid trouble, you should have some very basic knowledge of these things. So we normally receive two to 250 applications for every program. We are not saying our selection criteria is the silver bullet, but it is data driven. And we've seen this replay over and over again. So these are generally the things we're looking at in a founder in terms of the application process and the timeline. Our application process starts on our website.
00:47:17.350 - 00:47:45.650, Speaker A: As you can see you can go to outlawventures IO basecamp. Our application deadline is twelveth of March. Applications are now open, and we are reviewing them on an ongoing basis. We are reviewing people now. So we will be speaking with people and progressing them to the next stage of due diligence throughout the application process. So don't wait until the very last second to apply. We will be speaking to a lot of the people.
00:47:45.650 - 00:48:10.196, Speaker A: We'll be contacting successful applicants for the next stage, which is going to be further due diligence. And then we have investment meetings that we need to go through, a couple of conversations. We need to understand the business, and then we can continue the conversation or give you a decision. So successful. Yeah, Jamie, go on.
00:48:10.218 - 00:48:59.028, Speaker B: I was just going to say, one thing that's quite important is whenever I speak to founders, they procrastinate a little bit at this stage, especially if they're kind of like early stage, like precede, and they're reluctant to apply until the application is as perfect as possible. What I would say is one of the skills that we have to have as an early stage investor is we have to have an imagination for what's possible. Right? So our job is to see the possibility and opportunity in a team. And so that doesn't mean you have to have a perfect presentation. Of course it's great if you've got a really slick presentation and you've got all the growth numbers and you've got everything together in one deck. That makes our due diligence easier. But what I would say is, just put in the application.
00:48:59.028 - 00:49:37.330, Speaker B: The first thing that will probably happen is Anna will give you a call. It might even be me or Scott. We will then tell you what else we need to see, and you can go away and put it together. So I would definitely say just log the application with a basic one through the website first, and then we'll always follow up and ask for more information. If you are able to do a more comprehensive one, that's great. But I wouldn't kind of sit back and leave it to the last minute because we do get a lot of applications, and sometimes we begin to select some of those before the end of the program.
00:49:42.420 - 00:50:18.720, Speaker A: Yep. So, as Jamie said, nothing has to be perfect. What we're looking when we're reading an application is actually the way you think. We don't need you to have everything figured out. If you have, you'll be a lot more developed than what we provide. And then we want to hear the assumptions, we want to hear the hypothesis and the ways you're either validating it now or the ways you're looking to validate them in the future. So as I mentioned, founder mindset is very important as well as being a problem solver.
00:50:18.720 - 00:50:54.750, Speaker A: The way you think and the way you structure the application shows that a lot. So we don't expect perfect applications, but we're basically trying to get into your brain and trying to understand your business and the reasoning behind. Yeah, I think we have a couple of minutes for questions so far away in the chat. If you have no questions right now, you can also tag us on Twitter. So I just posted the handle in the chat so you can tag us on Twitter and we'll back and we'll answer your questions.
00:50:55.520 - 00:51:54.080, Speaker B: So I can see one question in where does Lab 309 fit into this? Have they progressed through the program, into the summit? So we're not going to talk about portfolio and we're not going to talk about Lab 309. Lab 309 will make its announcements on its own accord. For those that aren't aware, Lab 309 is the evolution of the sovereign network, which has been in our portfolio for a couple of years and is undergoing a transition into a new entity. So sadly, I'm not going to give you any news on that. Now, we're here to talk specifically about the accelerator program from people that are wanting to apply. So maybe whilst we're waiting for some questions to come through, if not, we can just skip it. We do have a lot of the faqs are answered on the main website, which are, there's some expandable sections where you can kind of get a bit more criteria.
00:51:54.080 - 00:52:58.868, Speaker B: But what I would do is, I would say this again, we're speaking to a lot of different startups at different stages. Currently we are in a bull market. It's not too difficult to raise money. And I think what that often creates, bearing in mind we've been through this a couple of times now, these cycles, is sometimes it can create short termism, and so naturally people want to be pragmatic, they want to take money that's on the table and you should absolutely do that. But what we've seen is sometimes that also leads projects to rush out a token and a token network. And whilst that might mean they get a couple of million in the bank, they're still often left with what can become a small cap token that stagnates low liquidity, low volume being traded through it, and it might be stuck at 1015 20 million for the next several years. It's effectively a zombie project.
00:52:58.868 - 00:54:09.210, Speaker B: So you can do that, you can raise several million. Maybe that's the extent to your aspiration. But if you want to maximize on this bull run and you want to go on to be a billion dollar network that grows, that is well capitalized, but that has a token with high volume, that's listed in all the right places, and that can be evergreen and survive a bear market when it comes, then there's a huge amount of work that needs to go into it, and that's why you would do base camp and or ascent. I think equally what we found is a lot of projects, again, with that kind of short termism, they might make some of the wrong decisions directionally. And so because they don't have a feedback loop, they're basically just being given money. And so again, what we do is both in terms of this kind of mentor madness where you're pitching refining, we've also had, very recently, we had a project that I personally recruited into the program who really didn't think they wanted to be in an accelerator. They'd kind of run, I wouldn't even call it a business.
00:54:09.210 - 00:55:04.216, Speaker B: They'd run a very bottom up, community led initiative. They hadn't really considered venture money. It was largely a group of what became friends. Now they're in the program, they're really appreciating the structure and rigor, firstly around helping them create a corporate structure, put in place properly defined roles, how they incentivize those roles, how they hire against those roles, how that feeds into budgeting, how that then feeds into fundraising. We can fast track a lot of that thinking. Even projects, for example, are thinking about directionally where they put their technical roadmap, their product roadmap. Should they switch from ethereum to something else? How do they solve for gas limitations, gas problems, and everything else that might be going on Ethereum, we can fast track those decisions.
00:55:04.216 - 00:56:05.440, Speaker B: We can get you in front of sometimes founder level at a particular protocol. We've even had teams unlock grants from protocols, new protocols, as they're kind of shifting onto a new network. So basically, the way to think about it is the amount of money that we give you is not really sizable enough to consider it an investment, right? It's tens of thousands of pounds, but the value that we give you is worth millions, right? Because if it means that you don't take a wrong turn, if it means accelerates your ability to raise money, but in a sustainable way at a higher valuation, launch a token that can go from being a 50 million token to a billion dollar token in its first quarter. If we can save you losing ip to a disgruntled employee. If you scale too quickly, there's lots of shortcomings that can trip you up. And, like, regulation is a really big one, too. A lot of projects will almost definitely rush out a token.
00:56:05.440 - 00:56:49.724, Speaker B: And as we've seen with the ICO mania projects, then spent several years and several million in legal fees getting bogged down with the SEC on whether they did or they didn't sell something in the appropriate way. So what I would say is, like, there are a lot of shortcuts that you can take. Some of them are good shortcuts and some of them are bad shortcuts. Like, if you go through base camp for us, our reputation, our brand and our signal is based upon you being here for the next bull run and surviving the next bear market. And so we're here to set you up to be successful and sustainable. We've still not got any questions in, so I think that's fine. We can close it off.
00:56:49.724 - 00:57:07.600, Speaker B: If you do have questions apply, you can then follow up equally. You can just ask myself or Anna on Twitter publicly or by DM, and we look forward to seeing your application and then hopefully working with some of you in the next quarter. Thanks for your time. Thanks, Anna.
00:57:08.660 - 00:57:09.150, Speaker A: Thank you.
