00:00:06.250 - 00:00:21.280, Speaker A: To have Bruno come here and chat about both the work that Aztec is doing in this domain and just in general, the kind of crypto privacy landscape that Ethereum has been able to impact over the last couple of years. So, Bruno, when you're ready, feel free to share your video, share your audio. Good to see you.
00:00:22.210 - 00:00:23.134, Speaker B: Yeah, good to see you.
00:00:23.172 - 00:00:28.054, Speaker A: Thanks for having me. Of course. And, yeah, whenever you're ready. Happy to turn it over to you.
00:00:28.092 - 00:01:09.586, Speaker B: Hey, everyone. My name is Bruno Belinski, and I'm here to talk about ethereum and the crypto privacy landscape. So, real quickly, the agenda I'll run through one is a little bit about me and Aztec, the project I work for. I'll talk briefly about some of the other privacy solutions being built in crypto today. I'll briefly touch on zero knowledge generally and how ethereum makes privacy possible today. And I'll also take a second to talk through some of the logical fallacies that usually come up in conversations about privacy that I think are important to address. First, about me.
00:01:09.586 - 00:01:28.326, Speaker B: A lot of what I'm going to be saying today is oversimplified for the sake of brevity. Of course, none of it is financial advice. I encourage everyone to do their own research, and I also encourage everyone to reach out if they have any questions. I'm always happy to talk offline. So, about me. I run ecosystem partnerships for Aztec. That means I lead the Aztecs grants program.
00:01:28.326 - 00:02:06.382, Speaker B: We are launching version two of the Aztecs grant program soon. If private DeFi is something you want to work on or you're really just passionate about privacy and want to discuss it, just reach out and let's find a project for you to be working on in the space about Aztec. Aztec is what I like to call a ZK ZK roll up. I like to say one of those ZKS is for scaling ethereum and increasing the throughput of transactions that can settle on ethereum. The other ZK is for privacy. The way it works is that we batch transactions on a roll up. We interact with l protocols via solidity interfaces.
00:02:06.382 - 00:02:57.198, Speaker B: What that means is that there's no need for l protocols like uniswap or Ave or curve or lido or element. There's no need to redeploy your l one contracts. There's no need to fragment your liquidity across a variety of ecosystems. You can just users that come onto the Aztec network can interact with your l one DFI contracts privately without needing you to fragment your liquidity, which is a real benefit. We expose a software development kit for people to build private DApps on Aztec. And we've also built our own consumer front end called ZK Money as a working example. So today, if you go on ZK Money, you can buy lido, staked ETH, you can interact with element finance, you can interact with the l protocols you know and love privately via Aztec.
00:02:57.198 - 00:03:41.140, Speaker B: So I encourage you to go check out ZK Money and see what it's all about. In terms of the other privacy solutions in the space, I think it's important to highlight a non exhaustive list of them. There are so many cool projects being built in the space. There's so much awesome research and development being done in the space. I think people sometimes ignore the fact that the cryptographers, the researchers, the operators, the people working at Aztec and these companies are pushing forward not only the crypto system, but also mathematics, cryptography, theoretical computer science. They're doing really incredible cutting edge research across a variety of spaces. And here's like a very non exhaustive list of some of the other projects in the space.
00:03:41.140 - 00:04:10.934, Speaker B: But I think it's important to talk through more than specifics about each of our projects. A little bit about the general features that you see today in crypto privacy projects. So, big caveat. I'm going to caveat the whole presentation again, brevity, leaving stuff out, trying to make it quick and dirty. All these projects are multidimensional. A lot of them have different use cases, different user bases. They are trying to appeal to different leaders, different perspectives.
00:04:10.934 - 00:04:51.690, Speaker B: Here are a couple of the features that I tend to see in crypto privacy projects. One, cryptography being used as a solution for scaling and privacy. Many of the privacy solutions are building an alt l one, many are interacting with ethereum l one directly. Really, it's not only privacy that people are trying to solve, but also privacy at the same time solving, scaling and throughput of ethereum. Generally, many of these projects have some form of shielded transactions where users can selectively disclose information, they can selectively share the information that they choose to share. They are private by default. But there is some form of shielding or unshielding that is in the user's hands.
00:04:51.690 - 00:05:45.350, Speaker B: All of this is secured by cutting edge cryptography and mathematics. There's ecosystems of DApps being built on a lot of these private projects for additional user functionality like DeFi payments. There are projects on Aztec building private multi stigs for really, it's a lot broader than just privacy with payments. There are private payments, but there's also private DeFi and a whole sleuth of various privacy focused ecosystems of decentralized applications. And finally, a lot of these projects either expose a software development kit and or an in house built programming language that allows developers to build in programmable privacy to their decentralized applications. Yeah. And so really, the summary here is these projects are incredibly multidimensional.
00:05:45.350 - 00:06:16.590, Speaker B: But these are some of the features that I tend to see in a lot of these projects. Really quickly, I want to talk about the zero knowledge stuff that underpins these whole systems. People a lot smarter than me are working on the math and cryptography that are underpinning these systems. And there is a ton of resources and explainers and 101s on the Internet. For learning more about zero knowledge. I'm going to keep it really high level. I do recommend either the Zero Knowledge podcast or a 16 Z's crypto research series.
00:06:16.590 - 00:07:01.826, Speaker B: Or really there's just an absolute plethora of resources out there. To learn more about Zero Knowledge, I encourage you to go do that or to reach out to me. And I'm happy to point you in their direction to dive deeper. But for my 101 high level overview, the cryptography that underpins these systems, most of it is via this primitive called a Zero Knowledge Snark. Snark stands for Succinct non interactive arguments of knowledge. But really the point of them is that you can prove the validity of some statement without exposing any of the inputs that go to that statement. So I like to give one example, which is I want to go out to a bar and there's three main parts of this interaction of me entering a bar.
00:07:01.826 - 00:07:57.094, Speaker B: One, I need to prove that I am 21 plus I can drink alcohol legally in the United States, et cetera. Two, I don't want to expose my name, my birthday, my address, my picture. I really don't want to expose anything about myself except for the fact that I am 21 plus and can enter the bar. On the other side, there's a security guard whose job or bartender or whatever at the bar whose entire job is verifying that I am of legal drinking age. To enter that bar and drink this seems kind of like a dumb example trivial. Why would we be optimizing for something like me entering a bar? And I understand that, but what I'm trying to explain via this example is Zero Knowledge Snarks give us the possibility of me proving that I am 21 plus and can drink legally without exposing any private information for me. And that's a good mental model to apply to a variety of different interactions that happen on ethereum today or may happen in our lives in the future.
00:07:57.094 - 00:09:10.380, Speaker B: And we're working on building out these primitives so that they can be used for trivial stuff like going to a bar. I think a mental model that the speaker before me, Scott, touched on briefly is there's a dark forest of bad actors out in the wild of ethereum? And right now, our two options are basically expose information to a centralized intermediary, like a trusted centralized intermediary which kind of defeats the whole purpose of the space that we're building. Or two, just putting your information out in the wild for any of these bad actors in the dark forest to come grab, abuse, take advantage of, find a way to steal your information or take advantage of the fact that your information is non private. By using Zero Knowledge Snarks and some of the other cryptography and advanced mathematics being built in this space, we can remove the need to trust a centralized intermediary or not trust anyone at all. What we can do is trust Math or trust Ethereum and trust Ethereum instead. So if there's questions on zero knowledge stuff, we can talk a little bit more about it after. But this is like a general framework to think about this as.
00:09:10.380 - 00:10:16.442, Speaker B: So how does Ethereum itself actually make privacy possible today? These roll ups, at least in FX case specifically, you generate these proofs proofs that I am 21 plus without exposing any of my information. But you need to post your proof somewhere. You need a trusted layer to post these proofs onto. And the ideal situation is that you can post these proofs somewhere where no single institution can restrict my posting of these proofs to anyone without my permission or without any intermediaries dictating who can and cannot view the proofs that have been posted. And we want these proofs to be there indefinitely so that you can use those proofs to reconstruct the state of the roll up. The transactions that you're doing on Aztec Ethereum as the trustless global settlement layer, that is the place where rollups can post their proofs today, because Ethereum satisfies some of these qualities that are desirable for constructing proof systems. So, specifically, Ethereum is censorship resistance, censorship resistant.
00:10:16.442 - 00:11:01.070, Speaker B: Excuse me. You can be confident that the Ethereum base layer, the validators in our proof of stake model, or the miners in the proof of work model, won't censor blocks that contain proofs. And so that makes it a great place for us to trustlessly batch and post our proofs there's. Also finality. So the Ethereum base layer processes the proofs from these zero knowledge roll ups. Once those transactions are confirmed and finalized on the Ethereum layer, one, those aren't reversible, even if you are a malicious roll up operator. And three is data availability, posting proofs to Ethereum is permissionless, and you are able to check those permissionlessly, which lets you independently verify the state of the Aztec roll up or generally roll ups.
00:11:01.070 - 00:11:43.642, Speaker B: I actually saw this like, an hour ago. Yeah, from 12:00 p.m. Earlier today is Tim Baco, one of the lead coordinators of the incredibly complex and awesome move to proof of stake. Tim says that the number one problem he'd love to see someone come up with a solution to on Ethereum is private ETH transfers by default. Now, not to speak for Tim, but I think what he's trying to say here is that the base layer, Ethereum, have private ETH transfers by default on l one. But Aztec is a stepping stone to this. You can do private ETH transfers on Aztec via ZK Money today, right now, if you want to, while I'm doing this talk.
00:11:43.642 - 00:12:41.626, Speaker B: So feel free to go check out ZK Money and see how this works. But just to demonstrate how important it is for privacy to be the default on Ethereum, rather than a secondary option that users need to opt into when I'm talking about privacy in the space, there are a variety of logical fallacies that come up in these conversations. And so I think it's really important to address logical fallacies up front. And Twitter just 280 characters don't give you enough space to do it. So I thought it was valuable to talk through them right now, especially with the sanctions to tornado cash recently by the United States OFAC one thing I hear is that every privacy project is just a mixer. Now, on one end, the complexity of privacy projects today is still very high. And so I understand that not everyone can put in the time to understanding the nuances and the differences between our systems.
00:12:41.626 - 00:14:00.650, Speaker B: But hopefully I've been able to demonstrate that privacy projects are doing a wide array of different things. There's a lot of projects tackling privacy differently. A lot of them are building open source tools, asset included, open source tools for decentralized programmable privacy. So I think it's a little bit reductive to refer to every privacy project as just a mixer when there's a clear delineation between a bunch of our privacy projects generally, and it seems like a logical fallacy to bunch us all into one classification. Secondary is I hear this a lot, is the technology is interesting, but but bad actors that might abuse technology, make adoption or even research and development in this sector a non starter on day one. The reason this is a fallacy is you merely have to look at basically all technological development that's happened over the last four or five decades or really since all technological advancement that's ever happened in humanity. And you notice how bad actors potentially abusing a system has never stopped us from developing technology that could be net beneficial to the world, to ethereum, to humanity.
00:14:00.650 - 00:14:33.780, Speaker B: You can imagine artificial intelligence, which is a debate that's coming up more and more frequently. Artificial intelligence or gene editing via CRISPR or social media. A lot of these technologies could be abused by bad actors. But that doesn't make the research and development and really the community building and commercialization of these softwares, it doesn't make them a non starter. It never has. And so it's a logical fallacy to follow that argument as because a bad actor can use it, that makes adoption a non starter. Frankly, I think this is a little bit of a cop out.
00:14:33.780 - 00:15:18.302, Speaker B: Bad actors use our traditional financial system. Bad actors use basically every software tool that's ever been created. Just because a bad actor may use it does not mean that the technology itself is for bad actors or built by bad actors. And frankly, it's a fallacy that is far too common in crypto specifically, but the world generally. And I think it's important to face that fallacy head on and really call people out when they're abusing that argument. And finally, the third logical fallacy I see really frequently is you don't need privacy if you have nothing to hide. That statement just doesn't follow, right? You may not need privacy if you don't need privacy, if you have nothing to hide.
00:15:18.302 - 00:16:34.970, Speaker B: Nothing to hide just doesn't really relate to your desire for privacy. As my colleague john wu loves to say, if you don't care about privacy, why do you shower with a curtain on? We all want and value and respect our privacy to differing degrees, but to conflate the desire for privacy to criminal activity I e nothing to hide is just, frankly, absurd and unfair to a lot of people that want privacy for a variety of reasons. I mean, you could be a political dissident in a country like Ukraine that wants privacy for their safety and for their family's safety, or you might just not want your family members, colleagues, coworkers to see what you're spending your money on on the weekends. And frankly, the argument that if you have nothing to hide, you don't need privacy is completely a non sequitur illogical and should be called out when it's used. So, in summary, I believe privacy is a human right, and until the last few decades, basically not basically all monetary transactions were private by default. Cash is private by default. And until the last couple of decades, we haven't really needed privacy in a financial perspective because it hasn't been an issue in the last two or three decades.
00:16:34.970 - 00:17:39.438, Speaker B: Our technological advancement has been so rapid and so incredible that we've let a couple of big topics fall to the wayside. Number one is like our personal privacy, and number two is like our informational privacy, our data privacy, specifically in the context of social media. And so this is our opportunity to rebuild these systems with privacy as the default. Second, I just want to highlight there's a broad, diverse ecosystem of projects that are doing critical, critical research and development in a variety of fields outside of ethereum or blockchain, specifically like mathematics and cryptography and theoretical computer science. And a lot of them are just exposing programmable privacy tools for others to build using our open source software. We at aztec believe that building privacy solutions, building privacy solutions on top of ethereum makes the most sense because of ethereum's credible neutrality, ethereum censorship, resistance, and ethereum's immutability. And there's a lot of logical fallacies that try to muddy the water around privacy tech.
00:17:39.438 - 00:18:43.170, Speaker B: And I think it's important to call them out when you see them. And I think in our space, we may be noticing in the last month, month and a half, we need to be united around a cause like privacy. We need the entire space to demand privacy, to demand the right to determining your own level of comfort around your privacy, and really pushing for that across the space. On that note, I want to leave everyone with a quote from phil zimmerman, the creator of PGP, a very widely used encryption software that we all use today, whether you know it or not, in email or a variety of other places. Phil said, sorry about that. Phil said throughout the 1990s, I figured that if we wanted to resist this unsettling trend in the government of outlawing cryptography, one measure we can apply is to use cryptography as much as we can now while it is still legal. When the use of strong cryptography becomes popular, it's harder for the government to criminalize it.
00:18:43.170 - 00:19:13.210, Speaker B: Therefore, using PGP is good for preserving democracy. If privacy is outlawed, then only outlaws can have privacy. And I just want to tweak that quote a little bit. PGP has been great for preserving democracy, but we've got a next wave of privacy solutions that are here to help preserve democracy and preserve personal freedoms. So therefore, using Aztec and other privacy solutions out there today is good for preserving democracy. If privacy is outlawed, only outlaws will have privacy. And I think that's the message I want to leave this on.
00:19:13.210 - 00:19:25.022, Speaker B: So thank you all for your time. I can't even see how much time I've taken, so I hope I haven't run late or run short, but I'm happy to answer any questions from the audience. From Jacob. Yeah, awesome.
00:19:25.076 - 00:20:00.300, Speaker A: Thanks, Bruno. And yeah, what a great quote to wrap that up on. Yeah, I mean, we still have a little bit of time, so if anybody has any questions, feel free to drop them in the chat and I'll relay them over to Bruno here. But maybe just to kind of kick off a little bit of a conversation, we kind of touching on this at the end of your presentation. It does seem that maybe a little bit weirdly. Privacy is very political in a lot of ways, and I think also you can almost see that in your presentation when you're saying you're like caveats, not financial. You're kind of prepped for this already in a way, because I think you've probably been spending so much time in the space.
00:20:00.300 - 00:20:29.730, Speaker A: Just from a developer perspective, I can definitely see that as being maybe a bit of a turn off for some people. And I'm kind of curious what your thoughts are about for people who are thinking about maybe building in the space or are very curious about kind of privacy. What either should they read? What should they kind of pull their inspiration for being in the space from? Really just kind of highlight anything that comes to mind as being, like, why this is like, an important space to work in, even if maybe there's a little bit of a political kind of action happening in that space.
00:20:29.880 - 00:21:23.938, Speaker B: Yeah, I think everyone should look up the quote that I just ended with, if privacy is outlawed, then only outlaws will have privacy. Phil Zimmerman's, I guess I don't know if he goes by Phil. Philip Zimmerman's paper on this is phenomenal. It's just an incredibly concise, succinct write up on why privacy is important. And he wrote this in the I guess I don't know the exact date, but early 2000s, far before this has been a discussion in recent months, and it's incredible to see how that is applicable today. I think a lot of people in crypto or I guess building technology in general, I can't speak for everyone, but we may not, for example, have not been old enough to even understand what was happening in the 90s when the discussion about weaponizing encryption tools was important. And I think it's important to get that historical context.
00:21:23.938 - 00:22:32.842, Speaker B: I think the argument about crypto in general, about decentralization, about credible neutrality, about a global settlement layer outside of one that's maintained by federal governments or world governments as a unit, it's become politicized because everything has become politicized. But I think myself, Aztec, I would imagine all the privacy solutions in the space would feel similar. We don't do this because we have a political ideology. We believe that it's a human right to have your own privacy and make your own decisions about what you spend your funds on, where your money is deployed, without exposing that to not only to your inner circle, but to the broad world of bad actors that are out there. And so we're just trying to build solutions where consumers can make their own choices about where they want to sit on that spectrum of privacy. And so I would encourage everyone to try and get out of a political lens when thinking about this and just think about your fundamental human rights, what you believe in, how you want to live your life, and whether privacy is a part of that. And I imagine that almost everyone cares about privacy to some regard.
00:22:32.842 - 00:22:59.586, Speaker B: And so just think about where you sit on that scale. And two, try to understand your neighbor or someone you don't know. When they say that they sit in a separate part of that scale, they are not bad people for wanting more privacy. That's just their preference of sitting on a different part of the scale. So, one, read Phil Zimmerman's work on this. Two, feel free to reach out after and I can send you some more resources. And three, just try and view the situation non politically and with empathy.
00:22:59.586 - 00:23:15.130, Speaker B: And I think we'll understand that everyone here is just trying to advance humanity and really defend our personal liberties. As everything gets more digitized and those liberties start to erode, I think that's all we're here for, is to fight for personal liberties.
00:23:16.190 - 00:23:57.190, Speaker A: Amazing. I'll definitely take a look at Philip's post after this. And then, I mean, you actually brought up what I was going to ask about as well. I also saw Tim's post earlier today on Twitter about sort of like ethereum l one transfers being private by default. As you mentioned in your talk, this is the case for Aztec right now, and Tim at the end of his statement, know it could completely change what the end state of the space looks like. I read that and I was like, what could that mean? And I haven't had enough time to think about that yet. Given that you've been thinking about the space, and Aztec already has this as an outcome, what do you think? What could be some of those kind of end state outcomes that he's sort of hinting at here?
00:23:57.340 - 00:25:05.726, Speaker B: Yeah, and to clarify again, I think what Tim is saying is that privacy at the base layer on the l One protocol, which is not what Aztec is, right. We're an L Two roll up, but you have that functionality of being able to interact on L One privately, send transfers privately to other addresses on l One today. What is the use case? For me, at least, the biggest use case for crypto, like the end goal, end state use case here is payments. Right? Like we use payments, we don't get two and a half percent taken away from the credit card cartels out there, and we transact trustlessly and permissionlessly privately. Now, if you want to do anything, any sort of payment where you may not want everyone to see what you are paying, you just can't do that on l One today, right? Like I am Brunny e, you can just go look at my address and you will be able to see all the things I've paid into. And unfortunately, that's just the status quo today. But payments I'll go on a short tangent here.
00:25:05.726 - 00:25:14.260, Speaker B: Aztec was actually started several years ago with the premise of bringing corporate debt onto ethereum layer One.
00:25:15.110 - 00:25:16.418, Speaker A: That's right, yeah.
00:25:16.584 - 00:26:03.554, Speaker B: Unfortunately, that's not possible because corporations value their privacy. And so if we want to enter into these two sectors, like payments generally and really widespread adoption in the financial markets, whether like DeFi or just like DeFi payments, global settlement, layer exchanges, really anything that you can imagine. Financially crypto being used for it requires privacy on the parts of everyone outside of the current crypto ecosystem. That is okay with the public nature by default. So I think if you want to look at it from a market sizing thing, like global payments market, global financial market, just take like a small percentage of that. And this is the biggest industry. This is like ten X what crypto is today.
00:26:03.554 - 00:26:22.786, Speaker B: And it's impossible without privacy. And so I think hopefully that answered your question, Jacob, of how important is this? How transformational is this? How big is privacy for achieving this end state of ethereum and global adoption of ethereum as our trust settlement layer?
00:26:22.898 - 00:26:46.030, Speaker A: Yeah, absolutely. I think you hit the nail on the head there. We go on that one. I mean, payments being such a big part of everything we do all the time, and really not being able to really tap into being a large percentage of that as a protocol, as an ecosystem, if not for privacy. Right? So enabling, that really absolutely critical.
00:26:46.610 - 00:27:19.770, Speaker B: And just one last note. The point here, I'm sorry, I know I'm going a couple of minutes over. You probably could be privately transacting on Ethereum L One today. Like, you could open up a fresh wallet. You could figure out a way to basically get privacy. But we don't need that for global adoption. We need completely easy adoption of privacy solutions on Ethereum for that to really reach the mainstream, right? Like, people are not going to go in and play this wallet roulette of hiding funds.
00:27:19.770 - 00:27:50.862, Speaker B: That's just not the way that we're going to reach global adoption. So we really need simple consumer interfaces for adoption of privacy on L One Ethereum. And I think ZK Money is, like, a great step in that direction. I encourage everyone to check it out and just fund a little bit of money into Zkmoney, send a private payment, and see how awesome it is to see that Etherscan transaction as not Brunny ETH, but Aztec roll of contract. No one can see actually, who is funding the other side of that. So I encourage you all to go to Zkmoney and check that out.
00:27:50.996 - 00:27:53.406, Speaker A: Awesome. That was just ZK money, right?
00:27:53.508 - 00:27:54.590, Speaker B: ZK money. Exactly.
00:27:54.660 - 00:28:07.640, Speaker A: Awesome. Okay, great. Thank you so much for being here, Bruno, and for your chat. Really appreciated it. And, yeah, dovetailed so nicely with Scott's chat earlier, so that was just perfect. So thank you so much for your time and for being a part of this with us.
00:28:08.090 - 00:28:09.300, Speaker B: Yeah, thanks for having me, everyone.
