00:00:00.240 - 00:00:13.310, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Legway refuel, where I recap the latest news new theorem ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Zosano. Today, 17 January 2024. Right, everyone, let's get into it. So apologies for yesterday. I missed yesterday's episode. Of course, I did warn you that.
00:00:13.310 - 00:00:31.884, Speaker A: I did warn you guys that I might be missing episodes here and there for reasons outlined on Monday's episode. But I'm back today, and there is a bunch of stuff to get through. A lot of core dev related stuff, actually. And first off, we have here that girly is forking to Den Kun today. Now, I'm recording this episode earlier. My time, it's about 05:00 p.m. My time.
00:00:31.884 - 00:01:01.164, Speaker A: I usually record the episodes at about 10:00 p.m. So the girly testnet fork has not happened, but the time. But by the time the episode goes out, by the time you're seeing this, it will have already happened. So, yeah, it's happening, I think, in about an hour from now, from when I'm recording. But as you guys know, if all goes well with the girly den Kun Fork, we then will obviously move on to Sapoli and whole sky, which are happening on January 30 and Feb. 7th respectively. And then if all goes well with those testnets as well, you guys know that my own personal estimate for Denkun on Mainet is mid to late March.
00:01:01.164 - 00:01:39.040, Speaker A: So we're in the home stretch here, guys. We're very, very close to getting AIP 4844 and a bunch of eips onto Mainnet finally. This has been almost a year, I guess, like since obviously the Shanghai went live or Chappelle went live last April after enabled withdrawals on the beacon chain there. We did. I remember I did say that it would be six months between upgrades, not a year between upgrades. But I think, as I've explained, you know, they, the core devs made a few key changes to erp 48 four towards the end there, which resulted in it kind of being, uh, stretched out from what was November was the original estimate for it to go live on main net till now, about mid to late March here. But yeah, I'm excited to see how the Den Koon fork goes.
00:01:39.040 - 00:02:22.272, Speaker A: As I said, like, it hasn't happened yet, but it will have happened by the episode, by the time the episode goes live, hoping everything goes smoothly. You know, usually with these testnet forks, people point to things and like, oh my God, look, it didn't go. As you know, it didn't go smoothly. Something went wrong, when in reality, a lot of the time it's just participation being low on the network because they're test nets. You know how on Mainnet you can go to a few of the various tracking sites and see what the participation rate is? And it usually is like plus, well, on the test nets it's not going to be that high because testnets, there's nothing at stake, right? There's literally no money being lost if you're not on, you know, online on the test net. So the participation rate is usually lower, whereas on Mainnet, if your validator is offline, then obviously you are not making money. For starters, you are not going to be proposing any blocks or attesting to any blocks or being part of any sync committees.
00:02:22.272 - 00:02:57.376, Speaker A: And you will be bleeding out value slowly over time until you eventually get leaked out, which does take a while. But still there is an incentive to be online. Of course, as a staking service provider is an even biggest incentive to be online because you want to provide the best service possible to your users and get more stake in, whereas on testnets there's none of that. Right. So really the motivation to be online is just kind of an altruistic thing. It's like a thing of, okay, I'm going to be online because we need to get these test nets done so that we can go to main nets. So, yeah, if you see any people tweeting about that saying, oh, look at the participation rate is really low, blah, blah, it's, it doesn't really mean anything, especially because there will be some people who didn't upgrade their nodes either.
00:02:57.376 - 00:03:28.848, Speaker A: So they won't fork over to girlie on dengue and they'll be stuck on the old chain and they'll eventually come around and kind of fork off there. But what we're really looking for is just to see if upgrade goes through smoothly. There's no bugs, there's no kind of things that go wrong with it, and then we can move on to Sepolia and whole sky. And then, as I said, once those are done and everything is running smoothly, a main net date will be set. I believe the main net date will be set probably, you know, the next call dev call after whole Sky Forks on February 7. And then that will give us probably at least a month before it goes live on Mainnet. So as I say, mid to late March.
00:03:28.848 - 00:03:51.502, Speaker A: I'm erring on the side of late March, more than mid March, but we'll have to see what, what happens there. But you're very close now, guys. Not too far away from that. But that's Den Coon, basically. I mean, yeah, it's a wrap on Zen kun, but of course the core devs are not slowing down. They're already working on, or they have already been working on this for a few weeks now. The next upgrade, which as you guys know, is called Petra or Petra or Prague Electra.
00:03:51.502 - 00:04:29.146, Speaker A: Now, Tim Baiko tweeted out a nice image here today with all the eips that are currently proposed, not slated for inclusion yet, but proposed to be included as part of this upgrade, which there is no. No date for this upgrade. Honestly, guys, like, I would say that, like, they'll, ideally they would want to target like November this year, but given that there are so many aips here and if all of these were to be included, I don't know how we would see November this year. Like, this is a lot of eips, guys. Like, I mean, and there's some pretty major ones here as well, like the verkle tree related ones, peer Das. Like, there are some pretty major eips here. Some of them have already been done and have just been pushed away from other hard forks.
00:04:29.146 - 00:05:02.184, Speaker A: Like all the EOf related eips. I believe most of those were already kind of done, but they just got pushed, pushed out further and, you know, to prioritize other eips. But yeah, if all of these get accepted into the fork, I don't see it happening this year, but it would probably happen sometime early next year and that's okay. But as well as tweeting out this image here, all the IPS Tim Biker also linked to an Ethereum magicians thread which talks about all of this. And there's a bit of discussion in here. I believe this is the original thread started in November of 2023, which I did highlight back then. But this has got all of the eips here.
00:05:02.184 - 00:05:30.724, Speaker A: Now, I'm not going to run through each of these and explain to you what they are. One, because it will take me all the whole episode, and two, because I don't know what each and every one of them do. I have a high level overview of most of them, but definitely wouldn't be the best person to explain all of them in detail. But I will tell you the ones that I'm most excited about personally. One of them is AIP 3074, which is the Auth and call EIP. And this is something that has been talked about for a while now. You see a lot of people pushing this out on Twitter, and it's basically a Ux upgrade for Ethereum.
00:05:30.724 - 00:06:00.914, Speaker A: It has to do with what, what, what you do when you approve transaction. Sorry, approve a token for swapping and then do a swap. From my understanding, this IP would basically bundle that together so that you could do an approve and swap in one transaction so you don't have to do unlimited approvals anymore. Basically what would happen is you just approve for the amount and then you swap as part of that same thing and that's it. Like there's not just a dead stale approval there that could be exploited later on and you could lose funds. So there's obviously a huge Ux and security upgrade there for end users. And then that AIP is on the execution layer side of things.
00:06:00.914 - 00:07:17.784, Speaker A: And there's also all the vertical tree related aips, which I've explained before is an effort that's been going on for quite a while now. It is a huge effort, honestly, and it is something that is going to be a huge upgrade to Ethereum allows us to potentially sooner rather than later up the gas limit without the negative externalities that I talked about on Monday's episode with regards to increasing the gas limit. So those ones there, then you have EIP 7002, which is an execution layer, triggerable exits for, for stake, which is basically going to be a huge upgrade for the security of things like staking pools, where essentially, as a user, from my understanding, you would be able to essentially exit a validator using the execution layer that's with that staking service without you having to get permission to do that. So you wouldn't have to go to the staking service and say, hey, I want to exit a validator and the validator node operator would have to do that for you. You could do this via the execution layer. And then there's of course AIP 7251, which is increasing the max effective balance from 32 ETH to the proposed 2048 ETH. And I've talked about this at length on the refill before, so I'm not going to rehash it here, but this essentially means that we get to consolidate a lot of the validators on the network still have the same amount of ethics, but consolidate a lot of the validators, get that network load down, and then that leads to more positive things like being able to increase the size of blobs and potentially being able to increase the gas limit and stuff like that as well.
00:07:17.784 - 00:08:22.756, Speaker A: And then also you've got ERP 7547, which is the inclusion lists EIP. And this has all got to do with censorship resistance and making it harder for the network to censor, essentially, and making it so that we give censorship resistance back to, sorry, we give the inclusion back to the validators rather than the builders and the relayers that we have right now as part of the MEV boost network. And then finally you have ERP 75 94, which is peer Das, which is, I believe one of the first steps towards full das, which is data availability sampling, which is part of the dank sharding roadmap, which allows us to greatly scale up the data avail the data availability of Ethereum layer one, which means cheaper fees for L2s, of course. So those are my favorite eips from this there are a lot of others in here, especially a lot of others in here related for developers to tap into. I know there are a bunch of developers are really excited about ERP 7212, which is a new precompile and ARP set to 25 37, which is a BLS pre compile. I don't know that well enough to explain it, so you can go check these out in the Ethereum magicians thread. I'll link it in the YouTube description below.
00:08:22.756 - 00:09:16.528, Speaker A: But I know that devs in particular are very, very excited about those two there. But I think if I had to pick one that I'm super excited about on this, just one, I would say that EIP 7251 increasing that max effective balance is the one that I'm personally most excited about because I do understand all the positive externalities that can come from that. And I do understand that the 32 ETH max effective balance that we have today is technical debt. We do not need to have 900,000 plus validators on the network because we're not doing execution sharding anymore. So getting that down is going to be very good for network health, is going to be very good for other things like increasing the size of blobs, which is obviously very good for l two s, and then making it so that the network is more secure and stable. Because at the end of the day, Ethereum L1 is being built to be the most secure and stable and, and, and, and reliable settlement layer, as you guys know, as I talked about before. So these ips go a long way to achieving that.
00:09:16.528 - 00:09:52.406, Speaker A: But as I said, you can go check out all of these eips in the YouTube description in the link in the YouTube description below. And also, I just wanted to quickly remind people that these are just proposed eips. They are not included eips. There are some here that will probably get cut if I had to say which ones are going to get cut. I don't know if I had to say which one's going to get included, I would say that EIP 7251 is a shoe in for inclusion and a few others on this list, but it's hard to tell this early on still, so we're gonna have to see how that evolves there. Which ones are ready for inclusion, which ones are not going to take forever to kind of implement for clients because that would just push things out further. So yeah, we'll see what happens there, but you can go check this out.
00:09:52.406 - 00:10:46.882, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, Tomas, one of the core devs at Nethermind put out a tweet over the weekend no to a couple of days ago where he said what are the roadmap dates for each of the l two s to start using EIP 4844 both on testnets and Mainnet. Post about the l two twos that you most familiar with now proto Lambda from optimism said personal view about op stack chains not official targeting devnet on girly soon public public test nets closer to the end of January Feb and then looking to be ready for optimism governance voting cycle 19 which completes early March and hopefully then roll out shortly after l one. So you guys know that with EIP 4844 it is something that the l two s themselves, all the roll ups, I guess themselves have to set themselves up for to take advantage of. It is not just an automatic switch over. So proto saying here that op stack chains are probably going to happen shortly after l one, so we won't have to. We're going to have to wait long for that.
00:10:46.882 - 00:11:25.048, Speaker A: I believe Tyco is going to add support for it pretty much straight away. I think scroll already has a proof of concept for it. I know that Jesse Pollack from base quote tweeted this and said the base team is working to the ensure that we upgrade to use Blobspace as quickly as possible after ETH Mainnet, but that obviously falls into the op stack chains. Stephen Goldfeder from off chain Labs said for arbitrum one and Nova these decisions are controlled by the on chain contracts and in the hands of the arbitrary dow. So it would probably quickly happen after L1. L1, sorry, after the then can upgrade on L1 on Mainnet. And then Ramon said at Zksync we're working to use blobs as soon as it is available on Mainnet, of course.
00:11:25.048 - 00:12:05.386, Speaker A: So yeah, we can expect all the major l two s to be all the major roll ups, I should say, to be ready to go pretty much soon after it goes live on Mainnet. I'm curious to see which one goes first. Like, that might be a bit of a competitive advantage, or at least the marketing advantage. It definitely is a competitive advantage because you get cheaper fees. But I think that the marketing as well is a pretty big advantage, saying, look, we can move fast, we can do these upgrades as quickly as possible, come use our network, because you're always guaranteed to get fast upgrades. And I'm curious to see what the fees drop down to, because as you guys know, there's two parts to AIP 48, 44 in terms of how it has an effect on fees. The first part is that it gives extra capacity to roll ups to take advantage of.
00:12:05.386 - 00:12:23.858, Speaker A: Right. Extra data capacity there. But the second part is something that it's not talked about enough, in my opinion, is that it's a separate fee market. Right. So it doesn't have anything to do with the normal l one fee market, which means that it's not going to be affected by the l one gas fee Spike. So for example, let's say that the blob gas fee is at ten g. That's pretty high.
00:12:23.858 - 00:12:47.114, Speaker A: I mean, I don't know if it's going to be at ten g anytime soon. Maybe it will be. Maybe there'll be a lot of demand there. But let's just say for argument's sake, it's at Tenguay and l one is at 50 way, they're separate markets. So if that l one goes up to 100 way, the l two, or so I should say the blob fee market is still going to say it. Stay at Tenguay. It is completely separate to the normal l one, or I should say execution layout fee market, because the blobs are actually technically on the consensus layer.
00:12:47.114 - 00:13:19.140, Speaker A: So when you think about it like that, that to me is the better upgrade because the l two s right now, or for a little while now, have been suffering from the fact that l one normally has these random spikes in gas that affects l two s and affects users there. And as we lead into a bull market, you can bet your ass that. Well, I guess like into a. Into a full blown bull market, you can bet your ass that l one gas is going back to 100 gray plus for sure. We already saw a teaser of this as things were heating up. I'm not even really so much for Ethereum, but like just in general, in the. In the market, we already saw gas on the execution layer go up a lot.
00:13:19.140 - 00:13:45.340, Speaker A: So, yeah, we can expect that to happen there. But that's not to say that there won't be spikes for blob blobs either, because with blobs, they can be used for anything. They don't have to just be used for roll ups. So blobs, I foresee people using inscriptions on blobs, at least for. At least probably at the very start, because it'll be some kind of narrative that people will be shilling to make money or whatever else. So I can see that people doing inscriptions in blobs for a little while, and that will cause the fees to spike up, but we'll have to see. We don't know.
00:13:45.340 - 00:14:03.942, Speaker A: Right. It's just. Just kind of a prediction that I'm making right now. But I feel like given that we've seen them happen on EVM chains generally, given that we've seen it happen on l one, Ethereum, given that it literally doesn't really make much sense, to be honest, to do this at all. But given that it is happening, yeah, we'll have to see how that shakes out there. But yeah, that's the kind of roadmap for some of the major l two s there. But I should say roll ups.
00:14:03.942 - 00:14:33.896, Speaker A: You know, the reason why I keep going back to roll ups is because I use the term l two to refer to roll ups and validiums. Now, validiums don't store their data on Ethereum l one, which means that they get no benefit out of 4844. Nothing changes for them because they're already storing their data elsewhere. So they're not affected by 48 44 at all. I mean, they could start storing their data on Ethereum l one because of 4844, but they would no longer be validiums that would be considered full roll ups here. And that's something that I saw people debating today. Vitalik actually got involved with this on Twitter today, debating about the definitions here.
00:14:33.896 - 00:15:25.026, Speaker A: I will continue to call validiums l two s. I understand people saying that we shouldn't conflate the security guarantees of a roll up and a validium, and I'm all for that. But in terms of simplicity, in terms of just having, like, a simple kind of marketing term to use for people, I think l two is fine to describe both roll ups and validiums. And when you talk about security as well, like, I'll make the argument that a roll up with a multi seq attached to it, that's controlled by the core team, let's say, right, that has full upgrade capability on the roll up, there's no dao or anything, it's just them. Right? That's less secure than a veladium. Without that, in my opinion, like, I believe a validium that's storing its data on, let's say, eigen da, for example, without those centralized controls in place, would be more secure than a roll up with those centralized controls in place. So security isn't just about if it's storing its data on Ethereum, l one or not.
00:15:25.026 - 00:15:53.874, Speaker A: It is about so much more than that. And you can make an argument for, for various different constructions of what an l two will look like. But I think for simplicity's sake, we should still refer to validiums as l two s. And I know that there's, like, there's the purist out there and there are core developers that disagree with me. I know Dan Cradd is very adamant about a roll up. Sorry, if you want to be considered an l two, you have to be a roll up. But I think that that is, while it may be strictly technically correct, like, if you want to use the very strict technical definition of it, it is not practical.
00:15:53.874 - 00:16:17.054, Speaker A: In my opinion. It is not practical because what you end up doing is confusing users even more. I even seen people come up with new terminology such as Ethereum validiums. Like, I'm sorry, guys, we need to stop coming up with these new buzzwords and terminologies. That's just going to confuse everyone. I do think that we should just call volidiums and roll ups l two s. I think that that is fine, because as I said, if you're talking about security guarantees, it goes far beyond the l two terminology.
00:16:17.054 - 00:16:47.850, Speaker A: It goes into everything. Like, it goes into what is there a multi seq? It goes into what the overall training rules looks like. What's the upgrade procedure look like? Can users actually escape to l one? Like, is there an escape hatch in place? So it goes far beyond just where it stores its data. So I don't really get that argument of why you would call something in an l two or not just based on where it stores its data. I think that we should just be breaking these things down, you know, intricately. And we do that with l two b, which actually is a perfect segue into what I want to talk about next, which was l two beat, actually. Damn.
00:16:47.850 - 00:17:20.737, Speaker A: I don't have the tweet handy right now. Somehow I somehow missed the tweet here, so I'm just going to bring up this tweet. So there was a tweet here. This is an l two beat themselves. But this is Josh Stark basically tweeting out a picture of an edited l two beat dashboard where he's got all of the different, like, optimistic and zk roll ups here with full green pies at stage two decentralization. Now, as you guys know, stage two roll ups are the kind of ultimate goal here. Getting them to be fully decentralized, getting them to be fully secure here, and I quote, tweeted this and I said, this is what all serious roll up teams should be working towards.
00:17:20.737 - 00:17:54.974, Speaker A: Stage two roll ups are the way. And then someone asked, you know, what is a stage two roll up? Well, it was originally defined by Vitalik in this Ethereum magicians post, which basically defines a roll up without training wheels. So they're must not be any group of actors that can even unanimously post a state route other than the output of the code. And then there was also a bunch of other kind of, bunch of other criteria here that you need to meet to get to stage two, such as upgrades are allowed, but must have a delay of more than 30 days. So the DaO could upgrade the l two, but it has to be a long delay here. And then there are a bunch of other criteria. I mean, I'll link this in the YouTube description below.
00:17:54.974 - 00:18:32.182, Speaker A: You can go check it out. But if you go to, if you go to the l two bit website here and actually see if I go to the l two bit website myself here and show you what this kind of looks like here, you can see that none of the big roll ups or none of the kind of like most active roll ups are at stage two. Everything is at stage one or stage zero or na na means that if you're a validium or an optimum, and that means you store your data off chain, you are not a roll up, which means that the stages don't apply to you. But the only stage two roll ups are d gate v one and fuel v one. They are both barely used. I mean, D gate v one has 37 million tvl. Fuel v one has $657 of tbr.
00:18:32.182 - 00:19:01.346, Speaker A: So barely used. So the furthest along most used roll up today is option one. With. At stage one, they're working towards stage two, of course, and they want to get to stage two this year. I've seen them talk about. But this is what we should be looking at when we talk about, okay, what's the security of a roll up? What's the security and what's the decentralization guarantees of a roll up? You know, those sorts of things we shouldn't be looking at the things like, okay, well, we can't call it l two s because they don't have the security guarantees because their data is stored off chain. I just don't think that's a great way to look at it.
00:19:01.346 - 00:19:36.454, Speaker A: So if you want to get into the weeds and want to look at the actual guarantees of these things, l two beat obviously, is the one stop shop for that and has links to various information from other things going on there as well. But yeah, I want to see this one. Like, imagine if we get to see like the top five roll ups here, not including optimum. So if I go show roll ups only you can see the top five roll ups right now are arbitram one, op mainnet base zksync error, and dy dxv three. Imagine the top five. They're all being staged to all full green pies. That is the, the end goal of, of scaling l two cl scaling roll ups here using roll ups to scale Ethereum.
00:19:36.454 - 00:20:02.732, Speaker A: We want them to be at stage two because while they're at stage zero, then honestly, stage zero and l two is not. So, so it depends on the construction. But like at stage zero, it's, it's pretty centralized, guys. Like, it's actually very centralized. And I would argue that a lot of the l one s out there, even though they're pretty crappy, are probably more decentralized than, than some of these stage zero l two s. At stage one, they start to look a lot more decentralized. But then at stage two, it's like full decentralization.
00:20:02.732 - 00:20:30.942, Speaker A: Security guarantees you could exit to l one if anything wants to go wrong. And you basically get not the same guarantees as l one ethereum. Like, that's the thing. If you're talking about 100% the same guarantees as l one ethereum, you're never going to get that from, from an l two, unless the should say roll up. Unless that roll up has no upgrade capabilities at all. It is literally just there and can't be changed ever. Like, maybe you could argue that that is as secure as ethereum l one.
00:20:30.942 - 00:21:22.238, Speaker A: But I think for all intents and purposes, and practical purposes, a stage two roll up that is like 99% of the way there is still good enough, I think, in my opinion, especially for the fact that we don't have to trade off the security and reliability of l one ethereum in order to scale there. But anyway, you can go check out all of this for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. And speaking of l two beats, there is an exciting opportunity if you want to work on as an l two researcher. You can now apply at this website that I'll link in the YouTube description below to work on this at l two b. So your role would be to investigate and analyze active and upcoming l two projects, study their architectures and data landscapes, and enhance our collective knowledge in the sector. The ideal candidate is an active follower of l two B with a commitment to transparency, honesty and integrity, extensive knowledge in blockchain technology and familiar with key l two technologies like the op stack, arbitrage, Nitro Polygon, CDK, etcetera.
00:21:22.238 - 00:22:02.470, Speaker A: So yeah, I mean, guys, like, if you think that you're up for this role, I mean, I'm not gonna lie here, this is a role that is very specialized. Like, they're probably gonna want someone who is an absolute expert on l two s. But if that sounds like you, if you think you're up to that, then go apply here. I mean, even if you aren't like a full blown complete expert and don't know everything, like, like on the, you know, like the back of your hand, it might still be worth looking into this and applying here. Because if you do care about transparency within the l two space, I couldn't think of a better team to work for than l two B. And being an l two researcher, like, even if you don't stay at l two beat forever, even if you use that as like a stepping stone to something else, maybe you want to go work on the l two s themselves. I can't think of anywhere better to learn.
00:22:02.470 - 00:22:32.364, Speaker A: But honestly, I feel like if you, if you do this at l two b and you get to be paid to be a full time l two researcher, you're probably going to want to stay. So anyway, go check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so Tyco's a six testnet is now live. This is called Catla, which is the most important testnet they've had so far, allows the founder. It lays the foundation for our upcoming mainnet launch. And there's a thread here and a blog post taking a quick look at what Catlab brings to the table and how you can get involved here.
00:22:32.364 - 00:23:11.016, Speaker A: Now, I think I remember there being a roadmap to Mainnet for Taiko. I think it might be like very soon, maybe q two or something like that. But obviously this is another stepping stone being that it's the another testnet alpha six here, they're calling it and is now live. And this is okay. So the main thing that they say here, the main thing that they're testing with Catlar, is the based contestable roll up, configurable, multiproof roll up design, which I talked about a few weeks ago with Catlab. We enable multiproof configuration with four tiers, optimistic proofs, SGX proofs, SGX plus ZKVM proofs and guardian proofs. You know what I really like about Tyco is that they're doing things that are on the bleeding edge of roll ups.
00:23:11.016 - 00:23:34.772, Speaker A: Like they're not just building out a roll up ecosystem. Obviously, they're not on main net yet, but they're not just building out a traditional roll up ecosystem. They're living on the bleeding edge. They're doing base boosted roll ups, they're doing multi proof roll ups. They're doing research into all of this stuff, and they're bringing it to Ethereum main net. So I'm very proud of this team. I mean, I should disclose here I'm an investor in Tyco, of course, but like, I invested in them because I, I saw what they wanted to do and I'm like, yeah, okay, this needs to be done.
00:23:34.772 - 00:24:01.908, Speaker A: This, this needs to be done. I don't even care if, you know, Taiko doesn't end up being one of the top l two s. The tech that they develop will end up being used across the l two spectrum and will end up being a net positive for Ethereum and the l two space here. But anyway, enough of me gushing about, about Tycho here. You can go check out this, this news for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so we have a new all time high for TVL across all l two s.
00:24:01.908 - 00:24:41.250, Speaker A: So a gigantic $3 billion increase from last week's Monday, 58% of which locked in arbitram. So arbitrary. Is a clear leader here in terms of TVL, guys, you can see what this actually looks like on grow the pie on the screenshot here. You know, I've always said that I think TVL is an imperfect metric for a number of different reasons. One reason is because the higher the price of the assets go, like if ETH goes up in price, then obviously the TVL as measured in dollar terms is going to go up a lot for everything that has Ethernet. But also it doesn't show you exactly how much usage is happening on the chain. It just shows you that there is indeed a lot of liquidity there, which should translate to usage.
00:24:41.250 - 00:25:16.180, Speaker A: But it doesn't always. So yeah, TVL is imperfect, just like every other metric, honestly, within crypto. But it's still great to see that it continues to grow because it means, yeah, as I said, there is a lot of liquidity there, people to use for people to tap into, people to kind of get value out of. And that's what these Altus are going to live or die on, especially these ones that have vibrant defi ecosystems on them. It's all about liquidity, guys, and liquidity begets liquidity. And that's why arbitrum has been a clear leader for quite a while now, because it is the defi l two right now. I know that op mainnet is doing a bunch of stuff, same with base and Zksync era, but in terms of who's the clear leader, it's arbitrum one right now.
00:25:16.180 - 00:25:43.016, Speaker A: Like there is no contest there, but the game is not up. There is still plenty of room to grow for all of these l two s. So it's going to be interesting to see which ones kind of grow over the next few years. It's, let's, you know, it'd be interesting to see how much momentum arbitram can keep up as well. Because at the end of the day, I remember years ago people said that optimistic roll ups are now obsolete because we're going to have ZK evms live on Mainnet. And we do have ZkVM's live on Mainnet. But hey, guess what? The two most used l two still are.
00:25:43.016 - 00:26:14.556, Speaker A: It's arbitrum and op mainet and base. They're all optimistic roll ups, whereas the own, the others, the ZKVM's that are live, they are used, but they don't use nearly as much. So it really isn't about like the quote unquote best tech at the end of the day. It is about the ecosystem that you, that you cultivate, that you develop and arbitrarily optimism, have been able to cultivate some very healthy ecosystems that are, that are very sticky right now. So, yeah, as I, I think I said this years ago, where people calling for optimistic roll ups to be obsolete were out of their mind at the time. They still are out of their mind now. Yes, maybe in, in the next, I don't know, five years.
00:26:14.556 - 00:26:31.056, Speaker A: Zkvms and ZK roll ups are strictly superior. But as I've said before, the optimistic roll ups can upgrade to be ZK roll ups and they already have the ecosystem and, and the upgrade would be seamless for users. They wouldn't even feel it. And then there you go. They've already got the ecosystem. They are now ZK roll up. So it doesn't really matter that they were an optimistic roll up for a time.
00:26:31.056 - 00:26:53.960, Speaker A: Right. But anyway, I'm gonna leave that point at that. Last thing to get through here is just an announcement from Shutter. So they announced today that they have proposed a blueprint for launching a DaO powered implementation of shutter network. And this is published in this blog post, which you can kind of, which you can have a look at. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But you may remember me talking about Shutter a few times on the refill over the years.
00:26:53.960 - 00:27:36.586, Speaker A: But basically what they're trying to do is make it so that you can have a, I guess like a network that allows you to submit transactions, that submits them to Ethereum L1. And it's basically anonymized. So there was something called shutterized Beacon chain, which is what this I believe was born out of, which essentially means that the transactions are basically anonymous or basically private and they can't be seen, which means they can't be front run, they can't be mev that's extracted out of it. And it takes away a lot of the negative externalities of mev, such as obviously sandwich attacks, but also censorship and things like that as well. But yeah, now they've moved to the next phase here of basically detailing how they're going to launch this thing. And it's quite a lengthy blog post. I'll let you guys read it in the YouTube description below.
00:27:36.586 - 00:28:10.338, Speaker A: But this is quite interesting. The fact that they're calling it a Dow means that there's a, so they actually, they've actually even announced the token. I hadn't read through this all yet, but they actually have announced that they're going to do a token. So I was going to say, the fact that they've said that they're going to do a down means that there's a token coming. But they're full on announced it here and they've actually broken down what the, what the distribution looks like here of SPT, which is the token that they're, they're kind of doing here. So it looks like that there's no investors. So early community members, Dow, treasury and I guess like more Dow, treasury and there's going to be airdrops and stuff like that.
00:28:10.338 - 00:28:37.290, Speaker A: So the early community member allocation is going to a lot of different users. You can actually see here partner projects, you know, people that were in the shutter. Shutter Discord channel contributing people have contributed on the GitHub, stuff like that. Most active users, so very, very cool to see this. And they're actually funny enough airdropping it to gnosis chain validators, too, which is, which is, which is weird, I guess. Like, I would have liked them to do it to Ethereum validators as well. Like Ethereum node operators, too.
00:28:37.290 - 00:28:56.414, Speaker A: But yeah, they're doing it to gnosis chain validators. I think maybe, I don't think Shadow Network was a project born out of gnosis, but maybe gnosis has been helping them and that's why they're doing that. And there's kind of like synergy there. But I'm not sure on that front. But anyway, you can go read this blog post for yourself to get a full breakdown here. But I think on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching.
00:28:56.414 - 00:29:02.574, Speaker A: Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
