00:00:00.730 - 00:00:51.190, Speaker A: Should we take the rest of the time that Jamshit and Chris are here for the invariant discussion? I would like to do it. We tried to summarize the conversation that was sparked off, I guess, by Rudy and was the second person. Jose on. Okay, can we have an invariant in a socioeconomic system? And just to get back to this starting point of these two positions, perhaps call it natural science versus economists, maybe a three minute statement first Rudy and then chose. So these different perspectives.
00:00:51.270 - 00:01:50.554, Speaker B: Okay, three minutes, quick, go short to the presentation. So we have the formulas. The idea was to take a point of view, starting from physics, and formulate a system with hamiltonian mechanics. We consider the energy of the given system as invariant, not yet knowing how it is exactly formulated in physics. It is as given here, but it will be absolutely different for economy. Choosing this formalism, we have the mighty force of Hamilton at our site that allows us to extrapolate the variables into the future and end up by exact solutions if the system is simple enough. Usually the system is not simple enough, and we have to deal with a lot of statistics, especially when considering human behavior.
00:01:50.554 - 00:02:48.180, Speaker B: This will be the case. Physics takes this approach, the so called ensemble theory, and works with a lot of statistical parameters, trying to identify those observables of the system that are exactly grabbable. So we look for variables that can be defined sufficiently exact to work with them. Staying with physics, the best idea is entropy. It's just account of possibilities, how one specific energy can be realized. That is, how many states to realize this energy. If we are capable of determining this observable, we can directly define another observable, temperature and inner energy.
00:02:48.180 - 00:03:35.758, Speaker B: And this is absolutely independent of physics. So this approach works the moment we have an invariant. The next thing we can look for more and more such observables in physics. We have twos that I have listed on the right lower corner, indicated also their interrelation by arrows. The arrow points towards tooth observable that is positive. If the origin is derivative, so the u ds gives positive t. Now we can write down all the differential equations of those observables.
00:03:35.758 - 00:04:19.918, Speaker B: Here we look at the physics, but it could be also crypto economy. And we can see two big groups that arise, extensive properties that do change when the system is rescaled, and intensive properties that stay constant when rescaling the system. Now, the relevant question is, what observables, what invariance, and what variance could there be in a crypto marketplace? And here we are. Are my slides still required, or can I give over to Annie is this clear to everyone?
00:04:20.004 - 00:04:22.030, Speaker A: So, statement, Rudolph?
00:04:23.110 - 00:04:24.446, Speaker B: Yep, yep.
00:04:24.638 - 00:04:39.240, Speaker A: Okay, good, then, Jose with the economist perspective. Jose, can you hear me?
00:04:40.970 - 00:04:53.740, Speaker C: I can hear you. Let me start my sharing. Hold on, please. Is it clear?
00:04:54.990 - 00:05:04.558, Speaker A: Loading should be fine in a second. Okay, we can see it.
00:05:04.724 - 00:06:38.060, Speaker C: Yeah, 1 minute. So, okay, essentially I'm calling this experience in economics and social sciences in the context of amms, and basically it's a reaction to what Ruby proposed mean from the area of physics he was trying to know. That's how the discussion started to identify invariance in the crypto ecosystem. And one of the propositions was, one of the assumptions was that there's a cap on liquidity as defined by the constant proportion model. And basically my reply to that was that the constant product model was basically a heuristic. We have various types of models, all of them with various proportions, and what we adopt is a kind of a heuristic. I mean, what is convenient to us, there's absolutely no harm in that.
00:06:38.060 - 00:08:19.462, Speaker C: And also a kind of a spin off from this was the possibility that if you dilute this, that using some recent developments in economics, that there is really no cap on the amount of base coins which can be printed, which can be minted, that was a kind of a spin off proposition. So from that, basically what I am saying is that it is not that there is no invariant in economics, but you don't have that type of invariance, which in physics and the physical sciences, we have invariance in the nature of constants. Your speed of light, it's a universal constant. The notion of a universal constant in social sciences, it's almost nonexistent, at least up till now. But now, at the end of this particular thing, I'll be showing how universal conscience are actually emerging in social sciences. So this is one. Can you see the study? So basically it's talking about the infeasibility of invariance in management studies.
00:08:19.462 - 00:10:13.438, Speaker C: It's also a reflection of the fact that what applies here is also true for economics. Management studies is basically, you can say it's a subset of economics, like accountancy and all that. So the two basic reasons are, you know, you know, invariance, which we, which we estimate in a social study, it's the huge problem of we can't rely on them, it can't be replicated, and there's no external validity. External validity means if what is applied here, if you try to apply the same thing for another space, it almost never works, which is a huge difference, because in physical science, it's a basic fundamental fact in physical science, it just doesn't exist in social science. The fundamental difference, okay, but going a little deeper, we have basically three approaches. One is what we call the nomothetic approach, which we can say is causal, quantitative reductionist, which is basically your estimation, I mean your functional specification. And here what we are trying to do is that we have two unknowns, y and x, and we are trying to estimate your coefficients.
00:10:13.438 - 00:11:17.880, Speaker C: These coefficients are in the nature of invariance, okay? But the point is that within a particular space, but they are plagued by the problems of, if you do a study, it can't be replicated, you can't apply it for the signal. The second approach is ideographic, which is basically complex, qualitative. It basically looks at, what do you call the, let's say it's more descriptive, it's used in ethnography, anthropology and all that. It's still very powerful. Okay, so basically in all this we use both idiography and no, unlike in physics or chemistry and all that, we don't follow any particular technique. It's a blend of both. And there's a certain art to it, there's a certain skill to it.
00:11:17.880 - 00:12:32.480, Speaker C: The third approach, basically big data, you throw everything into it, you really don't know what is there and you get a solution. The thing is, it's only the first one. No, we actually always look for quantitative data. In the others though, in big data we have quantitative data, it is not in the domain per se, it's more technical, it is not economics or it's not social sciences. Okay, now when it comes to ambiguity, sorry, complexity, finally, now we are seeing the emergence of invariance in the area of complex science of the figure. And it's quite weird, we are actually finding them out. And this is some of the data.
00:12:32.480 - 00:13:21.200, Speaker C: The number of petrol stations in cities is proportional to the population. Now this may look obvious, but the point is that what's interesting is the slope. It increases at a particular slope, and that is surprising. There's no reason as to why the rate restriction of petrol pumps in France and Germany and all that should be a direct function of this. And this is across the world, not just Europe, it's happening across the world. And this is true. There's the study which I've actually quoted out here, you just look at it, it's amazing.
00:13:21.200 - 00:14:25.620, Speaker C: These type of global invariants or universal constants which we never thought would exist in social science is actually emerging. So that's very surprising. And I think it's got very interesting spin offs for the token economic systems, because let's see what happens. I think my bet is that we will be able to able to do something with this. And ultimately, what is the whole uniform has basically created constant product system in the context of the economy. Is it really effective? And this particular study in 2019 itself showed that it is working. These markets must closely track the reference market price.
00:14:25.620 - 00:15:52.634, Speaker C: And they do that. Basically what you're basically saying is that the constant product system, or the variations of that are basically efficient in an economic sense. And that, according to me, has very interesting spin outs. I do believe, especially with Uniswap three, when it allows for any liquidity provider to actually operate, define his own space. I do believe that the demand curve will emerge over time, and also the supply curve, but its nature will be quite different from what we see in this particular traditional economic system. In the traditional economic system, what happens is that notionally, we think that the intersection of demand and supply, you get a market clearing, we get what is known as a market clearing price, and the bulk of the transactions are around that. Now, the point is that in the tokenized system in which you have complex coordination, transactions can take place across the space.
00:15:52.634 - 00:16:49.470, Speaker C: And the example which I try to give is that in the NFT realm, when you see an art in which you have a blue blank picture with just one dot at the center, that sold for something like some absurd race of $23 million or something like that, and people were saying this absolute nonsense. But the point is that at one particular point there, there is a demand for it. And this is what will emerge from this new, what do you call? New type of demand curve. It will be possible to have complex, complex coordination across the space rather than around the market clearing.
00:16:50.610 - 00:16:54.350, Speaker A: May I jump in? Oh, perfect. So you're already finished?
00:16:54.430 - 00:16:55.006, Speaker C: Finished.
00:16:55.118 - 00:17:11.800, Speaker A: Okay, cool. I think Chris and jump sheet a reaction on that, on this comparison, I think it's not two different positions anymore. Right. It's just an observation where these two disciplines are, or have been.
00:17:14.010 - 00:18:19.386, Speaker D: I can jump in very quickly. Unfortunately, my time was up at 430, so I'll try to make it brief. But just to say that in a way, both approaches are different views upon phenomena that can be explained by different lenses of invariance. And the difference between the two, which has traditionally been the real problem with economics in particular, for its replicatability, has been the assumptions about the individual behaviors within the economy that you're attempting to build the laws of motion around. And so rather than being an issue with regard to whether or not invariance works, in an economic setting, it's perhaps more, let's say, perhaps more appropriate within the crypto environment, especially within the environment where we can actually build a smart contract that will give us a trustworthy output for a given input. To couch this more about the question, as we described in the GDS framework last week, of admissibility of agents actions. If you build the invariance such that individuals are free to choose what they can within a menu of options that you present them.
00:18:19.386 - 00:19:40.006, Speaker D: But if you are able to enforce that menu and allow them to choose freely within that context, then you can have invariants arise in economic settings where you're not assuming that people are going to do the same thing time after time after time after time, where you're not even necessarily assuming that the same subpopulations are engaging with each other. But there may be some drift over time. Then you can get regularities of behavior that will occur on the basis of those other factors, like those external factors that come in, that can be used either as focal points or as conditioning variables that somehow drive a common result. On the one side of the physical systems, it's fairly clear to see how the invariance itself can be generating these sufficient statistics like entropy and its derived quantities, partly because of the overwhelming number of particles that are sometimes involved to allow regularizations to occur, but also because, in a sense, the system is the admissibility, where the system's laws of physics are generating the constraints under which things can interact. Whereas in an economic, human built system, we're designing the constraints such that people interact in a certain way. We're not telling them what to do, and we're not saying, you can't just walk away, because that's also an option. We're saying, instead, don't assume what it is you're trying to prove in your economic model.
00:19:40.006 - 00:20:53.690, Speaker D: And I think in Jose's description of the, especially the way in which we look at those regression parameters. That was very insightful, because one of the major critiques that came out of the early 1970s in economics was the idea that if you impose a behavior, but then allow people to watch the system, they will actually condition upon the system's dynamics and change their behavior as a result. This was the Lucas critique that was influential in the destruction of the Phillips curve between inflation and employment and unemployment in the early 1970s. And it's this kind of lifting of the problem of invariance away from individuals must do things this way. And then being surprised when your paper doesn't actually replicate behavior further along to compare this, then, to what we have as the power, I think, of the distributed ledger technology, which is to say, you can do what you like, but here's the menu of the things you can choose, and if you choose to walk away, that's totally fine. But within the context of what we've actually set out for you, here are the things that will reinforce certain desired properties of the system. And it's those desired properties of the system that can often be generated from an invariant class, such as a constant product or a constant function market making environment.
00:20:53.690 - 00:21:42.650, Speaker D: So it's just a way to say that these aren't really contradictory. As Angela said, I think there are two different points of view, but they really kind of nest on that knife edge, is that humans are so integral to the system, to social systems, by their very definition, that what we're attempting to do is not constrain them or make them robots, but rather lift the question to what are people allowed to do when they interact with our system? And in that sense, I think the two then can help build each other and reinforce each other. We get results from both the physical sciences and the social sciences when we create these new DLT based, smart, contract based, crypto economic systems. So that's just my two cent, and I apologize for having to speak and run, because I really would love to have the discussion, but maybe I'll try to catch you guys later in another session.
00:21:43.070 - 00:21:46.430, Speaker A: Thanks, jump sheet. Thanks for staying.
00:21:46.770 - 00:21:47.680, Speaker C: Thank you.
00:21:48.450 - 00:21:49.840, Speaker D: Thanks, everybody.
00:21:51.650 - 00:21:53.920, Speaker A: Chris, do you want to add anything on?
00:21:54.290 - 00:22:58.210, Speaker E: Sure. It's never so easy to speak after Jamsheet gave his comments, because it's always very difficult to challenge. But just to add some few ideas that I noted during the two presentations is going in line with. Jamsheet said, it is to take the perspective of assistance designer, which we are able to do, and we are able to therefore select particular system invariants that we would like to have on our system. So this is one of our huge benefits that we have when we are trying to design these kind of economies that we can think of being in the role of the system designer who can select which invariants to impose onto the economy. And the critical thing to mention here is that we are free to choose which invariance we would like to have within the context of our NMs. And this is what, for example, Jose said when he talked about the different Amm invariants and a constant product, constant sum, or a combination thereof.
00:22:58.210 - 00:24:44.358, Speaker E: Market makers is that there are apparently some selections of invariants that people like to have because they have in mind the consequences on the system or the system behavior that will manifest when people act with these economies. So, for example, a constant product market maker has its benefits, because it never can happen that the pools can be drained, since if you have two pools and you have a constant product of value in between them, and someone wants to extract all the value from one pool, he would have to put an infinite amount of value into the other pool to keep the invariant intact. And therefore, in this context, this is the huge benefit of the constant product market maker design, is that it is impossible from an economic perspective, even to drain a pool, because there is not such an amount of token in existence to do so. But the bad side, the downside of this design here is that these pools will exhibit some slippage. So, since there will be movement between prices and each marginal trade. So depending on the delta of the trade, depending on the trading size that you have, this will change the spot price of the assets between the two pools, which will mean that the price is moving dependent on the current state of the system, which is also something that is basically the trade off in this design. A consequence that is not, maybe not very much liked, right? Because slippage is not a good thing.
00:24:44.358 - 00:26:05.490, Speaker E: And this could be overcome if you take the design in a constant sum fashion. So, if you say that not the product of the two quantities, but the sum of the two quantities has to be constant, regardless of the quantities in the pools, then you would have a totally different situation where there would be no slippage between trades, but it would be possible to drain the pool. Because if you say that the sum of x and y has to be 100, and there are currently 50 50 tokens in both pools, then there is very much the possibility that someone takes out everything of pool one and inputs the proper amount into the pool B to make the sum b, what is being desired. So, there are, as you see, upside and downside and consequences of particular designs. And this is something that we as system designers can choose. When we think of how will this economic system will be used and what will be the consequences and the impacts on the stakeholders and on the key metrics that we observe and for which use case, which design is best, this is what we can do when we talk about choosing invariants. But I would like to also add something related to the discussion about systems and system boundaries, because I was mentioning this in the discord channel.
00:26:05.490 - 00:27:12.502, Speaker E: But the invariants that we define as system designers are the ones that we impose on the system states. So, first we decide what is inside the system, what is under your control and which variables we can name to be under our control and under our discretion. And then we can say that for each system trajectory, for each system movement, we impose a particular movement between these system variables. So everything that is inside our system, we can impose an additional restriction that should be upheld whenever the system state changes. And there has to be this clear distinction between what is inside the system and what is outside the system, because we cannot impose invariance on something that is outside. And if you encode this in a mathematical specification, mathematical formulation of a system state, then this means that you have an n dimensional system state at first. And then by choosing the invariance that you have, you can restrict the dimensionality of your space.
00:27:12.502 - 00:28:38.000, Speaker E: So you can think of, and I try to use this in my explanations a lot. You can think of, you are floating around in space, in the three dimensional space at first, and you have all directions that you can go to, three directions, three degrees of freedom, but then you create a digital world. So as if you would create a planet in the space where you say that everyone has to move on this planet. So each movement of agents, as Jamsheet noted, choosing from the menu of options that he can, will restrict the agents to move on a surface, as lower dimensional surface in the space, which in this explanation, in this context, would be a two dimensional surface of the planet that restricts the movement of the agents, instead of being able to float around in space. So this is something that we can do. We can restrict the dimensionality of the space, we can reduce the complexity of the problem, still leaving degrees of freedom to the agents, because on this surface they can move however they wish, but they will be restricted to have one particular invariant, regardless of the choices. And in this case, this would be, the definition of this invariant would be that the distance of them to the center, to the core of the world, should have the same distance, right? So the same radius of this sphere has to be constant regardless the next position they take.
00:28:38.000 - 00:29:47.570, Speaker E: This is an idea how you can imagine of the reduction of the complexity of the problem in our invariant settings. And the final thing that I would like to add would be something that I think that Joseph was touching also upon from this, leaving this design perspective and now entering know what happens to the system perspective, would be the invariance that you impose on the system and the invariance that you observe after you let people do something, right. So there are apparently some actions going on that will result in particular behaviors that can be seen as invariant over time without you having defined them. In the first place. So there is this possibility that there will be empirical evidence of invariance in your system. Nonetheless. However, you haven't tried to impose it onto the system participants, right? So there is this distinction between which movements of the system you restrict.
00:29:47.570 - 00:31:08.202, Speaker E: So this would be the defined invariance from the system's engineering perspective, and then there would be the empirical invariance that you can observe based on the user on the participants behaviors in interaction with the system. So there is again this clear cut between what are the system mechanics and how is the system evolution when you put the agent strategies and behaviors into the equation. But these are just a few comments how I feel that these two fields are connected. Right? So I think Rudolph said at one time that if you would model the whole universe, then you would be able to describe the system without any boundaries, right? So then if you would be God in this context, then you could say that you're designing the system and taking care of all of the definitions and rules within this space. But since we are always talking about embedded systems, in our case we will have to make this clear cut between what is under our control, what can we define, what can restrict, and what are the general invariant rules of the world that we live in. And we have to accept by taking into account the rules that we cannot govern. But this is how I see the two things connected.
00:31:08.202 - 00:31:09.120, Speaker E: I don't know.
00:31:11.410 - 00:31:16.660, Speaker A: Thanks for your comment. I have a question, but I'd like to let you guys go first with.
