00:00:00.520 - 00:00:27.516, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the deli Way refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today's the 7 July 2021. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So I've been talking about the Beacon book a lot lately on the refuel and yesterday I think just before I published the refuel video, so I had already recorded it. Stateful works. Put out the entire Beacon book on Mirai here. So you can actually read the entire book here in, it's quite long.
00:00:27.516 - 00:00:56.868, Speaker A: You know, I did mention that the book is going to be released in a limited edition. 100 printed Genesis editions are going to be coming out soon. They will be sold via an auction soon. But if you want to kind of get involved already, you can mint a bunch of nfts. So there's seven different nfts here that you can mint. All you have to do is obviously sign in with your Ethereum wallet, click collect NFT and you can mint them now. They range in price and unfortunately for you guys, I did show this on Twitter, but unfortunately, if you wanted to get any of the limited ones, they are sold out.
00:00:56.868 - 00:01:14.652, Speaker A: I sniped these immediately. Like, I got so excited. I'm just like, yep, I'm gonna have this one and then the other ones. And I got all, I ended up buying all of them, of course. But I think the super limited edition ones, that was the ten of ten. This is 20 of 2040 of 40. And then there's a bunch around here.
00:01:14.652 - 00:02:03.260, Speaker A: These are still available, so 64 of 100 and then there's a bunch here. I like the way they did this because I think it gives everyone a kind of opportunity to own one of these nfts, right, where you have obviously the super limited edition ones and then you have the ones like that have a thousand, a thousand editions or a thousand nfts available to be sold. So I think, you know, most people can get one if they want it here. So if that's something you're interested in, definitely go check out these nfts. But also you can read the whole beacon book, which for those of you who don't know, is basically a book that interview the creators. One of them is a good friend of mine, Trent van Epps, interviewed a bunch of different people that were, I think it was 46 people that, yeah, 46 researchers and implementers that worked on the beacon chain, the ETH two beacon chain that we all know and love and kind of gave their side of the story here. And yeah, that's why such a long read.
00:02:03.260 - 00:02:26.036, Speaker A: There's, there's a lot to read through. So definitely go check that out and mince some nfts if you haven't already. There's still some available. So Arthur Zero X put out this tweet today that inspired a newsletter that I wrote. You can go check out in the Daily Gray newsletter. But he basically said, fundamentals do matter. And this is a screenshot of Axie Infinity's fully diluted market cap versus its total revenue over the last 30, 30 days.
00:02:26.036 - 00:03:05.004, Speaker A: Now, I'm sure a lot of you have seen axie Infinity on Twitter recently. There's been a lot of chatter about it, of course, because the price of the ax token has been going up, but also because just generally people realized, wow, axie Infinity actually makes a lot of revenue. And it does because of the fact that it takes fees from marketplace fees and breeding fees. Now, for those of you who don't know what Axie Infinity is, it's basically a pet, a pet battle are basically like, you could, you could say it's like something like Pokemon, right, where you have these things called axies and you go and battle them. And there's like a whole world to this. There's not just that aspect, like, you know, people can buy land and things like that as well. And you can breed axies, of course, and create new ones and things and that sort of stuff.
00:03:05.004 - 00:03:46.334, Speaker A: So the Axie Infinity platform takes fees from this. Now, Axie Infinity used to be on Ethereum. Now it's on a side chain called Ronin, which has actually been very good for them because a lot of axie Infinity players are actually definitely from, I guess, like, developing countries, and they definitely cannot afford Ethereum's gas fees. I'm pretty sure the minimum wage in some of these countries is less than the fees would be to basically play this game on Ethereum and not even play it heavily, like play it lightly, whereas, you know, to trade some kind of, like items or to trade some axies. So obviously they need to go to a side chain to do that. And since then, the, the game popularity has obviously exploded. A lot more people can access it, and the revenue has exploded with it.
00:03:46.334 - 00:04:33.661, Speaker A: So you can see here the revenue in June, actually, I saw a stat revenue in June was $11 million, and the revenue in the first seven days or six days of July was $12 million. So that's just absolutely insane growth and really does explain the price rise of ax recently. And I wanted to kind of talk a little bit about Arthur's comment here about fundamentals do matter. Now, this is a really kind of like, deep rabbit hole, so I won't go too much into it. And I've spoken about fundamentals plenty of times on the refill before, but I think that in the long run, I always truly believe that fundamentals do matter. And on top in saying that, I actually think memes are part of fundamentals, you might be saying, oh, you know, dogecoin's been around for so long, dogecoin has no fundamentals and it's number seven. And whether you like it or not, memes are fundamental.
00:04:33.661 - 00:04:57.668, Speaker A: So that means dogecoin has fundamentals, in my view, anyway. Because if you look at some of the most successful projects, or at least the ones that are most well known, they all have memes, right? Like, think about bitconnect, an actual scam. Like, I'm not going to say that bitconnect wasn't a scam. It was. Right? But think about it. Everyone knows it because of the meme, because of Carlos Mattos, you know, basically singing or like kind of hyping it up at that conference in New York. I think it was in New York.
00:04:57.668 - 00:05:20.280, Speaker A: No, maybe he was from New York and it was somewhere else. But anyway, it doesn't matter. So when you think about it, the way to kind of disseminate information, the fastest way to disseminate information, and I guess, like, the most, most well known projects in this space are the ones that have the best memes. And, you know, that's why you see, like, different projects trying to push different memes. That's why for bitcoin, digital gold was memed. I think that was like a huge thing. And there's a bunch of different, you know, means within bitcoin.
00:05:20.280 - 00:05:47.068, Speaker A: Like, everyone knows the huddle meme. I mean, there's plenty, there's plenty out there. And Ethereum has its own memes as well. Maybe not as big, but definitely has a lot of its own memes. And same goes for basically everything in crypto. And if you don't have good memes, it means, in my view, it means your marketing is pretty, pretty crappy at the end of the day. It means that you haven't really incorporated meme culture into your marketing strategy and your project is just really not going to be on anyone's radar, for better or worse.
00:05:47.068 - 00:06:27.216, Speaker A: Right? Like, you can say, you can argue that, oh, well, you know, memes are a joke. Everything's a joke. You know, that. That's not a fundamental, that's just a piss take if you want to, if you want to kind of call it that. And I'm like, I kind of, I can agree with you to an extent, but at the same time, I think memes are just like a marketing vehicle at the end of the day, it's a way for people to kind of, I guess, like, come together as well as a community and kind of like have like the shared, I guess, meme culture or amusement from these sorts of things. So that's what I consider fundamentals as well. But I also think that fundamentals include everything else, right? Like the revenue being generated by the protocol, the growth prospects of the protocol, like how long? It's been around four counts for a lot.
00:06:27.216 - 00:07:27.846, Speaker A: Like, has it been growing steadily? What are the competitors? I mean, there's, there's tons of things to think about, right? You know, does the token actually capture the value of the protocol in any given given way? You know, and even that sometimes doesn't matter because it's funny, if you look at uniswap, obviously, like the unitoken doesn't actually capture any value right now, but the unitoken, I think, is the most valuable defi token still, and Uniswap is the most used dex by volume by far, as measured by volume by far. So with Uniswap, it's like, okay, well, you know, the token is not going to give you any kind of like, I guess, revenue. You know, you can't stake it and earn a percentage of the fees or whatever. But you do know that Uniswap's growth prospects are massive. You do know Uniswap dominates in the decentralized exchange space, and Uniswap has amazing memes and an amazing awareness across the entire ecosystem. So, you know, you have to kind of look at fundamentals as a broad strokes thing. You can't just look at them in a vacuum and say, oh, this project has a good tokenomics because they let you kind of stake your tokens and earn a yield.
00:07:27.846 - 00:07:57.684, Speaker A: This project doesn't let you do that. So I think this project is better. That is not the way that things should be measured in my mind. I think you should look at the kind of broad strokes fundamentals of all these projects and take it together. And same applies to something like axie infinity. You know, I'm here saying that this revenue is impressive, but like, you have to dig into it. You have to be like, okay, what is this revenue used for? Where is it going? Is it going to actually be spent on things that improve the fundamentals of axie infinity or is it just going to sit in the treasury and the Dow is going to hold onto it like a dragon essentially.
00:07:57.684 - 00:08:17.706, Speaker A: So there's a lot of those different things to consider. But I do agree with Arthur that fundamentals definitely matter over the long term. Just short term. During, you know, bull markets, bull manias, you're going to get lots of noise. You're going to get a lot of projects that pump and dump. Like. I mean, if you look at some of the projects out there, they are down like 90% plus from their highs like these quote unquote defi projects.
00:08:17.706 - 00:08:34.066, Speaker A: Not all of them are actually defi. They're pretty much like centralized, either scams or rug pulls or whatever. But they pumped up a lot during their, during the mania. So when you are a fundamentals based investor, you have to take the long view. Always. You can't take the short view. If you're taking the short view, then you are, in my mind, a trader.
00:08:34.066 - 00:09:26.164, Speaker A: I don't believe that you're an investor if you're taking the short view, but you know that your strategy might be different to mine. Obviously, I'm a long term guy, but if you're going to play the markets through short term, I just don't think you can play that based on fundamentals because fundamentals do take a longer period of time to play out for a number of reasons. And I think the biggest reason is that the market needs to mature and understand the value of these kind of tokens and specific things and just generally the awareness as well. I mean, I think Axie Infinity was slept on for quite a while by many participants in the ecosystem. And now that they've gotten kind of like traction and the price has gone up a little bit, it's kind of like a flywheel effect where the price goes up, more people get interested in axie, more people play it, more revenue is generated. So the token goes up because of those stats and then you have this kind of nice little loop going on. So that also counts a lot as well.
00:09:26.164 - 00:10:00.530, Speaker A: But yeah, great to see kind of growth in something that's not DeFi for once as well. Obviously, DeFi is dominated by axie infinity is definitely not deFi. It is a purely nFT kind of a category there with blockchain gaming kind of mixed in as well. So I'm excited to see how they go here. I hope. I remember them saying that they were transitioning to the ronin side chain as like a stopgap until the L2s were more kind of mature and available for them. So I'm hoping to see them migrate to a proper L2 secured by Ethereum eventually, obviously, because that's in my mind, I believe that is the better path forward.
00:10:00.530 - 00:10:34.922, Speaker A: But at the same time, I actually don't think a side chain is a bad thing for something like a blockchain game. I actually think that if anything was going to use a side chain, it should be a blockchain game at the end of the day, and depending on what you put on chain and stuff, it would differ. But at the end of the day, I do think that the side chains and these sorts of things are just like short to medium term. Long term, of course, is going to be L2s, like roll ups and things like that. So, yeah, just wanted to give a quick overview of that. And, you know, if any of you are playing this, definitely jump into the Discord channel and let us know what you think of it, what you're doing. I haven't had a chance to play too much of it.
00:10:34.922 - 00:11:10.662, Speaker A: I checked Axie Infinity out ages ago, actually. Unfortunately, I didn't buy any axies or land and whatever. I didn't buy any Axx tokens. I was one of those people who are just like, yeah, I don't know about this, and just never did my research on it. Like, I figured it would just stay like a small niche thing, but it's actually grown so much. And for those who don't know, there are actually people in the Philippines that making a living wage off of axie Infinity, playing the game, grinding out kind of farming these things called smooth love potions, which are used for breeding, I believe, and then selling them on the open market. The market cap of those things is like $100 million or something right now.
00:11:10.662 - 00:11:28.882, Speaker A: And then, you know, they. They also kind of, I guess, like breed axies and stuff like that too. So pretty crazy stuff going on. This new play to earn arena within, I guess, blockchain gaming. I think it's really cool. I'll be keeping an eye on it, keeping you guys updated. So the index co op announced today that they have completed a $7.7
00:11:28.882 - 00:11:46.774, Speaker A: million treasury diversification. So you can see here that a bunch of different investment firms have bought into. What is it? Into the index co op tokens or the index tokens. These investors include Galaxy Digital one, KX one. Confirmation. Winter mute. Defiance Capital, Laconia.
00:11:46.774 - 00:12:17.292, Speaker A: I can't read those two. I think it's LD Capital and assembly capital. Okay. Yeah, yeah. So $7.7 million has gone directly into the index co op treasury, which I think is really, really awesome. It's, I mean, when you kind of think about this sort of stuff and think about these treasuries that the projects have, you know, I think it's better to sell to these, like if you start off as a dao, it's better to sell to these firms from the treasury than it is to sell from say like, you know, before the tokens live or anything like that.
00:12:17.292 - 00:12:45.486, Speaker A: Because then you have like, I think a better alignment of incentives and obviously you want to put like lock ups on and stuff on this. And you know, sometimes these, these kind of people will get a discount on the price or whatever. But what actually on in saying that? I've actually got the details here of this. Let me, let me bring it up. I um, I have it on another, another kind of tab here. So you can see the details here actually of the sale. So uh, I was looking for this cause I was like, I'm, I'm an advisor to set who is very heavily involved in index call, but I still wanted to know, uh, kind of what the deal was.
00:12:45.486 - 00:13:09.522, Speaker A: So the sale price was actually $24.26 per index token. Now, I don't know how closely you guys pay attention to the price of index. I do because I have a bag of index tokens. I should disclose that, of course, but that was basically the market price until this announcement was made. Now that the announcement was made, the price went up, of course, because people were like, oh well, what's index co op? Right? I'm going to buy some of these tokens. But this was amazing.
00:13:09.522 - 00:13:41.354, Speaker A: I figured that maybe they got a discount on kind of like their token price or whatever because they were obviously buying a bulk of it and things like that. But no, they got $24.26 as the price. And the terms are also pretty good, I believe. And there's an 18 month total lockup with twelve month lock and six month linear vest, which I think is, is pretty cool. So that means that no tokens, they get no tokens for twelve months and then they vest linear linearly over six months. So on a block by block kind of basis there.
00:13:41.354 - 00:14:38.914, Speaker A: So I think that's really, really cool. I hope to see more kind of dows doing this because I've seen daos in the past doing these kind of treasury diversifications, but actually giving steep discounts with no lockups to these firms, especially selling like OTC and stuff like that. I'm sure you've seen a bunch of that going on and what ends up happening is that the firm or the investment firm, the VC, the fund or whatever will typically dump some or all of it after they've gotten it because it's free money at the end of the day for them. And there are some out there that are more kind of like a bigger offenders than others. But I generally steer clear of that sort of those sort of projects that do that because, you know, if you have these big kind of like investors that got in a discount, don't have any lockups, well, you know, what's to stop them from dumping? You know, dumping on our heads, right? Whereas with something like this index cop diversification, as I said, the terms are much, much better. And it's basically like a, I guess you could say a traditional kind of raise, which is awesome. So the index co op now has $7.7
00:14:38.914 - 00:15:24.450, Speaker A: million in their treasury. That is not index tokens because a lot of it is index tokens. And that, and that funds them, you know, for the foreseeable future, which I thought was, was really, really cool to see. So Zksync announced yesterday, I think, that on July 14 they are upgrading their smart contracts and servers to support Zksync one X, which comes with a bunch of features including swaps nfts, a new event system and permissionless token listing. So Zksync Mainnet will be down for two to 3 hours during this upgrade. And if you don't want to be part of this upgrade, you can actually withdraw your funds to opt out, which I thought was a really cool thing that they kind of noted there. I think that's important because as I've said to you guys before, there's a lot of L2s coming that are pretty much all going to be centralized from the get go.
00:15:24.450 - 00:16:05.880, Speaker A: They're going to have admin keys, they're going to be upgradable so that those admins can upgrade the smart contracts for various different reasons, whether that's adding new features or whatever or anything like that. Um, but you know, you just have to be aware of that. And, you know, I'm really excited for this upgrade, actually. Like what they're promising is swaps. Like, that's one thing that kind of frustrated me about Zksync with Gitcoin is that I'd have to withdraw my funds out of Zksync to my ethereum wallet and then go trade on layer one, uh, to, to my layer one wallet and then go trading on layer one in order to kind of buy ETH with those assets, like with those stable coins. So with the swaps feature. I'll be able to just do that on Zksync without incurring those, you know, higher gas fees of layer one and having to wait for the withdrawal to go through as well, which is quite frustrating.
00:16:05.880 - 00:16:34.330, Speaker A: Frustrating. So that's really awesome NFT support. I mean, you know, I was just talking about how I think axie Infinity will wait for the L2 ecosystem to mature around nfts before they kind of go there. So that's really cool. A new event system I'm. That's got to do with, I guess, like for, for smart contract devs, I believe, and a permissionless token listing system, which means that obviously anyone can list a token to be part of the ZK sync kind of ecosystem there. So really, really awesome.
00:16:34.330 - 00:16:48.810, Speaker A: And you know, you all know, I've spoken about it many times on the refuel. ZK sync 2.0 is coming soon. That's going to include a fully EVM compatible roll up. ZK roll up. Which I guess is very, very hype right into the day. Right.
00:16:48.810 - 00:17:19.020, Speaker A: Like I've spoken about it too many times, I'm not going to go over it now, but this is one step on that journey, which I think is really, really cool. So awesome to see this. As I said, you can withdraw your fun funds if you don't want to be part of this upgrade. Uh, but you know, I guess the only reason why you wouldn't want to be part of this upgrade maybe is because you think there might be a security issue or you, you know, you don't trust the team or something like that. I guess, you know, whatever you don't, you shouldn't have to trust anyone in this space. I'm glad they've given people the heads up here. So big, big news.
00:17:19.020 - 00:18:02.598, Speaker A: I saw this posted on the GitHub last night on the Ethereum GitHub where basically Tim Bico posted that the London network upgrade ERP 15 nine has been proposed to go live on the Ethereum mainnet on the 4 August 2021 at block number blah blah blah, 12,965,000. I've been saying this on the refill for weeks now, right, where I basically said that we could expect the 1559 to go live or London to go live on the 4 August on Mainnet, or if not, it would be the 11 August. Now, Tim is pretty confident about it being the 4 August. We're going to get a final decision made at the core dev meeting on Friday. That hasn't changed just yet. But this is awesome. I mean, how close are we like we're going to get a main net date and then it's locked in.
00:18:02.598 - 00:18:38.660, Speaker A: And barring any kind of critical issues happening with 1559 on the test nets, it will go in on that date. And then we will unlock Ethereum's scarcity engine and we will start burning that ETH. But we will also improve, massively improve the user experience on layer one with gas fees and things like that and work to like level out those fees and a bunch of other features that I've spoken about before. So I'm super pumped for this. Like absolutely think this is going to be a monumental event. And also, you know, today, I believe, or maybe today or tomorrow, the rinkeby testnet is forking to London. So that's the final one.
00:18:38.660 - 00:19:14.338, Speaker A: I mean if that goes all well and like basically, you know, we hit that, we test that out, everything goes super well, then the 4 August in my mind is 100% in. You know, I just don't foresee it having to be delayed there. But still, you know, we don't, we, I'm not going to say it's 100% just yet. We'll wait till Friday to the core dev meeting and we'll see what they say. But Tim mentioned that he already has kind of like sign off for from a few of the client teams saying yep, they're confident that they'll hit the 4 August kind of date and that's a fine date there. So just for context, that is about a less, a little bit less than a month away from now. So very, very close.
00:19:14.338 - 00:19:41.088, Speaker A: I can't believe how long I've spoken about 15594 and the fact that it's just almost here. I mean, I'm really giddy about it. And we're probably going to do a live stream by we, I mean like Eric Connor, co founder of Ethub with me. We were discussing it with David Hoffman today. We might do something with bankless. So like a 1559 live stream for the, you know, the hard fork that goes through. So definitely there'll be more details about that coming out in the near future and would love for you all to join us on that one.
00:19:41.088 - 00:19:57.816, Speaker A: But yeah, I'm uh, I'm so happy about this right now. It's, it's coming. It's coming, guys. I know I've said it for so long, but it's almost here. So diversify had put out a tweet before that they have launched their brand new platform. So you can check this out at app dot diversify.com recap.
00:19:57.816 - 00:20:23.572, Speaker A: Just for, for everyone listening and watching. Um, diversify is a L2 decentralized exchange or. And it's going to evolve into a bigger defi ecosystem here. So they've updated their swap interface, which I think looks pretty cool. You've got the, you know, familiar swap interface on the left and then you have a nice little price chart on the right and then, you know, you got your usual kind of like stats underneath it there. So looking good there. And there's a bunch of other kind of features as well.
00:20:23.572 - 00:20:50.824, Speaker A: There's a portfolio summary. So portfolio overview there is kind of like, I guess like they got rid of tabs here, they're saying, and that you can basically hit deposit, send, swap and withdraw in the same kind of, I guess a portfolio view. Bunch of other features here. As I said, the swap interface, more information in wallets and things like that. So yeah, if you're a diversify user, you've probably seen this already. If not, you should jump onto diversify. Check it out.
00:20:50.824 - 00:21:30.476, Speaker A: I think it's one of the better L2 kind of ecosystems out there. Definitely really bullish on them and I'm glad to see them kind of like improving the user interface here. So the ethanol on Twitter here has actually been doing a bit of, I guess, recruitment for developers and kind of like, I guess helping developers get started within the ethereum ecosystem. And now I believe that he's turning this into a Dao. So the ethanol Dao. So if you're interested in being part of, I guess like a developer focused Dao that, you know, either you want to learn how to be a developer or you want to teach other developers, definitely go check this out. All you have to do is join this discord channel here and you can basically be part of this new Dao.
00:21:30.476 - 00:21:57.040, Speaker A: And, you know, I've spoken about Daos a lot lately on the refuel. I think if you're a developer, this is the perfect DaO, but for you to get involved with because, you know, the ethanol is actually a core contributor at synthetix. He's been around for quite a while. He knows what he's doing. And I think that there isn't anything like this just yet. I spoke about Austin Griffiths's build guild that he kind of like has been doing, and he wanted to kind of turn into a dow. I think that's the closest that you could, you could kind of say to this, but the more the merrier.
00:21:57.040 - 00:22:17.636, Speaker A: Like, we don't want just one. We want as many daos as we can get. We want people coordinating what we want, you know, more and more devs in this ecosystem. So, yeah, if you're one of those, definitely go join the Ethernaut Dao. You can probably become a founding member. That'd be really cool, right? So, yeah, this link will be in the YouTube description for you all to check out. So loopring has introduced a dap browser.
00:22:17.636 - 00:22:48.732, Speaker A: So in their smart wallet. So essentially you can go into the smart wallet and you'll see all your favorite dapps here, which I think is really cool. You know, it's funny with, I don't know how they're doing it there. Must be doing it to get around the rules. But with the App Store rules, you can't actually, a lot of the mobile wallets had to get rid of the Dapp browser. Now, I believe that was because Apple couldn't take a cut of the kind of funds going through. Like, if you're in a DaP, apple obviously couldn't sit in the middle and take a cut from that because that's not going through the apple kind of like payment system.
00:22:48.732 - 00:23:18.150, Speaker A: So I think these might just be kind of like, I guess, bookmarks that go to the DaP, which I think is really cool. I haven't checked it out myself yet, but still, this is awesome. I mean, you know, we obviously, when people download these kind of wallets, we can't just throw them up a Dapp browser and say, hey, go, go, you know, find whatever, because there's no Google for Dapps yet. Right. There's no kind of like central place, I don't think, not from what I've seen. I think there were some early attempts at that, but there's nothing kind of like concrete on that yet. So definitely need something like this where people can kind of see.
00:23:18.150 - 00:23:43.330, Speaker A: Okay, well, these are the Dapps I can use and a short description about what it is. And then they can go find these kind of things and play with them using their loop ring smart wallet. So, yeah, definitely go check this out. Obviously, I've spoken about loop ring a lot in the past on the refuel. You guys know all about loop rings, L2 ecosystem, and how bullish I am on them. So, yeah, definitely go check this out. So, Synthetix put out a brief update yesterday.
00:23:43.330 - 00:24:13.602, Speaker A: So fees are now being enforced on the optimistic Ethereum main net. So that I've spoken about this before, where I've said that L2s aren't going to be free. There is not. It's not going to be zero fees. It actually can be zero fees for two reasons. One, it needs some kind of civil resistance so that DDoS attack resistance, I should say, sorry, where, you know, if you had zero fees, then someone could just keep spamming the network with as many transactions as they wanted and will cost them nothing to do that. And, you know, that obviously would kind of like, not be good for anyone.
00:24:13.602 - 00:24:49.846, Speaker A: And two, these L2 still need to pay for layer one security. Now, a lot of them will subsidize it for quite a while, but eventually they're going to have to start collecting fees, uh, to kind of pay those layer one fees as well. So kind of like, I guess, um, get the aggregate fees from everyone on L2 and like post their proofs to Ethereum, layer one, and all that good stuff there. So that's what's been happening now, uh, with, with optimistic Ethereum. And I think this is just like another step on the, on the way to optimism, launching quite soon. I mean, you know, I've spoken about arbitram and I said I felt like arbitrary would launch end of June, early July. I think we're getting into mid July now.
00:24:49.846 - 00:25:16.264, Speaker A: And we're definitely, you know, with optimism saying they're going to go live in July as well. I just want to see them deliver. Like, come on, guys. Like, I know arbitrary didn't give a date for their public main net. They gave like a, I think they at most gave like a window, but optimism did say July. So I'm just hoping that they both go live in July. I just, I mean, it's not obviously, you know, with, with gas fees being lower, it's not like super, super urgent.
00:25:16.264 - 00:25:42.124, Speaker A: But at the same time, I think the longer we wait, the less people, like, the less interested people get. And, you know, the more I sound like a broken record. So help me out, guys, please. Definitely, you know, launch these things in July. Let's get, let's get L2 summer going. Let's, let's do it before summer runs out in the northern hemisphere because, you know, maybe they're syopsing us and it will actually be L2 summer in the southern hemisphere to start November. So, you know, I'll get to enjoy L2 in my summer.
00:25:42.124 - 00:26:03.120, Speaker A: But, yeah, let's, let's get this done. I hold out, hold out faith. Yeah, I think all the pieces are in place for arbitrary and optimism. I mean, I don't see them doing any kind of major delays here. I feel like they're just dotting the eyes, crossing the t's at this point in time, especially arbitram. I mean, they, like, I showed the token list thing yesterday. All the major apps that you need to launch are on there.
00:26:03.120 - 00:26:39.440, Speaker A: I said that there was some critical infrastructure that needed to go live. I mean, I've been showing that for weeks now or months now, like, you know, infuria, alchemy, etherscan implementations, all that sort of stuff. That's all done. Chainlink, of course, as well, as far as I know, that's all ready to go. So, I mean, I'd be surprised if arbitrum at least doesn't launch within the next couple weeks, let's put it that way. So I'm hoping to see that, and I'm hoping optimism launches as well, because I don't want just arbitrage launching, I want both of them launching because competition is better for everyone and I want people to be able to kind of experience both of them. Yes, they're both optimistic roll ups, but there are differences between the two.
00:26:39.440 - 00:26:58.296, Speaker A: And there are going to be different apps. Like Synthetix isn't going to be on arbitrum, it's going to be on optimistic Ethereum. Right. Uniswap is going to be on both, which is going to be very interesting to see how that plays out. Like which one's going to get the most liquidity, which one's going to get the most volume tv out, all that good stuff. So we're going to definitely learn about that in the next few weeks, hopefully. But anyway, I think that's it for today's episode.
00:26:58.296 - 00:27:07.264, Speaker A: So thank you, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
