00:00:10.090 - 00:01:18.280, Speaker A: Hello everyone, great to have you here. This is Aaron Vomas, CTO and founding partner of Outlive Ventures. Today I'll be talking about the state of second layer scaling solutions, mainly focused on only Ethereum, some about bitcoin, some about other networks, and yeah, let's see what state they're in at this point. Just slide up. So, as an upfront summary, I think there's been a lot of development activity in L2 scaling solutions recently, past few years, sort of from my recent exploration of the space. And quite a few of those solutions are actually production ready, or they consider themselves production ready. They definitely have limitations and we'll go over some of them.
00:01:18.280 - 00:02:02.494, Speaker A: So yeah, cheap, fast and secure. That's of course what we want for transactions. Let's see if they can bring it. Enjoy the disclaimer. I might mention projects that we are invested in or not. And none of this is investment advice. So first off, why would we even need L2 scaling? So you've probably seen DFI, well, and in general blockchain projects in of course, 2017, 2018, we had a nice run of activity on major blockchains and transaction fees went through the roof and now DFI is all the rage.
00:02:02.494 - 00:02:46.850, Speaker A: So yeah, I of course had to try it. So I got myself 50 die and I wanted the APIs, I wanted apys, I wanted the returns, I wanted the double digit return on investment. So there I went with my 50 die, I went to urine finance, and I had to pay, what was it, $13 in fees to get my 50 die in an interest generating contract. Well, that's not great, of course, because then it would take me years to even make some return on it. And of course, when I get my 50 die out, I have to pay similar amounts. Again, not great. Even though urine finance specifically does some optimizations of gas costs.
00:02:46.850 - 00:03:47.320, Speaker A: Imagine if they wouldn't. And I mean, this applies to most or all defi products on Ethereum for sure. Gas fees are high, the chain is popular, and it sort of makes it only interesting from a financial perspective to participate in these things if you're dealing with very high amounts. Because if you're dropping in a million here, you don't care about $13. If you're dropping in $50 worth, then entirely different situation. So looking at statistics from a longer term perspective, this for ethereum, since their very beginning, I see the date has dropped away here, but this is where my cursor is about 17, 2017 2018 peak in amount of transactions per day. And then of course we saw a bit of slump and now we're basically at that level again.
00:03:47.320 - 00:04:56.570, Speaker A: And the chart below is the average transaction fee, USD denominated, so not denominated in ETH. Because ultimately, I think from outside perspective, it's more interesting to look at how much dollars worth do you pay to get something done? And, well, as you can see, we've basically beyond the peak of 2018 2017. We're now at all time high fees per transaction level. And there's some other ways to look at that, like the average gas price, which is more complex trajectory, take more gas, but per gas you pay ETH and per eth you pay us dollars. So, yeah, this chart going up results in transaction prices going up. And here's another one, like how much ETH is being paid in transactions. Again, you see, we're way above where we were in 2017 2018 in terms of what users pay for fees.
00:04:56.570 - 00:05:58.400, Speaker A: And one thing relevant, and we can't say there's a direct cause, somebody else should do that, the proper research. But at least it seems to be the tendency, there is a lot of attention for d five projects, there is a lot of increase in value locked in them and usage, and that's been recent. So while can't say that there's 100% causality, there's surely a strong correlation with this increased interest with transaction use and transaction price. And of course, going back to these, the transaction capacity of the network is limited. So, yeah, more interest means just those who pay the most get in and get to use it, and others don't. So more interest will just directly relate to higher transaction cost. Now for bitcoin, somewhat similar picture, though, a bit different.
00:05:58.400 - 00:07:08.038, Speaker A: Also a peak in transactions per day around 2017 2018. And then sort of stagnation in bit of slumber, and again on the same level and sort of reaching a peak here also, because on chain, they haven't implemented any, or the bitcoin network hasn't implemented any on chain capacity increases on the main bitcoin blockchain, that's to say. And so for fees, you can see, well, the peak in transactions was much higher, USD denominated in 2017 2018. But you can see that here we had a bit of a blip in last year, and now we're beyond that point. And you can imagine that with some increased interest and also possible increase in the bitcoin price will be up the same level. And we're here, this is the $5 range already. Those are expensive transactions, so can't we just kill the layer one? Why do we even need any L2? Yeah, we could I mean, to an extent it's being done a bit.
00:07:08.038 - 00:08:08.730, Speaker A: There was a recent upgrade in the gas limit in Ethereum, which was voted on by the miners because they effectively determined that with their proof of work consensus with more gas per block. And you can see that in the chart that indeed more gas is being used since about that period. That doesn't 100% mean more transactions, because simple transactions take less gas than bigger ones. It might be that more complex transactions are now possible where previously they won't. Ultimately it means more network usage, but marginally so. This is not a ten x 100 x thousand x increase that you would need for those other use cases to significantly, permanently drop the fees. Of course, with bitcoin there, there was a debate, there was the forks of bitcoin cash and bitcoin SV ultimately, and this is a chart showing it's a log scale, because there were some spikes, otherwise it wouldn't be very readable.
00:08:08.730 - 00:08:39.294, Speaker A: But note that the levels are much, there's so much distance between these levels. So the blue line is main bitcoin, which is sort of steady on a log level for sure. Bitcoin cash, much below that, never had much activity. Bitcoin SV, which has adopted radically bigger blocks. I think they've been on 128 megabytes. I think they're even bigger than that now. And they are now seeing more usage.
00:08:39.294 - 00:09:32.062, Speaker A: In terms of transactions. There are some people building use cases that are possible when you have those large transaction sizes. So yes, there is some scaling possible there, but there's of course more to choosing a platform, choosing a chain, than the specific technical capacity, which I'll go into a bit further. So I know another option is, well, if bitcoin doesn't scale, if Ethereum doesn't scale, let's just build another chain. And that's what many projects have done. And recently we've looked into that at outlier as well. In our blockchain developer report, looking at development activity, both people building the blockchains themselves and building on top of those blockchains some takeaways.
00:09:32.062 - 00:10:25.090, Speaker A: We did see that Ethereum still is still dominated by absolute numbers. Cosmos and Polkadot, both their ecosystem saw the greatest increase in developer adoption. So people building on top of those chains or technologies, and Theta and Cardano saw the greatest increase in core development. And if you want to see more detail there, then I encourage you to have a look at the report. And yeah, there are many other projects, many other great technologies, mature technologies that offer great capacity and other features, et cetera. Do your own research, see if that technology is a fit for you, if the ecosystem is a fit for you. There was a recent note from a research done by imperial college looking at on chain transactions on specifically ripple, tezos and eos.
00:10:25.090 - 00:12:07.190, Speaker A: I mean, not to call them out, but it's something that I stumbled upon in this research, because those have quite high numbers in terms of the transactions, but most of them had no financial value. They were either sort of DDoS transactions or only transactions to maintain the chain itself. So yeah, again, just look at they might have other great things to offer, but if you're comparing, hey, should I build on this? There's of course much more dimensions that you should evaluate that technology or chain or crypto network on than just the core capacity or even how much that capacity is being used. That said, for this purpose of this session, we'll at least assume that Ethereum needs some form of scaling and bitcoin too. And we'll look at the l two, the level two, L2 solutions that have been proposed, some main approaches and the trade offs. So this was assembled by somebody from metal labs with quite a few people who are not pretty much experts in their specific approaches of scaling solutions. So the main approach is state channels, a way to take the state of a contract or your account balance, port it to somewhere else, which has low cost there, interact.
00:12:07.190 - 00:13:32.222, Speaker A: So change the state and then have a way to get that state back to the main chain. Side chains would be I have a different blockchain and it might have a different consensus algorithm. It's also a blockchain, and I have a way to bridge between. Two examples of that would be that XDai chain or the POA network. Several other examples of people who have built EVM, Ethereum, VM based networks and then have some way to port token back and forth. Plasma is more the various implementations of that, but it's originally been proposed by Vitalik, Terin and a few others out of ETH research also as a way to basically have the main ethereum chain as sort of a base layer, and then have ways to either take more simple forms of values like your account balance, or simple token transfer or ETH transfer, or more complex state such as full smart contracts capabilities and communicate back and forth. The last three columns are quite interesting ones.
00:13:32.222 - 00:15:02.810, Speaker A: They're all forms of roll ups. Roll ups in the sense that you do things outside of the chain, outside of the main chain, and that results in a state, and you prove to the main chain that it has happened. And in the latitude, validium and Zika roll up that's done through zero knowledge proofs. So I have a contract, a smart contract, and it's had interactions, maybe it's been defi transactions, maybe it's been cryptokitty transfers, maybe it's been gaming transactions and results, and those are all you can have cryptographic hashing of those very things. But then the question is, how can somebody else trust those? Well, with the zero knowledge proof, you have cryptographic techniques where you can, in a very succinct piece of data, prove that things have happened. So those are variations of that, and optimistic rollouts is a way to do that. But without serenoly's proofs, which has some advantages in the sense that it doesn't use new cryptography, but it has some disadvantages in terms of performance and withdrawal time, mainly.
00:15:02.810 - 00:16:14.942, Speaker A: So, looking a bit further down the table, which dimensions would you want to compare these on? Because isn't anyone as good as the other? No, surely not. Security, performance and economics, usability are really important to start off with security. Ultimately, transactions in the main blockchain are as good as it gets from the perspective of that blockchain, right? It's a confirmed transaction in Ethereum or bitcoin, with a number of confirmations. If I trust the consensus algorithm of those networks and how it's governed, how it's validated, then that's as good as it gets. Does it ever get that good? Well, no, of course not, because you do different things in a different way. But there are some trade offs that can be made. And first one, liveness.
00:16:14.942 - 00:17:31.966, Speaker A: It's like, do you as a user have to be always online to track what happens? And for example, the bitcoin lightning network is actually an instance of state channels, or very comparable to it with bitcoin lightning nodes, and with any form of state channels on Ethereum, your node must always be online. Otherwise on the main chain and on the state channel network that you communicate with, because otherwise you will get behind. If you get behind, you might, according to the protocol, be slashed, your channel might be closed forcibly, and you might lose whatever amount of value you stored in that channel. So bottom line, you always need to be online for that to be secure. And as you can see for some of those other solutions that are approaches that quite differs, which one thing, why the zero knowledge proof roll ups are such a promising approach? Because there you don't need that. And it being necessary for millions of users to be always online, of course, is quite a hurdle for any technology to be adopted. And well, as you can see, there's various others.
00:17:31.966 - 00:18:27.662, Speaker A: The cryptographic primitives is an interesting one, because if you can use proven, the most proven cryptographic technology, and not more than that, that means there's less risk for any vulnerability for the solution to exist. And that's the case with all approaches, except for the zero knowledge proofs, because those are quite new, less proven. In most or all cases, they still require a ceremony, signing ceremony, or let's say the multiparty commutation ceremony at the very beginning to make those zero knowledge proofs possible. So yeah, there's more potential for vulnerabilities. Those are being dealt with, but there's more potential. Different model, really. One note about Ethereum 2.0,
00:18:27.662 - 00:19:18.558, Speaker A: because of course it's long awaited, like is it going to improve things through the board? Yeah, surely it will. But all of these approaches can still make sense in an Ethereum 2.0 world, because even with a sharded blockchain, you'll have a transaction limitation, path limitation. And with some of these approaches, you might extend that further. So as you can see, with some of the approaches you have, for example, optimistic roll ups will have a higher potential than it would if it be limited by the current ETH 1.0 blockchain. And in the usability area, it's quite important.
00:19:18.558 - 00:20:25.106, Speaker A: I don't think this overview has, I think it looks more from a theoretical perspective to usability, because ultimately, as a user, you want it to be easy and you don't necessarily think that much further. So these are sort of security usability constraints in the sense that, for example, for a state channel, it requires one confirmation on the main chain for me to withdraw my funds that are in this state channel, or to sort of sync whatever is in that state channel to the main chain. Whereas with the plasma based approach, that can ultimately be a week, whereas subjectively the finality might be one confirmation. I'm happy with one block confirmation, but ultimately the official finality, it's really final. I've been withdrawed. I have withdrawn. What I have is actually a week or more.
00:20:25.106 - 00:20:53.822, Speaker A: So that's quite significant. But like I said, these are quite theoretical. When you're evaluating these solutions from a user's perspective, I think it's actually more interesting to see. Can I use my normal wallet software or do you even need wallet software? Right. That's probably more helpful in interruption. And of course, from the perspective of you're building a server, you're building a DAP, or you're building whatever on this chain, it's your business. Yes.
00:20:53.822 - 00:21:57.214, Speaker A: Okay, you must be aware of these constraints and make sure that your 10,000, hundreds of thousands or millions of users are exposed to these variables. And it must be something that you're happy with. And finally, the other aspects in terms of possibilities, really, because ethereum is a generic smart contract machine world computer called whichever you like. What you would want ideally, is that you have that capability of on chain logic and storage, but just more and cheaper of it. And that's not always the case. So with state channels, it's, depending on implementation, can be either very limited or somewhat limited in the sense of very limited. Some solutions just offer sending tokens back and forth, but not sort of syncing whatever happens with those tokens.
00:21:57.214 - 00:23:45.220, Speaker A: So for example, you might have a DAI token, so a dollar packed crypto assets issued by Makerdao, I might have that on the main chain, and then on the exile chain, which is actually in a state channel based solution, you might take that DAI and use it in the state channel in very complex ways. But ultimately the only thing that you can get back to the main chain would be your balance in Dai, not the fact that it's locked in a Defi primitive or that it's still gaining interest or those kind of things. So ultimately less, fewer options for really extensibility, where some of the other solutions do allow like full smart contract usage, including the EVM bytecode. And I think from a systemic perspective that's quite important because DeFi is money Legos, and we're seeing increasing the other types of Legos being created, it's composable. And when I have a separate world here, a side chain that has great capabilities, but only allows me to put tokens back and forth, and I have another side chain here that offers me other great capabilities. I cannot compose these two, I can compose things that are on the main chain, but they're very expensive. I can take things out of main chain or to a side chain or some other solution and use them there.
00:23:45.220 - 00:24:55.770, Speaker A: But yes, these will hurt composability. That said, you know, there might be plenty of use cases that are, that only need what these kinds of l two scaling solutions provide. So it's very useless. A framework and great work from metal Labs of putting together now to look at some specific solutions. There's been a really good source of information, which is the great Reddit scaling back off. So Reddit, which you will know, a huge platform forum, social community site, top 20 website, globally over 400 million users, actively multi active users. They have community points, they have ways to say, well, here's a nugget, here's a star, here's whatever, which they manage on their centrally managed platform, but they would like to do that in a crypto asset kind of way.
00:24:55.770 - 00:25:53.990, Speaker A: And they've started experimenting on some of the subreddits, but of course they would like to have a solution that's available for all subreddits. Hence this challenge, which a lot of the premier solutions in L2 scaling have participated in, have applied to. So I'll just open it and we'll go through some of the solutions. And the idea of it now, the use case here was quite simple and limited. Ultimately it's just, it's a point. A user must be able to get points or to receive them from some source, to award them to some posts or communities or whatever they want to give them, and to take them out. And that's basically it according to these dimensions.
00:25:53.990 - 00:27:00.100, Speaker A: Does it scale, is it decentralized? Is there more than one party, is there not a single party that this depends on? Because otherwise it doesn't make sense. Reddit can just keep it in their own databases. Is it usable? Is it as usable as Reddit proper, or at least close to that? Is it interoperable with Ethereum? I mean to say the challenge is Ethereum, the challenge is not crypto network scaling. So there is that limitation and is it secure in whatever ways you can think of. So just to look at a few of them, the one that got the most points that I saw was OMG network omisco. Omisco has been around for quite a long time, two years or more. They have a plasma based solution which is in production currently.
00:27:00.100 - 00:27:54.020, Speaker A: I believe they have it quite limited to token transfers, et cetera. Might be wrong, please correct me. But it fits bill quite well according to the requirements and needs of what Reddit asked for. Let me see, just if we can get a brief demo of them. It looked quite smooth. They presented demo here, also used common way to interact with blockchain apps. Just use metamask for signing transactions, which for people out of the blockchain community is good, but for other users maybe not so bad and not so good.
00:27:54.020 - 00:29:05.660, Speaker A: And yeah, just offer quite a quick and smooth solution. Another that got a lot of points is Solana. So Solana is a quite different solution. They are really going for a relatively different approach to Ethereum in terms of how a blockchain should be built and scaled. They're really going for hardcore single shard scaling, just making the biggest and fastest blockchain in the world, which they claim they have which is not at all Ethereum compatible. But with the primitives that you need here, just sending token, sending back and forth, syncing back to Ethereum very much fit the bill because you would always need that bridge between the main Ethereum chain and whatever external way or whatever L2 solution or side chain solution there is. And they have built a bridge and they already had that bridge in place and it fits the bill here quite well.
00:29:05.660 - 00:30:17.250, Speaker A: But yeah, to be clear, this would not make any more advanced scenarios possible. And just to take a quick step back to the criteria to evaluate the solutions on and composability. So Reddit doesn't need composability, right, for this use case, they need lots and lots of users to be able to exchange a single, well, call it a token or maybe a subtoken per subreddit and award it to posts to other users and that's it. There's no derivatives of community coins or there's no locking it into a contract, there's no escrows, there's nothing that they need. There is the requirement to sync it back to the main Ethereum chain and then of course you can do all of those things with that. But for the specific use case, they only require token transfer back and forth between red and users. And that's why non Ethereum compatible solutions could be great solution for this, as long as they have a way to sync back and forth.
00:30:17.250 - 00:31:22.150, Speaker A: Well, as you could see, there were 23 submissions. I think not all of them got a significant amount of points, but there's quite a few serious contenders here. All of these have sort of their own ecosystems and approaches. Let me pick out a third one matic network. They would offer I think the most in terms of composability because they actually have support for Ethereum virtual machine on their network, which would allow you to do more than just sending tokens back and forth. They're based on one of the plasma approaches which will give them these limitations. You would need liveness assumption, which is why they have a validator network which are continuously online to monitor those sections back and forth.
00:31:22.150 - 00:32:36.778, Speaker A: But yeah, offers great capabilities and according to their results for the competition, they got really great numbers in terms of throughput and also characteristics of the solution in terms of security and then extensibility, decentralization, possibility of gasless transactions. So yeah, I hope that gives a bit of a flavor. If you want to have more of a view of which ones are good, which ones are bad, or according to your requirements, encourage to look at this because just a really good showcase of where each of these are. So there's not one, there's not two. There's quite a lot of these who are making great things possible. So from the bake off back to big boy bitcoin. So for bitcoin, the main approach to l two scaling L2 scaling has been lightning.
00:32:36.778 - 00:33:27.134, Speaker A: There's been some variations of lightning, including thunder and liquid by blockstream. So how's it doing? Well, frankly, not great in terms of numbers. These are the statistics on top of number of lightning nodes and the network capacity and the number of channels. And as you can see, there was quite nice run up all the way into early 2019 in terms of channels and nodes, and network capacity was increasing and then it flattened out. There's no growth. I think this orange one might be the USD denominated one, which just fluctuates with the price. The blue one is just how much bitcoin is in here, and there isn't a lot.
00:33:27.134 - 00:34:19.374, Speaker A: The software is being developed and there are different implementations, there are different ways to run your own node at home and those kind of things. But ultimately also as a comparison, the chart below is how much bitcoin is available in the Ethereum based DeFi ecosystem. I think this is only Ethereum based versus how much is enlightening. Well, the blue one is lightning tier below, you might not have seen it, whereas the red one is how much bitcoin is locked in in various ways to represent a bitcoin on Ethereum. And that's way up. It's 200 million. It's not at any of the total DFI levels yet, but 200 million is nothing to sneeze at.
00:34:19.374 - 00:35:22.526, Speaker A: And of course, the question is like, well, bitcoin and Ethereum should even do that. Can I trust that? And it goes a bit beyond this session today. There's various approaches to sort of mint a form of a bitcoin on Ethereum, and again, they have different trade offs and security characteristics. Wrap bitcoin, there's renbTC, there's TBTC. Basically all of them depend on I have a bitcoin, I store it in some address and some solution on the bitcoin side, and through some way it's represented on Ethereum. And I'm either dependent on that party in the middle or the cryptography or all of it to trust that what I have on the Ethereum side will actually get back to the bitcoin side. But ultimately, from a practical perspective, those wrapped BTCs are tokens on the Ethereum network that for most practical purposes are a bitcoin or a fraction of a bitcoin.
00:35:22.526 - 00:36:15.720, Speaker A: And they can be used in defi protocols, they can be borrowed, they can be used for payment, they can be with all those things. So in terms of total capacity, I think this chart is quite relevant. As a final note, it's relevant, and it's also not relevant in the sense that they are two different things. Lightning is a second layer scaling network to make peer to peer bitcoin payments possible. DFI is primarily on chain functionality to make financial products possible, which is limited by the on chain limitations. So it's comparing an l two network with protocols that are on chain. But still, it's, I think, a peripheral figure.
00:36:15.720 - 00:37:58.082, Speaker A: Right? I don't know if anyone has question? Oh, there is a question, yes. So are there any direct competitors to Reddit's innovation space in terms of I. Let me interpret that, and correct me if I'm wrong, did you mean like similar competitions or similar ways to ask the ecosystem for solutions? Well, none that I've found, and surely not of that scale. A lot of the innovation in the different approaches to Alto scaling is in the ethereum ecosystem at least is happening in ETH research, which I think is still part or founded by the Ethereum foundation, with different businesses, projects, they're developing, their products and architecture, et cetera, and sort of sharing insights there. So that overview with the characteristics was quite a few people from ethersearch who had contributed or otherwise who shared their solutions to ethersearch. So that seems to be sort of the hub of what's happening there. And finally, from a research perspective, as I said, lightning is ultimately a payment channel solution.
00:37:58.082 - 00:39:01.206, Speaker A: So more generically, a state channel solution, there is some cross pollination between those two. When you learn that something from an architectural perspective doesn't work on lightning, then it's not going to work on a carbon copy version of that on Ethereum and any additional resources that I can share. Well, I think that the Reddit scaling challenge is really a good place to start, because if you go from there, which are the ones that have competed, they describe their solutions, they refer to further docs of how they compare. So I really encourage you to start with that. Thanks for the question. If anyone has other questions, please do post them. In the meantime, I want to leave you with three things as outlier.
00:39:01.206 - 00:40:17.498, Speaker A: We're organizing diffusion, again, diffusion Digital, which is our online event with lots of panels and speakers out of blockchain crypto networks, DFI 15th 16th September if you like this kind of stuff, do come by, because it's going to be great. And secondly, we run an accelerator for web3 startups projects and we've just opened applications for the fourth cohort. If you are on a business or you have a project that you think will become a business, do have a look and maybe we can work with you. And finally next week we'll do another session like this but focusing on on chain privacy. So which privacy solutions are there with a broader perspective than Ethereum and bitcoin but again, looking at which are the privacy solutions now that you can use, how do they compare and what can we expect for the near future? There's many others slides of video availability. Yes, the slides will well surely the video will be on our YouTube and immediately after you should be able to replay it here on crowdcast, that's for sure. And diffusion digital.
00:40:17.498 - 00:40:33.780, Speaker A: I will post that right here. There we go. Right so for now, many thanks for being here and hope to see you on the next one. Cheers.
