00:00:04.490 - 00:00:43.690, Speaker A: Hi, everyone. Welcome to Unconfirmed, the show that reveals how the market names in crypto are reacting to the week's top headlines and gets the inside scoop on what they see on the horizon. I'm your host, Laura Shin, a journalist with over two decades of experience. I started covering crypto six years ago and as a senior editor at Forbes, was the first mainstream media reporter to cover cryptocurrency full time. This is the June 25, 2021 episode of Unconfirmed. Near is an open source platform that accelerates the development of decentralized applications, overcoming high fees and slow speeds with its fast, scalable, low cost, and climate neutral blockchain protocol. Learn more@near.org.
00:00:43.690 - 00:01:02.078, Speaker A: The Oasis Network is a privacy enabled blockchain platform for open finance and a new data economy. Start building your next idea on the Oasis Network. The crypto.com app pays you up to 8.5% interest on your bitcoin. Get $25 when you download the crypto.com app with code.
00:01:02.078 - 00:01:11.460, Speaker A: Laura, the link is in the description. Today's guest is Will Clemente, author of the BTC by WC three newsletter. Welcome, Will.
00:01:11.910 - 00:01:15.140, Speaker B: Hey, Laura, thanks for having me on. Super excited to do this.
00:01:15.910 - 00:01:35.980, Speaker A: Great. So let's talk about bitcoin. The market has been in a funk the last, I would say maybe four to six weeks, with bitcoin trading in the $30,000 range, roughly. And it even dipped as low as $29,000 on Tuesday. And yet people like you are not worried. Why not?
00:01:36.830 - 00:02:18.530, Speaker B: Yeah, so I think I'm going to reverberate some of the stuff that Willie and Raphael had said on your podcast. I think it was a week or two ago that you had them on as well. But I primarily am looking at the on chain data versus a lot of technical analysis and things like that. Although I do look at that, you know, in terms of on chain, this, in my opinion, looks more like a kind of mid cycle consolidation versus necessarily a full on bear market, which not ruling out the possibility that we are entering a bear. But at this time, it doesn't look that way based off of the data that I'm looking at.
00:02:18.620 - 00:02:25.980, Speaker A: And so when you say mid cycle consolidation, is that what you said? What does that mean to you? Like, what is happening?
00:02:26.750 - 00:03:28.430, Speaker B: Yeah, so I think we only have two sample sizes, so I try not to compare, I guess, the price structure of previous cycles. But if I was going to compare this to anything, it would be the consolidation between the two 2013 double pumps, where what you had was the long term holders come in and kind of set the floor and step in and buy discounted. BTC, bitcoin was heavily discounted, but in terms of in traditional finance, people would consider it a bear market, a drawdown over 50%. But in terms of on chain, on chain did not look like we were in a bear phase necessarily. So I think that this kind of resembles that. And for some of those reasons. One of the main ones is that you have the long term holders really stepping in and buying BTC here, while a lot of the mark participants that have been selling are all very young.
00:03:28.430 - 00:04:51.020, Speaker B: And you can see that in the age of the coins over the last two, three months, you can look at something called Dormancy, which is a variant of coin days destroyed. So the way you can think of this is like if a coin is in a wallet for one day, it's accumulated one coin day and so then if the coin is then moved out of the wallet, it's then destroyed one coin day. And so looking at the coin Days destroyed, adjusted for volume is what Dormancy is. You can see that has been trending down continuously since call it late February, early March, and that has continued to really move down over the last couple of weeks especially. So the selling appears to be coming from not OGS or experienced market participants, but rather people that have gotten in somewhat recently, which a lot of people would think that it's primarily retail. But what I'm seeing is it's actually larger entities that are moving out. So perhaps these are funds that had gotten in after we'd broken all time highs or kind of hopped in when Tesla had bought and Paul Tudor Jones came out and stated that he had a position.
00:04:51.020 - 00:06:06.786, Speaker B: But I think those are the sellers that have been really moving out over the last couple of months. I think also one of the two main drivers of this bull market were a grayscale and then B as well. I think there was a lot of capital coming in in kind of this market neutral position where in the US we don't have this, but overseas they had these really fat spreads in the basis between the spot and the futures price and so you could kind of lock that in by going long spot shorting the future. And at one point spreads had gotten out to like 50%. So I think there was a lot of capital that was coming in from hedge funds overseas that were coming in and taking kind of that market neutral position and locking in that spread there. So I think that was another driver of capital in which now the spreads are almost entirely gone. I know some exchanges are actually in backwardation, so I think those are two big drivers that had been bringing capital in as well.
00:06:06.786 - 00:07:52.740, Speaker B: And then just in general the kind of March of institutions coming into the space on chain you can see that has really slowed you're just looking at you can identify whale entities which are considered like entities over 1000 BTC and that's been trending down since late February, early March as well. So I think if we're going to get this big second move up like second pump almost like similar to the 2013, I definitely think that you're going to see an uptick in those whales because that's been trending down since late February. At this point, I don't think that retail really has the power to sustain an asset of this size where it did in 2013, obviously, and then also 2017, because people like to throw out those statistics. Like if everybody in the world bought $10 of bitcoin, price would go up, like yeah, but I don't see that as completely realistic. I think you're going to need some larger institutional sized players to send in capital to push this thing up, which, depending on you ask, some people that kind of have boots on the ground, like the Ralph Paul's of the world, they might be able to give you a kind of better perspective on when that capital may be coming in. Perhaps it just takes time and maybe we don't see that enter until Q three, Q four. But for now, we have kind of seed this at least on chain, this kind of plateau, often even slight decline in the institutional capital coming in.
00:07:53.510 - 00:09:15.600, Speaker A: Yeah, there are so many interesting threads in what you said there. But one that I would like to pull on is what you mentioned about how the sellers are, first of all, recent buyers, but they're also institutions, which I feel is against kind of the narrative that was prevailing in crypto as these prices were going up, which know the institutions are buying. And that was led by companies like MicroStrategy and Tesla. I almost said Microsoft, but I was surprised what you said there. Although the block recently did report just this week that a lot of these corporates that maybe had been interested, that there isn't a lot of them actually in the pipeline now to follow in the footsteps of those companies. Do you think that downturn kind of coincides with the remarks on Twitter by Elon Musk about ESG concerns surrounding bitcoin and environmental concerns, or is there any other kind of notable event that you feel coincides with when that shift happened?
00:09:16.930 - 00:10:38.086, Speaker B: Yeah, I think you bring up an interesting point there, that there had been this big narrative that first of all, the institutions were going to dampen the volatility on both sides and we were just going to go up forever. Laura, and we were never going to see any major correction. But I think what bitcoiners really didn't take into account was the impact that the derivatives have on the bitcoin market. And you look at the size of when we were up in the 50, 60K range, the amount of liquidity that was in derivatives versus spot was just massive. And so when you had this big unwind on the way down, I think that really, I guess enhanced or kind of accelerated some of these moves that we saw these big liquidation moves down. And so I think to the upside as well. We have short squeezes as well, but I think a lot of this original move down to least that was a long squeeze, right? So I think the leverage in the system, which isn't necessarily all bad because you need liquidity, but it is going to cause these big swings up and down as far as what is perhaps preventing the institutional capital to march in.
00:10:38.086 - 00:11:47.438, Speaker B: I think first of all, just from like a price structure standpoint, I think if I was an institution, I'd probably be waiting for some stability in price. I think at this point you have a lot of uncertainty in terms of the momentum because bitcoin is obviously very momentum driven and a lot of that momentum has kind of been knocked out of bitcoin. So I think perhaps they're waiting for some stability in the price. But also just like fundamentally, I think the whole Elon ESG thing, I think that did really put a damper on a lot of institutionals opinions on bitcoin and all this stuff that's been going on with China as well. If you're looking from the outside in and don't really have a deep understanding of what that really entails and how that essentially is long term bullish for bitcoin that you're seeing hash spread out across the of a lot of these headlines are probably scaring off people that are looking from the outside in. I don't know if it's one thing as well. It might be multiple, might be like a combination of several things.
00:11:47.438 - 00:12:28.460, Speaker B: But yeah, I do often wonder is it just going to take them time, right, because they have these really long processes that they have to go through. They're not like sailor where they have the majority of their voting rights and they could just make like a rash decision to just take a large bitcoin position. I think even if they do, it'll probably be something like square. Did they put like 5% of their treasury into bitcoin? So I think you'll see something like that if it does happen. But the optimist in me says that it's coming. Q three, q four, but maybe not. But I think the ESG stuff definitely put a damper on that.
00:12:29.550 - 00:12:48.242, Speaker A: Yeah. So in a moment we're going to talk a little bit about what the rest of the year will look like. But first, a quick word from the sponsors who make this show possible. With over 10 million users, crypto.com is the easiest place to buy and sell over 90 cryptocurrencies. Grow your crypto with Crypto.com Earn, which pays up to 8.5%
00:12:48.242 - 00:13:22.782, Speaker A: interest on your bitcoin and 14% interest on your stablecoins. When it's time to spend your crypto, nothing beats the Crypto.com Visa card, which pays you up to 8% back instantly and gives you 100% rebates for your Netflix, Spotify and Amazon Prime subscriptions. Download the crypto.com app now and get $25 by using the code Laura. The link is in the description. Did you know nearly $338,000,000 worth of NFTs were sent last year and in 2021 that number is growing faster than ever.
00:13:22.782 - 00:14:15.470, Speaker A: If you're looking to make your first NFT, check out Near's fast, scalable, low cost, open source platform. Near is investing 80 million near tokens in communityled projects over the course of five years to power sustainable innovation through its ecosystem. With fundraising opportunities and support for DAOs and DApps to engage fans and reach new audiences, come learn why near is the infrastructure for innovation@nea.org. Back to my conversation with Will Clemente. So something that you tweeted, which was fascinating to me, was a chart showing that each cycle, after a bitcoin having has three peaks of supply being held by short term market participants. So can you explain kind of what that means and how you extrapolate from that to this cycle?
00:14:16.610 - 00:14:49.420, Speaker B: The takeaway here is that you kind of have these hype cycles within the main cycle of bitcoin. And so bitcoin is driven by new market participants. First of all, you had the having, which is almost like this push. Willy Wu likes to analogize. It's like you're in a bath and you push the water in the bathtub and that gives it that initial momentum going. And then from there, after that push, then the speculators come in and just natural human greed kicks in and people FOMO into bitcoin, drives it up. Right.
00:14:49.420 - 00:16:16.930, Speaker B: But I think what that's really showing is you have these many hype cycles almost within the main cycle itself, where each cycle you've seen these three very distinct peaks of what that was looking at is like the portion of supply held by the shortage term market participants. I think in the chart, it was like under three months old, I think was what I had highlighted. So, yeah, it's showing right now at least we've only had one peak versus the three that have taken place in previous cycles. Maybe we don't have exactly that three number because granted, we only have two sample sizes, but I suspect it's going to be more than just one that we've had so far. And it appears now that we're still cooling off after that first big hype cycle of shorter term holders stepping in, which, once again, like we kind of mentioned earlier, is also supported by the selling, the age of the coins that are moving on chain. They're all once again, like shorter term market participants. I think in this space, a lot of times, it's beneficial to follow the smart money that's been in the space for a while, because they've been through multiple of these cycles.
00:16:16.930 - 00:17:34.186, Speaker B: They've been through multiple deaths of bitcoin when it seemed like, yeah, I think some guy actually created a website and it's called bitcoin is dead.com, or something like that, and he literally highlighted every time bitcoin is dead. And then the price, what it did from that time, which is pretty hilarious. But, yeah, I think in my opinion, you should be following those experienced market participants and they're doing the complete opposite of selling right now, everything on chain is showing that the longer term holders are actually accumulating right now. And there's a metric literally called long term holder net position change, which has been trending up for the last month plus really aggressively over the last couple of weeks. And then also you can look at so the way Glass Node distinguishes like a long term holder from a short term holder is they have a threshold of 155 days. So the super smart folks over there, they did some statistical analysis and looked at once you get to that 155 day threshold, which is five months, the likelihood of the coins being moved back out of that wallet completely just drops off a cliff.
00:17:34.186 - 00:18:50.214, Speaker B: And you can see this and they put an article out in their research section of their website if you're interested in that. So they have that cut off there for the long short term holder thing. But what you've seen is that traditionally throughout the bull market is that the longer term holders are scaling out, while the shorter term holders, the speculators, are coming in and driving price up. And then conversely, in the bear market, you have the longer term holders coming in and buying increasingly cheap BTC, while the shorter term holders move out of the market, right, because it's not fun anymore because price isn't just going vertical. And so you see that in the previous two cycles as just kind of like an underlying almost like the current driving the cycle, but also in 2013, between the two double pumps. I think we had touched on this earlier the long term holders are what set that floor in between the two pumps, where if you look at this chart, the long term holder, the supply held by them had been trending down throughout the first pump of the two. And then in between that when we consolidated for I think it was like four or five months.
00:18:50.214 - 00:19:34.718, Speaker B: Then that was actually trending up while the shorter term holders moved out. And then in the second half, then the long term holders began moving back out once price started going parabolic again. And then the longer term holders once again moved in and the speculators came back in. And then, of course, moved into the bear market. And then longer term began accumulating again. And then very similarly too, in late 2016, there was that same dynamic where the longer term holders had kind of stepped in and set the floor. So I think you could look at it two ways, right? Like, if you have a bearish bias, you can look at this and say, yeah, well, this is what happens at the beginning of bear markets, right? Like, the longer term holders, they start buying.
00:19:34.718 - 00:20:44.810, Speaker B: But conversely, this is where I kind of stand, is that we're in this more so like mid consolidation, where the longer term holders are actually setting the floor, contrary to the fact that we're necessarily in a bear, which is like one of the other main things that I'm looking at to distinguish the two is the number of new users coming on the blockchain. Usually at the end of the cycle, after the big peak, you start to see those new users just kind of drop off a cliff and no new users. A lot of that is new speculators coming in are coming on chain. But we're actually seeing the opposite, where the amount of new users has actually been going up, especially over the last two, three weeks, which I think is twofold. First of all, is people attracted by lower prices because an entity is not necessarily just a person, but it can also be a corporate treasury or an investment fund. It's just an entity. It's not necessarily determined by the size of their holdings.
00:20:44.810 - 00:21:42.320, Speaker B: So that could be not necessarily it could be any cohort. But you are seeing new users coming on chain, which is contrary to what you see at tops. But I would be interested to see how much of that is coming from Latin America. I know Glassnode tries to not cross the line of going between the analytics side of things and the privacy side of things, which I think they do a very good job at, not kind of crossing that line, which kind of goes against the kind of ethos of Bitcoiners. But I would think it would be fascinating to see how many of those new users coming on chain are actually from Latin America because that kind of coincides with right around when the El Salvador announcement came out. So I think that's really interesting. But, yeah, new users coming on chain and that's not any resemblance of a bear market.
00:21:44.130 - 00:22:16.840, Speaker A: So we have kind of talked a little bit about how there tends to be these cycles. They usually coincide with the having. Obviously, if for whatever reason this time around, bitcoin didn't actually follow the similar pattern that it had established after the previous havings, that would be big news, would probably be analyzed to death. But at this moment in time, what's your projection for how things will go in Bitcoin for the second half of the year?
00:22:17.850 - 00:23:24.638, Speaker B: Yeah, so I think one of the other things to look at is not only just the age of the wallets and kind of their selling and buying behavior. And so Glassnode, not only do they have the long term holders, but they also have something called a liquid liquid supply, which is looking at the behavior, the selling behavior of the entities. And so for the entities that have a very low likelihood statistically of selling, not likelihood, but behavior tendency to sell, I forget the certain threshold, but they're labeled illiquid. If they have under I'm just picking up an error. Maybe like under 25%, they sell under 25% of their holdings. So when you look at those entities, they've been adding really heavily here versus that all kind of got puked out when we had that big dump down. But over the last couple of weeks, not only is it long term holders, but it's entities that have really no history of selling, coming in and stepping in.
00:23:24.638 - 00:24:29.262, Speaker B: And so I think that process of coins that kind of got puked out by the short term holders and are now getting scooped up by those strong hands, I guess you could call it. I think that process is just going to take some time. I think perhaps it takes another month from here before we really see higher prices. But I think that consolidation process of coins moving into I almost like to think of it like somebody spilled water on the counter, right? And you need a lot of paper towels. And so these strong hands, these are the paper towels coming in and soaking up the coins, right? And so that process is just going to take I think it's a matter of weeks at this point because I think we're starting to move in the latter half of that. But in that metric, I like to call it the strong hands metric. Willie Wu calls it the Rick astley indicator that's starting to trend into really strong accumulation.
00:24:29.262 - 00:25:22.254, Speaker B: And I actually worked with Willie to kind of create a variant of that, which is like a very simple ratio of comparing the liquid holders to the illiquid holders. And so what you see is that you have this movement right now of liquid to a liquid hands while price is going down. So the ratio is trending up, price is trending down. And so for anybody who's somewhat familiar with technical analysis, that's like a classic bullish divergence where you have the indicator making higher highs while the price is trending down. And so the last time you saw that was in late January when we had that big correction after that first big blow off top. And then in that dip was actually when Tesla bought. But that kind of gave us some juice on the way out of that dip.
00:25:22.254 - 00:26:16.530, Speaker B: But you also had the second big, I guess, this bullish divergence where the oscillator had made a higher high, while price had made a lower low. So once again, at that time, you had those strong hands come in and scoop up those coins and set the floor. So that looks very similar. And the bullish divergence now is a lot more clear than the one that occurred in January. But that's something I have a very close eye on also, profit taking. So I think you've heard soper before, that's basically a metric that looks at the profit taking of coins on any given day created by on chain analyst Renato. What you see in this is very similar where the profit taking has made a higher low.
00:26:16.530 - 00:27:02.990, Speaker B: So it had a really strong drawdown, and then it had another drawdown in the last week or so but it didn't go as far down, so people didn't sell at a loss as much as they had in the first drawdown. So to me, this is suggesting that the profit taking in terms of that people aren't selling as a loss as heavily. And so a lot of the capitulation that was going to take place, people have already done so. And so once again, that Oscillator is making a higher high while Price is making a lower low, which is once again a bullish divergence. And coincidentally, this also happened in late January. Same thing. The last time there was a clear bullish divergence was in late January.
00:27:02.990 - 00:27:05.460, Speaker B: So that's another interesting thing.
00:27:05.830 - 00:27:19.590, Speaker A: All right, so I guess we see where we are in the mini cycle. All right, well, this has been super informative and yeah, we'll have to see where we end up by the end of the year. Thank you so much for coming on Unconfirmed.
00:27:20.010 - 00:27:23.594, Speaker B: Thank you, Laura. This is super fun and I'd be happy to come on again.
00:27:23.792 - 00:28:17.206, Speaker A: Yeah, that would be great. Don't forget, next up is the weekly news recap. Stick around for this week in Crypto after this short break. Designed for the next generation of blockchain, the Oasis Network is the first privacy enabled blockchain platform for open finance and a responsible data economy. Combined with its high throughput and secure architecture, the Oasis Network is able to power private scalable DeFi, revolutionizing open finance, and expanding it beyond traders and early adopters to a mass market. Its unique privacy features can not only redefine DeFi, but also create a new type of digital asset called tokenized data that can enable users to take control of the data they generate and earn rewards for staking it with applications, creating the first ever responsible data economy. Thanks for tuning in to this week's news recap.
00:28:17.206 - 00:29:00.330, Speaker A: First headline bitcoin hash rate is moving out of China in a big way. According to data from the block, bitcoin's hash rate crashed nearly 50% over the last month. Coinciding with multiple regions in China moving to shut down bitcoin mining, notably Xinjiang and Sichuan. The two top bitcoin mining regions in China cut the proverbial mining cord, taking an estimated 30% of the network's hash rate offline. China's decision to shut down bitcoin mining has kickstarted a hash rate migration, with Chinese miners seeking to move bitcoin mining equipment to more friendly jurisdictions. On Tuesday, a Chinese logistics firm decided to ship 6600 pounds of mining equipment to Maryland. First.
00:29:00.330 - 00:30:09.102, Speaker A: Reported by CNBC's Eunice Yoon Thomas Heller, chief business officer at Compass Mining, told CoinDesk 3000 kg sounds huge, but compared to the amount of miners that get shipped regularly, it's just a small batch. The secondary market for a bitcoin mining equipment appears to be flooded. Kevin Zhang, vice president of Foundry, reported that a colleague based in China has already, quote, shipped out over 20,000 asics in the last two weeks, adding that the great ASIC exodus will be anything but seamless hosting capacity outside China was already oversubscribed and scarce prior to these regulatory announcements. Already, the implications of the miner exodus from China are being felt. On Monday, Bitcoin mining machine manufacturer Kanan said in a press release that its Avalon miner unit is already in operation in Kazakhstan. Kazakhstan is a country worth keeping an eye on as the mining haven competition heats up due to its proximity to China and cheap electricity rates. Following Kevin Chang's logic about the possible oversupply of mining equipment, bitmain announced the suspension of bitcoin mining rig sales.
00:30:09.102 - 00:31:38.186, Speaker A: Blinkberg reports that the price tag for a top tier rig has fallen 75% since April. The block's data shows that Foundry, a subsidiary of Digital Currency Group, saw the hash rate of its mining pool, Foundry USA increase nearly 15% over the past month, shooting into the top ten of mining pools worldwide. Other top pools, such as Ant Pool and F Two Pool, saw hash rate decrease 50% during the same period. Speaking of China china Bans crypto for the Fourth Time The People Bank of China released a statement on Monday that not only reiterated previous crypto bans, but additionally asked Chinese exchanges to investigate, identify and cut off any user accounts associated with over the counter crypto exchanges. The Block reports that four institutions, including Alipay, issued a similar notice warning that any users found dealing in crypto transactions would see their account terminated and reported to the relevant authorities. The PBOC's words follow a similar May notice from three Chinese self regulatory bodies reiterating the 2013 and 2017 crypto bans on bitcoin transactions and ICOs, making this week the fourth time China has banned cryptocurrency. Next Headline Citigroup Launches a Cryptocurrency Business Unit On Thursday, Citigroup officially announced the Digital Assets Group, its new business unit within its wealth management division dedicated to the cryptocurrency and blockchain space.
00:31:38.186 - 00:32:27.980, Speaker A: As reported by the Bloc. The move comes after Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs launch their own crypto initiatives for wealthy clients to gain exposure to cryptocurrencies. Next Headline MicroStrategy Bonds Trading Below Face Value On Monday, MicroStrategy announced the purchase of an additional 13,005 bitcoin for roughly $489,000,000 in cash, which equates to approximately $37,600 per bitcoin. The latest bitcoin acquisition comes shortly after the company completed its 500 million dollar offering of secured notes last week. On Tuesday, CoinDesk reported those notes, which come due in 2028 and bear an annual interest rate of 6.125 percent, were trading at $97.0.75 on the dollar, meaning the bonds traded below face value.
00:32:27.980 - 00:33:08.434, Speaker A: The latest purchase pushes MicroStrategy's overall investment in bitcoin to over $2.7 billion in cash, equating to an aggregate holding of 105,085 bitcoin on the software company's balance sheet. While MicroStrategy continues to go all in on its bitcoin accumulation strategy, Frank Shaparo, director of news at the Bloc, published an article that paints a dire picture for those waiting for other public corporations to join the ranks of Hodlers. One major obstacle to actual adoption is. How bitcoin is accounted for. One source vented to Frank, quote Accounting is fucking brutal. No real company can take the generally accepted accounting principles.
00:33:08.434 - 00:34:07.980, Speaker A: Earnings per share hit. The crux of the issue, notes Deloitte's Rob Macy, is that, quote, Each quarterly reporting period effectively looks at the lowest price that Bitcoin has ever traded at since its purchase and requires a writedown. For now, it appears that outside of Tesla Square and the few public corporations that have already purchased Bitcoin, the demand is just not there. Or as an anonymous source from a crypto firm specializing in institutional customers put it, quote, New net long positions from corporates outside of MicroStrategy are essentially nonexistent. Next Headline Crypto fundraising didn't slow even as Bitcoin dipped below $30,000 earlier this week, Bloomberg reported the venture capital raises that venture capital firms had invested $17 billion into the crypto industry this year, doubling the previous yearly record of $7.4 billion in 2018. And that $17 billion all came within the first six months of the year.
00:34:07.980 - 00:34:42.850, Speaker A: The trend continues this week with several high profile raises. Andreessen Horowitz launched a new $2.2 billion crypto fund with plans to invest in a slew of companies across the blockchain and digital asset space A 16. Z also announced that former securities and Exchange Commission director Bill Hinman will join the firm as an advisory partner. Chainalysis, a blockchain analytics firm, brought home $100 million in a Series E funding round that valued the company at $4.2 billion, doubling its valuation in about three months. CO2 led the latest round.
00:34:42.850 - 00:35:32.610, Speaker A: Amber Group, a crypto financial services company, raised $100 million at a valuation of $1 billion in a Series B, led by China Renaissance. Michael Wu, the CEO at Amber, boasted, quote, Cumulative trading on the platform has already doubled since the beginning of the year, increasing from two hundred and fifty million dollars to five hundred million dollars. Blockchain Capital announced it had closed a new fund of $300 million in an oversubscribed raise that included, quote, strategic investors, pension funds, major university endowments, and family offices from around the world. Most notable amongst those are PayPal and Visa. Next headline. John McAfee, found dead in prison days before us. Extradition On Wednesday, John McAfee, the controversial software magnate, was found dead in his prison cell near Barcelona.
00:35:32.610 - 00:35:58.574, Speaker A: The Catalon Department of justice said, quote, Everything indicates that it could be a death by suicide. McAfee was awaiting extradition to the US. Which that Spanish high court had authorized earlier that day. McAfee had been detained in Spain last year on tax evasion charges. In March, McAfee was indicted on several charges of money laundering and fraud revolving around an alleged pump and dump scheme and multiple ICOs. U. S.
00:35:58.574 - 00:37:01.038, Speaker A: Attorneys say McAfee and his team would purchase all coins, promote them on Twitter, and then sell them once they had boosted the price. He also allegedly promoted ICOs without disclosing he was paid to do so. Next headline Cryptocrime blockchain island and 69,000 missing bitcoin. The Times of Malta published a claim that estimates nearly $70 billion in cryptocurrency moved through the island when it first introduced its cryptofriendly strategy in 2017. One such method, a transitory period, gave crypto startups and major exchanges like finance permission to operate without a license for up to a year, quickly turning the country into the Wild West, as an industry source put it. According to the Times, sources quote, Malta's act fast approach to attracting digital currency platforms to the island before the necessary laws were in place was among the red flags facing the country. The news comes as evaluators from the Financial Action Task Force are considering placing Malta on its gray list of countries who are not doing enough to prevent financial crime.
00:37:01.038 - 00:38:11.450, Speaker A: According to a Bloomberg report, two brothers who founded Africt, a South African crypto exchange, have disappeared, ticking up to 69,000 bitcoin, worth about $2.3 billion with them. Africrypt shut down in April, coinciding with Bitcoin's $64,000, alltime high with a company citing a breach in its system. Soon after the supposed breach, the brothers Rais and Amir Kg allegedly transferred their investors'money from company accounts through crypto mixing services. Time for fun bits, McDonald's and the Market Dip With the latest drop in the crypto markets, as I discussed with Will, it looks like a few of our favorite crypto people might have to take some new jobs. For those of you listening on audio, my favorite meme on Twitter this week was when several of them posted about their new McDonald's side hustle as Bitcoin dipped below 30K. Frank Chaparro posted a selfie in a McDonald's hat, and it looked shockingly legit and worn in, and he tweeted that he has some personal news to share with his followers insinuating he's left the pen to pick up a spatula.
00:38:11.450 - 00:39:06.098, Speaker A: Another McDonald's meme that made me laugh was Ryan Watkins's tweet depicting Michael Sailor wearing Mickey D's attire, addressing an imaginary customer, saying, bitcoin is a swarm of cyber hornets serving the goddess of wisdom, feeding on the fire of truth, exponentially, growing ever smarter, faster, and stronger behind a wall of encrypted energy. And the customer replying Right, can I get a Big Mac with fries? All right, thanks for tuning in. To learn more about Will and his BTC by WC three substack, be sure to check out the links in the show notes. What's up, everyone? The Unchained newsletter has switched from a weekly news recap to a daily blog in order to keep up with the crazy pace of crypto news. Each morning you'll get four to five quick headlines, a crypto meme or two, and a few recommended reads. Head to Unchainedpodcast.com, and the sign up for the email newsletter is right on the homepage.
00:39:06.098 - 00:39:14.410, Speaker A: You can also find the link in my Twitter bio. Unconfirmed is produced by me, Laura Shin, with help from Anthony Yoon, Mark Murdoch, and Daniel Ness. Thanks for listening.
