00:00:00.250 - 00:00:28.360, Speaker A: Got a really, really great session ahead of us here, how DeFi is helping to fundamentally reshape the fintech landscape. Before I turn it to Nathaniel, I just wanted to thank the panelists here. I know that there's various time zones everyone's in, so appreciate you guys joining and your time and effort in this session. So now we're going to turn it over to Nathaniel. Nathaniel will lead the panel, and I'll be back in a few short minutes. Nathaniel, take it away.
00:00:30.490 - 00:00:53.254, Speaker B: Hey, what's going on, everyone? Super excited to be here. So the title of this session is how DeFi is helping to fundamentally reshape the fintech landscape. And I like it. It's particularly large. It's big scale. I think it's a scale that befits the potential of this industry. And I think that after you listen to these guys today, you'll probably feel a little bit higher conviction about the reality of that title.
00:00:53.254 - 00:01:09.700, Speaker B: So without any further ado, let's get into some introductions. I'd love for each of you guys on this panel to quickly introduce yourself and maybe explain just a little bit about your project and how it fits into the wider Defi landscape. Let's start with Kane, because I see you first on the top of my screen.
00:01:10.630 - 00:01:52.250, Speaker C: Sure. Thanks, Nathaniel. So I'm Kane Warwick, founder of Synthetics, and I actually come from a payments and fintech background before I got into crypto. But I think the transition that we've seen in DeFi recently is something that is very relevant to all of fintech at the moment. So the platform that we've built allows people to have exposure through synthetic assets. So essentially holding tokens that give them exposure to various different real world assets. So commodities like gold and silver equities.
00:01:52.250 - 00:02:19.260, Speaker C: So we have things like Tesla shares, fang stocks, as well as foreign exchange, and a number of different crypto assets. And essentially, the idea is that anyone who can access this platform on Ethereum can get exposure to these various assets directly on chain. So, yeah, that's what we're building. It's a decentralized derivatives platform.
00:02:22.840 - 00:02:24.820, Speaker B: All right, next up, let's go to Stani.
00:02:27.000 - 00:03:02.640, Speaker D: Hey, everyone. I'm Stani Kleschov. I'm the founder and CEO of AAve. So Ave is basically a team that has built the Aave protocol. Ave protocol is a decentralized interest rate market built on top of the ethereum blockchain network. So essentially traditional, where you hold cryptocurrencies in terms of market exposure. What AAvE allows you to do is to deposit those cryptographic assets into the protocol itself and see them grow in terms of interest rates.
00:03:02.640 - 00:03:57.120, Speaker D: I started to build the protocol and pretty much decentralized technologies four and a half years ago by building the first lending protocol that has been on blockchain. And before that, actually, I've been building fintech applications pretty much since my first touch base on tech. And I think where fintech is building kind of, like, more of the user experience, decentralized finance is here to kind of, like, build and reshape the legacy finance system that we have in the back end. And the protocol itself has grown quite substantially. Currently, we have over 11 billion worth of value locked in the protocol as collaterals and assets that can be lended out from the protocol.
00:03:59.300 - 00:04:07.540, Speaker B: Awesome. Yeah. We're going to get a lot more into just kind of the rapid growth of this space in a few minutes. But first, let's close with, certainly last but not least, Sergey.
00:04:08.600 - 00:04:40.028, Speaker E: Yep. Hi, everyone. My name is Sergey. I am one of the co founders of Chainlink. We're an infrastructure provider for Defi. So we provide various inputs into Defi smart contracts from something called oracles and decentralized oracle networks. So we power a lot of different DeFi applications with various data and to a certain degree, some amount of computation that enables the decentralized financial contracts to kind of come to life and create more and more advanced features and more and more advanced markets.
00:04:40.028 - 00:04:58.820, Speaker E: And we're very excited to be working with all the different D five protocols. And I think that they're really just changing the entire nature of how people interact with financial contracts generally, which is really the business of fintechs and banks and so on. So I think it's going to be a monumental shift.
00:05:00.280 - 00:05:27.570, Speaker B: Awesome. All right, well, so I think that what I want to do is recognizing that we have a pretty wide range of people in the audience today. I'd love for you guys to start almost by defining DeFi, right. What is decentralized finance and what are maybe some of the key parts of the landscape when someone's trying to get. You're trying to give some of the kind of the quick and dirty view of this space. How do you explain it? And let's go back in reverse order, maybe, or at least to start with. Sergey, we'll go to you first.
00:05:29.220 - 00:06:14.844, Speaker E: Sure. So I see decentralized finance as solving a lot of the problems that are inherent to centralized finance and something that people take as de facto facts of life, whereas they don't have to be facts of life. So, for example, in centralized finance, you don't actually own assets. Your counterparty owns the assets, and you don't really have transparency about your counterparty or their solvency. You just kind of hope that they're solvent and so on. Conversely, in decentralized finance, you have a private key that controls all of the assets that's rolling around in different protocols. And you can look right into the protocol, you can look right into the day to day, minute to minute operations of the derivative you're exposed to or the lending protocol you're using.
00:06:14.844 - 00:07:09.970, Speaker E: And so you have a massive amount of transparency. So I think what DeFi really is, is a restatement of all the financial products in the centralized financial world, in this more controlled by the user and highly transparent format, which various infrastructure like blockchains and oracles enable. So I think decentralized finance for me, is decentralized in terms of how it operates on the back end. But the fundamental value of it is that you actually have control over your assets, which means you can trade them however you want to trade them. And you actually have clarity about your risk and how that risk is evolving over time based on the protocols and the systems you're putting your assets into. Which is a huge shift, I think, in how both global finance and retail finance works, in my opinion, should work.
00:07:12.180 - 00:07:14.130, Speaker B: Sani, let's go to you next.
00:07:15.780 - 00:08:56.396, Speaker D: Yeah, I think Sergey pretty much kind of gave a good description of what decentralized finance is and the capabilities, and I want to highlight the kind of like aspect of being able to use these protocols in a permissionless fashion. So when we look at decentralized finance, it's a set of usually smart contracts that are operating autonomously on a particular blockchain network, such as, for example, Ethereum or other blockchains. And the idea there is that anyone can actually access these protocols and interact with them without any kind of custody. And this particular means that all of these different protocols, whether it's a lending protocol, it's a protocol to create synthetic assets such as synthetics. You pretty much interact without the middle men in directly peer to contract way, where the actual contracts, smart contracts, have functionality. And this permissionless nature allows actually a lot of key components. One of the components is actually that you can also, as a developer, build new products on top of the existing protocols, which means that anyone, any part of the world, could actually create a new algorithm that attracts liquidity or actually some sort of other financial protocol that doesn't exist at the current moment and because of the ecosystem, is open source, meaning that anyone can look at your code improve it and create a better protocol.
00:08:56.396 - 00:09:54.260, Speaker D: There's this constant innovation going on, and that has been leading to constant growth. And I think being able to access directly is very beneficial. But I think decentralized finance will be part of the tech stacks of finance in general. So I think the fintechs of the futures will actually use decentralized finance, maybe in a way that their users are trusting the fintechs. And the fintechs in the backend are using Defi to facilitate their transactions. So those are kind of key components. And as Sergey mentioned, the transparency is one of the biggest value propositions because you could actually track the current exposures of different collateral assets used in lending protocols or different debt issued on blockchain completely in real time, like every single second.
00:09:54.260 - 00:10:15.550, Speaker D: And you could also calculate the whole exposure within the network, not just one single protocol. And that's substantially very interesting difference compared to traditional finance. And you can create different kinds of tool sets to use this data to create actually better finance from the risk perspective as well.
00:10:18.000 - 00:10:22.910, Speaker B: Awesome. Tons of great stuff in there. Kane, anything to add to that?
00:10:24.400 - 00:11:05.768, Speaker C: I think both guys have covered it pretty adequately. What I might add, though, is sort of the how of this process, right. So we understand what it does and what the benefits are. It comes down to coordination. So when you have some sort of financial product, typically in the traditional finance world and in the fintech world, a company needs to form to provide that product, right. So you need CEO on a board and go and raise capital and go and talk to regulators and go through all of these various things that create fairly high barriers to entry. Right.
00:11:05.768 - 00:11:53.300, Speaker C: And Sandy kind of touched on this. But essentially, with Defi, you can get a group of people all over the world and you can coordinate those people to provide a very specific service with very low infrastructure overheads. Right. The Ethereum blockchain provides the infrastructure, and the smart contract that you can build can be deployed there permissionlessly. So you can set up these coordination games that don't require huge organizations to provide these services. And critically, you can then connect all of those different services together very easily because you don't have these large organizations that are providing the service. It can be very low touch and low overhead.
00:11:53.300 - 00:12:24.452, Speaker C: So I think that that is something that most people in fintech probably are a little bit skeptical of, I guess maybe or would be a bit surprising, because when you're in fintech, you deal with these large organizations. They're very opaque. They're very difficult to deal with. There's long sales cycles and negotiation processes to get anything done. Whereas in know, you turn up, you don't need to talk to Stani to integrate something with Aave. Right. You just turn up and you plug it in and it's done.
00:12:24.452 - 00:12:29.990, Speaker C: And I think that's a really important thing to understand how that comes about, not just what the benefits.
00:12:32.440 - 00:13:26.890, Speaker B: So I think maybe the point that I want to kind of jump from and to is so much of what you're describing sounds really fascinating from a conceptual standpoint. Right. There are these big shifts in the way that we organize, think about, and structure financial protocols and contracts and all these things that go into a financial system. However, the thing that makes it such a pertinent conversation now is that we've seen a rapid growth in this space. It was only about a year ago now that we reached the milestone of a billion dollars being deployed against these different protocols, and now we're sitting at something like 65 billion, I think. So I guess what I want to ask each of you is kind of, what is the type of growth you're seeing specifically within your protocols? But then also, how are you kind of observing what have the catalysts been for the growth of DeFi overall over the course of the last year? And let's just keep doing this reverse order thing, and we'll go to Kane first.
00:13:28.300 - 00:14:02.112, Speaker C: Yeah, this again goes back to that coordination conversation. Right. You can build a protocol that has incentives to attract people to provide their service. Right. So in synthetics, we have people, I think there's over 10,000 individual accounts that are contributing to the collateral, that collateralizes the synthetic assets that are in the system at the moment. And I think it's about 1.5 or $2 billion worth of collateral that's been provided.
00:14:02.112 - 00:14:38.024, Speaker C: But anyone can turn up and buy collateral on the market somewhere and essentially join this network. It's totally permissionless. There's no entry requirements or anything that you need to do other than having the collateral and being able to interact with the smart contract. And so we have very strong incentives, particularly in the bootstrapping phase. Right. Growth hacking, I think for all startups is critical, but for fintechs is particularly critical. In DeFi, we have this growth hacking playbook that's extremely powerful.
00:14:38.024 - 00:15:27.100, Speaker C: And it comes from the fact that when we have people participating in these ecosystems, they can actually get a portion of the network as payment for participating. So, for example, with Ave, when you come in and you provide a service to the AvE network, you can actually get a portion of the network back over and above the direct compensation you get for providing the service, right. This is really powerful, and it's something that I do. I'm an Ave holder. I provide an insurance function by staking Ave in their network. And this is just a huge feedback loop that, as you said, has taken us from a billion dollars worth of value locked to over 50 billion over the course of a year, because that feedback loop is so powerful.
00:15:29.120 - 00:15:31.010, Speaker B: Stannie, let's jump to you now.
00:15:33.780 - 00:17:18.444, Speaker D: Yeah, I would say definitely. What's interesting about decentralized finance in general, and kind of like the growth, is that once you deploy the protocols, and as we protocol builders and see, basically when you create a protocol that is very in demand, so you find protocol market fit, it practically means that anyone can pretty much access to that protocol and also use that protocol to build something very interesting and take it even further. So, for example, in case of Ave, we've seen a lot of growth in terms of from our own user interface, where users are coming in and participating directly with their wallets into the network and depositing cryptographic assets to earn more yield. What's interesting is that most of the liquidity is actually coming not from the AAVE user interface, but actually all of this very interesting DeFi primitive that has been built on top of AAVE or as a separate product or some sort of separate way of interacting with the protocol. And this same pattern is actually across the whole DeFi. So we've seen products build on top of synthetix, AAVE using Chainlink oracles to provide the data and secure the data, and pretty much completely new financial protocols on top, and they're consuming the other protocols. So it's kind of interestingly that the whole ecosystem of decentralized finance is actually supporting each other and also consuming each other's infrastructure.
00:17:18.444 - 00:19:01.996, Speaker D: And this kind of like a value across decentralized finance creates these economics where there is constant move of liquidity and constant innovation going on. In one essence, even like a speed race of creating new innovation and more efficient finance. In decentralized finance at the moment, the growth is fascinating because we see now more integrations that are, for example, on the institutional side. For example, the custodians integrating, that are usually typically holding user funds, institutional funds behalf of their clients, and integrating decentralized DeFi protocols into their ecosystem and the future. Fintechs are able to use these custodians and provide accessibility for their own end users into decentralized finance in a way that they don't need to too much handle of the actual security aspect of DeFi. And as Kane mentioned, being able to kind of participate in these protocols and in exchange receive ownership of the protocol is substantially something that differs from the current financial ecosystem, because as a participant, as a user, you become a stakeholder, and you become a decision maker of how these protocols in the future are developed or what kind of risk parameters they will have. This is essentially something that kind of incentivizes everyone who participates in these networks to actually create better finance, and finance that actually is good for them.
00:19:01.996 - 00:20:07.850, Speaker D: And fintechs that are early in the ecosystem and are already participating one way or another and receiving governance power will, in the future, have a lot of say on how protocols like synthetics, how protocols like AavE are in the future governed, and how finance will look in the future from the protocol perspective. So I think the growth has been very substantial, especially with the ability to receive governance power and control the protocols. But also there's been a lot of innovation, and DeFi has made finance more efficient. It's very easy to go to synthetics and basically create synthetics assets and take those assets and deposit them into the Aubrey protocol. And you have infrastructure, such as Chainlink, that is securing those price data and ensuring that the data is correct. You have this movability of liquidity, and this is something that we have never seen before in finance, and this is what makes it very interesting at the moment. And it's growing quite a lot.
00:20:09.420 - 00:20:23.950, Speaker B: Donnie, you got into a question that I'm going to come back to you for in just a minute about how banks and fintechs should be prepared to interact with Defi. But, Sergey, quickly, though, before that, do you want to add anything around just growth catalysts you've seen or the growth of Chainlink over the last year?
00:20:26.000 - 00:21:28.896, Speaker E: Yeah. So from the point of view of what Stani and Kane discussed, I think they made a lot of very great points. I think there's generally three key trends that I'm kind of seeing. The first one is that protocols like synthetics, like Ave, are doing a better and better job of launching new products and making them easier and easier to use, both from a user interface point of view and from other protocols. And I think this is probably the underappreciated part about DeFi, is that it's inherently global, and all the different protocols that get value into them can actually interoperate, which I think is the point that Kane and Stani made very well, in that a lot of the volume is actually from other protocols and other contracts that are using them as a piece of financial infrastructure. And so what you're actually seeing is a smoothing out of how people get onboarded into DeFi, both at the protocol API almost level of programmatically using the financial product and at the interface user level.
00:21:28.998 - 00:21:29.650, Speaker D: Right.
00:21:30.340 - 00:22:22.480, Speaker E: I think the second trend that's very telling and important is the amount of value in the crypto asset format being at about 2 trillion, and the amount of value in DFI being estimated between 70 and 120,000,000,000. So it's a very small percentage. Right? So as a percentage, the amount of value in the crypto format that is in DFI contracts is still very low. And that's why I personally believe that there is another zero there. So I think there's another zero about how much value will be in DeFi simply because there's so much value in the crypto asset format. And as the value in the crypto asset format grows because people are worried about inflation or whatever narrative about monetary policy, then the percentage of value in DFI probably continues to grow. And so the absolute value in DFI just becomes insanely high, in my opinion.
00:22:22.480 - 00:24:04.708, Speaker E: I think if people are surprised by numbers like 1 billion to 70 billion, they should be getting prepared to see another zero. I think the final trend that I see is the speed at which new infrastructure enables new markets, right? So one of the things that we see is that as new chainlink networks are launched for new pieces of data, there are new DeFi markets that come to life. And basically as a new piece of data makes its way on chain, or as a new decentralized service in a chainlink network about computing an index or computing whatever the market that somebody wants to make about is made available on chain. The addition of new services basically gives rise to new DeFi products, and then those new DeFi products grow the market so that there's more of a market to provide various data and decentralized services to. So what I actually see is that as more decentralized services, as more data makes its way on chain, more and more advanced smart contracts come to life in the DFI format. And then those smart contracts will continue to ingest more and more and more value and create more and more variety of use cases. So I both see the depth and the amount secured by contracts growing very rapidly and also the breadth, right? So the scope of what contracts can do continuing to expand rapidly, which is exciting in many ways, especially when you think about how they can all then can be combined, right? Like one protocol makes one feature, another protocol makes another feature, and then they can be combined almost to make a third protocol by somebody else who makes an interface around that.
00:24:04.708 - 00:24:27.252, Speaker E: And then the liquidity flows to the best protocols that provide all the best functionality. And that's global, right? That's inherently global and globally accessible from day one, which is really quite powerful when you think about it, because the global market for something like derivatives, it isn't a few trillion, it's estimated. It's something like a quadrillion.
00:24:27.316 - 00:24:27.496, Speaker D: Right?
00:24:27.518 - 00:24:38.590, Speaker E: I had to learn that number when I really started looking into the derivatives industry. And so I think the numbers we're talking about here at this point are the very early starting point.
00:24:40.720 - 00:25:05.610, Speaker B: So let's talk, as a perfect segue, Sergey, into the next question, which is a big one. I mean, this could run us out of time, frankly. But how do you guys think banks, traditional financial institutions, fintechs, should be thinking about DeFi now, should be preparing to interact with DeFi. And this time, I'm going to switch it up. I'm going to go to actually, Stani first, because you kind of started to get into some of this with your last answer, but maybe we can build on it a little bit more.
00:25:07.260 - 00:26:31.904, Speaker D: Yeah, it's an interesting question, because what blockchain itself provides is security for transactions, which means that, and also for the execution. So if you have so called smart contracts and there is logic, for example, interest rate curves that are built in and hard coded or governed by the governance, or, for example, how much you can mint in synthetics, SUSD, these kind of things you are using to secure those transactions. For example, ethereum mining power, which can be costly. And over a period of time, there might be more and more cost involved in that transaction as there's more demand for blockchain block space, which practically means that maybe one of the easiest ways to fintechs to participate in decentralized finance could be through custodians, could be through entities that already provide the security and handle the key storage. But also, there is another road that you could, as a fintech, actually integrate very native features and very native ways to interact with decentralized finance. And it's all about actually educating the end users on how they can store their own keys when they interact with blockchain. And that's one part of the cryptographic way of interacting.
00:26:31.904 - 00:27:46.510, Speaker D: Or there could be additional innovation of how you could recover your keys with social recovery. So as fintechs, I would definitely focus on how, as a fintech, you could approach decentralized finance and how you could actually innovate in a way that the users will get as native experience as possible if that is part of something that you can do. And then there is, of course, the other road where if you want to onboard millions of users in a very quick manner, you can always use something that is some service provider custodian that helps you to basically do most of the things for you and move transactions in bulk. It really depends on the use case that fintechs are applying. In our case at Aave, the very easiest use case probably will be just earning yields. And those kind of things can be either natively built or it can be just using already service providers that provide this accessibility into deFI with two API calls. So there is option there, but definitely there's a lot of innovation to be done between fintechs and decentralized finance at the moment.
00:27:48.800 - 00:27:54.620, Speaker B: Kane how do you think about this as it relates to fintechs banks, traditional finance coming to Defi?
00:27:56.080 - 00:29:02.688, Speaker C: Yeah, so I think innovation in fintech over the last couple of decades has been probably constrained by a few things. One of the main things, obviously, being that the infrastructure layer is fairly ossified, right. You can do stuff with middleware, there's some things that you can do, but the infrastructure itself is somewhat constrained. And so I think fintechs have become very good and very specialized at creating that kind of user interface layer and abstracting away a lot of complexity and a lot of the kind of legacy challenges that you have in the traditional finance landscape. And so what that I think will enable as they start to become more comfortable with interacting with DeFi is there's this kind of smorgasbord of services that they can just cherry pick and integrate into their existing services. And I think that they're very good at that. I think most of the people building in DeFi today are building infrastructure, and we're not amazing at building interfaces.
00:29:02.688 - 00:30:04.280, Speaker C: I think most small fintechs probably have more user interface and user experience capability in their single company than we might have across all of DeFi. And so I think that as we see the combination of these things coming together, it's going to be a very powerful process and kind of enabling technology for fintechs. They'll just be able to turn up and say, you know what, I've got some idle assets, and I'm going to drop some of those assets into Ave, and I'm going to be able to get a yield that's 4% instead of 0%, for example. And I can pass some of that on to users. Now, there's challenges, obviously, they need to understand how custody works, and there's definitely some infrastructure challenges that they'll need to get around. But I do think that that user experience layer that a lot of fintechs are exceptional at is going to put them in very good stead once they realize that they have these services at their fingertips.
00:30:06.700 - 00:30:12.840, Speaker B: Sergey, what do you think? What would you add to this conversation about traditional finance coming to Defi?
00:30:14.700 - 00:30:24.040, Speaker E: Yeah, I would say that traditional finance and fintechs, just like a lot of the other entities in a capitalist system, are moved by user demand.
00:30:24.120 - 00:30:24.412, Speaker D: Right?
00:30:24.466 - 00:31:07.912, Speaker E: So it comes down to user demand. And why will user demand gravitate towards Defi? Right. Then there's the question of, how will that happen? Why will that happen? I think that there is a skepticism about blockchains and defi and cryptocurrencies and all this stuff that's born out of a fundamental misunderstanding of how attractive this is to users. And I think this misunderstanding has permeated a lot of different bank conversations that we've had and a lot of different conversations with fintechs. A lot of these people years ago were saying, we're never going to need custody. We're never going to need to hold a bitcoin, ever. It's not going to even exist in a number of years.
00:31:07.912 - 00:31:10.136, Speaker E: And then the users said, I want bitcoin.
00:31:10.248 - 00:31:10.524, Speaker D: Right?
00:31:10.562 - 00:31:29.170, Speaker E: I want bitcoin. And then they said, I want other coins. And so now there's like this dash to get custody. To get custody as a fintech, to get custody as a bank. And I think what this shows is what the pattern is going to be. The pattern is going to be very simple. Banks and fintechs are going to say, I don't understand this.
00:31:29.170 - 00:31:55.832, Speaker E: This doesn't take the shape of things that I'm used to. This doesn't work the way that I'm used to it working. I'm going to ignore it, or I'm going to think it's not real or it's going to go away in a few years. Let me be very clear. With all the fintechs and banks, which I am, and recall I have with them, this isn't going away. This is the Internet coming for a big part of your business, and the question is how you adapt to that. Just like 20 years ago, you had to adapt to the Internet.
00:31:55.832 - 00:32:42.200, Speaker E: That's what this is. This is the Internet coming for the financial industry, period. That's what this is. You thought it was fintech interfaces taking your users. It's actually this infrastructure that's going to do everything that institutions do right now, but it's going to do it in a more controllable by the user, more transparent way. And so as a fintech and as a bank, I think what people should think about is how do they meet that upcoming user demand? So the first question is, will there be user demand? By the way, if the same guy who told you you're never going to need custody of bitcoins is advising you on the upcoming demand from Defi, fire his ass. He doesn't know how it works.
00:32:42.200 - 00:33:20.870, Speaker E: He was wrong once, he's going to be wrong again, and you're going to be behind in the future, just like you are now with custody of crypto. If you're a bank, if you're a fintech, I would strongly recommend that you ask yourself when and why users will want to use decentralized financial products. Here's one answer. A bank can give them 1% on Ave, they can get 8%. The only reason they're not on Ave is because they don't know how to get on Ave. If you get them on Ave, that's it. And it's going to be the same story again and again with financial product after financial product.
00:33:20.870 - 00:34:27.484, Speaker E: And so if you're a fintech and if you're a bank, I think what you should do is think about how can you provide access to these protocols from your interfaces, because you own the user relationships and you're very good at that, just like Cain said. And if you want to keep owning those user relationships, you all know that you have to keep giving the users what they want. And if the users want cryptocurrency now, what they're going to want soon is the ability to earn interest on their cryptocurrency. And then they're going to want to be able to use their cryptocurrency in protocols related to derivatives and so on and so on. And the people who give them that access are going to be the people who retain their business. So I think fintechs and banks should really, really seriously consider if this is or isn't going to continue. And if it is going to continue, it's not going to be small, it's not going to be a small percentage of their business, it's not going to be a small thing, it's going to be a big thing.
00:34:27.484 - 00:34:53.090, Speaker E: It's going to be the way the entire lending industry works, the entire derivatives industry works. Just like there's so many people right now putting their assets into cryptocurrencies. And the prediction was, oh, cryptocurrencies won't even exist a few years from now. So I think there should be a very serious reconsideration by fintechs and banks about just how quickly this will become a key competitive question for them.
00:34:54.660 - 00:35:09.030, Speaker B: That I think is just about as perfect a place to wrap up as I can possibly imagine. Kane Stannie Sergey, always great to talk to you guys. Really enjoyed this conversation and to everyone watching. I hope this is valuable and thanks for having us.
