00:00:00.170 - 00:00:58.078, Speaker A: After some of crypto's largest stablecoins lost their peg to the US dollar this weekend, many in the crypto world were left facing an important question, just how stable are stablecoins? And to answer this question, it's worth revisiting the different options DeFi users have when it comes to what a usually non volatile asset. Thanks to Gridx for sponsoring this video, Gridx is the first fully onchain order book trading protocol for the Ethereum ecosystem. More on them later. Stablecoins are a major component of crypto there are over $133,000,000,000 worth of stablecoin in circulation, representing over 10% of the whole $1.1 trillion crypto market. The world's most widely used ones are designed to maintain their value equal to $1, but there are also stablecoins pegged to currencies like the euro and the mexican peso. All three of the leading stablecoins, USDT, USDC and BUSD, follow a similar model.
00:00:58.078 - 00:02:13.942, Speaker A: They're backed by low risk assets like cash and bonds in the traditional financial world, and they can always be redeemed on a one to one basis for a US dollar. Of course, that's assuming the stablecoin system is working properly. USDC gave investors a scare last weekend when it came to light that circle, the company which issues the stablecoin, held some of its reserves at the now failed Silicon Valley bank. And it's not just USDC, because it was recently reported that BUSD, which finance launched in 2019, was also insufficiently backed from September 2020 to July 2021. And while tether's USDC has held its dollar peg recently, it had also depegged briefly last May, around the time when the lack of transparency with its holdings had been a huge point of contention for the original stablecoin. Yet despite the flaws and DPEGs, the model of having traditional assets back a stablecoin has easily been the crypto's most successful, because the combined value of USDT, USDC and BUSD is now over $120,000,000,000, accounting for nearly 90% of the total stablecoin market. And when we look beyond the top three, we have another category of stablecoin that proponents of decentralization generally advocate for.
00:02:13.942 - 00:03:09.058, Speaker A: These are stablecoins backed by cryptocurrencies like bitcoin and Ethereum. Potentially the purest expression of this kind of crypto backed asset is liquidity's LUSD stablecoin, and LUSD is backed only by ether, and it runs solely on the Ethereum blockchain this makes LUSD more of a crypto native solution because it doesn't have dependencies on the traditional financial system. Now, to mint LUSD, users would need to deposit ETH and then borrow the stablecoin against ETH. But because ETH is a volatile asset, users can't borrow its full value in LUSD. Instead, they can borrow a portion, making the loan what's called an overcollateralized one. And speaking of stablecoins backed by ETH, it's also worth noting that makerdao, which is one of the pioneers of DFI, used to back its stablecoin dai purely with ETH. Then in 2019, when Makerdao upgraded its issuance, Dai became backed by dozens of crypto assets.
00:03:09.058 - 00:04:00.550, Speaker A: And just before we continue exploring stablecoins, a quick word from our sponsor. Gridx is the first fully on chain orderbook protocol based on their novel Gridmaker orderbook or GMoB model. Unlike Ammdex's, trading on GridX's order books means that you can enjoy zero slippage, negative maker fees, and no fear of impermanent loss, all the while keeping full custody of your assets. With their new GMop model, Gridx has reduced the gas cost of running order books on chain to that of Amms, or even lower. For instance, placing an order on Gridx is three times cheaper than adding liquidity to a uniswap V three pool. Gridx is live on arbitrum and will be deployed on Ethereum optimism and Polygon in the coming months. GridX's Maker rewards program is live, meaning you can earn their native token GDx by trading Gdx e through the Gridx protocol.
00:04:00.550 - 00:04:39.922, Speaker A: Visit gdx.org to find out more. Now back to our stablecoins. Those not looking to acquire LUSd through collateralization can also buy the stablecoin on decentralized exchanges like curve. Of course, there is a limit to LUsd's independence from traditional finance. After all, it's pegged to the US dollar, whose price, as we know, is directly affected by macroeconomic events outside of crypto, there have also been experiments to develop a stablecoin like asset that isn't tied to the US dollar. Reflex's rye is perhaps the most notable example of this, though its dependence on ETH, rather than liquid staking derivatives, has also caused problems of late.
00:04:39.922 - 00:05:37.522, Speaker A: Hybrid models of stablecoins, which are partially backed by crypto assets and partially traditional assets, have had notable success as well. The most prominent example of these stablecoins, backed by a mix of crypto and noncrypto assets would be dai and Fracs, which currently are worth nearly $7 billion combined. DAI is the fourth largest stablecoin and Frax is the 6th, but the two combined only account for about 5% of the total value of stablecoins. And it's also worth highlighting at this point that Dai and Frax have depegged over the last weekend due to their reliance on USDC, which makes up 38% of the collateral backing DAI and the majority of Frax's backing. Again, this goes to highlight the dominance of the top three tokens, USDT, USDC, and BUSD. And there have also been wilder experiments to have stablecoins whose supply is governed algorithmically via protocol's central bank rather than with reserves or collateralized crypto assets. And while these are capital efficient, these systems have generally collapsed in a spectacular fashion.
00:05:37.522 - 00:06:49.322, Speaker A: The most notable one is Terra's UST, and that happened in May 2022. Others, like Ampleforth and Emptysat dollar, have also failed to gain any sort of strong foothold in the market. Looking forward DFI Dave, as he's known around crypto, told the defiant at ETH Denver last week that he's watching to see what Congress does with a proposed piece of legislation addressing stablecoins. Now they call it the Trust act, and this piece of legislation would essentially establish standards around stablecoins, authorizing certain regulated entities to issue them, ensure they're backed by high quality liquid assets, and exempt them from categorization as securities, provided they don't offer interest. But regardless of what happens in the US, the stablecoin space is becoming increasingly competitive. Ave, one of Defi's largest lending projects, with seven and a half billion dollars in deposits, is getting set to launch its gho stablecoin and curve finance, another DFI giant with over $4 billion in deposits, also has plans for a stablecoin in the works. And of course, the idea of country's native cryptocurrencies zipping around on digital payment rails has gone beyond the crypto ecosystem because more than 110 countries are now exploring the possibility of launching a central bank, digital currency, or CBDC.
00:06:49.322 - 00:07:12.900, Speaker A: All in all, despite their stability, or lack thereof, as we saw this weekend, stablecoins may be one of the most exciting areas in crypto right now. The question is how the pegged assets will evolve, given the various models in circulation, the pending legislation and development of CBDCs around the world. So for anyone who's been following the competitive stablecoin landscape, or anyone who's familiar with the CBDC race, what are your thoughts on the matter.
