00:00:03.680 - 00:00:56.554, Speaker A: Hello, breakpoint. I am extremely excited to talk to you guys today about the latest app that's rolling out support for creators on Solana, Instagram. My name is Ty Swartz, and I am a product manager on Instagram's creator, Blockchain experiences team. At Instagram, we are obsessed with creators. We believe they are the ones that drive our platform forward. Creators are the artists, community builders, and Internet personalities that allow for platforms like Instagram to thrive. Our team often gets asked the question, why is Instagram interested in supporting nfTs, or, as we call them on our platform, digital collectibles? And the answer comes back to this fundamental obsession with creators.
00:00:56.554 - 00:01:46.988, Speaker A: We want to build tools that enable them to thrive, and we recognize the blockchain's potential to enable creators to make a living on their work, establish providence for the digital assets, and as a powerful tool to build communities. Digital collectibles on Instagram have a differentiated experience. They have their own section of the profile grid. This is some of the most expensive real estate on Instagram. They also have a unique visual treatment with a shimmer that allows a user to understand this isn't just another image or video. This is something different. And there's also direct attribution to the owner of the item directly on the post, as well as when the creator connects their wallet.
00:01:46.988 - 00:02:42.492, Speaker A: Attribution on anything they've created that's listed on Instagram. And as of this week, Solana is another blockchain that creators and fans can use to share the digital collectibles that they love. Additionally, we just finished rolling out this week into 40 countries in Europe, including Portugal. So I want to thank the Solana team for having us in this amazing location, and I'm sure everyone's had the chance to post and send some stories about this beautiful city. So I want to take a quick minute and sort of walk you through how you can also share your favorite Solana NFTs or digital collectibles here today. So as a quick caveat, this rolled out last night. So if it doesn't show up on your phone, just give it a day.
00:02:42.492 - 00:03:21.464, Speaker A: Hopefully it'll be there. Si or engineer has assured me that it is rolled out and we are good to go. All right, so when you go into your Instagram page, you're gonna see your profile page in the bottom right, it's a little circle with your face on it. You're gonna click on that, and it's gonna open up your profile grid. On the profile grid in the top right, there is a quick menu button. When you click on the menu button, it'll drop down a list of options, one of which will be digital collectibles. It'll take you through two prompts explaining what digital collectibles are and how they work on Instagram, and then it will show you a list of wallet options you can connect to.
00:03:21.464 - 00:04:01.784, Speaker A: Today, we support Phantom wallet for integration into the Solana network. Once you select the Phantom wallet, it'll take you over to Phantom and have you sign a transaction proving that you are the owner of the wallet. When you go back into Instagram, if you give it a moment, all of your digital collectibles will be there and available for you to share. Don't worry, they won't automatically go to your feed or show up in your profile. You have to actually select and share something that you want to share within your feed. So I want to say thank you to the Solana team for letting us be a part of this community. We are extremely excited to see what we build together.
00:04:01.784 - 00:04:04.724, Speaker A: We are just getting started. Thank you.
