00:00:05.320 - 00:01:06.540, Speaker A: All right, cool. So hi everyone, I'm from Mina. Because we have limited time, I'll spare everyone the intro and only do it like about Mina, only do it after the actual content. I want to make it less marketing, but zooming out, right? What is a DeFi landscape like? And this is a very high level approximation with many inaccuracies, but I think it gets the point across. So once we look at any defi structure, at the bottom here is like blockchains, starting with Ethereum and many others didn't want to get political, so lots of competing chains other than Ethereum, there's all these liquidity protocols. We just had avion, and then there's end user applications, and sometimes these are vertically integrated, right? The protocol ends up being the end user application itself, but sometimes they're separate and then we have a bunch of users. So if we look at the current landscape of DeFi, this all works by putting many dollars into the system, usually in the form of collateral.
00:01:06.540 - 00:02:09.392, Speaker A: This works, right? Obviously everyone's aware of how big DeFi has got. But the one issue that disgraces that all the users have to be rich. Like they have to all have a lot of collateral available to post and to get access to the system. So what can we do if we don't want to only limit this to rich users? Because that's not the way the normal world works. And normal world, the non blockchain world, has figured out a way, right? It's by sharing a lot of personally identifiable information, whether it's in the form of your Social Security number here in the US, or its equivalents elsewhere, or a lot of otherwise personally identified information which works. Not everyone has to be rich, but once applied to this DeFi landscape as it is, it would create a lot of issues where this all trickles down. And because blockchains are public forever, there's lots of Pii at the blockchain level.
00:02:09.392 - 00:02:45.100, Speaker A: And obviously this won't work. And that's why we're stuck in this over collateralized world right now. So what can we do? We have to put some locks, some privacy locks somewhere along this chain to make the system work. And so, for example, we could put it between the end user apps and liquidity protocols, right? In fact, one can argue that this is already being done, for example, with the likes of coinbases and binances of the world. To the extent they start providing information or access to defi protocols, that's what they're going to be doing. But obviously that's not the end world we want to live in. We could put it between the liquidity protocols and the blockchains themselves.
00:02:45.100 - 00:03:35.420, Speaker A: But then the issue is that all this chain of events and applications and services providers up here end up being pretty much like the existing world. Like we have a lot of huge companies and apps and businesses that have a lot of PII, and it's not in fact too different from the non blockchain world and how things work. So what if we could put this privacy layer between the users themselves and the applications and everything below it? Right? And as I think Vitalik was the first one to say this, but data has become a liability. It's no longer an asset, it is a liability. So I'm sure many applications or protocols don't even want to have access to this much PII anymore. So we are actually figuring out a way to do this. At Mina, we call them snaps, after snarkified applications.
00:03:35.420 - 00:04:30.530, Speaker A: And what is a snap? It's actually pretty similar to adapt, but it acts two very crucial pieces of features. Number one is that it can prove facts about a user's data without having to share the data itself. And it does this through the magic of zero knowledge. And then number two is, or I'm calling universal trustless oracles, which we're building this nifty feature by being able to prove any HTTPs payload inside of a zero knowledge proof by allowing that allows anyone, any single user individual using their own computer without having to rely to any trusted centralized oracles to prove any fact about any data that's carried over from an HTTPs payload from the existing web. So this can unleash and unravel a bunch of interesting use cases. I shared some examples here. This is just like very, just skimming the top right now.
00:04:30.530 - 00:05:05.996, Speaker A: But yeah, so we believe snaps can actually enable existing Defi applications with these features that allow the privacy to stay or the data to stay with the users, and for that data to not be a liability to further down the supply chain. So that's actually the main content. Maybe I have 1 minute left just to skim real fast through who we are and what we do. And yeah, please, if anyone has questions, contact me or hop onto the Mina discord over here. Pretty busy. We're about to launch. Also our main net, which takes me to what Mina is.
00:05:05.996 - 00:05:45.704, Speaker A: Mina is actually a new layer one blockchain. It's the world's lightest blockchain. And why is it the world's lightest blockchain? Mina actually uses zero knowledge proofs in its very core. The entire chain is built on zero knowledge proofs, and we use recursive zero knowledge proofs to fix the size of the entire blockchain. So it's somewhere between 13 and 22 kb. We're doing our latest calculations before maintenance launched and there's lots more details, but I'll spare everyone the details. And as I mentioned, on top of the blockchain, being a fixed size small, tiny blockchain, one can also run snaps on top of this.
00:05:45.704 - 00:05:58.270, Speaker A: So you hope to bring these privacy features to all the defi apps around town? Yeah, I think that's my slides. I'll pause there and see Anna how you want to do this?
00:06:00.320 - 00:06:22.676, Speaker B: Yeah, so I would say if it's okay for folks, I think we will be able to get the hop in working again shortly. I'm actually speaking with the folks there. I didn't expect them to come back so quick. So what I would suggest is in the chat on hop in, do you want to leave any questions that you might have? If anyone has any questions, there is one question.
00:06:22.778 - 00:06:23.044, Speaker A: Great.
00:06:23.082 - 00:06:24.230, Speaker B: That was awesome.
00:06:26.120 - 00:07:19.060, Speaker A: Can you please expand on the limits of what you can prove about users as data? Great question. So, broadly, this is about how complex the snark construction can get, right? And although I'm not the right person to speak about that because I'm in charge of the business stuff over here, you cannot, for example, prove super sophisticated computations. I'll just give two pieces of example. One is that you can very easily prove stuff like is the user's credit score within a specific range, or is there a specific number of upvotes on a Reddit post? Just random stuff. But it will be much harder to get into some funky math and do all sorts of complex computations. So hopefully that helps explain a bit. Okay, there is one more question.
00:07:19.060 - 00:08:04.690, Speaker A: Any more details on the snap design a publication, or a more mature idea? Someone posted a link. I will post a more specific link that goes into the Snap section, but beyond that, we're soon going to be releasing a bunch of demos about this. Actually, we're working on a very cool one with another Defi developer that should be out soon. But also we're laser focused on our main net launch as well right now, which is coming in a few weeks, which is a whole another big endeavor. And right after that the entire team is going to be focused on releasing tooling and libraries for snaps. But anyone have ideas, questions want to collaborate on stuff, please reach out to us.
