00:00:00.570 - 00:01:07.000, Speaker A: Hi everyone, I'm ASAP Morami, a blockchain engineer at Enigma NPC, and we build secret network, which is the first and only layer one blockchain with encrypted smart contracts. Among other things, secret Network allows us to create privacy tokens and to have frontline resistant DeFi application. And all of this is already live on our mainnet. So Secret Network is a blockchain that lets anyone run computations on encrypted data, bringing privacy to smart contracts and public blockchains. So think Ethereum, but with encrypted smart contracts. Secret Network is a layer one blockchain built using Cosmos SDK. Secret contracts are encrypted smart contracts and they are executed inside a trusted execution environment.
00:01:07.000 - 00:01:48.180, Speaker A: Secret contracts are powered by Cosmosm. They are written in rust and compiled to Webassembly. Inputs, outputs and state of secret contracts is fully encrypted. Every node runs every computation and correctness is guaranteed by tendermint consensus. And of course all of this is already live on our main net for a few months now. Okay, let's go a bit deeper. So a user sends encrypted input as part of a transaction.
00:01:48.180 - 00:03:09.100, Speaker A: Nodes compute over this encrypted input inside a trusted execution environment, or T. The contract can decrypt the input only while inside the trusted execution environment. The state of the contract is encrypted at rest, and only the contract can decrypt its own state, and the output is encrypted as well, such that only the sending user can decrypt it. Now let's see why you should use and build on secret network. So we have privacy tokens which are similar to ERC 20 and Cosmosm or CW 20 standards, but you can also privately send and receive tokens and balances are private. Then we have transfer assets into secret network and turn them into privacy tokens. As of now, the Ethereum and BSc bridges are live, the Terra bridge is in a testnet period, and we are also working to bring IBC to secret network.
00:03:09.100 - 00:03:58.190, Speaker A: Then we have secret swap, which is an AMM for trading all of these assets. It's the first and only layer one amm that is front running resistant, and that's because inputs to the amm are private. In addition, we also have private NFTs, so ownership is private and you can have public as well as private metadata. There's also already a game implemented with private NFTs. It calls secret heroes and there's a link here at the bottom. So go check it out. It's awesome.
00:03:58.190 - 00:05:00.430, Speaker A: And in addition to all of these building blocks, we expect to see novel applications that are not possible with any other blockchain. Using random numbers in contract is now possible because private entropy inside the contract state. So we are already seeing apps like poker, blackjack, and luck games being worked on by the community. Private state means we can have private voting, private insurance, private balances for tokens, private hands for card games, and so on. And private inputs mean we can have frontline resistance by default for defy applications. And that's it. That's all I have for you today.
00:05:00.430 - 00:05:10.850, Speaker A: To learn more, go to scrt network and thank you for having me. And please everyone stay safe out there.
