00:00:00.730 - 00:00:42.642, Speaker A: Awesome. Well, thanks again for having me here today. And I'm Deborah Sampier. I'm the CEO and co founder of Althea. Althea is a distributed Internet infrastructure platform, and we're also the driving force behind Gravity Bridge, which is what I'm going to share with you all today here, kind of from a high level little overview. So Gravity bridge is a purpose built, neutral and decentralized blockchain built on the Cosmos SDK for specifically bridging assets between Ethereum and the EVM ecosystems and the cosmos ecosystems. So kind of an overview of how it's designed and worked.
00:00:42.642 - 00:01:53.670, Speaker A: It's a non custodial and decentralized instance, essentially using the full validator set of the Cosmos blockchain. It's built primarily and purpose built to just be a piece of infrastructure that bridges these assets. There's no interconnected decks or AMM or anything like that. Instead, we focus on simply allowing other Cosmos blockchains to use the gravity bridge infrastructure through IBC and through the Cosmos bridge to access stablecoins and the liquidity from the ethereum ecosystem in a seamless then. Or they can go the other way around if they want to have an ethereum representation of the cosmos asset. For example, if you wanted sentinel or Akash or any other cosmos blockchain on uniswap, you could simply use IBC and the gravity bridge to do that in a kind of permissionless and easy way. I kind of like to think of it as a B to B to you business model, very similar to the business to business to customer approach.
00:01:53.670 - 00:03:21.754, Speaker A: We take kind of the blockchain to blockchain to end user approach. So many different front ends can connect to the gravity bridge, and then many different Dexs and cosmos blockchains can utilize it to access that liquidity of ethereum. The other kind of core or interesting innovation with gravity is the batching, right? So there's very little fees or no fees to go from ethereum assets into cosmos, where there's very low gas system there. And then on the other side, when we are sending transactions from Cosmos or withdrawing back to the ethereum ecosystem, we use a batching mechanism to basically spread that gas cost out between all of the different participants in that batch. And that makes it really efficient, which was a really driving force for us, because with Althea, we want to enable financial services and DFI for a much larger retail set of customers. And so we need to be able to have microtransactions and have withdraws, not be two to $400 per withdrawal so I have a couple of different slides here that pull from the one KX's team, they did an excellent article called Blockchain bridges, building networks of crypto networks. And I highly recommend that you check that out if you have the opportunity.
00:03:21.754 - 00:04:44.040, Speaker A: They did a really great job with that, but they kind of broke it into kind of different types of bridges based on functionality and these other kinds of determining factors. And so I thought this is kind of an interesting way to look at where gravity fits in the whole bridging ecosystem. And in this one here, you can see we use the light clients and relays and the validators of the cosmos blockchain, as opposed to using either external validators or like a liquidity network, like connect. Similarly, they have kind of divided this up by the different trusted trust mechanisms. So you have, on the left hand side, you might have some bond or something at stake that it could be slashed or lost, or you have a fully permissioned set of actors who secure the bridge. Or then on the other side here is gravity Bridge, who uses the security of the cosmos underlying Cosmos blockchain, which is a lot why we focus on decentralization and resiliency as a security mechanism as well, too. So we have many different people that can participate or know one person has too much of the voting power, then it's a much more secure system.
00:04:44.040 - 00:05:39.434, Speaker A: And in fact, actually, when we launched, we launched with over 100 validators and with a decentralized star, which we're really proud of that, and are excited to see the new validators also coming on board as well. So, basically how it works, you have an Ethereum contract. Then you have the gravity Cosmos module, Esigner and Oracle, which are run by the cosmos validator. And then you have a market of relayers who submit these transactions to Ethereum on behalf of the cosmos validators. What's kind of interesting here is that we sort of originally looked at this as a separate market. And I think later on, we might also see this as a distinct group of relayers as the transaction volume increases. Right now, what you're seeing is mostly these relayers are also the cosmos validators as well.
00:05:39.434 - 00:06:46.830, Speaker A: But I'm excited to see a more robust fee market and the node operators be more properly incentivized to continue to run better infrastructure for bridges. So gravity bridge works very similar to how many bridges work. You send tokens to the Ethereum contract, they're locked on the gravity soul, and then they are minted on the cosmos chain. And then similarly, when you go to withdraw, users send tokens to the gravity module with a fee. And that's really kind of where we look at where that batching comes in as well. Kind of skip over to this, because this is where the interesting part happens, right? So when you're sending transactions and you're batching them, a lot of people ask, okay, well, how long is it going to take? How much is it going to cost? So my co founder and Justin, who wrote the majority of gravity, I think it's something like 70,000 lines of code. It's quite a monumental undertaking.
00:06:46.830 - 00:07:55.314, Speaker A: He describes this as a metaphorical bus, right? So you want to send a transaction, you get on the bus, you put your money in the little jar in the front and you take your seat, right? And then the bus goes when everyone's done that and it's full. So very similar. We kind of batch transactions between cosmos and Ethereum. However, if you want to, you can pay for the whole bus and go right now. So what kind of becomes interesting now as we start to have these user interfaces and UX designs come on board is how are we going to look at displaying those choices to the user? So I'm excited to see some different interpretations of what that can look like and hopefully some better ux than we normally see with wallets. Right? So right. Now, how can you use the bridge? So if you are another cosmos blockchain, you can use the bridge to generate Ethereum representations of your tokens in almost a permissionless process, right? So you do have to submit a governance proposal to the Cosmos gravity bridge validators for your DNom, right.
00:07:55.314 - 00:09:29.700, Speaker A: So that they're aware of what that is. But other than that, then you can have your sentinel, Oric or whatever else other cosmos asset on the Uniswap or Ethereum dexus. Similarly, if you are a user or for a blockchain that wants to have the liquidity of the Ethereum stablecoin ecosystem or any of the Ethereum assets or EVM assets as well too. So this isn't just specific to Ethereum, but ERC 20 and all EVM assets as well, then you can sort of permissionally connect a front end and then use IBC to interconnect your blockchain as well. And then have stablecoins, which the interesting use cases is Althea. Right? So what we needed to have was stablecoins in our ecosystem, right? So easy to onboard stablecoins, right? Dai USDC, things like that that people are used to using to pay for their bandwidth, then can go through the gravity bridge where you have that nice aggregation of traffic. So the more aggregation of traffic, that's the sort of efficiency of volume that comes with many different people participating, and then we can get that efficiency and those gas costs really low for our end users as well.
00:09:29.700 - 00:10:19.754, Speaker A: I thought this was really interesting, too. So sort of looking back to the history of the bridge, this really has been envisioned as a separate kind of pegged zone within the cosmos ecosystem since the cosmos white paper. And in fact, back in 2017, June Young I hope I'm pronouncing that right. He submitted a cosmos hackathon called etgate, or et gate. So that really kind of got, I think, people thinking about what a bridge between the two ecosystems could look like. And then in 2019, Switchlab starts to work on what they call Peggy that now became sift chain. We started kind of taking on that torch back in 2020 with that real need that we have.
00:10:19.754 - 00:11:23.470, Speaker A: Currently, we're using the Xi bridge, and there's a lot of pain points for our end users around that. And Ethereum gas costs are extremely untenable. So we started working on that, worked together with somalier team Mizucki and inclusion, and formed something called Peggy JV that then became somalier. And back early or mid 2021, somalier injective launched their own kind of forks of the gravity modules, part of their Cosmos blockchain. And then as we rounded out the end of 2021, Gravity Bridge blockchain is now@main.net. We launched that really amazing, decentralized start with over 100 validators participating, which was very excited about really focusing on that decentralization and the community. And we really have just mad props to our amazing validators who have been part of this journey, and many of them who tested the gravity module for essentially almost a year.
00:11:23.470 - 00:12:01.818, Speaker A: And in fact, there's also been three audits on the bridge as well. So what's next? Right, so we have Mainnet. What you'll see coming soon is the user interfaces. I know that Cosmos station is working on one, which is pretty exciting. You also start to see the stable coins and ethereum tokens on Dexs and in Cosmos blockchains, and then the other way as well. I think within this quarter, we'll definitely also start seeing, and actually probably much sooner, Cosmos blockchains, also on Ethereum. So really excited for what's coming next.
00:12:01.818 - 00:12:09.120, Speaker A: And if you'd like to get a hold of us, Gravitybridge on Twitter or Gravitybridge. Net, we also have a discord as well.
00:12:28.690 - 00:12:58.710, Speaker B: Hi, sorry about the little delay there. Thank you so much for that talk. There are actually a few questions in the chat going whilst you were talking, so we have a few minutes just to quickly address those. So Mark asked, are evmos and gravity bridge competing with each other? Both presenters have discussed bridging ETH tokens to IBC. He's asking about the subtleties in the differences.
00:13:00.110 - 00:14:16.660, Speaker A: Yeah, I think there's a further nuance. So there's gravity bridge. The module gravity bridge was an open source project, so like somalier injective. And EVmos are using that fork integrated into their ecosystem for their specific applications, whether that's for EVM applications on the EVmos chain or Somalia uses it for some arbitrary logic and know being able to rebalance your positions in defi. But what's true with those is that those are very business to user focused, right? So you have something integrated within that chain that you're going to be accessing and siloing that user to. Whereas the gravity bridge blockchain is permissionless for any blockchain to be able to use it. So it's just a road piece of infrastructure that anyone can drive along, right? So any different front end can connect, any different blockchain can connect, and it's a neutral piece of infrastructure, whereas what you have with all these specific instances is they're going to focus their user in on their specific application.
00:14:18.870 - 00:14:35.590, Speaker B: I'll just ask one more question really quickly and then we'll get going with the panel. So how does gravity bridge verify ethereum proof of work proofs? In the IBC paper, it says IBC protocol is not suitable to validate proof of work proof due to the cost of the operation.
00:14:36.890 - 00:15:26.514, Speaker A: Right. So there's a couple different things happening there. I mentioned kind of like gravity Bridge and IBC, almost what happens when you. So IBC is not verifying the ethereum proof of work. Right. So what's happening is that you are sending things over to the gravity bridge, and then the gravity bridge is forwarding them along IBC. So I think the confusion comes where IBC isn't necessarily interacting with a proof of work based chain, but what's happening is gravity is doing that and the validators are verifying those transactions, and then the IBC is taking them along to the next blockchain.
00:15:26.514 - 00:15:38.410, Speaker A: So it's a two step transaction that happens, but it happens for the user seamlessly through gravity bridge. So it doesn't feel like it's two steps to the end user.
00:15:38.990 - 00:15:48.410, Speaker B: Okay, just one last question. I lied. Will the gravity bridge be able to support ERC seven two one token assets?
00:15:48.750 - 00:16:05.280, Speaker A: Yeah, as it is now, there will need to be probably a governance proposal to support those kinds of token, but, and I think it just depends on whether the community thinks that's a priority when that will happen. But I'm sure that at some point in time, NFTs will come to cosmos that way.
