00:00:00.410 - 00:00:51.838, Speaker A: Great. Hi, I'm Dean Tribble, I'm CEO of Agoric and coming from, to you from not entirely sunny California, and I'm very excited to be here. So Agoric is. I'll do the TLDR since we are in a lightning talk here. Agork is a layer one proof of stake chain built using Cosmos SDK and the tendermint, you know, battle tested consensus consensus engine. We were founded in 2018 and the core of it, of the technology stack is smart contracts and hardened JavaScript, which gives us access rather than to the 10,000 developers that can build in solidity. The smart contracts that are built in JavaScript can be understandable to the 10 million plus developers that build all of the world of Web two.
00:00:51.838 - 00:02:06.914, Speaker A: All the fintech developers out there, and frankly most of the developers in the extended crypto ecosystem, yes, they know JavaScript, right? And it's not just that we get the language, it's that we get a component model that's a modern kind of component model that most developers are used to. So a react JS style component model. Why is that important? Years ago, experts could build cool interactive stuff in JavaScript, but it took experts, and that was much of the world of applications in web two. Then react, view, angular, et cetera. These frameworks came out that made it so not only could you build things, but you could use components built by other people and plug them together in a framework that enforced certain rules that had affordances for mouse clicks and rendering and all that sort of stuff. And that meant that six months after these came out, amateurs could build more responsive, more interactive, more powerful applications than experts could a year before, simply because they could leverage the power of all the other developers building components. We do the same kind of thing.
00:02:06.914 - 00:03:09.106, Speaker A: The framework that we're building does the same kind of thing for money Legos, right? For DeFi Legos, where I could grab an auction and a pricing and an integration with zcash and a debt module and all these kinds of things, and plug them together to produce a new, interesting defi business. And so that's the kind of model that we're building. Okay, so what have we done up till now? We've built that smart contract platform, we did an incentivized testnet, we launched a bounty program and have multiple bounties, including interoperability with many other chains. We completed a private sale, launched our main net zero, which is the agoric tokens, launched on top of the consensus engine. So we can start to nail down the validator sets and get initial staking to get ready to launch our real platform. And then just at the end of 2021, we completed a public coinless sale. That's where we got to so far because of time zones.
00:03:09.106 - 00:03:37.134, Speaker A: I'm an hour off and I think that's probably where I got to on my presentation. Yeah, okay, I'll say one more thing. No, I'll skip this. Okay, so from here I'm going to talk about where we're going from here. So the Agorc platform is designed to be able to build arbitrary smart contracts. But the first launch, the first use case for the Agork platform is the run protocol. So this is an intrinsic part of the environment.
00:03:37.134 - 00:04:18.174, Speaker A: When you're building smart contracts, when you're building and deploying smart contracts, you need to deploy them to a place and the places you have to deploy them right now, there's some amazing things that are built on EVM. And by the way, I'm really excited about EVmos coming out to be able to bring those to the overall IBC connected ecosystem. But it's really hard, it's really dangerous, it's really hazard prone. And so the safest thing is to reuse the ones that exist and bring them to new environments, which is what fede was just talking about. But innovating is hard. Building interesting, richer things is hard. And so that's where our environment comes in.
00:04:18.174 - 00:05:12.858, Speaker A: But we need a place that is that safer environment that doesn't have the security hazards of the EVM. And so on the Agorak platform, we provide that place with a native stable token so that you can have consistent pricing, consistent comparison of pricing and so forth. That stable token can be backed by arbitrary IBC available assets. So the run protocol is something that the ecosystem around Agorak and around the extended cosmoverse and IBC environment is going to help launch where it's built using these JavaScript smart contract components on the Agora platform. But it can be collateralized by assets brought over IBC. So you can have atom backed run, Osmo backed run, Evmos backed run. All of these platforms can both provide collateral from the assets that they produced and then bring run back over IBC to these other platforms.
00:05:12.858 - 00:06:06.730, Speaker A: So osmosis, Evmos, all these other IBC connected platforms can then use the run dollar pegged stable token as a stable token within the various d five projects that are available there. And so that's really exciting because the IBC connected world is a $75 billion connection of multiple different independent thriving chains. And in that environment there is not a stable token that they can leverage with the pool of atoms, the pool of secret, the pool of Osmo, et cetera. Okay, so that's the exciting early opportunity. We are heading towards that and working with chains to be able to be ready to run. Right. To be able to consume, run as these IBC connected chains.
00:06:06.730 - 00:06:47.230, Speaker A: How is any of this related to privacy? I'm going to jump to that, and then I'll wrap up here. Three more minutes. So Agork was originally. The very first investor in Agork was Zcash. Agork was founded in 2018 as a result of a panel that Zucco from Zcash, Arthur Brightman, Mark Miller, and a few others were on that talked about, does our security model help with all the security problems that are coming up in these Ethereum and EVM systems? And the answer out of that panel was, yes, and we ought to start a company. And that was the sort of the birth of Agoric, but it was always founded around the idea of, yes, Anna was there at Zcon zero, and it was awesome. And Zcon one was awesome.
00:06:47.230 - 00:07:42.682, Speaker A: Oh, my God, and I'm so sad we didn't have Zcon two. But I look forward to the next one. And the question was always, how do we do this behavior, and how do we do privacy? Three key things. First off, the one bit of magic that you can't do with very cool software component systems is the magic that zero knowledge brings. And we absolutely believe in it, and we will certainly be helping drive zero knowledge technology and growth over the future. And indeed, one of the major holders of build BLD is our staking token for the agoric system is the bootstrap foundation that will be using it to figure out how to bring zero knowledge technology onto the Agora platform and how to bridge to all of these other chains that provide more direct cryptographic privacy of users interaction. From our perspective, business requires privacy.
00:07:42.682 - 00:08:23.434, Speaker A: People require privacy. We absolutely, 100% believe that even though right now we're operating on a platform that appears that is sort of the normal, transparent execution of a blockchain. But the model of computation in Agorak is contracts are islands of simple synchronous programming communicating asynchronously. And the design is to be able to bridge easily where that asynchronous communication can be to contracts on the same platform or to contracts running on some other platform. Oh, I'm going to get kicked off in a moment, aren't I? All right, I'll finish two more points, if I may. And so that lets us run versions of the chain in a private world. And we'll get to that after we get to launch.
00:08:23.434 - 00:09:03.880, Speaker A: The other is we are working on integrating and working with Nathan Wilcox, Zuko, and others to eventually be able to bridge from shielded ZeC money into unshielded ZEC, to bring over to be able to use as collateral for the run protocol so that people that have assets in ZEC will be able to participate in DeFi with enough isolation that no one can tell who bought that particular NFT. And so we'll provide immediate, direct privacy and then work towards stronger integration of zero knowledge stuff into all of the interfaces, not just in Agora, but in general in all the cosmos technology stacks. So thank you for your time, and now I'll let Susanna step in.
00:09:04.570 - 00:09:13.900, Speaker B: Thank you so much. I actually didn't mean to step in quite so early, but as I mean, this is actually.
