00:00:00.160 - 00:00:49.776, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deli Gray refuel, where we cup the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony's Asana, and today's the 4 November 2022 right everyone, let's get into it. So a really interesting thread from marios here from the Geth team, all about MeV Boost and why people have been why people that are using mev boost relays to propose blocks have been significantly more profitable than solo validators. Now he starts off this thread by saying the recent rise in mev boost blocks might be caused because I made a mistake. This thread will explain what's happening, why local block building on Geth was worse than it could be, and how to fix it. TLDR, please update your nose to the latest geth master. Now there is an update if you are running the Geth execution client, which I believe still 80% of the network is.
00:00:49.776 - 00:01:27.248, Speaker A: But basically he continues in his thread by saying the following chart illustrates the problem very well. And this is the chart that I went over the other day from pintail showing the profitability from mev boost relay blocks as opposed to self built blocks. So self built blocks or solo built blocks. The bottom here in blue and then the everything above it right is relay blocks. It goes mev boost with all relays outperforms local block building significantly. This resulted in a lot of valid validators switching to MeV Boost. MeV Boost will most likely always have an advantage over locally built blocks due to private order flow, et cetera.
00:01:27.248 - 00:01:58.536, Speaker A: But a bug in geth made local building perform worse than it could be. In order to explain the issue, we need look into how block building works post merge. And then he goes on to explain that, which you can check this thread out in the YouTube description for that explanation. And then he followed up around 24 hours later by saying looks like the fix will increase rewards drastically. We've only mined three blocks, we being the guest team with the new code, but saw a 1.5 times on the low end and a 20 times improvement on the high end. I really recommend updating to the latest master branch.
00:01:58.536 - 00:03:10.320, Speaker A: This is actually pretty significant guys. I mean a 20 times improvement, up to a 20 times improvement over the previous version of Geth in solo built blocks is huge because as Mario's mentioned, people were seeing that they could make much, much more money by using mev boost relays as opposed to building solo, and that's what caused a lot of people to switch over. Now obviously MeV Boost in of itself is not a concern, but the concern is around that censor censorship and the censoring relay is. So that's why those things have gone up. And as I mentioned yesterday, I think 90% of the network is now using MeV Boost. But, and as Marius mentioned, even if, even with this fix in place, MeV Boost will probably give most people more rewards, but it's not going to be significantly more because it was so, it was so great that people were like, well, what am I doing? Leaving basically, you know, in some cases, it was double the, the yield than what they were getting as a solo validator. You know, why they're leaving that on the table? And it was because of this bug that Marius found in Gethsemane, which is kind of crazy that this happened here, but this is one of those things that I think I mentioned when the merge happened that we would only catch post merge because of a real live network environment.
00:03:10.320 - 00:03:56.396, Speaker A: This is not something that you can really catch in a testing environment because there's not really any MEV to extract in a testing environment. So this is one of those things that gets caught on Mainnet and fixed on Mainnet. Luckily, it's not like a critical bug or anything like that in terms of, in terms of like the protocol itself. But it obviously has a lot of first and second order effects stemming from this bug. The biggest is that more people adopted mev boost and then they, more people adopted the censoring relays, which led to even more sensory censorship on the network. I think we're over 70% now of OFAC compliant, as they call it, blocks on Ethereum. So this is one reason, you know, the funny thing is about this as well, is that even though the OFAC compliant blocks have been growing, so have the, the non OFAC compliant blocks.
00:03:56.396 - 00:04:46.624, Speaker A: It's just that because so many people switched on mev boost and obviously coinbase did this the other day, it's basically led to this, this increase across the board, basically. So I'm curious to see if people switch back and turn mev boost off if, you know, by once they put this fix in or once they update their nodes. I'm not sure how quickly that process will be, but it's definitely not going to be two times greater reward if you use a relay instead of solo building with this new fix here. And as I said, the reason why this is so prevalent is because 80% of the network still runs geth. Like we do have other execution layer clients, but only 20% of network runs them. So obviously there is that majority effect as well, and this is another positive to client diversity. If 80% of the network wasn't running geth, then 80% of the network wouldn't run into this bug, right? So another point for client diversity.
00:04:46.624 - 00:05:27.232, Speaker A: So if you are running Geth, consider one of the other clients out there. Not to say that Geth is a bad client, of course it's not. But we obviously care about client diversity for a number of different reasons. And, and this is just another one that people may have not considered before. So, great thread from Marios that you can read about this bug, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. All right, keeping on the topic of mev boost sag here from the block native team. So he's a product manager, I believe at block native put out a thread saying, is the block building market doomed to monopoly? I've been concerned, like many at centralization and censorship vectors related to relays, especially in a context where one relay has control over 64% of the total block space of Ethereum.
00:05:27.232 - 00:05:42.384, Speaker A: Ethereum. Ethereum. Some thoughts? So there is a blog post and a Twitter thread here, so you can go check out both of them. I just wanted to highlight this thread because it was a really great read. It's, you know what it did, actually. It got me thinking about something that I haven't thought about before. And there's one thing I really wanted to call out here.
00:05:42.384 - 00:06:16.848, Speaker A: I don't know if I can find the tweet while I'm scrolling through, but basically what they called out, and that hadn't occurred to me, was that flashbots not having a fee and not taking any fees on their relay is actually detrimental to the network. Now let me explain why. Because if they're not taking a fee, that means they inherently going to be more profitable than other relays that do take a fee. Say the other relays take like a 10% fee. I don't know what the fees for each relay, but say they're taking a 10% fee, then flashbots already has an edge, automatic edge of 10% there. Because they're not taking a fee. There's nothing going to the Flashbots team.
00:06:16.848 - 00:07:10.896, Speaker A: It's going all to the participants of that marketplace, right? So that already gives Flashbush just a massive head start there. And then obviously count the network effect that flashbots has the brand awareness and the overall reliability and trust in it. You can see why people use them. So would it be better for flashbots to actually take a fee, but maybe not for themselves? If they don't want to do that, but then redistribute that fee out to other relays based on market share, that'd be pretty cool, right? If they say, say they took a 10% fee and then they redistributed that 10% to each of the relays per, on a per maybe per day basis based on their market share at that point in time, that would encourage people to, I believe, switch relays. I think that would go a long way towards that. And it would get, it would stop giving flashbots that edge at that age that they have. Which is funny when you think about it, because people think, oh, they're not taking a fee, they're, you know, they're doing it just for the public good.
00:07:10.896 - 00:07:55.862, Speaker A: And like, yeah, that's the reason they're doing it. But there are unintended consequences of that. And as I said, it's the, basically the fact that they have a flat, I don't think it's 10%, but whatever it is, they have a flat percentage increase automatically in profitability over these other relays. So just from that, and we can't expect every relay to do that, because a lot of them, the only reason why they want to spin up a relay in the first place and take that potential extra risk, and obviously extra work is to earn a fee from it. It's a business, after all, to host one of these relays, whereas flashbots does it out of altruism, because that's been their whole schtick, and I'm really glad that they do that. But at the same time, as I said, there have been unintended consequences of that. So that's one thing that I got out of, such as thread that I hadn't considered before.
00:07:55.862 - 00:08:25.286, Speaker A: But the whole thread is really, really worth a read, and same with the blog post. So you definitely go check out both of these. I'll link them in the YouTube description below for you to do that. And speaking of MeV Boost related blog posts, we have one from Patrick McQuarrie as well, which I highly recommend giving a read. It is titled MeV Boost and layer one, censorship resistance. It's basically Patrick's thoughts on all of the topics that I've talked about over the last few months and the community has talked about over the last few months to, you know, to no end, basically. But, but I really respect Patrick and his thoughts, and I thought the blog post was really great.
00:08:25.286 - 00:08:58.384, Speaker A: He's been around for quite a while. He teaches different things about crypto to a wide audience, and has, has worked with things like infuria, has a L2 expert, so to speak, as well. So if there's someone that you would take someone's opinion that you should take seriously, it's definitely Patrick. So I'll link that blog post in the YouTube description as well for you to go check out. All right, shifting gears here a little bit. So Ryan Berkman's put out a really, really great tweet thread today. Uh, but he started off by saying, IMO, in my opinion, the era, the era of earth has truly begun.
00:08:58.384 - 00:09:25.476, Speaker A: We're seeing a huge positive shift in investment in the ETH investment client. This time is different. And he goes on to give all the reasons why he thinks this time is different. Now, I'm not going to read through all of them, but there are some of them that I wanted to go through. And the first one is like the biggest one from this thread to me where he said the merge turbocharged our legitimacy. Institutions and mega corporations are onboarding rapidly and at scale, and our multi chain world is becoming an l two world. ETH adoption is immune to the bear.
00:09:25.476 - 00:10:39.978, Speaker A: And there's so much truth in this, because if you look at the ethereum ecosystem as a whole, I'm talking layer ones, L2s, whether they be roll ups or these hybrids, and even things like EVM compatible side chains that the ones that are Ethereum aligned, Ethereum secured are growing really, really quickly, right? They're still growing, and it's a bear market. And we can see this in the metrics. And I've talked about metrics before, there are various metrics you can look at. You shouldn't just look at any one metric and deduct anything from that. But I am looking at all of them in aggregate and seeing that there is real and genuine growth there during a bear market, which is extremely positive because it means it's not just fake growth being propped up by token incentives in the bull market, it's real actual product market fit that's starting to show itself on these things, which is absolutely awesome. And then on the first note of what he said here about the merge turbocharging Ethereum's legitimacy, I've talked about this as well, where basically in the eyes of the world that are paying, that any of the world that is paying attention to this, they saw Ethereum go through an absolutely massive upgrade and do it perfectly. And that also gave a lot of confidence to core developers, core researchers, everyone working on that side of things to keep delivering and keep going.
00:10:39.978 - 00:11:13.262, Speaker A: Full steam ahead on the Ethereum roadmap, because we got that massive undertaking out of the way, and they just filled them with such confidence. That's why we're seeing things like EIP 4844 being worked on so quickly and things coming together so quickly for it. It's just people have this newfound sense of motivation to do this stuff because they're like, wow, we actually did deliver the merge. Now's the time to execute the rest of the Ethereum roadmap. Let's keep this momentum going. So there's that aspect as well. And then he talks about, you know, as I said, like 8th roadmap bears have been crushed by the merge success.
00:11:13.262 - 00:11:54.512, Speaker A: So it's a, that's a great way to put it, right. A lot of people were roadmap bears, so to speak, of Ethereum before the merge because they were like, you know, Ethereum takes so long to ship anything and. But okay, it took a while to get the proof of stake, but we got there and everything else there on, in the roadmap is being worked on in parallel right now. And it seems that we're going, getting faster and faster at deploying things in terms of Ethereum time. Obviously it's not going to be as fast as we want it to be, but it's still much faster than it previously has been. And then Ryan touches on the censorship stuff that's been happening, and he says Ethereum government and censorship bears are ascendant this season, but informed people know these concerns are way overblown. Ethereum isn't close to being captured.
00:11:54.512 - 00:12:36.040, Speaker A: OFAC compliance is largely voluntary and dynamic in the profit motive, and politically minded people know crypto is going to going to spend in 2024. And the second sentence here is what I wanted to focus, or third sentence was what I want to focus on, where he said Ethereum isn't close to being captured. And then he goes on and says, OFAC compliance is largely voluntary and dynamic in the profit motive. And this is something I've discussed as well, where the only reason why people are going towards censoring relays instead of non censoring ones has nothing to do with the fact that they want to engage in censorship. It's got to do with the fact that there's just where the most profit lies. And that's really the root of it, is the profitability behind it. There's just financial incentives at the end of the day.
00:12:36.040 - 00:13:06.614, Speaker A: And then there's a few other things here. I mean, I highly recommend giving this thread a read, but I just thought it was a really succinct breakdown of all the really positives happening in the Ethereum ecosystem right now. It's a lot of what I've talked about on the refuel, of course, but in just like a thread form, obviously I talk about it across episodes and it's very disjointed. But I just highly recommend giving this, this thread a really, really good read, digesting it all, because it's just great. And I really respect Ryan. He's, he's a true ethereum through and through. So you should definitely go check this out.
00:13:06.614 - 00:13:38.132, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so an interesting little post from Vitalik on the Ethereum Magicians forum today that Tim Bico shared on Twitter. Now what this post does is it basically is titled proposed Milestones for roll ups taking off training wheels. So we all know that roll ups today, pretty much all of them except fuel v one, have training wheels on them, which means they're pretty much more or less centralized. They don't have community governance. They are working towards that, but don't have it right now. They have upgrade keys.
00:13:38.132 - 00:14:12.526, Speaker A: They don't have fraud proofs in the case of optimistic roll ups that are enabled or that are working. And there are debates about that as well. But yeah, we all know they're not in their final states. They're basically all in beta for good reason. And Vitalik basically proposes a three stage system here where he says that this is how roll ups should approach decentralizing, or I guess like taking off those training wheels. The first one is stage zero, which is full training wheels, which is what we have today. And he has a bunch of requirements here, some of which include the project should call itself a roll up.
00:14:12.526 - 00:15:03.400, Speaker A: All roll up transactions should go on chain. There should exist a roll up full node so a software package people can run, and then a bunch of other things as well. But it doesn't mean that this, this roll up has to have active fraud proofs or validity proofs at all. And that's pretty much where we're at today. And then stage one would be limited training wheels. So the requirements would be there must be a running fraud proof or validity proof scheme which has the practical authority to accept or reject which state routes get accepted by the roll up contract. There can be a multi sig for, for, for upgrades and things like that, but it must be a six of eight or stricter multi sig here and there can exist an upgrade mechanism, but if it has a lower threshold than the multisig, upgrades must have a mandatory activation delay of at least seven days or the maximum length of the fraud proof game that, that I've talked about before.
00:15:03.400 - 00:15:24.526, Speaker A: And stage two would be no training wheels. So basically this is where the roll up has. Has full fraud proofs, full validity proofs. It uses two or more independent app implementations of its state transition function, eg, two distinct fraud proofers, two distinct validity provers, or one of each. And the Security council can educate. Educate only if they disagree. Adjudicate.
00:15:24.526 - 00:15:59.578, Speaker A: Sorry, that's how you say that word. I knew how to say that word. Which would only happen if there is a bug and then upgrades are allowed, but must have a delay of more than 30 days. I think this is pretty good. I think keeping it simple with just three stages, instead of going up out to like ten stages, is probably one of the main things that Vitalik wanted to get across here, because you can extrapolate this out and create as many stages as you want, right? And you can pick on every little thing about a roll up, but at the end of the day, there were really only a. A key set of things that you need to worry about. And I think Vitalik called them all out here, right, like fraud proofs, validity proofs, being able to independently verify the chain with a full.
00:15:59.578 - 00:16:49.076, Speaker A: With full node software, being able to know how the upgrades work. Right? So whether they, there's a timer on the upgrades or delay on the upgrade, whether there is a multi sig behind it, what the community governance process look like, is there a security council, those things in particular, and then you can worry about validators and sequences as well on top of that. But. Yeah, but by not overcomplicating things, you make it easier for roll ups to understand their path towards basically taking off these training wheels. So I just thought it was a great little post here from Vitalik, which you can check out, of course, I'll link it in the YouTube description below. There's also a bunch of discussion in there as well from Jesse Polak, who works at Coinbase on L two and Ethereum protocol related stuff and smart contracts here, which is Calvin Fichter from the optimism team. And then you have a couple other replies as well.
00:16:49.076 - 00:17:30.150, Speaker A: So you should go. Definitely check this out, maybe leave your own comment if you have one. But I just thought it was great that Vitalik is getting more serious about this conversation around training wheels on, on these roll ups on Ethereum. All right, so speaking of roll ups, Lee here from the tech lead at Arbitrum put together a funny little thread here where he said at Arbitrum, we've often been asked if our fraud proven mechanism has ever been tested in the wild. Well, last week it was kinda so it was tested in the wild, but on the Ethereum proof of work channel, the ETH power chain that was forked off at time of the merge. And Lee goes on to say, for context, arbitrum is implemented with smart contracts on Ethereum. So when someone forks ETH, there's automatically a fork of arbitrum one too.
00:17:30.150 - 00:17:59.730, Speaker A: Our contracts automatically open validation on forks. And an attacker used that to make an malicious assertion on the ETHW chain last week. And Lee says, I can't know exactly what the assertion committed to, but it looks like it attempted to create a fake withdrawal that would have stolen all the ETHW in the, in the bridge. Luckily, I've been personally running a defensive ETHW validator which came online and defended the chain. My validator successfully challenged the attacker, and after the seven day confirmation period, my assertion was confirmed. Instead, I got 0.5 ETHW for defeating the attacker.
00:17:59.730 - 00:18:22.590, Speaker A: Half of the current roll up stake size. That's not worth nearly 0.5 ETH, but I'll take it. So this is a really great little test of Arbitrum's fraud prover in the wild, obviously not on Ethereum mainnet, but on a forked chain, the ether of work chain. So that's really cool. But what I find really funny about this as well, is that someone actually went ahead and did this and thought to do this in the first place. I didn't even think of this.
00:18:22.590 - 00:19:24.640, Speaker A: I, for some reason I didn't think, I mean, I don't really think about this ethw chain at all, really. But I didn't really think about the fact that you could actually do this, which is, which is really fun. And also on top of this, this speaks to what I've talked about before, about how when you're discussing fraud on a roll up, it's got to do with things that are not valid state transition functions. So obviously someone creating a fake withdrawal that would steal all the EW from the bridge is not a valid state transition function. But if no one challenges it in the seven day fraud period, then it would actually go through, because the only the, the chain, because it's an optimistic roll up, it optimistically assumes that everything's all well and good, and that if nothing, if it turns out that it's not, there'll be someone calling foul on that. And because you have cryptographic proof that that's actually not something that's supposed to happen, it's not a valid state transition, then you can submit that and you'll, you'll win the, the challenge period and you'll get a reward for that. And the same thing will happen, can happen on a theorem main nets.
00:19:24.640 - 00:19:45.836, Speaker A: But this is why fraud proving is so important on optimistic roll ups. Now, obviously today, as I said, I believe optimism doesn't have fraud proofs. Live. Arbitrum does, but they're the only ones who run it. I don't think it's public, so you couldn't challenge it yourself if you wanted to. But that's because they got their training wheels on, of course, whereas ZK roll ups have validity proofs. They're actually called validity roll ups.
00:19:45.836 - 00:20:06.830, Speaker A: Technically. People have been arguing about that terminology for ages, so they work differently. But in the optimistic roll up, this is how it works. So it's not got to do with something being hacked. So for example, if a smart contract on arbitrum was hacked, then their smart contract was hacked using the code that it was, it was coded with. Right. That's still following the rules of the protocol.
00:20:06.830 - 00:20:30.494, Speaker A: That is by, if you over the protocol view of that smart contract, a valid state transition that is just as it was programmed to do. Right. Whereas actual fraud like this is not a program to work like this at all. And this is something that can be challenged because it's not actually within the rules of the system. Unless there was a bug, of course. But this wasn't a bug. This was just someone trying to literally do fraud.
00:20:30.494 - 00:21:16.992, Speaker A: So very cool to see this, and great to see albatross fraud prover tested in the wild. All right, so just a highlight here from Ashwari, who says, tell me I'm dreaming, but Mastercard is doing a full demo of how to buy nfts on Polygon's Mumbai testnet using Mastercard. A full demo by Mastercard, folks here, this is pretty cool. I mean, as usual, Polygon killing the business development here, but there's just another big corporate getting involved with Polygon, and this time on the Mumbai testnet, which is a testnet of their pos chain. And, you know, this is a full demo of buying nfts. Now, I wonder if this is going to be integrated with Meta's implementation of what they're doing with Polygon through Instagram. I think it would be, and that'd be really cool to see.
00:21:16.992 - 00:22:02.674, Speaker A: But yeah, great to see just these big corporates more and more involved with the crypto ecosystem. I think that, you know, as I've mentioned before, people often have this, I guess aversion to corporates because they're like, you know, we're trying to disrupt these people, but as I mentioned on the refuel earlier in the week, we're disrupting them only if they let themselves be disrupted. They can come on board. They're allowed to, just like anyone else, they're allowed to come on board, adopt this technology, integrate it with their own technology to make it better. They're only going to get disrupted if they fail to evolve. And that happened a lot during the Internet era, of course. But I think because the Internet era, you know, I mean really it didn't happen that long ago, right? It's happened over the last 20 years where the majority of the big Internet companies have, have existed and grown and the majority of the disruption happened.
00:22:02.674 - 00:22:41.634, Speaker A: That's still very fresh in people's minds. So now these big companies are much faster to move on these, these new technologies relatively, I guess because of the fact that they know that if they don't, they're going to be disrupted. So we should be encouraging that from every one of these corporates, I believe. And even the banks, right? Even, and even the big banks, as I've discussed, JPMorgan is even using Polygon as well. So, but just another thing, another cool thing to see here from the polygon ecosystem. All right, so Argent today has launched something called Meet the Dapp, where you get to learn about stocknet Dapps from teams building them. They've started with Argent X, the most popular and only open source wallet for stocknet.
00:22:41.634 - 00:23:12.918, Speaker A: And there's a video here called Meet Argent X. Now this is a, I don't think you can hear the volume in. No, I haven't got my desktop audio here, but this is a video. It's obviously got audio, but it's basically someone walking you through Argent X as it exists, which is, as I mentioned, a open source wallet for Stocknet, browser extension wallet, which you can go check out for yourself. But basically this is just another educational YouTube series that has been stood up. I talk about, talked about synthetixes the other day, but cool to see Argent doing one as well. I didn't.
00:23:12.918 - 00:23:48.714, Speaker A: Killing it on the education side recently. I remember a few days ago, maybe last week I talked about their thread on account obstruction, which is still one of the best threads I've ever read. You should go find that and read that. But great to see them doing this, meet the series. This actually reminds me of Team Fortress two when they were, when they were developing the game all those years ago. They were doing like a meet the series of the different characters and, and it worked really well, just like a really nice introduction. So I'm glad to see Arjun taking this up and doing meet the Dapps for different adapts, infrastructure providers, anything in the stocknet ecosystem for people to learn more about Stocknet.
00:23:48.714 - 00:24:10.056, Speaker A: All right, Wallet Connect has announced a $12.5 million a series, a funding round here led by. I believe I read it just before. Where is it led? No, no, I don't know where. It's. I read, I read it before, now I've lost it. Anyway, this is a big raise for a team that's been around for quite a while now, actually.
00:24:10.056 - 00:24:50.286, Speaker A: So while connect's actually been around, I believe, since 2017 or 2018 or something like that, I remember them from back then and they were, they've been building ever since basically, and supporting Ethereum and branching out to different, different chains and things like that as well. Because obviously, given that they are an infrastructure provider, they're not just going to stay with Ethereum. They want to support every network that they can. But yeah, they, yeah. So that they thank all their investors here. I'm not sure if they called out any lead, but they have big investors like Shopify, Coinbase Ventures, consensus, and a bunch of angels, of course, as well listed here. So you can go check out the blog post for a full breakdown of their raise.
00:24:50.286 - 00:25:45.598, Speaker A: But just cool to see that there's more infrastructure providers getting more funding because at the end of the day, it's all well and good for apps to get funding and layer ones, I guess, to get funding, which I still think is dumb, but, you know, it happens. But I like seeing this core infrastructure that people use, that the end users use because wallet connect is end user facing, right, getting funded and making sure they have Runway even in a bear market. Now, it's funny because people often say that the private market lags the public market in terms of valuations. I think that it does by about six months. So I think back in June, July was, it had already kind of, that was already the point where the valuations came down to earth. And now we're seeing valuations be much more in line with reality and also we're seeing much better teams getting funded and then just absolute crap, not getting funded anymore and not getting funded as much as it would have. Now, this is similar to the dynamic that played out in 2017 with icos.
00:25:45.598 - 00:26:16.294, Speaker A: All the manner of crap got funded in 2017 and then 2018, basically nothing got funded, right, because it was just such a brutal bear market, but because I think there's been so much adoption happening in this bear market, and everyone's convinced that crypto is the future now, even though it's. It's a very. It's kind of a deep bear market as it currently stands. The good teams are still able to raise, which. It wasn't the case for 2018 and 2019. There were, I mean, to put some context here, 2019, early 2019 Uniswap raised $1 million. That's it.
00:26:16.294 - 00:26:30.034, Speaker A: From. From one investor. I don't think anyone else really wanted to touch Uniswap. And there was no, like, Defi was still very small. It was very much a moonshot bet. But these days, it's not a moonshot bet. But at the same time, valuations are higher than they were back then.
00:26:30.034 - 00:27:04.484, Speaker A: And also the expectations of landing that 1000 X are much lower even for VC's and funds, because the Unisop investors, the people who, the investor that did that $1 million check paradigm, that was their biggest win, I think, by far. And they made, I believe, a thousand x on that investment, or more than that. Right. Just because of the. The valuation was so low at the time. But it's not the reality today for, for better, actually. I believe, because it means more teams get funded with more money, they can build more, more quickly, and they continue to build through these bear markets.
00:27:04.484 - 00:27:35.352, Speaker A: You know what's funny? I say it's a deep bear market. This feels nothing like 2018. 2019, guys. Like, this is a, this is a cruise. Like, I'm not just saying that because this time around, obviously, I'm in a very different position than I was personally in 2018 and 2019, just from a portfolio perspective, but also from a place in the ecosystem perspective, but just generally, like, I remember distinctly what 2018 and 2019 felt like. It was, it was so different. So, you know, if you're sticking around now, if you were still watching the refuels, you guys are going to make it.
00:27:35.352 - 00:28:00.246, Speaker A: Like, I truly believe that. I mean, if you're getting involved in the ecosystem, if you're placing the right bets, and that's up to you. Where you place your bets, obviously, I do truly believe that, that you're still here, you're still early, you're still gonna. Gonna make it. And, and it's really awesome how. I guess, like, even though we're in the depths of this bear market, things are still go, it's still growing, things are still happening, and so many exciting things are happening on Ethereum specifically. So very cool to see that.
00:28:00.246 - 00:28:33.272, Speaker A: But again, congrats to wallet connect for this, but moving on to the last thing I just wanted to quickly point out, which is a bit of a comedy, to end our week here today. So Eric Wald tweeted out, saying that someone made a website to track what microstrategy would have made if they longed ETH instead of BTC. And it turns out they would be up $1.47 billion instead of down $1.35 billion. So you can see there's a chart here that shows. This shows the amount invested in USD at different points since November 2020 till today, which is, I guess, about two years worth of investment.
00:28:33.272 - 00:29:12.380, Speaker A: You can see on the orange line, BTSC holdings in USD is below the amount of money they've put in microstrategy is Michael Saylor, just for those of you who don't know. And then you can see the blue line here, potential ETH holdings in USD is above that line that they've invested. And then you can see with staking how much they would have made. And there was a tweet the other day that actually said that if they had bought ETH instead of BTC, they could be making $100 million a year from staking all of that ETH. Now, obviously, they probably wouldn't have staked all that ETH, and by doing so, they would have lowered the yields a lot, because I believe it would have been, yeah, 3.5 million ETH they would have owned if they bought ETH instead of BTC. So that's obviously, I guess, a big chunk of the current ETH that staked.
00:29:12.380 - 00:29:52.446, Speaker A: I believe that's a. What is that, like a fourth or a fifth of the current ETH, that stake? So, obviously, we don't want them having that much control over the network. But still, it's funny to see this website, and I think it's funny because there's also this meme of Michael Saylor saying there is no second best to bitcoin, when in reality, I mean, BTC is the second best to eat. ETH is outperformed BTC for such a long time now, and if microstrategy or sailor bought ETH, they'd still be up. They wouldn't be underwater. They would have been underwater briefly during the massive market sell off. But you can see here on the chart that ETH actually recovered from that, and BTC hasn't really recovered, or at least microstrategy's holdings haven't recovered and they would have been better off holding it.
00:29:52.446 - 00:30:06.554, Speaker A: So just something fun to end this week with. But, yeah, I think on that note, that's going to be it for today, so thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all next week. Thanks everyone.
