00:00:00.490 - 00:01:03.326, Speaker A: In theory, price updates moving through Solana are moving at the speed of light through fiber, which is as fast as news travels. And then it's competitive with something like Nasdaq and CME. So that's kind of the dream, the horizon. And this is how we've been building everything. Looking at that final state, how do we get there and what are the pieces we to get to? And when you kind of take that perspective, you don't really care if the architecture is modular or monolithic. What you care about is, can we synchronize information globally as close to the speed of light as possible? And usually, at least so far, there's no gains to be had using a modular architecture that right now, everything that we've been doing is around this monolithic state, because that's what's going to get us closer to that final state of global information, symmetry. All right, well, I'm excited for Mustafa's response to that.
00:01:03.348 - 00:02:54.810, Speaker B: Yeah, I think this discussion kind of highlights the key kind of philosophical difference between Solana and systems like celestial or ethereum, which is, I think systems like Solana view blockchains more as a distributed computing platform where you can have global settlement. Whereas we like Celestia and also other systems like bitcoin and ethereum, we see blockchains fundamentally. The fundamental purpose of blockchains is that it's a verifiable computing platform, not just distributed, but verifiable. And that means there's a focus on decentralization in that setting. Means that you need to allow light nodes to verify the state of the chain. Otherwise, if your goal is just simply to have fast agreement on the state, how does that goal fundamentally differentiate from what web two achieves with a centralized or distributed database? Even you could argue that the fundamental difference is that you have a global set of distributed parties agreeing on that state, but without the ability for end users to verify the states, in my opinion, that takes away one of the key properties of blockchains, which is that well resourced actors cannot violate what the social consensus of the chain has agreed, what the rules of the chain are. If the Solana validators, for example, wanted to change the rules of the chain, how would end users verify that without running a well resourced node?
