00:00:00.280 - 00:00:09.702, Speaker A: Super excited to have the conversation. Omani. Really ultimately excited about what you're building and appreciate that we can do this in person.
00:00:09.846 - 00:00:11.290, Speaker B: Yeah. Happy to be here.
00:00:11.950 - 00:00:44.884, Speaker A: No, we were just talking, and I haven't been able to do the podcast in person for a little bit and a little bit harder to coordinate and do, but there are always more fun conversations, in my opinion. So glad we can make it happen. Yeah. So I love to ultimately just start off. Let's start off just, I would say, your background and just, like, specifically what got you interested in engineering. And then ultimately, let's talk about what you're building now currently with coral and backpack.
00:00:45.012 - 00:00:57.174, Speaker B: Yeah. So I don't know what got me interested in engineering. I think maybe the first piece of code I ever wrote was back in the MySpace days, if you want to count that.
00:00:57.222 - 00:00:57.870, Speaker A: That's awesome.
00:00:57.990 - 00:02:01.804, Speaker B: When you had these profiles where you can edit HTML and css and customize the layout and the colors and the fonts and all this stuff, that was maybe the first real piece of what you might call code, I suppose. I don't know if people actually would consider that programming, but that was probably the first time I ever saw what code was, but I didn't really pick it up too seriously until. Until I got into university where I started learning about computer science. I was originally going to be a math major and took some CS courses and just found them super fun and compelling and rewarding to be able to see things that you build immediately pop up in front of your eyes and get that instant satisfaction. And so, yeah, I don't know, it wasn't really a particularly interesting story other than, yeah, I started coding and it was a lot of fun and kind of just had a normal path of uni to big tech company and then now into crypto.
00:02:01.892 - 00:02:41.024, Speaker A: Nice. Yeah. MySpace. That is funny. I wasn't a cool kid enough to learn how to kind of change the HTML on MySpace, but I figured out how to print hello world in Python, and I was like, this is sweet. So I always find it fascinating, just kind of people's journey. But, yeah, I guess moving forward to today, what inspired you ultimately to deep dive, ultimately building coral, building anchor, and now with your work at backpack.
00:02:41.192 - 00:03:52.700, Speaker B: Yeah, so, I mean, the story behind Coral really was just like a natural progression of a lot of the work that we were already doing on Solana. So, Spence, I suppose I came into Solana in September 2020 and basically spent the past two years working on just anything that I thought was super important for the success of the ecosystem. And maybe the first really good example of that was the anchor framework. We've talked a lot about this publicly, but really, the story of anchor was a story of existential crisis as an individual developer trying to build something on the network where you had this really tough programming model that, in my view, nobody was really going to use to build smart contracts on Solana. Whether that reason was because it was too difficult or too cumbersome, or whether that reason was that it would create a bunch of insecure, exploitable smart contracts. It wasn't a particularly insightful project, in my opinion. It was something that obviously had to be built.
00:03:52.700 - 00:04:46.608, Speaker B: I just asked around and went into the Solana discord with all the core devs and asked, hey, is there going to be any code generation? I think at the time, there wasn't even the Solana programming frameworks. They didn't have the right rust version to actually even use macros inside of the runtime. You can even use macros, let alone build something like anchor. They basically just said, oh, yeah, we'll introduce macros, but we have no plan on creating a framework. We would love for somebody else to do it. And I think I kind of just took it upon myself to solve that problem, which ended up, I think, lowering the bar for individual developers to come into the space and build cool stuff.
00:04:46.664 - 00:05:11.270, Speaker A: It was huge. It was massive. Just being able to take it one level higher, I think really spurred a lot of engineers to ultimately deep dive or start to come into the Solana ecosystem. Kind of similar, in my opinion, to like, what we saw with, like, candy machine. So it's definitely a part of Solana's history.
00:05:11.390 - 00:05:42.698, Speaker B: Yeah, yeah, definitely part of Solana's history. And then, you know, fast forwarding to kind of like, you know, the more recent present. The story of coral is like, well, we're already doing all this stuff. We're building anchor. Let's just, like, form. You know, I was doing this, like, as a develop, like, you know, kind of like a single developer, and I wanted to build a team to just tackle more problems and output more cool stuff. Started down the path of building coral.
00:05:42.698 - 00:06:42.510, Speaker B: First, it was like, okay, let's get more devs. Building on anchor. There was a couple of experiments we tried. There was APR in the program registry for automatically verifying bytecode on the blockchain. During that whole process was just continuously thinking about what is the most impactful thing for me to do. How do we ten x the number of transactions or ten x the number of users on Solana, or just in crypto in general, and went down this windy path of thinking about, well, what is the main, what are the main problems to solve? Eventually landed on wallets, because wallets are the central interface that everybody interacts with. It doesn't matter if you're buying something on magic Eden or you're trading on an exchange, or you're simply just looking at prices.
00:06:42.510 - 00:07:37.820, Speaker B: Everybody just interacts with the wallet. You start thinking about a wallet, and you start thinking about, how do we make wallets accessible to normal people? This is the obvious question that basically everybody asks. You start thinking about things like mnemonics and key recovery. You start thinking about wallet security and phishing attacks, and you immediately start thinking about security. I think this is the starting point for a lot of people that think about wallets. And so ITU started down this path, and kind of, you always kind of, when you're thinking about how to build new things, right? You're always starting from the present and then kind of like spiraling out from the present. You know, I think I once saw this talk, maybe not to digress too much, from one of the core devs of, of rust, and he talks about research innovation in this manner.
00:07:37.820 - 00:08:52.475, Speaker B: You always start from something that you know, and then you kind of iterate and spiral out into something that you don't know. And then you kind of come back in eventually until you hone in on this new kind of innovative idea. And we kind of did this with wallets, right? So we started with wallet security. And when you think about wallet security, you think about things, like I said, mnemonic recovery, but you start thinking about smart contract wallets. So we made this whole design of, well, how do we do a smart contract wallet on Solana? You have things like two fa, you have things like a dead man switch where if I lose my keys, I can still get the money back or the tokens back. You think about things like social recovery and sharding keys across friends, and you can make a pretty coherent, secure design with smart contract wallets that I think would definitely help a lot with wallet security. But then you have to ask yourself the question, well, as somebody that wants to make a business out of this, is this going to be enough to be a ten x improvement on the status quo? And do people actually care about this? Is this going to be important enough? I think the answer is, I don't know.
00:08:52.475 - 00:09:37.342, Speaker B: Probably that might be. It might be a five x improvement, two x improvement, depending upon who you ask and depending upon what's going on in the world. I think when the slow hack happened, that was a very timely moment where if you had a secure, smart contract wallet, that would have been enough to go to market. But I kind of came to the conclusion that it wasn't enough. And so basically started thinking more and more about wallets. And kind of like the next conclusion you come to when you think about wallets is, well, wallets are like just very obviously a multi chain product. It's kind of like a phone, right? It's like nobody wants to have an extension or an app which does the same thing, but for every different blockchain with ten different apps.
00:09:37.342 - 00:10:10.830, Speaker B: I don't want to have both metamask and Phantom. I just want to have a single application. This, to me, is just a fundamental truth of the product. You start thinking about, how do I build a multi chain wallet? You think about bridging, you think about showing tokens. But really, the challenge that you come to is that you have all of these different protocols on all these different blockchains. And simply hard coding these protocols in the way that that are done today simply doesn't scale. What you really need is you need a plugin system.
00:10:10.830 - 00:11:14.322, Speaker B: You need the ability for developers to be able to use some tools and be able to permissionlessly launch stuff on the platform in the same way that you do this with phones today, or in the same way you do this with any plugin system. Basically, this is the thought process that leads you down what I would consider an obvious path. This is what leads you down to XNFTs, where fundamentally XnFTs are basically, there are plugins system for any type of app that has private keys associated with it. So the starting point for us is a wallet. This is the next important, to me, obvious thing to build. You start with security, and then you end up at a plugin system in the form of XNfts. But then you start thinking about it some more and you start thinking about, okay, well, if I jump five years into the future, what is going to be the end state of all this stuff? It's like, okay, security, yes.
00:11:14.322 - 00:12:28.710, Speaker B: Multi chain, yes. But the third, maybe subtle thing to consider is what happens when things like saga go mainstream? What happens when the private keys are no longer owned at the application layer, but they're actually owned by the operating system or inside of a secure enclave? The moment that happens, the world starts looking very differently. You no longer have these companies like Phantom or Metamask or slope or whatever wallet you might want to point out, not to pick on any of them in particular, but you no longer have this situation where you have these companies owning your keys, you actually have the operating system or the trusted component of basically your entire digital life owning your keys. At that point, the value proposition of a lot of these wallets goes out the window. It's no longer about having this secure, trusted piece of software, which at the moment is the extension or at the moment is your wallet. That trusted piece of software that attack service shrinks and it goes back down to the operating system. And the moment that happens, then what is a wallet? What are these systems? From my perspective, wallets as of today, they're basically asset dashboards.
00:12:28.710 - 00:12:59.744, Speaker B: That's not the reason why people use them. They use them because it's a trusted component. But the moment you take that trusted component away and you give it back to the operating system, it's basically just a dashboard at that point. So from my perspective, the next generation of wallets, they can't simply just be asset dashboards. They need to be consumer first. They need to be consumer applications. A good analogy to look at for applications that are built this way are things like Stepn, Stepn, you think of Stepn, you don't think of it as a wallet.
00:12:59.744 - 00:13:23.410, Speaker B: You think of it as a fitness app or I a walk to earn app or a game or whatever you want to call it. I think this is mostly the right way to think about the way wallets should be built in the sense that there's private keys in it. It manages assets, but that's not the reason you use it. You use it for some totally other reason other than asset management.
00:13:24.470 - 00:13:36.112, Speaker A: Yeah, I love the story. Ultimately, how long did it take you to go through this? Idmaze yeah, I mean, I would still.
00:13:36.136 - 00:14:03.340, Speaker B: Say we're still going through the idea. Ma's I think the whole concept of xnfts and what we're trying to do with backpack is itself kind of an unfinished story. But in terms of how we got to or the time it took to get us to where we are today, I don't know. It's a good question. I would say maybe like three to six months. Yeah, it's been a continuous process for sure.
00:14:03.680 - 00:15:05.450, Speaker A: It's impressive. I love the thought process and ultimately kind of continuing to pull on the thread and trying to figure out where it's going to go. We were just talking earlier, Adam and I, about kind of the duopoly with Google and Apple and not being able to essentially have access to the secure enclave and ultimately how Slana and building the phone and being able to have essentially a dedicated crypto first experience kind of changes the game. And I love the point of view of ultimately, once you have the abstraction or give the private keys back to the operating system, how does that change the one developer experience but also the user experience? Super interesting.
00:15:05.790 - 00:15:53.288, Speaker B: Yeah, for sure. I think maybe a point that hasn't been thought about too much by a lot of the wallet companies is that the operating system and the phone manufacturers will be competing with wallets. And I think Apple will. It's going to be hard to compete with Apple on the dimension of native integration for the most secure component of your digital identity. And that's maybe a battle not worth fighting. The approach that we've taken is, well, we want to build layers on top of all of that stuff. We don't want to necessarily be the team that owns or controls or has a moat on your private keys.
00:15:53.288 - 00:17:06.624, Speaker B: We want to be the team that is providing a rich application, ecosystem and developer tooling and social features in a way that's maybe, directionally speaking, closer to what Facebook or Twitter did for web two. Or at least abstractly speaking, what Twitter could have done for web two, in the sense that they could have provided a platform and been an open, an open API. And so maybe fast forwarding to the way I'm thinking about backpack today, one of the stories I like to tell, or ways to position the conversation, and this is going to sound like maybe a bit of an ambitious analogy, so bear with me for a moment. But I think it makes sense. But if we go back in time and take a look at the messaging behind the iPhone, when it first launched, what was the story Steve Job was telling, telling people, how did he describe it? He basically said, ok, it's like the Internet in your pocket. It's like, ok, what does that mean? It's like, it's an iPhone. It's like, oh, is it a switch? Is it a router? Is it a browser? What is it? And he's like, oh, no, no, no, it's not a phone.
00:17:06.624 - 00:17:41.799, Speaker B: And it's this obvious kind of thing to attach onto. And it's a phone, and you can make calls, you can text people, but it's not just a phone. It's so much more than a phone. You have your calendar on there, you have your contacts on there, you have a browser like safari on there. You have this rich developer ecosystem with all these tools so that you can build a next generation of applications. And not only that, but you have this app store. And the app store was a really big deal, not just because it was on your phone and because it was native.
00:17:41.799 - 00:18:32.202, Speaker B: But I don't know if you remember at the time, there was just viruses everywhere. It was so easy to go to a website and just get attacked. In the same way that we see today with crypto would constantly break computers, download something online, wire or some music or something, and my computer would just freeze, and that would be that. When the app store was introduced, it introduced this level of curation, this level of quality to your application experiences. This was something that was maybe a bit under appreciated because it turned your ability to use the Internet. This would be a technical maybe person that knew about how the Internet worked and knew about viruses and knew how computers worked. You no longer had to be like that.
00:18:32.202 - 00:18:48.836, Speaker B: You can just use the App store and download apps. And if you see Twitter or Instagram or Facebook or whatever, you don't really think twice. You just download it, use it, and log in with your email and password, and you're off to the braces. And that's not like, kind of where we're at today with web3, right?
00:18:48.908 - 00:18:49.644, Speaker A: Very far from it.
00:18:49.692 - 00:19:27.944, Speaker B: Very far from it, right? People are constantly on edge, constantly looking out for attacks. And in spite of everybody's best efforts, people are constantly getting the analog of viruses. But instead of virus, it's like a wallet drain. And so you're telling a story about the iPhone, it's like, okay, it's starting to make sense, right? It's not just a phone, but it's actually this smartphone, right? It's like there's all this stuff. It connects to the Internet. You have this rich developer application ecosystem. You had this great kind of security isolation for applications and this great curation in the app store in the review process, which we can get to later.
00:19:27.944 - 00:19:51.916, Speaker B: And it's all starting to make a bit more sense. And I think if you ask yourself, what is an iPhone? It's like, well, it's hard to tell a one liner about it. It's all these things that come together. It's like, what is an iPhone? Well, it's not really a phone. It's just an iPhone. It's like, okay, I don't really know how to say that in a single sentence, but I still get what it means. It's kind of in a category of its own.
00:19:51.916 - 00:20:42.956, Speaker B: And the way I think about backpack, it's at least what we're trying to do is something very similar. You can make some rough analogies here. It's like the starting point for backpack is a wallet, but it's a wallet insofar as iPhone is a phone. It's a core part of the application, but it's really just table stakes on top of the wallet. We've done something similar in that we've introduced this cross chain plugin system in the form of XnFt where you have this great UI UX for building either applications that are cross chain or digital collectibles with this very native token gated experience. Not only do we have this developer framework in this ecosystem of xnfts, but we also have this XnfT store. So this ability to have this curated experience on top of this permissionless protocol.
00:20:42.956 - 00:21:31.756, Speaker B: And this is just super important for getting mom and dad and grandma and grandpa to be able to use this stuff. When I say magic Eden, I need to be able to guarantee that it's a magic Eden, whether it's URL validation or whether it's Xnft publisher validation. That piece of infrastructure is super important. And you're telling the story about backpack and xnfts. And this is really kind of a great starting point. And up until this point, we've really been focused on XnFts as applications. But the whole next phase of the project is really going to be utilizing these low level primitives that we built, this smart contract, this developer framework, this store and curation mechanism, these cross chain APIs, this wallet, and it's all going to come together.
00:21:31.756 - 00:22:30.480, Speaker B: To be able to then build experiences for XNFts as digital collectibles. It's like, okay, well what does that mean? That's a word salad. And Xnft is a digital collectibles to me really means native applications that are infused into the artwork itself. Digital communities can come together and do amazing things. So imagine this kind of experience where you open up your wallet, you click on the collectibles tab, you look at your dGod, and when you click on your dGod, you don't see this token metadata, but instead you see your entire community hub, or you see a holder's chat, or you see a merchandise store, or you see a creator specific marketplace, or you have your Twitter spaces in there, or a game or whatever it is that you might want to do that's like native to your community. That application is infused into the artwork itself. So when you buy and sell this NFT on Magic Eden, you load it in the backpack.
00:22:30.480 - 00:23:13.036, Speaker B: What you actually get is this very kind of magical experience where you get brought into the community hub or you get brought into the digital experience that the creator wants to provide for you. And this creates a bunch of new kind of routes for innovation where you not only now have the ability to build all this stuff in a very wallet native way, but you also have this new dimension of rarity that is introduced and you can take the conversation in many different ways. But I think that's a bit where we're at today with the whole ex NFT backpack stack.
00:23:13.228 - 00:24:07.600, Speaker A: That's beautiful. A lot to parse a part. No, I think ultimately I admire that you took the wallet approach, because I do think ultimately, outside of exchanges, the wallets, when web3 becomes the standard and holding your private keys is kind of the norm, and having your own assets, being able to have that core functionality, I believe remains the hurdle for onboarding more users. Today that private key management is just very difficult. But once it is abstracted at the operating system and thinking about how does that flip the narrative and what applications look like is super interesting.
00:24:08.100 - 00:25:24.038, Speaker B: Yeah, I think the other component. So there's this whole conversation around private key management and how to make that intuitive. And there's a lot of really compelling pieces of tech and companies that have been built around this problem. Things like web3, auth, things like Coinbase has some really compelling NPC technology. I think there's a lot of teams that are solving that problem pretty well. But maybe one of the other problems that isn't being tackled by too many teams, or at least not in ways that I think have been really compelling and that where we're really trying to innovate on is making web3 kind of built for humans in a way where you see not a bunch of public keys and this concept of transaction signing, but you see humans and you see user experiences and journeys that make sense to people. So when I send money from, I shouldn't have to open up my phone and message you and say, oh, what's your address? And then you copy your address over and I put it into my metamask and I send you a penny and I say, hey, Logan, did you get the penny? And you're like, oh, yeah, I got the penny.
00:25:24.038 - 00:26:31.360, Speaker B: I'm like, great, I'll send the rest of the tokens. It's this really silly kind of experience that we're all used to and we all do and we all continue to do, but instead I should be able to just type in Logan and I should see your name, I should see that we're friends and I should just click send, do it all immediately. And that should be that I shouldn't have to think twice about it. This is really the experience that we're trying to build into backpack on top of all of this web3 crypto native stuff. I've talked about a lot of kind of various technologies that we're building with a wallet and Xnfts. But the other kind of like big kind of experiment that we're running is we had this concept of cross chain identity where you have a user profile, you have a profile picture, and you have this formalization of these social graphs that already exist in web3. Right? We're already on Twitter, we're already in Discord's formula forming around these NFT profile picture communities, these ten K collections.
00:26:31.360 - 00:27:30.626, Speaker B: And so what we're trying to do, in addition to all this stuff is build the primitives to hook into all this stuff so that when you use backpack, I can, when I click on my NFT, I'm right there in holders chat. And if I want to do an OTC trade of my DGOD for your SMB, I can do it right there inside of the holders chat. Or if we want to take the conversation private, I can dm you directly. And not only can I do this with my nfts, but I actually can hook into it as APIs for any x NFT developer to be able to build these social first experiences on web3. So what we're really trying to do is formalize and build these structures to utilize this kind of currently amorph, amorphous cross chain topology of people, or this social graph that people like to talk about on web two. But to really formalize it with tools and structures and web3 so that we can have these types of human first user experiences.
00:27:30.738 - 00:28:31.320, Speaker A: Yeah, I love that. Ultimately, the fact that you have to be a crypto native and even as you mentioned, do the test transaction and then send the full amount, all these things today are kind of the standard. But to continue to onboard, I mean hundreds of millions or ultimately get to that point and then billions, we're going to need that human first approach. Why? I guess my question why ultimately if like doing the cross chain stuff, taking that human first approach, building axe nfts, building it, kind of building those group chats, have other people not thought about this? Or why is, why is backpack the first approach? Is it a technical challenge? What are you guys doing that's uniquely different from the rest?
00:28:31.900 - 00:29:22.582, Speaker B: Yeah, that's a great question. I find myself asking this question every day for a lot of things. I've been asking myself this question ever since I came into crypto. I think from the outside you see a lot of hype a lot of marketing, a lot of tweeting, and you think everybody's doing all these amazing things. And there are, to be clear, a lot of people doing a lot of amazing things. But when you get on the inside, and when I say inside, there's not some secret of all of ten people that are running the cryptocurrencies. But when you actually get into the space and you build a network and you start interacting with people on crypto, Twitter, and you go to some conferences and you start looking through the code bases, you start realizing that there's actually not that many people that have.
00:29:22.582 - 00:29:53.520, Speaker B: I don't know if it's the ability or the desire to actually execute on some of this stuff. And I don't think this is really specific to crypto. I think that this applies just in general to the world. And I think there's just tons of experiments that just simply haven't been tried, that people shouldn't just try. And I think there's just tons of green field and tons of innovation that just is untapped. Like, I could give you just endless examples of this, of just stuff people should just try. Here's a very simple example.
00:29:53.520 - 00:30:38.010, Speaker B: Yesterday I tweeted that backpack now is multiple mnemonic support. And to my knowledge, we're the first wallet, at least on Solana, to have done this. I've yet to see a wallet on any blockchain to have done this. And I don't really understand why because it's not really hard to do. It's just like, oh, nobody thought it was important enough, or maybe there's accumulated technical debts, or maybe some of the big wallet companies are just so big now that they don't care. Or maybe their code bases are ossifying and they don't want to make big breaking changes. I don't know what it is.
00:30:38.010 - 00:31:45.084, Speaker B: Like a very small thing that it's like, well, why haven't people done this? But then maybe some people have done it, but they didn't ship it, or maybe some people have done it and they didn't have the right ui ux for it, and they're like, oh, they decided, oh, I couldn't figure out how to make this intuitive to users, therefore it's a bad idea. And I think that is a common explanation for why a lot of stuff doesn't get done, is because people try stuff and it fails, and then they come to the conclusion, oh, because they couldn't do it, nobody can do it. And people kind of see that and they're like, oh, they tried this experiment of doing a social web3 network or whatever, and therefore all web3 social networks don't work right. And I think that's like maybe a trap a lot of folks fall into. But there's tons of examples of this right here. I give you another good one that's just like, it's super simple. And I've been talking about this, I think, for the past two years and nobody's done it, which is transform transfers, token transfers from a push model into a pull model.
00:31:45.084 - 00:32:29.074, Speaker B: So what do I mean by that? So I describe this experience like sending tokens from earlier, but I actually think that's not the right way to do it, at least not for large transfers. If I'm sending you a dollar or $10, I'm sure I'll just send it into the void and if I type in the wrong address, whatever. But really what should happen is I should send money, not to you directly, but I should send it into an escrow account. So the user experience should be, oh, I here send Logan $1,000 and you should get a notification that says, oh, Armani wants to send you $1,000. Would you like to accept? You can click yes or no. Then if you click yes, then maybe the money goes through, or maybe I get one more notification that says he accepted. Do you want to confirm and finalize? Then I'll click finalize or whatever.
00:32:29.074 - 00:33:03.910, Speaker B: But you have this protocol, this handshake that. It's a very simple idea, but if you did this, I think you would just solve a lot of token loss problems. Because at any point, if you type in the wrong address or you did the wrong amount, or if somebody didn't follow through with their side of the deal or whatever, you could always just cancel the transfer and go on with your life and not worry about it. But this is such a simple idea. And again, backpack is just going to be the first team to do it. I don't know why. So to answer your question, why aren't people doing these things? They seem so obvious.
00:33:03.910 - 00:33:27.422, Speaker B: I would say, yes, I agree with you. These are all very obvious things. I don't know why people are doing these things, but it's the same story with anchor. Anchor was just, to me, just super obvious. It wasn't insightful. Maybe there was maybe some clever things we did in the implementation or in the design, but at a high level, it was just the obvious thing to do. And I view backpack as the same story.
00:33:27.566 - 00:34:09.358, Speaker A: Nice. Very cool. No? Being ABle to iterate. I MEAN, ultimately, I admire people who can ship things, it's very hard. Ideas are much easier, but actually getting things done and whether it works or not, shipping something into the world and creating that is very hard. And even going back to my earlier conversation, even with artists, being able to put YOURSelF out there is difficult. At Tesla is interesting because they're always like, what you're building is probably wrong initially and your goal is to be less wrong.
00:34:09.358 - 00:34:45.020, Speaker A: So what you should do is just ship as fast as possible and iterate as fast as possible and then eventually you'll get there. But it is interesting, I think crypto ultimately being, I guess, kind of a little bit more liquid than kind of traditional companies can have maybe adverse effects to people not wanting to build as much. But no, it's refreshing and exciting to see what you and backpack team are ultimately building with the human focus front and center.
00:34:45.800 - 00:35:58.470, Speaker B: Yeah, I think you touched on a subtle question which maybe I don't have the answer to, but it is an interesting thing to consider, which is to say the incentive structures in web3 I think are interesting, particularly around token projects. Like for the most part, the incentive structure for traditional companies is correct in the sense that you form a company and that equity is worth either $0. In the case that you don't create value for the world, it might be worth a billion dollars in the case that you join the Olympic competition of VC backed startups, in which case you have this of bulwark of society where you're a fundamentally important institution that is part of the way we manage our civilization. Or you're somewhere in the middle where you maybe have a lifestyle business and you're cash flow positive and you maybe have a small team and you're making good money and you're creating a lot of value from the world. But maybe it doesn't scale as much. But in all those cases, there's never a case where you work for a year and you become a millionaire. That just doesn't happen.
00:35:58.470 - 00:36:57.410, Speaker B: And I think that's a good thing, right? You should have to work several years, especially when you're in the VC Olympics. I think you shouldn't be able to create a unicorn in six months. That's just absurd and it makes no sense. That's not how really hard problems are solved, and it's not the right incentive structure. I think. I think tokens, although they've been really incredible innovation, I think maybe have been used incorrectly and is maybe part of the blame for why we haven't seen a lot of these ideas and innovations being tried in web3. But I also think a big part of it probably, honestly the bigger part of it, it's not really the incentive structure, it's probably just the fact that it's so new and a lot of the primitives haven't been built yet and a lot of the talent still isn't in the space of engineers.
00:36:57.410 - 00:37:15.014, Speaker B: And certainly most of the world's best engineers are still not in web3. They're still at the big tech companies or in research labs or whatever they might be doing. It's a very niche industry still. And so I think that both those things combine or tell some story at least.
00:37:15.142 - 00:37:35.250, Speaker A: Yeah, I definitely agree. Maybe jumping back to some of the technical aspects of backpack, could you talk a little bit more about the plugins, one from, from the builder and engineering side and then on the flip side, how that affects the end users.
00:37:35.670 - 00:38:40.930, Speaker B: Yeah, so I mean the idea is super simple, right? You can take a protocol like Metaplex or ERC 721 and Ethereum, right? These protocols that tokenize this like record on the blockchain that says you own some piece of art or you're tokenizing an image. Like concretely it's just like a record that has some uri to some off chain storage like on ipfs or arweave or if you want to be centralized that's the. Or something like that. And you can take this primitive, but instead of pointing to an image, you can point to a piece of code. The idea is really as simple as that. What we've done concretely is we basically built on top of metaplex or can really be built on any type of metadata program where we have some additional metadata on the application, but it's basically just an off chain JavaScript bundle that is being tracked on Solana or any blockchain. When you load a backpack and it fetches all your token accounts, not only does it fetch your tokens and your nfts, but then it also fetches your applications or your ex nfts.
00:38:40.930 - 00:40:17.208, Speaker B: When it detects that it's an XnFT, it loads it into backpack, displays it in the right way, and then when you interact with it, it'll pull that code and then run that code. So it's very similar to a website, but instead of having DNS and everything running through the traditional browsers, everything is running through these decentralized networks that are tracking not only who owns it but also what's the canonical address? This is important for a bunch of different reasons, but namely content integrity checks. You can have this end to end secure experience. I think at the end of the day, what this unleashes from the perspective of the user, the everyday person, is you have the ability now to transform the wallet into this open platform, which means that you can have every protocol and every blockchain inside of a single user interface. Whether you want to build magic Eden on backpack or Opensea on backpack, or your new marketplace on backpack. If you want to create your new NFT protocol, a competitor to Metaplex, if you want to create, create some new unique token gated experience, you now have access to the most important part of the user experience and you can build for it. I think that's a super important problem to solve if we really care about this concept of web3 is this open permissionless ecosystem, rather than rebuilding what we already have in web two.
00:40:17.344 - 00:40:33.848, Speaker A: Yeah, very interesting. So it's code that instead of pointing to a traditional, like ipfs or something on chain, you're pointing to essentially an XnfT code base.
00:40:33.984 - 00:40:37.192, Speaker B: Yeah, except that code will live on ipfs or roe.
00:40:37.296 - 00:41:11.322, Speaker A: Interesting. I like it. Very cool. Yeah. And the user aspect, I always like, I like explaining, or I think it's important to under explain the tech side of it. But then I always love to hear how like, bringing it back to the user application. Because one thing that I've also found in crypto more broadly is, I think maybe just in some sense, because we're still going through the idmas, a lot of it is tech for tech in some sense.
00:41:11.386 - 00:41:11.962, Speaker B: Yeah, totally.
00:41:12.026 - 00:41:35.352, Speaker A: And they for forget about the users. And so I always rejoice when I can talk with someone and they're like, all right, this is attack. This is how we're doing it. But ultimately, at the end of the day, this is what the user impact is going to be because it's so important to kind of remind ourselves, I think, what we're ultimately building for and what the end goal is.
00:41:35.496 - 00:42:20.180, Speaker B: Yeah, yeah, totally. I think that's part of like also building different layers of abstraction. I think at least the Ethereum community started with this concept of this world computer that was a very low level. You have decentralized compute on a blockchain. But slowly we've been moving up the stack, especially as more and more problems get solved. Ethereum went the path of l two s for scaling. Solana went the path of monolithic parallel transaction processing with heavier machines.
00:42:20.180 - 00:42:41.798, Speaker B: And as these low level problems get solved, it unlocks the ability to solve the next layer of abstraction. I think that has to do with a lot of this. We simply just haven't solved the ordering matters. It wasn't until recently that a lot of these low level problems have been solved, so that now we solve these higher level problems.
00:42:41.934 - 00:43:31.070, Speaker A: That's a great point. I think ultimately it's why I've been so obsessive about figuring out or trying to understand the different technology stacks from the base protocols and why I've talked with a lot of the l one founders is to understand their point of view and why they're making some of the trade off decisions that they have. Because to your point, until you saw that abstraction layer, it's very hard for application engineers to actually create a product that even if it is find some amount of product for product market fit that it will scale. Yeah, maybe touching upon so you almost kind of describe backpack as like an operating system in some sense. Could you dive more into that?
00:43:31.230 - 00:44:36.040, Speaker B: Yeah, so I mean, I think operating system is like. Maybe it's a term that's directionally correct, but not exactly what it is. It's an operating system in the sense that it's a host for code to run. It has some shared resources that those pieces of code can access in the same way that applications on macOS or Windows can access your device drivers or the file system or whatever syscall APIs that you might want to interact with. From that perspective, backpack, it's definitely an operating system where you can build these xnft applications that can access not just the wallet, but it can access your social graph, it could access cross chain APIs, it could access these other services that we're building like peer to peer chat or other social mechanics like matchmaking. If you want to have a multiplayer gaming something. As a side note, something I'm just super excited about, just social gaming through backpack.
00:44:36.040 - 00:45:50.280, Speaker B: From this perspective, operating system is definitely the right mental model. It's just not like a low level operating system in the same way that Mac OS or Windows is. I think what we are trying to do is provide a lot of these reusable developer APIs and primitives for people to really focus on solving problems at the human level. What are the experiences people want? Rather than everybody having to reinvent private key management, or reinvent bridging, or reinvent messaging, or reinvent username systems, or reinvent bilateral connections, or reinvent content and discovery, which I think is a really important. Or content might not be the right word, but context is the right word. I think maybe stepping back a moment and thinking about why is it hard to onboard people into crypto? Because we're all in crypto we understand why it's so magical and so compelling and exciting. And I think the word I would use is context that is lacking from most people.
00:45:50.280 - 00:46:39.520, Speaker B: So if you want to know what's happening in crypto at any time, how do you know it's cool and useful and fun and exciting? Well, the information is spread out across so many different kind of places online. It's like, you have Twitter, you have crypto Twitter, you have discord where all the NFT communities hang out. You have telegram where a lot of bd work and connections are made. You have imessage and signal for people that you might be closer with and friends where you might talk with. You have these conferences and events, things like our basel and all of the social events and dinners and things that go on around that. You have conferences that are more technical and where people might talk about the future of the networks and the protocols. And you have all this stuff.
00:46:39.520 - 00:47:44.846, Speaker B: It takes a long time to actually know where look and to build the habits of. All right, I have notifications for these people, or I have these chat rooms to learn about these things, or these private telegram chats where people are talking about alpha, or these holders chats. And these are the right NFTs to play with, because these communities are really awesome. But if you show your mom a d God or a bored ape, they're like, well, what is this? Why do I care about this? This art is like, it's fine, it's mediocre, but it's like, it's like, it's not like they're like, why am I going to spend $100,000 for this? It makes no sense, because there's all this context, and that's what makes art beautiful and art important. It's like all the cultural context and all the depth and complexity that is hidden behind the painting. And I think crypto and web3 is the exact same thing. There's all of this hidden storytelling that is naked or, sorry, that is unseen to the eye.
00:47:44.846 - 00:47:59.278, Speaker B: And I think a lot of what we're trying to do is be able to provide a lot of that context in the form of an application. And so I think that is, at least philosophically speaking, some of what we're trying to do.
00:47:59.414 - 00:48:37.720, Speaker A: That's amazing. What's definitely needed. I mean, it has been interesting. I mean, a lot of engineers and I think you were tweeting about this recently. Ultimately, it could have just been bull market things. People do funny things in bull markets, but really just kind of copy pasta. Something that has either worked or semi worked and posted it on another layer one or L2, and try to abstract or take something from add, like something incremental, and then deploy it.
00:48:37.720 - 00:48:57.460, Speaker A: And sometimes it gains traction, but rarely does it actually have meaningful long term impact. And so again, I think it's super refreshing just with the vision of building for the long term and building the abstraction layer that makes it easier for one engineers but also users to come into the ecosystem.
00:48:57.860 - 00:49:36.320, Speaker B: Yeah, I think the conversation around copypasta ing protocols and applications different blockchains is always interesting, because on the one hand, people see something that works and they're like, oh, let's just redo that because we've done it better. We have a faster l one. Let's just copy all this stuff. I think that works insofar as you have some ten x improvement somewhere. So maybe a good example of this is Solana. Solana made some trade offs on Ethereum. The main one is commodity laptop validation.
00:49:36.320 - 00:50:32.108, Speaker B: Solana said, okay, we don't care if validators costs a couple thousand dollars instead of a couple hundred dollars. From that it got ten, 100 x, maybe more transaction processing throughput. From that you were able to have some new innovations like order books on a blockchain. But other than the order book and the DeFi ecosystem that evolved around the order book, you saw a lot of the copy of hosting come into Solana. The wallets are maybe a good example. I think most of the wallets that were built, they're mostly the same as wallets and other ecosystems. I think some teams have brought a lot of compelling UI UX innovation, but ultimately, there's nothing new that happened in the wallet ecosystem, and not much new that happened kind of with other parts of the ecosystem, like amms or amms yield farms or yield farms.
00:50:32.108 - 00:51:28.996, Speaker B: We've seen all that stuff on Ethereum and other blockchains before. But when you have this new ten x innovation, you then get other stuff. You get things like candy machine, where you can have these mints that sell out in a couple minutes because the blockchain goes so fast. Like once you kind of saturate some of the low hanging fruit, where you're like, you build an NFT marketplace, you build a wallet, you build an NFT protocol, you build defi. It becomes really hard to innovate beyond that, and it's really painful because people don't want to take their risks, they don't want to be wrong, they don't want to raise money, hire a team, only to kind of fail. And to think that they were that they were wrong the entire time. Right.
00:51:28.996 - 00:51:47.306, Speaker B: But I think you kind of need to take that leap of faith if you really want to be like a founder that's working on new kind of innovative things. And so, yeah, I think copy possessing multi chain is really easy and innovating and new ideas are really hard, and it's really simple as that.
00:51:47.498 - 00:52:15.100, Speaker A: I fully agree. It's. Yeah. The other thing that I really admire about builders is exactly that, taking kind of the bet on you and the team that you build and trying something new, because, again, it's super hard. And there will be a million people ultimately telling you all the reasons why it won't work. And I admire the people that are like, no, this is my vision. This is what we're trying to accomplish.
00:52:15.100 - 00:52:58.894, Speaker A: And being relentless about trying to make that work. It's not easy. And so kudos. Ultimately, one thing that I've always thought was funny, I think you guys have done so right now. You guys are still kind of closed beta. I think it's been very entertaining, ultimately, and I think you guys have been very successful at this, like getting people involved and building a very good early stage community. Could you talk about some of that process and maybe how important that is, even compared to a traditional company that's not more crypto native?
00:52:59.062 - 00:53:52.200, Speaker B: Yeah, I think so. There's a bunch of things tease apart there. There's like, well, strategically, how do you get the snowball rolling and how do you build the community? There's maybe the mechanics of how we're actually doing it ourselves, and then maybe there's like, what's innovative or new and different about web3 products versus web two products. I think maybe starting there is pretty useful. I think somebody said this once on a podcast or crypto, Twitter or something, but it really stuck with me, which is to say that crypto is as much of a cultural movement as it is a technological movement. And I really believe that in my bones. My view of how do we build product and how do we build community and backpack is always through this lens.
00:53:52.200 - 00:54:35.660, Speaker B: The approach that we've taken, I think, has been very different from basically all the other wallets on Solana. We don't want to just be another corporation or just like another startup. Right. We want to be like a fundamental part of Solana and crypto in general. And we want to be accessible to people and get product feedback and have people be a part of the journey with us. Right. Whether that's getting people into the beta program, whether that's hanging out with them, kind of at conferences, or whether that's getting calls with them, understanding their pain points, and kind of getting product feedback from them.
00:54:35.660 - 00:55:20.904, Speaker B: I think a lot of these things are things that people already do when they're building products. You have this whole product development cycle of ship into the world, get feedback, course correct based on feedback, and then ship something new in the world. But I think the intent is always very different. The story is very different. And although the words might be the same, the way in which you say them and where you're coming from, internally, it emerges, I think, when you say those words. And I think that's philosophically speaking, we differ quite a lot from a lot of the other companies in the space. And that, yeah, we're a startup.
00:55:20.904 - 00:55:56.030, Speaker B: We want to make money. We want to to have huge outsized impact on the world and have great returns for our investors, because that's what our investors are there for. And that's kind of what we're trying to optimize for. But I think that we can do that in a way that's community first. And that I think some of the best things that will impact the world are also going to be, and optimize for value creation are also going to be things that are just good for the world and people are excited about. This is kind of the philosophy and where we're coming from. And then the question is, well, mechanically speaking, how do you do this? Right.
00:55:56.030 - 00:56:09.590, Speaker B: And a big part of it is messaging, right. A big part of it is just like being there, whether it's in discord or telegram or in person events, and just like doing stuff with people. Right. Just like being a normal human being.
00:56:10.010 - 00:56:11.850, Speaker A: It's sometimes hard to do in crypto.
00:56:11.930 - 00:56:32.960, Speaker B: Hard to do in crypto. But other parts of it are much more concrete, like the fact that we're open source. I think it's a big part to it. You can go, although we have a private beta program, you can go to GitHub, download the source code, and build it yourself. Or we actually just have builds that you can just take so you don't even have to build it yourself. You could just run backpack. Anyone can do it.
00:56:32.960 - 00:57:56.500, Speaker B: Anybody can open a pr or file an issue and open a discussion or debate on the direction that we should take the product. Right. And I think this is, like, really important to us, not only from the perspective of community building and making people feel like they have access to the product and access to influence the direction it goes in, but also from the perspective of just, you know, being like, okay, there's like, being like a part of Solana and being part of the ecosystem. But maybe, maybe more importantly there's keeping companies true to their word. I think when you're open source and you can see the way the sauce is made and you're exposed to the whole world, you no longer can hide behind the corporate veil, which I think a lot of companies do. They maybe have a terms of service and their privacy policy and they might say they're doing something, but they might say it and kind an obscure way. But when you can actually see the code, it's very different and you can see the data that people are collecting about you, you can see how they might be using and abusing your privacy or they might be selling you out for some short term gain instead of playing the long term game.
00:57:56.500 - 00:58:35.386, Speaker B: And I think this is maybe a really important part of web3. It's like if you simply just throw out all of the blockchain and all of the crypto fairy dust and you just have open source, I think that is just a super important mindset and cultural shift that the space has taken that I think changes the world. I think what Coral and backpack is trying to do as a company and product is really embracing. And I think if you're not embracing it, then you're not really fulfilling the promise of web3.
00:58:35.498 - 00:59:23.180, Speaker A: Yeah, ultimately one of the reasons why I was so excited about crypto is the open source nature. And really how in my opinion it can supercharge your product by allowing people to open pull requests, by doing, being able to add commentary and really kind of use that community aspect to kind of slingshot the product forward combined with ultimately if everything is kind of in one ecosystem, the composable nature and how kind of that compounding innovation of just being able to kind of plug and play in some sense stacks on each top of each other, it's hard to outcome compete that I think in the long term.
00:59:23.800 - 01:00:04.550, Speaker B: Yeah, I think we're already starting to see this story play out with backpack where I think probably today we probably have more features than any other wallet on Solana, at least on desktop mobile, we're still behind. And we're seeing this because we're just seeing a lot of prs from people. Some recent examples. The other maybe a couple weeks ago, maybe more closer. Like a month or two ago, the hyperspace team, they build an NFT marketplace aggregator on Solana. They messaged me and they're like, hey, we are working with the cardinal team. They built this royalty enforcing protocol.
01:00:04.550 - 01:00:34.570, Speaker B: How do we get this in a backpack because there's some different instructions that you have to invoke from the wallet side to transfer those nfts. They're like, great, send us the code and open a printhead. Go for it. They sent us the code. And then I think Gajesh opened a pr for this. A side note, shout out to Gajesh, 14 year old indian programmer prodigy that's just been all over the place, just opening prs and contributing to open source on Solana. He's a total stud.
01:00:34.570 - 01:01:50.480, Speaker B: But long story short, now we have royalty enforcing nfts in the wallethead, right? We have an open pr right now for like pressed nfts. I think there's just a lot of examples of this type of thing. Somebody is working on Firefox support right now. Just a lot of these details that are really important that a lot of teams might, just might not prioritize because they're not super important for them, but they might be really important for other companies that depend on the product. I think Anatoly said this once on Twitter to me when I was, like, debating should projects be open source or not? Should a wallet be open source? He said something that was really eye opening to me, which is that he said that, well, if developers are willing to work on your product and they're willing to contribute for free, that is a form of product market fit. And if they're doing that, then that's a sign that you should keep doing what you're doing. When he said that, like, really changed my view on VC backed companies being open source, and I think that's definitely starting to play out with the wallet.
01:01:50.940 - 01:02:23.208, Speaker A: Yeah, it's fascinating to watch. And ultimately, I love the approach that the backpack team is taking. Maybe a couple of final questions for engineers that I would say are interested or want to learn more about packback or why they should build back, what would your answer be to them? And then for people that are either on the beta or want to download backpack, when will you guys be open?
01:02:23.384 - 01:03:00.252, Speaker B: So first question is a little easier to answer. So the goal to come out of the private beta, maybe into a public beta is going to be to correspond with our NFT collection. So we're doing a ten k profile pic collection. That's going to be the one collection, and we're not doing it really for the sake of doing an NFT collection. Although there's a lot of awesome stuff with nfts. There's community, there's hype. I'm super excited about all that, but really the motivation behind the project is going to be the first example of an XNFT as a digital collectible.
01:03:00.252 - 01:03:38.390, Speaker B: So when you get this NFT, you get these 10,000 unique pieces of artwork. But you will also get the applications, the unique applications that are associated with those artwork that are kind of bound to the artwork themselves. So when you open up the artwork inside a backpack, you will get the entire kind of experience. The first thing that we're going to do is a holder's chat and Twitter spaces. You'll just do that all directly inside of the application. So you'll get notifications through the project, like announcing when things are happening. You'll have private holder chats in there, maybe some subdivision there, maybe some Twitter spaces in there.
01:03:38.390 - 01:04:41.808, Speaker B: And then we'll slowly grow this community hub that we build, and it'll all be done through the XNFT. The hope is really to use this collection for product development so that we can figure out what is really compelling for our community and how do we build amazing stuff for them. And then hopefully we can bring those experiences to other NFT projects on Solana so that you don't have to be like a developer to access a lot of this cool stuff. So really want to use this kind of opportunity to build a collection, to do the entire experience through it, whether it's the whitelist, whether it's the minting experience, or whether it's all of the digital experiences that one would experience through the collection all inside a backpack. So we're working on the artwork right now, really kind of figuring out how to make it special, how to make it different. I think the artwork, it's really high quality. I did not make any of the artwork myself, so I can't take any credit for it, but I'm super excited about it.
01:04:41.808 - 01:05:27.242, Speaker B: It's going to be different for sure. Awesome. So, yeah, super pumped about that. Art takes time. So we'll roughly, you know, January is like kind of what we're shooting for, but we'll see kind of how that plays out. So that's a bit about that in terms of, like, you know, what is the pitch I would make to developers and, like, why they should, why they should use the app? I think, like, it basically boils down to a couple things. You know, I think, like, the first reason to use it is the fact that, well, if you're going to build a company that depends on another company or another product, you need to feel like you have the ability to influence the direction of that.
01:05:27.242 - 01:06:41.390, Speaker B: This is why most people use open source and web3 this is why things like react or Kubernetes or Linux, this is why these things have become so big, is because all these other companies can conform around these open source products or protocols and think, well, if this company is not doing something that resonates with me, or if I need a feature that they currently don't have and they don't have bandwidth to implement, I can just open a pr for it. If you're going to have this dependency from one company to another company, I think it's really important that if you're going to be self sufficient, you need to have access to that product. That's maybe the first and maybe most important and maybe most pragmatic pitch I would make to developers, which is to say that if you're going to depend on a wallet and you're not going to build your own, you need to be able to open a pr and add features that are going to be critical to your user experience. I'll do you one more. You don't even have to open up a pr, just create an XnFT. You could have that user experience right inside of the most important part of the web, three user experience. So that's probably the first pitch I would make.
01:06:41.390 - 01:07:32.426, Speaker B: I think there's a bunch of other things I could talk about. We're probably going to try to have every protocol on every blockchain inside every single user interface native, bridging a bunch of convenient developer APIs. I think the social component is one of the big value adds that's going to be really new and unique to the application in the sense that you can just access your cross chain user identity, you can access your profile pic, you can access your connections, and if you're making a game, you can create a lobby in matchmaking and play with your friends. These are all APIs that you could hook into. I think this is maybe one of the other big value propositions that we want to bring to developers. I think maybe that's what I would lead with if that conversation were to come up.
01:07:32.498 - 01:08:10.650, Speaker A: Perfect. No, lovely put. Well, no, ultimately I'm just super excited about what you and the backpack team are building. I want to thank you for all your contributions to the Solana ecosystem and more holistically now taking the human first approach to building. So yeah, thank you for your time. I really appreciate the conversation and I've really enjoyed it. Is there anything before we wrap up that we miss that you want to touch upon?
01:08:19.590 - 01:08:25.494, Speaker B: Yeah, I would say nothing. Support your developers. Follow us on Twitter. Yeah, cool.
01:08:25.582 - 01:08:31.694, Speaker A: Well, thank you again, Armani. I really appreciate it, and I know people will be excited to listen to this.
01:08:31.782 - 01:08:32.022, Speaker B: Awesome.
01:08:32.046 - 01:08:32.910, Speaker A: Thanks to.
