00:00:01.960 - 00:00:29.534, Speaker A: What's up guys? God, I feel like our Solana family here came to Lisbon with their game face on this week. This feels really good. So let's go. So the case for on chain derivatives. In early 1998, I was just starting my career as a trader in the bond room, the Chicago Board of Trade. I was 23 years old. So you guys can do the math.
00:00:29.534 - 00:01:45.914, Speaker A: Newly minted trading badge, a trading account that was funded from four years of waiting tables in college and from working as a clerk on the floor of the board of trade during my summers home from school. This was my first day in the 30 year bond pit. Little did I know that it was also the beginning of what would of come to be known as the downfall of one of the largest trading hedge funds that had ever existed at the time, long term capital management, who through the use of opaque and esoteric OTC derivatives, lost $5 billion in 1990, $8 of pension and sovereign money caused a major disruption in the bond market. This was my intro to trading over the last few decades. LTCM was not the only culprit. So let's take a look for a second. 1995, the guy in the upper left, the jovial guy up in the black and yellow stripes, Nick Leeson was a trader for Barings bank.
00:01:45.914 - 00:03:18.864, Speaker A: He used a hidden error account to hide a billion AdA losses from his clearing firm, causing the downfall of one of the oldest banks in the UK at the time, which sadly ended up being sold for one pound. Scary looking guy in the lower left. 2006, trader named Jerome Corville from Socgen created fictitious derivative trades to conceal massive trading losses in european stock index futures, which ended up costing Sokgen more than $7 billion. We all know Bernie Madoff over there spent more than 20 years creating fictitious derivative trades in a fabricated strategy that he called a split strike option, which helped him perpetuate one of the greatest frauds in history to the tune of more than $65 billion. Now, those two old guys in the upper left, we can't talk about catastrophic derivative losses without talking about the Duke brothers, who in 1983 tried to corner the frozen concentrated orange juice market based on a crop report that they received. Unfortunately, that crop report had bad information and they ended up in a $325 million shortfall, a margin shortfall that they owed to Comex. And I hope that most of you have seen trading places.
00:03:18.864 - 00:04:08.098, Speaker A: Part of the story is obviously fictitious. 2008 financial crisis. $3 trillion of losses from OTC securities and derivatives, nearly bringing our global financial system to the brink of disaster. In all these examples, there's a common thread. There's now a $600 trillion global derivatives market that basically still lives in a black box and severely lacks transparency. Today, all market participants are at risk of other traders willingness to abuse their own risk parameters. Transparency is now a requirement.
00:04:08.098 - 00:05:01.554, Speaker A: It's no longer a choice. This is why we're here, building on chain derivatives, among other benefits, which we'll discuss. It's not only to create a better Ux for traders, for retail users, which can often be largely subjective. This is really for solving the foundational issues within the fabric of the global derivatives landscape. And although my friend Samuel L. Jackson here will put a gun to your head if you say blockchain one more time, the reality is that blockchain does help solve this. Now, I believe there's four pillars that best describe the benefits, the underlying benefits of building on chain, and also why we built Herodefi.
00:05:01.554 - 00:06:04.084, Speaker A: First, to create a more inclusive derivative market landscape. Historically, derivative markets have been closed to a very small number of controlling parties who act as what are known as intermediaries between traders in the market. Second, the unification of fragmented liquidity. So liquidity is very reflexive, which means that liquidity begets more liquidity, because the more liquidity you have, the more competitive pricing gets and you get better execution for larger traders. Third, risk in market data transparency. Again, your funds are always at risk of a bad act or a systemic market event. And as a participant, you should always have an understanding in real time of not only the health of your own wallet, your own portfolio, but the health of the entire network that you're operating in.
00:06:04.084 - 00:07:13.894, Speaker A: This last point is a very critical element. This is about the disintermediation and disbursement of systemic market risks. We can no longer rely on a single central clearing party, or in the traditional world, what's known as a CCP. My good friend and coin fund president Chris Perkins recently went in front of the House Ag committee and explained this, and I quote, to the extent a member fails to meet its obligations during an insolvency, the clearinghouse may use that members default fund to offset collateral shortfalls. However, if a deficit still remains after applying these funds, the CCP, the centralized clearing party, will utilize the other members contributions, even when those members may have had nothing to do with the default. The socialization of risk in this existing paradigm is very real. Our solution to all this is Hero.
00:07:13.894 - 00:08:20.004, Speaker A: Hero is an open on chain primitive that provides the foundational exchange risk and settlement infrastructure for any type of derivatives contract. Hero is built around two native protocols, dexterity and spandex dexterity is a very flexible collection of smart contracts that provide the framework, basically the payoff and accounting functions needed to launch and maintain any derivatives market, any type of derivatives market. Spandex is the risk engine. Together, these protocols provide the key building block for exchange risk and settlement of any derivatives market. Now, let's talk a little bit about our dexterity design decisions. We felt that dexterity had to be open sourced, which we did so in March of this year. And the code can currently be found in the Solana labs, GitHub, repo.
00:08:20.004 - 00:09:17.996, Speaker A: Next, it had to be generalized, needed to be able to service any type of derivative market, not just traditional futures perks or options. As the market evolves, the definition of what might constitute a derivative may change. So with that, we needed to be extremely flexible. What does that mean? Well, if you think about what a future is, that it's really a standardized vanilla option with the strike set at zero. This is the type of logic that we built into the system. Next, it had to be modular. This means that you can connect any risk engine, any data oracle, any order book to it to create the market, the context of heroin and its implementation.
00:09:17.996 - 00:10:26.066, Speaker A: It uses spandex as its risk engine. It uses pith and a new data oracle called Juritsu as its data oracles. And it uses the asset agnostic order book built on Solana as its order book. Now, other builders may want to facilitate their own vision of a marketplace if it doesn't align with hero. And because of it being modular, anybody can certainly do that. The last design consideration, which is actually very near and dear to my heart, because I came from the linear futures markets as a trader and spent most of my career as a spreader, dexterity needed to be able to facilitate atomically traded complex spreads. So this means that you can now have futures calendar spread markets that trade atomically alongside of its individual spread legs.
00:10:26.066 - 00:11:15.034, Speaker A: It also means that you can easily spin up any type of user defined spread. So say trader wants to see a basis spread with additional deltas attached to it, or it wants to see an eight legged option structure. This can now be quickly spun up, traded atomically in a true double auction style market. Okay, so that's dexterity. Now I feel, and probably I'm slightly biased, but dexterity is a huge milestone for the space. One of the bigger breakthroughs in on chain derivatives. However, I believe what is most important and what truly separates hero from any other on chain solution is in its risk protocol, spandex.
00:11:15.034 - 00:12:11.152, Speaker A: Let's run it back to our wall of shame from the beginning of the talk and remind ourselves again of why we're here. We're solving for real time risk transparency to make sure guys like this never have a chance again to paralyze our financial system. As we've all seen in derivatives, the risk engine is everything. So we created what we call spandex, which is a dynamic on chain, real time, portfolio based risk and margin engine. Although Spandex is incredibly complex and was a serious challenge to build, our design considerations for it were pretty simple, logical and straightforward. First, it needed to have a portfolio risk and margin model, which we'll talk about in a second. 2nd, it needed to run risk in real time.
00:12:11.152 - 00:12:42.544, Speaker A: Third, it needed to at least meet the standards of CFI competitors. It's the only way we're going to create a lane for Defi in the space. And then last, it needed to have robust liquidity and customer protections. Now let's talk about the first point. You cannot run a capital efficient marketplace on chain without portfolio margining. And to do that on chain is not an easy task. For those of you that don't understand the difference.
00:12:42.544 - 00:13:41.924, Speaker A: Suppose you had two positions in your account. You had a long sole perp and a short sole future. In an isolated risk model, the risk engine would look at each one of those positions independently. Now, in a portfolio margin in context, the position gets looked at across the entirety of the portfolio. And because those two positions offset and are highly correlated, the margin relief that you get because of that, sometimes on the order of 90% to 95% of what would happen in an isolated instance. So obviously, this results in a much more efficient use of capital for traders. Next, to capture the greatest benefits of transparency and risk and settlement, it was necessary that we build spandex to run inline, which means that it updates on every change in the market in real time.
00:13:41.924 - 00:14:50.018, Speaker A: Now, one important point to make here is that every wallet in the network gets the same treatment. When I was a chief operating officer in the traditional prop world, I spent a lot of my time negotiating things like fees and risk parameters with clearing firms and exchanges. I can assure you that not all participants are given the same treatment to procure these types of deals. Therefore, we saw a significant opportunity to make this better. In this world as we know it doesn't matter who you are or what your reputation is, everyone comes with a network on equal footing. All risk, all programs are fully transparent and available to everyone. Last, and this is a common topic that's discussed amongst a lot of us who were from the traditional space, is that this side of the market has historically kind of missed the mark on liquidity and user protections.
00:14:50.018 - 00:15:39.354, Speaker A: So what does that mean? See what we have listed here. So this means building in protections for market makers and liquidity providers for multi and mass quoting. So that means that market makers and liquidity providers are putting out many bids and offers simultaneously on the market to facilitate the liquidity that gives you a better marketplace. You need to build in guardrails and protections to protect them in an adverse or rogue risk event. Otherwise they're never going to come back. Pre and post trade risk checks, open interest caps on a global and on a byproduct basis. And then last, we only use USDC collateral.
00:15:39.354 - 00:16:25.774, Speaker A: So we built this to be a true primitive block as it was just recently launched. Currently has a limited number of end user applications, but the number is quickly growing. We do not have Hero does not have its own front end. This was built as a true primitive building block for application builders. Now to close it up, just want to share another quick story. Beginning of this year, we hosted a dinner with some of the founding teams who've been instrumental in the building of hero over this past year. This included leaders from some of the largest trading firms on the planet, who all now have active teams at crypto.
00:16:25.774 - 00:16:58.764, Speaker A: The collective agreement between everyone at this dinner was that now is the time to rethink the derivatives market landscape. We're at a point in its evolution where interest has grown, and where new pathways and alternative solutions that need to be explored worked on and taken very seriously. The time to build a solution for the greater good of all of us is here. We're making hero one of those solutions. Thank you.
