00:00:00.170 - 00:01:16.778, Speaker A: So this is why we are working on payment abstraction layer. The payment abstraction layer is something that will abstract away the complexity of paying for Oracle networks, while allowing Oracle networks to end up getting paid in link that they can then use or keep for staking. So the payment abstraction layer is actually something that I'm not sure that many people in our industry can even build, because you need to know the value of the token you're getting paid in in order to receive it. And in order to know the value of the token being put into a payment abstraction system, you need price oracles. And I think you know who has the price oracles, right? So I actually think this is the right way for payments to work for many different infrastructures and applications in our industry. And I wouldn't be surprised if this becomes its own separate chain link service that uses the data oracles to basically assign value to whatever token someone wants to pay in. So you should be able to show up and pay from a credit card, from a bank account, from your own coin that you generated in your own treasury, from the native token of the blockchain, from a stable coin.
00:01:16.778 - 00:02:13.240, Speaker A: And that should then be taken into a payment abstraction layer and then the payment abstraction layer can turn that into link. The more important thing is really the reduction in friction. So our goal with the chainlink network is not only to provide these highly reliable, highly secure systems and services, it is to get the network effect of the security going right. And it's already going quite well, but it just needs to accelerate even more. So the more value and payments paid into the system, the more value can go towards creating more secure networks, more versions of the system that are increasingly secure. So reducing the friction that people need to go through to pay for getting decentralized. Oracle networks should very logically simple, basic economic terms, less friction, more payment, more payment, more value into the system, more value into the system to pay for greater security.
00:02:13.240 - 00:02:24.290, Speaker A: Paying for greater security means you have greater security, and security is very important when everybody else is getting hacked left and right, and your system continues to remain secure.
