00:00:02.360 - 00:00:58.905, Speaker A: Thank you for having me. And yes. So we are basically a Polish, the most famous and one and only Polish PFP collection like that in Poland. Let's start. So basically our whole existence is best is based on miming Polish culture and Polish people making jokes from being Pole and stuff like that. So even the number of the amount of our PFP collection is based on the time of death of Polish Pope. Because this is for some reason the most popular, one of the most popular Polish meme in the Internet.
00:00:58.905 - 00:02:54.983, Speaker A: We are the most tradable collection in Poland. So basically our similar collection to us has like four times less volume than us and we were the three mint. So this is also something pretty strange because on crypto market we have different metas and there was a time when people were giving away their art, their work for free. So because of another Polish meme that we just love free stuff and the best price is free, we thought that it will be somehow cool to distribute Polish collection like that. So at the beginning the distribution wasn't good to be honest because most of these wallets were Chinese bots. Mainly because of this free minting price, we as a team minted 100 and basically most of them were given way on various events to important people in Polish crypto space and also on during some giveaways for promotion reasons. So in the same time when the free mint collection meta emerged, there was also a meta for national collections and most prominent one was the Saudis.
00:02:54.983 - 00:03:57.995, Speaker A: They really like spark on this matter and encourage most of countries to do their own PFP collection like this. But the Palazzi, like even the Saudis dies after two years. There is no more like active community around the Saudis. But we are here with active community of the Palazzi even after these two years. So it's the only project on the world, in the world that managed to like survive after after end of this national meta. Also my idea was that Polish people are best suited for that kind of collection because we are like to say that we are Polish. Like there are many values that we like about being Polish.
00:03:57.995 - 00:05:27.495, Speaker A: So yeah, nationalistic country. So yeah, I. I really feel thought that it will be good idea to build something like that in web free space. So few days after the minting start and there was still active minting by that time there was Eth Warsaw two years ago when Softoshi, one of our first and like biggest early adopters of the Palazzi has a speech like that during Eth Warsaw and simply didn't talk about his own project. He put all the focus on the Palazzi collection, how great this collection is. So after that all the people during the eth war so know what the Palazzi was and that bring this final few mints that we were lacking for being a minted out. From the very beginning we were focusing on giving as much power to our community as possible.
00:05:27.495 - 00:07:24.465, Speaker A: But there are four people basically making sure that we are going somewhere and it's not only chaotic journey. Yeah, so basically what we didn't want to be like group where people came to get trading insights or anything connected to trading per se. So we focus from the early days on gathering incredible community among. We have very prominent hundreds of Polish people from web free space including interpreters, developers, business developers and so on. Our community isn't with us because of like financial opportunities basically but more because you can ask any question on our open chat on or on our closed token gated telegram and basically receive answer on any topic from moral philosophy to development and anything between. There are some testimonials I asked recently community why they are joining this community and why they state many heartwarming messages. This is only few of them.
00:07:24.465 - 00:08:31.541, Speaker A: So basically they are just there for having fun online and be with friends basically. So it's not this common situation where people just want to make money and there is no this social side to it. As I mentioned we managed to really do some volume on OpenSea. There are also other marketplaces where the palazzi are tradable. But still this is one major point when we can show that it was a pretty big amount of money. Yeah, basically people were asking me what is the utility. It's also very common thing in Poland.
00:08:31.541 - 00:10:12.185, Speaker A: We just want always be sure that our money is put into work in some good places. So I thought that telling people that the palazzi are just thing that you keep in your wallet to make sure that no one will steal your other crypto funds like good charm. But then someone stole my the palazzi and that wasn't the case anymore. I managed to recover this de Palazzi but still it I can say that the Palazzi prevent anything. Yeah, earlier this year I like to call it that the palazzi are riders of meta. So we just know what is the hot topic of current crypto world and we just deliver that to to Polish people. So before it was the Palazzo during the national meta during the free mint meta and earlier this year we make ordinal starter pack that was invitation for Polish people to ordinals market Also for these two Years people were asking us when the Polki why you discriminate half of this country.
00:10:12.185 - 00:11:28.283, Speaker A: And we just wasn't sure where is the best time to do it. We didn't want to just make it happen because it was too easy when the ordinal start. We just knew that this is the time to issue another collection that will be complementary to this first one. On two major cryptocurrency chains, we did really cool things with our community. We for example saw our logo into the space on suborbital to the orbit basically on suborbital rocket. We created our limited edition line of vapes with funny names also referring to Polish culture. We organized traditional Polish Christmas Eve that was also very family event when we gather like 40 people, right, 40 people, something like that.
00:11:28.283 - 00:12:43.245, Speaker A: On the. On the traditional Polish Christmas gathering we released a collection of flip flops like also Polish people are known for wearing socks and flip flops. So we did that with the most popular Polish flip flop brand Kubota. We made our own with partnership with them. We made our own red flip flops with socks to accompaniment our NFT collection. Also like there are few celebrities persons that rarely are seen with any products because they are don't want to be connected with selling something. But we managed to for example have Rafael Zaorski, the most famous Polish trader to be photographed with flip flops when we.
00:12:43.245 - 00:13:33.595, Speaker A: When he received them from. From part of our core team. Also we have stuff like our own rap song with Polish rapper about meditation. And we also hosting various spaces on Twitter about mostly crypto but also meditation, self exploration and more spiritual path I would say and more. It's. It's funny because you know it was free mint. We really do this because we like our community not for financial reasons or anything like that.
00:13:33.595 - 00:14:56.271, Speaker A: Over the past two years we also organized few raves gathering all over 1000 people enjoying techno music. And also during the summer for the Polki community we were providing ordinals hub where we meet with artists and degens from ordinals market to just know more about this emerging market. This is like mainly the same but in more structured way. I add this group because it's like another part of what we do. We have token gated telegram. It was our first utility because you can't enter this chat without the palazzi and it's just more closed more family experience than an open chat where just anyone can come in. We even have a game on our site.
00:14:56.271 - 00:15:39.425, Speaker A: You can play this game. It's pretty simple. But still we managed to deliver even a game. It's not token gated. Anyone can play this simple game and of course we would be nothing with our partners and also good friends because it's not like they are just business to business relation. It's more like we just like these people so we're doing business with them and that's the most important part of the Palazzo. So big shout out to our amazing community.
00:15:39.425 - 00:16:28.535, Speaker A: This is all the nicknames that one of our core team members have in his mind all the time. So he just sent me this after I don't know 30 seconds like I asked him who to shout out on Eth Warsaw and after 30 seconds he sent me this. So like the engagement and the power of this community is for sure based on many people that are important to the web3world as well as they are part of our amazing community. Thank you so much for attendance and if you have any questions I'm here.
