00:00:00.280 - 00:00:18.766, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the deliquate Refuel, where we cap the latest news in the theorem ecosystem. I'm your host, Ian. This is the 27 May 2024. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So a lot to get through today. I am going to try and catch up on the biggest things, I guess, over the last couple of weeks that I missed and talk about them.
00:00:18.766 - 00:00:53.228, Speaker A: There were a lot of suggestions in the daily way, Discord channel as well, of things to talk about. So I'm going to cover all of that. This episode will probably go longer than 30 minutes again, but I think this will be the last one where I cover kind of previous news, you know, older news, I guess only two weeks old, but still old news. But tomorrow I'll be kind of going back to the regularly scheduled kind of 24 hours news coverage instead of just doing coverage from, you know, two weeks ago. Because I know that I wasn't around, but I want to cover it because I think it's important. But it's also really old news when it comes to crypto. I mean, week old news is like very, very old.
00:00:53.228 - 00:01:12.170, Speaker A: Right. But I'm going to cover all of that. Before I dive into that, I do want to just quickly note for you guys that there'll be no refuels on Thursday and Friday this week. I know I just got back, but unfortunately I have a medical procedure on Thursday. I'm going to be in hospital for a day. It's nothing serious, but I am not going to be able to do the refuel. It's a recovery time of a few days there.
00:01:12.170 - 00:01:38.352, Speaker A: So I'm doing that on Thursday. Going to be in the hospital till Friday, basically. And I don't think I'm going to be able to do one on, on Friday either. So I'll be back next Monday, but there'll be episodes, obviously, tomorrow being Tuesday and Wednesday and today you're listening to it, but there'll be no refills on Thursday or Friday. So very sorry about that, guys. I know, as I said, I just got back, but unfortunately that's, that's kind of how the timing lined up there. But now that that's out of the way, let's dive into some of the news.
00:01:38.352 - 00:02:16.558, Speaker A: So first up, I want to talk about core dev related stuff. So obviously there has been a lot of movement on the Petra upgrade over the last few weeks. For those of you who have seen this on Twitter, a lot of the core devs have been tweeting about it. I know there was a little back and forth about this as well on Twitter while I was away. A little bit of drama, but I don't want to really focus on that because I feel like that just takes away from all the good that's been happening. So essentially it seems like Petra is not going to ship by the end of this year. I think I speculated on this like maybe even a couple months ago or a few months ago, where I said that it's a tall order to ship Petra by the end of this year, given that there are a bunch of things going in that require, you know, quite a bit of work.
00:02:16.558 - 00:03:05.924, Speaker A: And also Pector is a pretty broad upgrade generally. Now, Georgios here from the paradigm team who's working on Reth put together some of his own thoughts on this recently, where he said some more up to date thoughts on the next hard fork fork, which is Pectra ship Pectora by end of Q 120 25, include peer Das for roll ups to scale, and include EOF for improving the EVM on both L1 and L two. And there's a longer document that was linked here, which I'll link in the YouTube description below, but there is a little bit of back and forth about this right now. I think that there was the idea entertained that we could split Pector up into two little hard forks so that we would have one by the end of this year and one early next year. But personally, from the outside looking in, I don't think that would actually work. I feel like that would add just more overhead. It would add more kind of complexity to everything.
00:03:05.924 - 00:03:31.726, Speaker A: It would just add more, I guess, like work to do rather than just doing it in Q one. I don't think anyone's actually clamoring right now for any upgrade to go live. Obviously with Chappella it was pretty critical because it enabled staking withdrawals, and obviously Dencom was pretty critical as well because of 48 44. But right now blobs aren't at capacity. So Peer Das is awesome. I've talked about peer Das before about how it's going to enable roll ups to scale even greater than what they are right now. But that's the data side.
00:03:31.726 - 00:04:08.318, Speaker A: Right now the main bottleneck for roll ups is still on the computation or the execution side, which is the L two or roll up. They have to deal with that. It's not got to do with L1. Our one is really just data, right? And blobs, as I said, are not at capacity yet, so we're not really getting the push that we had in the past for upgrade so I do think that we can wait until Q one or you know, to 2025 to ship Petra now of course be at peer Das and other kind of related updates aren't the only things that are going to be going into petrol. There's a broad spectrum of things, including my favorite Max EB. But again, I feel like we can wait for these things. I feel like those things aren't critical.
00:04:08.318 - 00:04:51.084, Speaker A: I feel like it's not worth kind of adding more overhead, it's not worth adding more risk, it's not worth adding more work for the core developers just to ship this thing by end of year. I feel like shipping it early next year is just fine there. But there are ongoing conversations around that in terms of timelines. But if I had to put money on it, I would definitely say that it happens in Q one of next year, it being Petra rather than later this year. So there was a lot kind of happening on that, those conversations, and they'll continue to evolve on the core devs calls. Now, of course Tim Bico had a thread recently covering the latest core dev call and I wanted to kind of just drill into, into this tweet here where essentially there was a Devnet that was launched while I was away. So this is Devnet Zero of Pektra and all clients managed to join the network.
00:04:51.084 - 00:05:14.402, Speaker A: But given the uncertainty around 3074, not much testing of that EIP has been done. That's another thing that I missed covering as well. It seems like ERP 3074 was initially included in, in Petra, but it's kind of on the fence now. And this is the account abstraction EIP because I think Vitalik proposed another EIP. I think it was 7000 and something. I can't remember the exact number off top of my head. I saw it somewhere.
00:05:14.402 - 00:05:37.162, Speaker A: But yeah, he proposed that as a, I believe a replacement, or at least it goes alongside 3074 to take away the risks that were associated with 3074. I have to dig deeper into that. I haven't had time. There's just been so much to catch up on. But it's great to see that we have a Devnet going already. As you guys know, the typical process is devnets, testnets and main net. And then in between all of that is shadow fox of Mainnet, of course.
00:05:37.162 - 00:06:21.624, Speaker A: And that's all happening as it usually does, which is great to see going on there. But what's really exciting actually outside of the Devnet being live is the fact that peer Das is probably going to make it into Petra now. Just a refresher on what peer Das is essentially allows us to scale blobs up even further because it enables the use of, I guess what would traditionally be known as sharding where essentially only a subset of nodes have to have a subset of data. So that's being data availability sampling. And this believe is like a, it's like a proto or I guess like a. Yeah, prototype. So the good word prototype version of like full dank sharding, full data availability sampling and data availability sharding generally there.
00:06:21.624 - 00:06:46.910, Speaker A: So peer dice is very exciting but as I said before, because we're not at capacity with blobs yet, there's no one clamoring at the door. But that could change very quickly guys like, I mean we're going into the next leg of the bull market, I believe. Obviously with the ETH, ETF's being approved, the ethereum ecosystem is heading up again. Layer two's continue to grow. They're at all time high activity and all time high TVL and all that good stuff there. But we still have time right now obviously because blobs aren't at capacity. But that could change very quickly.
00:06:46.910 - 00:07:28.882, Speaker A: So I'm very glad to see that peer Das is being worked on kind of there and potentially could make it into Petra alongside the other great ERP that I've talked about in the past. But you can go give Tim Bico's threat a read for yourself to, to check out everything that was going on there. As I said, I'm still catching up on all the core dev stuff that I missed because there was a lot of movement happening. So I did want to touch on something that was related to Petra, but basically goes beyond that. So the Ethereum l one client research, testing and DevOps teams gathered at a week long interoperability event or an off site which focused on Petra, peer Das and Vrkhl. And Tim said here we also hosted a first of its kind community event for african builders and here's a full recap. So this is great.
00:07:28.882 - 00:08:13.850, Speaker A: I mean not only did they get together in a place where I guess like they haven't gone before, at least they haven't been kind of very active before in Africa, but they've also gotten together to really nut out the details of the next two years worth of Ethereum upgrades here. Because as you guys know, verkle trees looks like it will be, or Verkle generally it looks like it will be as part of the next upgrade after Pektra hopefully. I mean there's a lot of work happening there. You guys know that the best place to keep up with that is at Verkle dot in Fo, which I'll link in the YouTube description below for, for you. I'll just bring it up here on my screen as well. But at this interoperability event, as I said, they worked on not only Verkle but peer Das and launched Petra Devnet Zero, as well as a bunch of other stuff, I'm sure. I mean, look at the picture here.
00:08:13.850 - 00:08:51.741, Speaker A: Just a collection of the biggest giga brains within the Ethereum ecosystem. You know, not all of the core devs and researchers, but a lot of them there. And it's great to see them all getting together to nut these things out, because the last time they, last time they do this, but every time they do this, things seem to progress really, really quickly on some of the, I guess, critical things within the Ethereum ecosystem. I remember when they did this for launching the proof of stake beacon chain. So this is way back in like 2019 2020, they were doing a lot of these off site events because launching that in of itself was a huge deal. And then obviously with the merge they did more events around that too. But there are always critical things that need to be worked on here.
00:08:51.741 - 00:09:50.572, Speaker A: And I think that for the next couple of years, obviously the most critical things have got to do with on layer one, have got to do with Ethereum scalability and making sure that roll ups can continue to scale as they have been. But on top of that, also allowing for more stability and more reliability of the chain with things like the vertical upgrade, statelessness, state expiry, and also tackling mev. So there's a lot of work still left to do. You guys know about Vitalik's Ethereum roadmap that is still being executed on that has not really changed in any kind of fashion from what I've seen. Yes, the like technical details of each thing will change, but the general roadmap is that essentially, and those are the things that are being executed on there and those are the things that are being worked on there. And I believe not, probably not all of the people in this picture, but I would say that most of them are recipients of the protocol guild funds as well. So just great to see these people being rewarded for this work now, because traditionally in the past they were rewarded for it, but in different ways where essentially there wasn't a central kind of, I guess like a public goods funding source for them.
00:09:50.572 - 00:10:19.324, Speaker A: It was more that they were part of a team and they'd raise money from somewhere or they get acquired by another team, or they'd be funded by another team, or they rely on donations and you know, and so on and so forth. Or they'd just be self funded in other ways. So I'm glad that they have something in the protocol guild there. But you can go check out this blog post recap that Tim put out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. But yeah, I mean, as I said guys, a lot of stuff happened on the core devs front. I will definitely keep up to date with it and kind of relay that to you guys.
00:10:19.324 - 00:10:59.720, Speaker A: But I think that, I mean, the TLDR is really just progress is, is continuing on the Petra upgrade. Looks like that will ship in Q 120 25 instead of the end of this year. A lot of progress is being made on things outside of picture as well, such as verkle trees and things got to do with Mev as well are always being worked on. But yeah, they're not slowing down really. I mean, it's always kind of funny when I see some of the fud around, especially like the FuD that happened while I was away, right while I was on my break, where people were saying that our ethereum is washed, ethereum is cooked, no one uses it, no one cares about it, blah, blah. And I saw those comments and I'm like, like, that doesn't even, it's not even fud, it's like just straight outright lies. Like it doesn't even make any sense when you match it with reality.
00:10:59.720 - 00:11:44.728, Speaker A: The reality is, is that the core development and core research ecosystem of Ethereum has never been in a better place ever. Like, I know I say that from, you know, sometimes like every couple of months or something, but it just keeps getting better. Not only are they extremely well funded now via the protocol guild and other efforts, but they're also a well awed machine at this point, and they're also executing on a well defined roadmap. So those three things alone, I mean there's plenty of other stuff that goes into it, but those three things alone are enabling a global coordination of people, uh, to essentially execute on one of the most ambitious technical roadmaps in the world. At least that's what I believe. And in doing it all in public as well, because as I said before, the reason why the ethereum ecosystem gets so much heat is because it does everything in public. Like absolutely everything happens in public.
00:11:44.728 - 00:12:27.332, Speaker A: The call core dev calls and research happens in public. All the conversations happen in public, especially on Twitter and other places there, the Discord channels are all public. Very rarely are things happening in private. And if they are, it's probably just DM's between different people talking about things that they're going to talk, they're talking about in public anyway, right? So it's all happening publicly. Whereas if you're working at a traditional web two company, such as like a big web type of company, such as Apple or Microsoft or so on and so forth, you're not working in the public, right? You're working in a very kind of private environment where everything is locked down. You have code names to everything because you don't want things to leak. All of your latest product stuff in R and D is like many, many years out, but no one knows what's happening because of the fact that you haven't publicly announced it yet, hasn't gone through your pr machine.
00:12:27.332 - 00:12:56.546, Speaker A: Whereas in Ethereum, there's no filter. It's basically all out there. It's all out in the open, and it's all out for everyone to criticize, everyone to see. And that's exactly why these things happen. Whereas if you were seeing the internal, I guess, like development and research of what goes on at these big tech companies, it would be the same thing. And on top of that as well, the cool thing, at least, I think, but also, I guess, like can lead to negative, negative externalities, is that anyone can have a say when it comes to Ethereum development. Like, you just have to prove your merit.
00:12:56.546 - 00:13:23.438, Speaker A: You don't. You essentially need to prove that you know what you're talking about to start with. Right? But anyone can have a say. Anyone can get involved with it. And there's been countless examples of this over the years of people just coming out of nowhere, really smart people, and making a difference within the Ethereum core protocol and beyond that as well. So just wanted to add that note there to dispel some of the fud that I'd been seeing flying around, what? While I was on break. And you know, you know, as I said to you guys, I went back and checked a bunch of that stuff and it was just pointless.
00:13:23.438 - 00:13:54.688, Speaker A: Guys, I'm lucky, I'm very glad that I didn't have to be exposed to any of that because it had literally no bearing on anything. I mean, during all of that, ETH was, what, $3,000? The Ethereum ecosystem? Well, I guess like the Ethereum network and the L2s, we're still thriving. And now, what, a couple of weeks later, ETH is at almost $4,000. The Eth ETF's are happening. Suddenly everyone's bullish on ETh just because e. Sorry, Ethereum, just because ETH went up when we all know the reality here, guys. So, yeah, just figured I'd, um, I'd kind of let you guys know my thoughts on that one there.
00:13:54.688 - 00:14:15.232, Speaker A: All right, moving on from core dev stuff into another big announcement that happened. And it happened actually shortly after I took my break, and that was the Eigen foundation launched the Eigen token. Now, you guys know I'm an investor, angel investor in Eigen. In Eigen layer. I am not an advisor to Eigen layer. Some people are saying that I am, which was weird. I'm not an advisor to Eigen layer.
00:14:15.232 - 00:14:41.070, Speaker A: I know that there are a bunch of people, like the bankless guys that are maybe people thought that I was as well. No, I'm an angel investor. But really, when it comes to, I guess, all the same, all the guess, all the. All the similar things that go into each of those, I think advisor, angel investor. I mean, I have exposure to it, right? I have private exposure to it, which I think is basically the same thing. But yeah, I just wanted to clarify that bit there. But I also wanted to put that out there because, you guys know, I like being transparent, but I have a lot of thoughts about this.
00:14:41.070 - 00:15:19.766, Speaker A: Not particularly about the token itself or anything like that, but more so with the reactions to the token. So first thing I'll start off with is that when it comes to the token itself, they have a new design around the token that a lot of you guys have read. You know, they're not just putting this out there as a useless governance token. It is also meant to act as a utility token for the Eigen layer ecosystem. And the way they're doing that is through something called a subjectivity workflow token. I believe there's some buzzwords in there that they used, but essentially, this is probably one of the most interesting token designs I've seen in quite a while. And what I got really upset about, because, you guys know, I took my Twitter break on May 6.
00:15:19.766 - 00:15:46.140, Speaker A: So from April 30, when this was announced, till May 6, which was about a week, I saw the reactions to this, and I was reading them on Twitter. What really upset me is that people always complain about the tokens, or most of the tokens being useless, right? There are useless governance tokens. They do nothing. And then Eigen layer comes along, or the Eigen foundation comes along and says, hey, we have this Eigen token. Yes, okay, it is a governance token, but hey, it can do so much more than governance. And here's what it can do. And then people shit all over it.
00:15:46.140 - 00:16:16.648, Speaker A: It's like, okay, like I understand being critical of it. I understand giving constructive feedback to the team. I understand maybe you don't think it's a good idea, but hey, we should be encouraging teams to do this because if we don't, then essentially teams are not going to want to keep doing this, they're not going to want to keep experimenting. They're just going to launch this useless governance token. They're going to be fine with it because it's their exit, you know, and their vc's are going to be fine with it because they got in really early. So what ends up happening is that the ecosystem is just far worse off for it, at least in eigen layers. Case they came up with this new token design, which I thought was quite interesting.
00:16:16.648 - 00:17:19.004, Speaker A: Now of course I'm not going to dive really deeply into the token design because I'm sure it's going to change over time here. But yeah, that was one kind of thing that I saw that I really wanted to touch on there. Now, with regards to a few other things on this, the other thing that I think that people wanted me to talk about was the conflicts of interest between the advisors to icons layout, the ones that have been publicly revealed since the token went live, and the Ethereum core protocol. So for those of you who don't know, Justin Drake and Dan Crad Fais, two of the most well known Ethereum core researchers, have joined as advisors to Eigen layer and they are getting a substantial amount of eigen tokens. That's these, these are the, these are their words, not mine, for being an advisor to Eigen layer. Now of course, this I guess like stirred up the hive, as you, as you can say, right, for a number of different reasons. Obviously, the biggest reason is that people strongly, strongly believe that this is a massive conflict of interest since that, since Justin and Dan Craid both have huge voices within the Ethereum core protocol itself.
00:17:19.004 - 00:18:12.918, Speaker A: And you know what, I don't necessarily disagree with that, but I do want to add my kind of take here on why I don't necessarily think it is a big issue and I don't necessarily think that people are looking at what a conflict of interest is in the right frame of thinking here. So when it comes to conflicts of interest generally, I think that our actions speak for themselves, right? So if you say that someone has a conflict of interest and they're saying something that they're, they would only say because they're getting paid to say it or they have a bag in saying it. That's, that's pretty obvious, right? We see the VC's do this all the time. You go on Twitter and you see a VC shilling something, you're like, okay, well, that VC obviously is invested in that, and they won't show things that they're not invested in, right? They won't talk about things that they're not invested in. It's very obvious that they have a conflict of interest there where essentially they're conflicted, where they have, they want to pump their own bags and they don't want to pump the other bags that are competing with them. And we see this all the time. Like, I'm sure you guys have seen this, I don't have to elaborate on that because it's quite obvious here.
00:18:12.918 - 00:19:20.052, Speaker A: So in the same kind of line of thinking, if Justin Drake or Dancrad were to act like that towards Eigen layer, now that they've joined as advisors, where they were compromising the Ethereum core protocol, doing things within the Ethereum core protocol research sphere, that would be seen as a conflict of interest. Where they're pushing Eigen layers interests rather than the Ethereum core protocols interest, then that would be quite obvious, I think, because people are very sensitive to this, especially within the core developing environment, because who do you think pays attention to core development stuff? It's really the people who are the most involved with the Ethereum ecosystem and the most sensitive to anything negative happening within the Ethereum ecosystem. Like, look how quickly people reacted to the proposal to change the issuance of a theory of Ethereum recently to deal with too much eth being staked. Like that was within like a day basically, of it, of it being posted, of the research post being put out there and the researchers saying, hey, we want to get this included in Petra. You know, the hive just went nuts over it. And yeah, I've talked about this in the past and I said that I think that there was an overreaction of the immune system here, but it still shed light on it and it still kind of sounded the alarm bells. So I think the same thing would happen here.
00:19:20.052 - 00:20:02.946, Speaker A: If, for example, Justin or Dancrab was to start pushing things in ethereum core development that would essentially compromise the core protocol or at least do something in the core protocol that would favor eigen layer specifically. I think that would be quite obvious because as I mentioned before, everything within the ethereum ecosystem when it comes to the core protocol is down, is done out in the open, it's all open source, it's all publicly documented there. But also on top of that, conflicts of interests can come from anywhere. It doesn't have to come from just monetary conflicts of interest. I would argue that the ideological and social conflicts of interest are more powerful than the monetary ones, especially for people like Justin and Dankrad, which, yes, okay, they care about money. I'm not going to speak for them. But like, obviously they care about money just like everyone else does.
00:20:02.946 - 00:20:43.720, Speaker A: But I do think that the, that people like Justin and Dankrad a very ideologically, I guess, like motivated, more so than monetarily motivated. And I think that a good example of this is that Justin Drake gets criticized all the time for the ultrasound money meme. People say, oh, he only came up with that to pump his EtH bags. And the thing is, is that you can't prove that he didn't come up with that to pump, pump his eth bags. But there's nothing wrong with that either. Like if you are invested in something and you're invested, your entire whole life's invested in it, like why wouldn't you want to get more attention on it? Why wouldn't you want to promote the, I guess, positives of that thing? That's what I do with Ethereum as well. It's what I do with ETH.
00:20:43.720 - 00:21:30.136, Speaker A: Like I'm heavily invested in ETH, obviously, and so is everyone else in the Ethereum ecosystem. And we want to see ETH do well for a number of different reasons, not just for our own personal wealth, but also for the fact that we understand that ETH number go up is very good for the Ethereum ecosystem. It brings more attention in, it brings more developers in, brings more users in. And really, there's nothing else better out there in terms of marketing Ethereum. So, you know, even though Justin gets criticized for this, he, I believe he didn't just do it to pump his bags or anything like that. I believe that he came up with the meme because of the fact that he wanted to market or advertise or essentially get, bring more attention to Ethereum's monetary policy, which he, and I also believe this is the best in the, in the crypto ecosystem. I believe Ethereums is the best and most sustainable monetary policy that we have.
00:21:30.136 - 00:22:22.144, Speaker A: And ultrasound money, you know, is a bit of a meme to poke fine at bitcoin is for saying that bitcoin sound money and so on and so forth. But still, that is something that people would criticize Justin for and say that he has a conflict here. He pushes ultrasound money because he just wants to pump his ETH bags. Right? So, like, I think this, to summarize what I'm saying here is that conflict of, conflicts of interest are very hard generally, because they're not just monetary, they're also ideological stuff and social stuff. You know, think about all the incentives, all the different incentives at play in the personal relationships between the core developers and researchers. I'm sure there are certain things that certain core developers and researchers won't say to each other because they're friends, right? They're not going to be as brutally honest as someone else would be because they have a direct personal relationship with that person. And I think when you take that lens, I think that, as I said, is more powerful than the monetary stuff because at the end of the day, these core developers and researchers, they're humans as well.
00:22:22.144 - 00:22:56.146, Speaker A: They're directly affected by their personal relationships, directly affected by, you know, the monetary incentives and directly affected by their ideological incentives. And that all has to come together to be to push forward the ethereum ecosystem. So when it comes to conflict of interest, specifically with, with Eigen layer, with Justin Drake and Dan crowd and whoever else, I don't know if there's others out there, but I do know there's those two. There's the bankless guys. But obviously, David and Ryan aren't core developers. There's me as an investor, and there are a lot of investors in eigen layer as well. But I think that you can be invested in something while also being critical of it.
00:22:56.146 - 00:23:47.136, Speaker A: And I think that Justin explained this in his tweet and so did Dan Crow. They both basically said that they joined based on a bunch of conditions. And the conditions were essentially that they wouldn't obviously favor Eigen layer if they feel, felt like at any time Eigen layer was doing things that would harm the Ethereum protocol, they would leave as advisors. I mean, you can go read their tweets for yourself. It's, it's all, it's all kind of written there. But I think that people just had this visual reaction where they said, oh, look how easy it is to pay off the Ethereum core developers. You know, if you're a big project, which I think is the wrong take here, I think that because everything is done out in the open and done and done publicly, I think that we would be very easily be able to spot if anything was being pushed by Justin and Dan Cradd to directly benefit Eigen layer, especially at the expense of not only Ethereum, the Ethereum core protocol, but other projects building on Ethereum, aka to compromise Ethereum's credible neutrality.
00:23:47.136 - 00:24:32.864, Speaker A: But at the same time, I do think that Justin and Jank Dankrat have enough kind of, I guess, personal integrity not to do that either. I mean, like it's also reputational too. Like how much is their reputation in the ecosystem worth versus pushing forward something that may or may not affect the value of the Eigen token, right? Because at the end of the day there are certain tokens that don't perform well even though they have a large market share. Look at the Lido token, for example, has a huge market share. The Eldorado token is one of the worst performing tokens. It's just basically sideways because of the, I mean I've mentioned this before because of the overhang from the early investors, but also people just don't want to buy it for some reason. I'm not going to speculate on why, but just because you do something that benefits a protocol doesn't mean that that would drive value to the token as well.
00:24:32.864 - 00:25:08.056, Speaker A: So really when you kind of put out the game theory on this, it doesn't really make much sense from that perspective there. And I guess, like lastly, what I wanted to mention here as well is that while I was thinking about all of this, you know, this is exactly why the most functional and free nations in the world have checks and balances on power structures. Because you can't trust anyone, really. I mean you can't build a system based on, on, on just trusting one person, right, or just trusting one organization. You have to have checks and balances on power. That's why democracy works. I mean it is the least worst system, but it works to an extent.
00:25:08.056 - 00:25:45.362, Speaker A: It works better than any of the, any of the other systems we have out there, right? All the ones that we've tried in the past. And it works because it has checks and balances on power. And it also is up to the people a lot of the time, right, to in fair democracies. I mean there are some out there that aren't as fair as others. I don't want to go into the whole politics of it all, but of course you have this kind of thing where essentially there are these checks and balances in place, and I think within the ethereum ecosystem we do have that, but they're less formal. They're not formal checks and balances where you have like the House, the Senate, the judicial branch, you know, the president, so on and so forth. You have essentially a flat organization where there are no leaders.
00:25:45.362 - 00:26:09.682, Speaker A: There are no. There are no people who basically can dictate, I shouldn't say there's no leaders, there's no dictators that can say what goes on. It's really just completely open to anyone to come in, have a say. People, you know, definitely people. People like Justin and Dan Crabbe would have, you know, maybe way more weight behind their words than someone else, just new coming in. But that's earned over time, over many, many years of working within the Ethereum core protocol. That reputation is earned.
00:26:09.682 - 00:26:48.444, Speaker A: And hey, that reputation can be destroyed overnight. If they were to do something that was to compromise the Ethereum core protocol at the benefit of their advisor bags, whether that be eigen layer or something else out there, there. So, yeah, anyway, I just wanted to cover that because I know people were interested in my take on the conflicts of interest when it came to the Eigen token here. But yeah, I think that's everything I'll say on Eigen layer. Now, before I jump into the rest of the stuff people told me to speak about, actually, this is one of the things that people told me to speak about. And I completely missed this while I was on break. So you guys probably know this by now, but Alexei Pertsev, one of the co founders of Tonetocash, was found guilty of laundering $1.2
00:26:48.444 - 00:27:35.470, Speaker A: billion worth of crypto and has been sentenced to more than five years behind bars. Now, we all know this is bullshit. We all know that the only reason that he was prosecuted was to make an example out of him. We all know that that was, this was done as a chilling effect on people building privacy tools. Essentially what the Netherlands government is saying here, and by extension, probably even like other governments around the world, is that if you build privacy tools, and if it all is being used for money laundering, which there are some choice quotes in here that imply that all it's used for is money laundering, then you're going to go to jail. That's the message that they want to send. And hey, that's a pretty effective message, because no one wants to go to jail, especially not for writing open source code and not for putting, you know, tools out there that can be used for both good and bad.
00:27:35.470 - 00:28:09.110, Speaker A: But some of the quotes in this wide article were quite kind of wild to me. So one of them, and I believe this is from the judge where they said he being Alexei, chose to look away from the abuse and did not take any responsibility. And the reason why the judge said this is because the judge continues and says, perts have made choices, writing the code, deploying the code, adding features to the ecosystem, choice after choice. All the while he knew that criminal money was entering his system. There's a lot to unpack in just that statement there. But essentially what the judge is saying, maybe not the judge. I think this is the prosecutor's argument.
00:28:09.110 - 00:28:59.310, Speaker A: Sorry, not the judge, maybe you misunderstood quoting here, but either the judge or the prosecutor was kind of saying this here, was that they essentially put forward the argument, which they won on, obviously, that Alexei was directly involved with this money laundering because of the fact that he allowed it to happen on, quote, unquote, his platform, or essentially it was not his platform. Once tornado cash was deployed to the Ethereum blockchain, they were no longer in control of. It is a decentralized protocol on Ethereum. But because the tornado cash devs, controlled the front end, because they kept adding features to it, because they had so much of the token there, essentially the court saw that, okay, well, they are materially involved with this protocol. This protocol is laundering money. So ergo this person is guilty. That was really essentially what it boiled down to.
00:28:59.310 - 00:29:46.912, Speaker A: Now, you can apply this logic to anything, really. Imagine if you applied this same argument to someone, and I'm going to use an obvious example here, but someone that sells, you know, firearms in, in the US. Let's, let's just use an easy example here where essentially you could say that, well, this person knew that some of his customers might be using these firearms to do things that are illegal, but he still sold them to these people and he still marketed them to these people, and he still increased his business and used the profits and reinvested in his business to grow his business. See what I'm, where I'm going with this? You can use the same arguments here for firearms, which can be used for good and bad, and you can. Then you can use the same arguments that we use in the, the tornado cash case here against someone selling firearms. And that's just the really obvious example. There are so many other examples out there of this, guys.
00:29:46.912 - 00:30:22.844, Speaker A: What about people who sell all the. Maybe not people who sell this, but like, all of the medications that are sold to people who abuse them, right? Like, what about all the stuff that's legally sold to people that abuse them? I mean, in a lot of places now, weed is being legalized and there's. Honestly, weed is, is better than alcohol for you. Not to say that it's good for you, but alcohol is much more damaging for you. And alcohol is maybe the better example here, but it just as a recent example, people can abuse weed as well. Right? People can abuse it to the point where it has very detrimental health effects for them. But, hey, we don't go after the weed deals and say, hey, you, you know, you're selling to these people who are addicts, I'm gonna blame you for.
00:30:22.844 - 00:30:55.010, Speaker A: I'm gonna arrest you for it. Same as we don't go after people who sell alcohol and, you know, dispensaries. Dispensaries for weed. But, like, also shops that sell alcohol, we don't say, okay, we're gonna blame you and we're gonna go after you because some people abuse alcohol and our alcoholics. So that, that's where I'm going with this kind of line of argument here, because that's exactly what it reads like to me when I read these quotes, is that you can apply this to. To anything, and especially when it comes to things that, you know, that are illegal, obviously. Like, obviously, when it comes to people being addicts to weed or alcohol, that's.
00:30:55.010 - 00:31:22.192, Speaker A: That's not illegal. Right. But the firearms example is the. The proper one here, I think. And he's the one to one example where essentially, if you buy a firearm completely legally from a shop owner and you go and kill someone with it, that the shop owner is not arrested and prosecuted for you killing someone with it. They are not involved in that case at all. Besides basically giving your details over to anyone that's looking into the murder, because obviously they'll, you know, they'll get the firearm, they'll know that it was bought from your store, you'll give them the details, and away you go.
00:31:22.192 - 00:31:43.178, Speaker A: You're not going to get arrested for selling that gun. Right. Whereas this tornado cash developer, Alexei and others were arrested for people using their protocol that they deployed for, I guess, quote unquote nefarious purposes. Right. Or quote unquote illegal purpose purposes. And again, that was not the fault of Alexa here and not the fault of other tornado cash developers. So that's my general take on that.
00:31:43.178 - 00:32:20.690, Speaker A: But again, guys, this goes back to what I've been saying for probably years now. Governments don't like financial privacy. That's one of the number one things they hate, and they're not going to let us have it easily. Their warrantless surveillance regime was not built on, I guess, like, self custody was not built on people being able to use their own, use their money privately, especially when a lot of the governments around the world are trying to phase out cash when you're reintroducing privacy back into the financial system, via crypto and via things like tornado cash. They get very upset because they don't know what to do. They don't know how to regulate it. There's no existing laws for this, so they use a blunt hammer, essentially.
00:32:20.690 - 00:32:50.552, Speaker A: They look at this and like, okay, we're going to try and stamp this out in any way that we can. And essentially the best way to stamp it out, or at least the most effective way, I think, is by, through fear. And this is exactly what they're doing here. They're just trying to scare off people from building privacy tools and trying to neuter the privacy ecosystem. I don't think they're going to succeed because tornado cash is still live on the network. Yes, it has a lot more usage now. Yes, it is illegal for us citizens and persons to use it, but at the end of the day, the criminals that they're trying to stop from using it are still going to keep using it.
00:32:50.552 - 00:33:11.514, Speaker A: And they might even just deploy their own, I guess, like instances of tornado cash or instances of instances of privacy protocol. So. So really, I don't think it actually helps anything here. And I really feel sorry for Alexei that he's been sentenced to jail for more than five years. That's a shit outcome. That's really, really shitty outcome. But honestly, guys, I thought this was going to be the outcome all along.
00:33:11.514 - 00:33:45.060, Speaker A: I don't. I didn't think it was going to get away with no jail time on this because as I said, governments absolutely hate financial privacy more than anything for a number of different reasons, you know, which is just shitty for the individual, it's shitty for personal freedoms, but at the end of the day, they hate it enough to essentially make examples out of people and make examples out of people in a really extreme way here. And he is then Alexa is the sacrificial lamb here. He's basically the example that's being made right now. But there's probably going to be others in the future as well. So we have to keep fighting. We have to keep fighting for financial privacy.
00:33:45.060 - 00:34:34.975, Speaker A: But I think the fights gonna be, have to done, be done probably anonymously. You can't really tie your. Your identity to these protocols if you're building them, because the message is out there that, hey, you will be found and arrested and prosecuted simply for building these tools, even if you have no control over them, which is, as I said, a really, really crappy outcome. But it is what it is, unfortunately, there. All right, so let's move on to some of the stuff that I was said in the Discord channel for me to cover. So MW Jaf had a bunch of stuff that they wanted me to cover, and I'm just going to read through the list here for you guys because I think I want to cover a bunch of these things in a lot of detail here. So essentially, the first thing he wanted me to do was to keep the mental health discussions going because he really appreciates the discussions and the times that I've discussed it with Eric Conner as well.
00:34:34.975 - 00:35:23.472, Speaker A: And I agree with that. I think that my break that I took was very, very therapeutic, honestly, and was probably like the best kind of thing I've done in crypto for a very long time because of the fact that it recharged me. It essentially allowed me to discover that there is more to life than crypto again, because I had forgotten about that, because I had spent so long in crypto. And I think that you have to do it cold turkey, where essentially you have to kind of not if you want to take a proper break, you have to take a proper break. You can't just be like, okay, well, I only check twitter and discord like two times a day. No, I think that a proper, like, week long break where you don't do anything crypto related and you just do completely different things is the way to go if you really are serious about taking a break. And I would also recommend taking up something that you don't normally do and starting a new habit, starting a new routine.
00:35:23.472 - 00:35:36.872, Speaker A: So for me, on my break, the two biggest things I did was I changed my sleeping pattern. So, you guys know, I used to go to bed at 03:00 a.m. wake up at 11:00 a.m. now I go to bed at 01:00 a.m. wake up at 09:00 a.m. i do want to change that to 12:00 a.m. and get up at 08:00 a.m.
00:35:36.872 - 00:35:55.454, Speaker A: just to have a normal kind of sleeping pattern. It is a lot easier generally because everyone else that I know in my real life works on those hours, doesn't work on my weird hours. Right. And it's also just also just healthier in general, especially in the winter months and the colder months. In Melbourne, the sun goes down pretty early, I think like 05:00 p.m. or something. 05:30 p.m.
00:35:55.454 - 00:36:15.586, Speaker A: so I'd rather get more daylight out of it and also more daylight out of my day. And also I started bike riding as much as I can in the mornings. And that was really really good as well. It's exercise, obviously, getting out of the house, so really enjoyed doing all of that. But I will keep up the mental health discussions. We'll make sure that people talk about it. People aren't afraid to talk about it.
00:36:15.586 - 00:36:41.706, Speaker A: I think at the end of the day, there is too much of a stigma around mental health generally. Not just within crypto, but just generally in life. People like to look at it and think that it's a weakness and that they don't want to talk about it because it's a weakness and they shouldn't be feeling this way and why they feeling this way. Their life is so good, so on and so forth. But it's not about that. What it's about is essentially having balance and stability in your. In your kind of personal life, in your mind, both in, you know, mentally and also physically.
00:36:41.706 - 00:37:19.614, Speaker A: Obviously, physically has a lot to do with it, too. And given that we're in crypto, a lot of us aren't as physical as we should be because we're in front of computers or in front of screens all day. So I think that making sure that you're exercising regularly and regularly is always thrown out there as this turn that people are supposed to just understand. I think that you need to do at least an hour of exercise a day. I know that may not be possible for people. So half an hour is probably good enough for those who this is not possible for, but I think you need to do at least an hour a day of physical exercise and at least 30 minutes of that or half of that should be relatively intense exercise just to get the blood flowing, just to keep up being fit. Also doing like stretching routines, meditating as well.
00:37:19.614 - 00:38:12.670, Speaker A: All these things that are just keeping you healthy, both physically and mentally are a must. And then, of course, also eating healthy is, I think, probably above that, above all else, because a lot of people don't, don't seem to understand, maybe because they aren't taught this as they grow up or they forget it and they fall into bad habits that, like, I know it's cliche to say this, but you are what you eat, you know, you are what you put into your body. And there are numerous very, I guess, like strong studies out there that show that your gut and your mind have a direct link to each other. So if you're putting shit food into your body, you're going to feel like shit. It's going to exacerbate the shitty moods that you may already be in. It's going to cause things like a depression to be more for you to suffer from depression and more likely than you otherwise would have. So just eating healthy, getting enough protein, getting enough greens right, and exercising regularly, it's not a hard thing to do, but you have to get yourself into those habits in order to do that.
00:38:12.670 - 00:38:40.880, Speaker A: So, yeah, anyway, I'll leave that one at that. But I will keep talking about this as time goes on there. So the next question, or the next thing that M WJ Eth wanted me to cover, was what I thought about staked ETH being a security. And there's obviously different flavors of staked ETH. So what's going to happen with it all? So. So staked ETH is a tricky one, because the SEC, as we know, is not a good regulator. And I don't know what their actual view of this is.
00:38:40.880 - 00:39:08.902, Speaker A: It seems like they view any staking as a security, which is, I think, wrong, because as you guys know, the different flavors of staking include pure solo staking, where essentially you run all your own hardware. You run, you manage all the software yourself. It's all of your own ETH. So how can that be a securities contract or an investment contract? There is no one else doing the work. It's just you doing the work yourself. You're not relying on anyone else to run the hardware and software for you. You know, you're not taking in any other ETH from outside investors.
00:39:08.902 - 00:39:36.626, Speaker A: It's all just your own. So I would. I would argue that it's very, very difficult to classify, or at least impossible to classify solo staking, true, solo staking, as a security or an investment contract. It just doesn't meet any prongs of the Howie test, really. But I have discussed in the past how something like Coinbase staking definitely meets at least three out of four of the prongs of the Howie test. And I've covered this on a previous episode. I don't know which episode it was, but you guys probably remember it.
00:39:36.626 - 00:40:09.952, Speaker A: I went into detail about this, and I played devil's advocate, essentially, if I was the lawyer on the SEC side, this is the arguments that I would use, and I think it's going to be difficult for Coinbase to win that part of their case. I think that the SSC may not end up getting Coinbase on the asset side of things, so basically arguing that they trade unregistered securities. But I do think it's going to be very difficult for Coinbase to win the staking portion of the case. I do think the SEC could win on that part. It's not just Coinbase, it's Binance and Kraken as well. I mean, Kraken already folded on that. It's not even just Kraken as well.
00:40:09.952 - 00:40:36.930, Speaker A: Kraken literally folded on that. Because these staking operations that are run by Coinbase, Kraken, Binance, whoever, they very much do look like a security or an investment contract because of the fact that it's rely. I mean, relying on the efforts of others is only one of the prongs of the, of the, of the Howie test here. But essentially, that would. That would be the argument that was made by the SEC. It's like you're relying on the efforts of others. There is an investment of money, which I think is the weakest prong.
00:40:36.930 - 00:41:05.920, Speaker A: Um, there is an expectation of profit, obviously, via the yield, but the yield doesn't come from Coinbase, it comes from the Ethereum protocol. But again, you could argue that the yield actually does come from Coinbase because it comes from Coinbase's efforts in running the hardware and software. So you see how I'm going with this. It's a very murky discussion. But then that opens up to the discussion around other protocol, other staking flavors out there, such as staking pools. Like rocket pool, like newer ones, like eat the Phi. Like Lido, obviously.
00:41:05.920 - 00:41:36.758, Speaker A: Like, is that a securities that transaction, is that an investment contract? And I actually don't think that they are, and I don't think the SEC would have any luck going after those, especially because a lot of them aren't even based in the US. I mean, Lido itself, I think, has a foundation. But outside of that, the Lido Dow doesn't have a jurisdiction that it's based in. It's a dow, right? And the Lido not operators, most of them actually exist outside of the US. So I think that Lido would be fine. Rocket pool would probably be even more fine. Because of the fact that rocket pool is thousands of individual node operators.
00:41:36.758 - 00:42:01.372, Speaker A: The rocker pool team operates a subset of those. And yes, they developed the software for rocker pool, but they aren't running people's validators for them. They aren't running the. The kind of hardware and software for them. They're all part of, like, this, I guess, autonomous pool. Obviously, rocket pool is a decentralized staking pool, but there's like, an autonomous pool there where people put Ethan, it gets matched with other Ethan. Validators get spun up by the node operators, right? And they run it.
00:42:01.372 - 00:42:24.820, Speaker A: So, again, very hard there. But I think that the. There's more than three flavors here. But really, I guess the summary here is that solo staking, pure solo staking, true solo staking in my eyes, impossible to deem that as an investment contract or as a security, centralized exchange staking. Highly likely that the SEC could win on this. And it's not just the SEC, it's other securities regulators as well. But highly likely they could win on that.
00:42:24.820 - 00:43:25.750, Speaker A: That just given the nature of the operation and then the decentralized staking pools, or even the relatively more centralized ones would be fine, I think because they're open pools, they're not run by any kind of central entity here, they're run by different sets of node operators that are based in different sets of jurisdictions here. So I think even on that front it should be fine. But yeah, I really don't have much confidence in centralized exchange staking operations being able to exist as non security. In saying that, though, if it is a security, it actually doesn't matter because as long as Coinbase can eventually, or even other exchanges out there can eventually secure a license to trade securities, which they should be able to do. But we know the SEC has been dragging their feet here, but as long as Coinbase could secure that license, then it stands to reason that they should be able to still offer these staking products just in a different way, because this, they would be allowed to trade securities on the platform. Right. So there's a lot to be fleshed out here, essentially.
00:43:25.750 - 00:44:06.468, Speaker A: That, that I think is, is the crux of it there. So essentially there's two other things that I want to get through. Sorry, maybe three other things that I want to get through here before I move on to RHS request of what, what he wanted me to cover here. So this again comes from MWJ Eth where he said, great call on doing into the ether. Do you have thoughts on the language branding of the Ether versus Ethereum for non technical, mainstream contexts? I wrote an article about this that you covered on the refuel back in December. What specific things do you visualize a fully mainstreamed Ethereum technology world looks like that maybe, maybe people haven't envisioned yet. So this might be an unpopular opinion, but I think the vast majority of the world is not really going to know what Ethereum is.
00:44:06.468 - 00:44:50.682, Speaker A: And not just because we have like the l two scaling roadmap where essentially users will know that they're using base or they're using arbitram, but they won't necessarily know that they're using Ethereum under the hood. I think Ethereum existing as like back end technology is fine. I don't think people need to know what, like, I guess like what back end technology is powering the apps that they're using. Just like they don't have to know it in web two, right? Like you don't know what back end technology you're using on Twitter or on Facebook or on YouTube. You can look into it and you can find out, because these web two companies have like developer blogs, but the vast majority, people aren't going to do that. So they don't know that's happening. They just know that, hey, I go to YouTube, I click on a video and away, and I mean it, I can adjust the volume, right? I can have subtitles on there, I can adjust the quality.
00:44:50.682 - 00:45:09.290, Speaker A: That's all running, you know, code in the background. But they don't need to know what that is. I don't need to know what's powering that. They just know that they can do that. So the same is true for like, minting an NFT on base. No one needs to know that base is secured by Ethereum L1, and it's posting its data down to ethereum l one. And it's, it's, it's, it's running on fraud proof.
00:45:09.290 - 00:45:48.262, Speaker A: So to catch any bad guys doing anything bad on the network, and no one needs to know any of that. All they need to know is that, hey, I'm into the end NFT. Maybe they don't even know that they're doing it on base, right? There's like, I'm into an NFT, it cost me nothing, here we go, sort of thing. So from that perspective, I think that the particularly branding for Ethereum isn't too, I guess, important for like the mainstream audience. Where it becomes important is the branding around ETH as an asset. So I think either as an asset doesn't have a central narrative, and I think that's actually a good thing. You know, this gets discussed a lot on Twitter, but I think this is a really good thing that ethereum or ETH itself doesn't have a central narrative because you can't shoe the horn or can't.
00:45:48.262 - 00:46:01.830, Speaker A: You can't like put eat into a small little box that you can with bitcoin. You know, bitcoin is digital gold. Sure, okay, whatever. But you can't be like, ethereum is digital oil or ethereum is gas. Or ethereum, sorry. Or I should say EtH. Or EtH is, you know, a store of value.
00:46:01.830 - 00:46:26.150, Speaker A: Or ETH is a commodity. Or Eth is this it is that. ETh is all of that and more. I mean, ETH is programmable money. That's probably the best thing that we can call it programmable money, because with programmable money, you can have anything. And then we're not even talking about what the Ethereum, the network can do and what the L2s can do and how that feeds into eat the asset, right. You can stake ETH, you can restake, eat, you can use it as collateral, so on, and so use it as a store of value, use it as money.
00:46:26.150 - 00:47:10.968, Speaker A: Right. There's so many different things you can do with ETH that I think that you should, we shouldn't be trying to create some central narrative for ETH as an asset. But in saying that now that ETH has the ETF's right, now that ETH has a more, I guess, like tradfi player base kind of working within its ecosystem, their marketing teams are going to come up with so many different narratives, so many different stories around what a theorem is, around what ETH is, that crypto, Twitter would only dream of being able to come up with guys like these marketing teams. I mean, when it comes to an asset manager like Blackrock or really any other asset manager out there, there. Their number one goal is to bring in Aum, right? It's to bring in money. How do they do that? They do that via business development, sales and marketing. Right.
00:47:10.968 - 00:47:38.552, Speaker A: Particularly sales and marketing, which feeds into business development. Sales and business development are kind of hand in hand as well there. And. Okay, well, if that's what they need to do to bring in money, well, that's where they're going to invest the most amount of money. So they're going to have their bd and sales teams going out to all of their clients and whether it be one on one or through email blogs constantly telling them, hey, you need crypto exposure. And hey, we have BTC and Eth. And hey, Bitcoin is this, you know, BTC is digital gold.
00:47:38.552 - 00:48:07.234, Speaker A: It's a store of value. Hey, and, but ETH is also that. But it does all of this, you know, the Ethereum network does this. The Ethereum network allows for, you know, finance at the speed of light. Hey, we're actually doing tokenization on a theorem. So now you can trade your other things with us at a much faster with lower fees and so on and so forth. So they're going to have so much shilling going on in the background, you're not going to see most of it because it's going to be done in their private channels, but that's going to bring in trillions of dollars into this asset class over the next ten years.
00:48:07.234 - 00:48:34.564, Speaker A: And BTC and ETH won't be the only things that have ETF's over the next ten years, but it is going to bring in literally trillions of dollars, guys, because if only, you know, and this is on the low side, I think. I think it's going to be more than this. I think we're going to see crypto allocations go up to five to 10%, generally, of a person's portfolio. But let's say that it's at 1%. And let's say that the total amount of money in the asset management sphere right now is. And this is globally. Right, but let's say right now within.
00:48:34.564 - 00:48:55.918, Speaker A: Sorry, there's globally, but I want to say within the US. I don't know what the actual number is here, but let's just say it for argument's sake, is like, I mean, there's Blackrock at 10 trillion, and then there's the others as well. Like Vanguard, another maybe 10 trillion or less than there. And then all the other ones. Let's just say it's like $40 trillion or something like that. So 1% of $40 trillion is $400 billion. Right? That's.
00:48:55.918 - 00:49:11.462, Speaker A: That's only 1%. And I'm actually checking my math over here because I'm. Yeah, 400 billion. I knew that was right. So $400 billion, that's only 1%. Now, let's imagine that they up that to 5%. So 5% of $40 trillion is $2 trillion, guys.
00:49:11.462 - 00:49:49.078, Speaker A: Like, that's $2 trillion entering the ecosystem. It's not going to happen all at once. But over the next 510 years, on top of all the other money or entering the ecosystem from everywhere else, this is just the ETF's that are going to bring this kind of money in here. And what do you think that's going to do to the price of ETH and BTC? You know, what do you think it's going to do? The price of other things that get ETF's, and it's going to. It's obviously going to rely on the way these things are weighted. But I do think that a portfolio will eventually be 50 50 Ethan BTC. I do think that eventually they'll be considered equal, especially if their market caps close, because a lot of the weighting tends to be done based on a market cap kind of basis here.
00:49:49.078 - 00:50:16.622, Speaker A: So if ethan BTC are very similar in market cap at some point, then a 50 50 split would make a lot of sense. Whereas right now it'd be more like a 70 30 split because of the market cap differences here. But I do think we're going to get to that 50 50 split there. So could you imagine a trillion dollars of fresh capital going into ETh over the next five years? Need to remind you it's current market cap is less than half of that. Market cap, right, market cap. We all know that. You know, $1 in equals more than $1 addition to the market cap.
00:50:16.622 - 00:50:56.376, Speaker A: You have maybe a ten or 20 x multiple on there that. So imagine if a trillion dollars of fresh money comes in over the next ten years. That could be $20 trillion of market cap added to ETH. You see where I'm going with this, right? You see how crazy this can get. In ten years time, ETH could very well be $100,000 plus, as I've said before, by the end of the decade, it could be that maybe I'm getting too bullish, maybe I'm getting too ahead of myself, but this is the kind of numbers we're dealing with here. So to go back to the original kind of statement here around Ethereum and ether needing a, you know, a central narrative or a central visualization around what a mainstream Ethereum technology will look like, the mainstream Normie audience interacts with on chain stuff. They'll be doing that at the l two s.
00:50:56.376 - 00:51:32.084, Speaker A: They probably won't know about Ethereum, but aetherium will be known within the circles where it matters in order for ETH to be to remain a very strong store of value, where it will gradually go up over time. I have zero doubts about that. Guys like, I have never been more confident of anything in my life then I am. And I've been this confident about ETH for a very long time now, that ETH will continue to trend up over time against USD and against other fiat currencies. And I also believe it will trend up against BTC over time. It'll take longer than people would like it to take. You know, maybe the flipping happens in ten years instead of like five years or something like that.
00:51:32.084 - 00:52:00.714, Speaker A: I don't know. I still believe that it is going to be worth more than BTC one day, but these things tend to take time. And I do believe that ETH is still going to be outperforming USD, especially currency and other fiat currencies, in a really big way over the, over the coming years to come. There. Now, last thing from MWJ EtH that I want to cover. He just asked, what's your favorite potato dish. And the reason why he asked this was because Eric Boltuness, one of the Bloomberg ETF guys, called ETH small potatoes once and it became a meme.
00:52:00.714 - 00:52:28.616, Speaker A: He later apologized for calling it small potatoes and I think he did that once the ETH ETF's were approved or shortly before they were approved. But my favorite potato dish, I mean, I love potatoes. Like absolutely love them. Sweet potatoes, whatever it is, I love them. But I'm kind of a normie when it comes to potatoes. I'm happy just chopping out a potato, putting it in the air fryer with some oil, with some olive oil and paprika for 20 minutes, and then eating it like that with some sriracha, which is, for those of you don't know, a spicy condiment. That's, that's what I like.
00:52:28.616 - 00:52:45.316, Speaker A: That's how I like my potatoes there. But anyway, enough about my, my interest in food. Last thing before I wrap up. Today's a very long episode. Wow, I've almost gone for an hour here. Rh asked me to cover East Sydney. Now, I didn't cover this because I went to eat Sydney and there were no refills happening.
00:52:45.316 - 00:53:01.100, Speaker A: And then I went on my break. So East Sydney was fucking amazing. Honestly, like it was a perfect way to kind of like start my break, so to speak. Where I went there, it was, it was honestly crazy. I went there, I went straight into it. There was so much happening. There was pragma that happened and there was the hackathon.
00:53:01.100 - 00:53:22.812, Speaker A: There were so many side events I met up with so many people had so many conversations nonstop. Really. I don't know if I mentioned this on one of my other episodes, but there was a period of time where I was, where I was at eth pragma Sydney, where I stood in the same spot for 8 hours straight because people kept coming up to me to talk to me. It was packed. There was so many people there. People kept coming up to talk to me about everything. Ethereum.
00:53:22.812 - 00:53:43.896, Speaker A: And I literally didn't realize 8 hours had passed. My friend came up to me and said, dude, you know, you've been standing here for a very long time. And I hadn't looked at my watch or anything or even my phone, and I looked and I'm like, oh, wow. And I worked out in my head. I'm like, wow, I've actually stood in the same spot for 8 hours straight because people were bringing me drinks and stuff too. Like I, people like, oh, you want to, you want water? I'm going to the bar or something. I'm like, yeah, yeah, sure, sure.
00:53:43.896 - 00:54:00.460, Speaker A: And I didn't even have to move for that. So I literally stood in the same spot for 8 hours. And of course I realized I had to pee at that point because I had just been so involved with talking with people. That was the highlight for me, honestly, just given that, how many people were just coming up and talking to me about Ethereum. I love it. It was like a. An eight hour long daily great refuel episode, essentially.
00:54:00.460 - 00:54:18.020, Speaker A: But yeah, that was probably the highlight of the event for me. But there were so many other cool things that happened. A lot of great talks at Pragma, a lot of really cool projects built at the hackathon, which I did retweet. You can probably find that somewhere on my twitter there. I was a judge there as well. Got to meet all the teams building. They were all so passionate about what they were building guys.
00:54:18.020 - 00:54:41.082, Speaker A: Like, if anything, I've always said this, like, I bet on the Ethereum builder community, it's just so, so good. I mean, this was the first eth global event in Sydney. So it was relatively small compared to other places around the world. Because it's Sydney, right? It's Australia. Like, people don't really want to travel here from Europe in the US. And I mean, I don't blame them because I know what it's like to travel to Europe from where I am. It's a minimum 25 hours trip and a lot of jet lag.
00:54:41.082 - 00:55:06.580, Speaker A: Right. So it was a lot of local, a lot of the local community, but still people from other places like Asia and India as well. And at least from what I saw. But it was a really strong showing for the fact that Australia generally has a, you know, I mean, it's a relatively small crypto community because our population is like 25 million. It's not that big of a country generally, and most of those people aren't into crypto, but. Yeah, I know. I just wanted to say that I had a really great time there.
00:55:06.580 - 00:55:21.884, Speaker A: It was really awesome. Everyone was in really high spirits. There was so much going on. It was hard to keep up with. It was so people I talked to so much, so many old friends that I caught up with as well. I mean, I had really long conversations with Kane from Synthetix. I love talking with him because he's an OG like myself.
00:55:21.884 - 00:55:46.248, Speaker A: We were just reminiscing on the good old days. But what he's building with Infinex and what he and his team are building with Infinix is super interesting. So if you haven't checked out Infinix yet, be sure to do so. I'm not an advisor investor in Infinix. I'm not showing it to you guys just because of that. I just was talking to Kane for a long time about it, and what they're doing with Infinix is awesome, so I highly recommend checking it out if you haven't yet. But I think on that note, that's going to be it for today's episode.
00:55:46.248 - 00:55:54.344, Speaker A: So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
