00:00:01.160 - 00:00:38.540, Speaker A: What is up, guys? Taiki here. And welcome to farms of the week, where I'll be going over the farms I'm currently in as well as the farms I'm watching. So if you like the content, please like and subscribe and leave a comment in the comment section below. So let's get started. I want to allocate the majority of this video to Defi kingdoms just because Juul has been an absolute tink, right. So I'll do a little presentation later in the video where I'll be going over like, hey, like when you do the research, build conviction, have a plan, farming becomes a whole lot easier. But before I get into that, let's kind of go over the actual application just because it's changed a little bit since I last talked about it roughly a month ago, right? And yes, Defi Kingdoms is still my highest conviction form, right? And it still has not changed.
00:00:38.540 - 00:01:30.654, Speaker A: Okay, so this is the application. And one of the reasons I've been bullish Defi kingdoms is because, I mean, I guess, like, as a defi farmer, like educator, right. It's really, really difficult to explain these farming concepts to, I guess, newer participants, right? Sure. I can make videos every single week about, hey, hey, like, if you're new to farming, you check out this video, but, you know, it's, it's not really scalable and, you know, I don't really want to do that. So if you, if there's a way to visualize, I guess, defi farming, etcetera, in one single application, I think it's going to be a whole lot easier to onboard new users. And if there's like a play to earn component to it, then, you know, it can also create excitement for that part of the business as well. So I kind of go over the marketplace, the bank, and the gardens in this video just because I feel like, you know, these three, I guess, establishments in this game have the most value, or it's like, it's like the most basic.
00:01:30.654 - 00:02:24.820, Speaker A: But if you're trying to onboard someone new to defi, you go to this application like, hey, if you want to buy something global trade, we're all about that supply chain. You go to the trader and you buy whatever token that you want. Go back to the menu, go back to the maps, and hey, if you want to plant some, if you want to farm some jewel, what do you do? Well, you go through the gardens, right? I mean, I feel like farming as a term, right, is a meme, right? It's like, why is it called farming to begin with? Right? Someone came up with farming, and it's a thing now. This thing looks like a penis, but we'll let that go. So what you do is, when you want to farm Juul, you go to the seed box, you buy some seeds, right? And seeds are, you know, these lP tokens. And you take your seeds and you stake it, and you plant it in the gardens, right? And that's how you farm more Juul. The Joule farm that I am currently in is jewel, USDC, and joule one.
00:02:24.820 - 00:03:00.312, Speaker A: I mean, I didn't really see expect the price of Juul to go up this high. So, you know, the impermanent loss I'm incurring is pretty high here. But, you know, I thought, like, hey, or I guess back then, I thought, like, hey, like, this thing is so inflationary, surely this thing can't really keep going up, you know, because when you're earning super high yield on these tokens, like, you don't really need the price to go up, right? If you're earning decent yield and the price is stable, you should be your fork. So, you know, I'm in this one and I'm in this one, because, I mean. I mean, Julian won, they should be correlated. So there's that too. Okay, so that's it.
00:03:00.312 - 00:03:51.670, Speaker A: And lastly, go back to the bank, right? And, you know, if you're trying to explain to someone new about, like, you know, what this. How does staking actually work? How do you actually earn fees? Well, it kind of makes sense if you actually go to the bank, right? And you stake your jewel, which is like, the in game currency, you get to earn part of the protocol fees. So, yes, if you're a defi native, if you're a farmer, these things are super simple. And, like, you know, it's like, you don't really need me to explain it to you, but, you know, you can kind of imagine, like, maybe like, six months ago, you're, like, new to farming, and you're trying to learn this for the first time. I would suspect that, like, if deepak kingdoms existed, like, you would have found farming to be a lot more simple, a lot more fun, and a lot more easier to understand, right? And keep in mind that defi kingdoms, they're not only going to be in harmony, they're trying to go cross chain. So they told me that, like, they're going to have, like, literal bridges to, like, different ecosystems. So maybe.
00:03:51.670 - 00:04:34.640, Speaker A: Maybe, I mean, this bridge doesn't go anywhere, but maybe this is a way to go to maybe, like, the Madag ecosystem right? And if you want to go to the avalanche ecosystem, you go to the mountains here or something. You want to go to terra ecosystem, you like, ride this blimp, you ride this air balloon all the way up. And, you know, maybe there's this thing's maybe this boat. You ride the boat to the phantom ecosystem or something. I don't know. But I see a lot of potential in this game. And if you can farm, you know, if you can farm jewel for these insane APIs or ApRs, I mean, you know, what can you do, right? I'm just like, I don't really care what the price does, right? I remember, like, back on November 3, I made this, like, harmony one pep talk video because the price of Juul went to $3.50.
00:04:34.640 - 00:05:28.990, Speaker A: And I got a bunch of DM's saying, like, hey, like, taki, like, why did you dump on us? Like, you know, is this thing going to zero? Like, what? I don't know if you can see my face here, let me move my camera so you can see my face. I'm like, bro, like, what are you talking about? Right? Because if you don't have plans for, like, whatever forums that you're in, if you don't have plans or thesis on, like, whatever tokens that you hold, like, buy tops, sell bottoms, it's just like, it's just like how it happens, right? Because in hindsight, I mean, there's. There was no way for me to know, but 350 was like, the literal pico bottom of the fucking news. And I don't do price predictions in this channel, right, because this is an Uber inflationary token. So I'm even surprised that it's, like, above $5 at this point. Maybe this thing goes to ten. I don't know, right? For me, as a farmer, I'm happy just farming this, not touching it.
00:05:28.990 - 00:05:54.374, Speaker A: I literally check this, like once a week, right? I'm like, oh, like, cool, I have more jewel, right? And price is up. And then when this happened, I'm like, oh, wow. Like, it dumped 30%. Okay? People took profits. Good for them, right? I'm just gonna keep farming, right? And it's up today. I'm like, okay, cool, like, I'm still farming jewel, right? My plan hasn't changed, right? Because of a pretty mid to longer term time horizon for this particular farm. So that being said, let's kind of go over to my presentation.
00:05:54.374 - 00:06:18.490, Speaker A: Let me mute this sound back here. Okay. Because I feel like, as a farmer, right, you shouldn't just farm things for the sake of farming. Every form that you, that you're in should fulfill a role in your portfolio. Right. And I'll kind of go over, like, what I mean by that, right. And for me personally, defi Kingdoms is a way for me to gain exposure to the harmony ecosystem and I guess gamefi in general.
00:06:18.490 - 00:06:43.536, Speaker A: And also, like, you know, maybe like, if you're in a stablecoin farm in other ecosystems, right. It's a way for you to hedge risk. Right. In case the market cracks or something. So role of DFK in my portfolio. So this might sound confusing, but I'll go into it more in detail. But DFK is my way to gain exposure to the harmony ecosystem while also being a hedge in case the harmony ecosystem doesn't turn out to be a good one.
00:06:43.536 - 00:07:05.004, Speaker A: Right. My bias is that harmony is still an undervalued one. But I could be wrong, right? I mean, you should always work under the assumption that you could be wrong, right. Because if you think that you're a genius and you're just like, yoloing that word into all coins, then, like, what? What if you're wrong, right. You're gonna get wrecked. And I argue that the only way that you're gonna get wrecked in crypto is if you take on too much risk. You fomo into, like, rugs.
00:07:05.004 - 00:07:47.248, Speaker A: So, no, I feel like if you have a longer term time horizon for your portfolio, right. I mean, for me, like, I don't plan on, like, retiring, like next month, right? I plan on just slowly growing my portfolio, my net worth over time through these farms. Manage risk and just having a plan. Right? And just like, just managing risk and having realistic expectations for all the farms that I'm in. So like I mentioned earlier, Defi Kingdoms is looking to be a cross gen game to meet where the players are, right? Think of these different l ones as consoles in a particular game, right? For example, FIFA, right? I play FIFA. I like soccer or football. FIFA's available on Xbox and PS Five, right? They're not like Microsoft Maxis.
00:07:47.248 - 00:08:38.790, Speaker A: They're not Sony Maxis. They want to sell the game, right? Similarly, defi kingdoms, they think of these different l ones, such as Harmony, avalanche, phantom, medic, Terra as consoles, right? If people want to play this game on Terra, they'll go there. If you want to play this game on avalanche, they'll go there, right? I'm super bullish on projects that are not eth maxis or just like maxis in any particular ecosystem, because, I mean, there are a bunch of users spread across all ecosystems. And if you want to be a successful project, then you should try to gain as much market share as you possibly can. So here are some screenshots about, unlike how these different ecosystem tokens are listed on defi kingdoms already, such as Matic, Luna, Phantom, avalanche. Right? So, you know, they are trying to go cross chain. I believe you can actually bridge, I think, on any swap or Allbridge, I forget one of the two.
00:08:38.790 - 00:09:50.230, Speaker A: If you want to bridge Joule from one ecosystem to another, keep in mind there might be. There might. There might not be any liquidity for Joule on, like, you know, these other elements, but, you know, over time, there's gonna be a bridge. Excuse me. And let's kind of go back on my point of how Defi Kingdoms is a way for me to gain exposure to the harmony ecosystem while also acting as a hedge, right, which kind of contradicts each point, but my thinking is that if harmony succeeds, Defi kingdoms succeed, right? If Harmony TVL goes up ten x in the next six months or something, of course Defi kingdoms will succeed because they're the number one decentralized exchange on the harmony ecosystem. However, let's be open to the idea that maybe the harmony ecosystem, like, who knows? Like, maybe they keep delaying chain link till 2023, and maybe, you know, there's, like, not that much developer activity, right? Well, in that case, if you're all in the harmony system, you might get wrecked, right? But I argued that Defi kingdoms can succeed even if Harmony does not succeed, right? Because they're equal, they're multi chain, and they're gonna go where they go, where there is demand. The thesis that I have, right, for, I guess, Defi kingdoms in general, is that they can be a successful cross chain application, which is kind of hard to do.
00:09:50.230 - 00:10:17.402, Speaker A: If you think about native decentralized exchanges. Think about trader Joe, spiritswap, spooky swap. You know, they can't really go into other ecosystems. They're kind of, their success is kind of contained to the success of the ecosystem that they're already in, which isn't a bad thing. But, you know, it's one of the things that Defi kingdoms, they have an advantage over. These native dexes. Think about why sushiswap is never the number one decentralized exchange on, like, any particular chain, right? Sushi is everywhere, but they're never the number one.
00:10:17.402 - 00:11:01.016, Speaker A: They're always number two, number three, number four, right? They're always overtaken by a particular dex. The reason for that is because sushi, they're incapable of offering high inflationary rewards to all ecosystems. Because if they do that, then farm token, I mean, the sushi token is going to go to zero. If people can earn three digit yield on sushi, on all ecosystems, it's going to get dumped to the ground. So sushi, yes, they're everywhere and they have decent yields, but they're never the highest yield. So similarly, trader Joe Spurtswap. Let's say trader Joe wanted to go to Phantom, right? Do you think they'll succeed? Probably not, right? Because Trader Joe, they can offer high yield in the avalanche ecosystem, but as soon as they offer high yield in the phantom ecosystem, the token will not perform as well.
00:11:01.016 - 00:11:52.072, Speaker A: Same goes for spirit swap or spooky swap. If they want to go to the avalanche ecosystem, there's just not going to succeed, right? But Defi kingdoms, as a game, they're able to establish a competitive moat around that particular game where defi kings can go to avalanche, they can go to Phantom. And this demand, and I, the demand for Defi kingdoms in the jewel token should actually go up just because there's nothing like Defi kingdoms on these other ecosystems. So that's kind of how I think about, hey, like, if harmony succeeds, Defi kingdoms will succeed. Well, if Harmony does not succeed, well, yes, the Defi kingdoms and jewel might dump, right? Because, I mean, they're still majority exposed to the ecosystem. However, they do have roadmaps to expand to, you know, to go cross chain. So, you know, even if harmony, like, doesn't do well, they can continue their success on other ecosystem, which is kind of a way to hedge against, I guess.
00:11:52.072 - 00:13:02.000, Speaker A: Harmony not doing well. I'm not saying it's gonna do that, right? I'm just thinking about, like, risk management, right? Because think about it like, if you're, if you're super bullish harmony, right? And you're all in harmony, right? If you're just like, in all of the farms with 100% of your net worth. Well, what if you're wrong? Right? Here's the wrecked right? So I'm bullish to harmony ecosystem, but, you know, I don't need to, you know, buy a bunch of one tokens. I don't, I don't need to buy a bunch of, you know, these other farm tokens, because Defi kingdoms, it's just a good way to gain exposure to the harmony ecosystem, right? For this reason, I don't really own a sizable bag of one. Because, I mean, yes, I mean, I would buy some if I, if I could, but, you know, I don't have an unlimited amount of money, and it allows me to free up capital and had space to utilize elsewhere, right? Instead of allocating maybe 10% of my portfolio defi kingdoms, 10% of my back to 100% harmony, maybe I can allocate maybe 12% of my portfolio into defi kingdoms and free up the rest of the 8% into stable coins to hedge against downside volatility. Or maybe the avalanche equals to them because they're bullish, stuff like that. You always have to think about, what role does this farm play in my portfolio? Because if you don't think about that, then maybe you're taking on too much risk.
00:13:02.000 - 00:14:39.490, Speaker A: Like I mentioned, I feel like the only way you don't make it in crypto is this taking on too much risk. You kind of have to build up a plan, and for this reason, like, like I mentioned, like, I don't even care about the price of draw, right? If this dumps, like 30% tomorrow, like next week, unless there's, like, crazy fundamental, like the crazy changes in fundamentals, I really don't care, right? I mean, to be honest, like, this thing is being showed everywhere on social media. So, you know, this video might be the local top of jewel, right? It's like, I really don't care, right? I'm just sitting comfy the last two months farming this thing with zero stress at all, right? It's a way for me to gain exposure to harmony, ecosystem and gamefi, right? And if I can do two of those things in one form, feeling good. And if you think about, like, just like the standard revenue equation, like revenue equals price times quantity, right? If you're earning like four digit eprs on a particular farm, you don't need the price to go up, right? If price remains stable for the next two months, making money, right? Of course, if you buy a farm token on a centralized exchange, you do need the price to go up, right, because you're not gaining any yield, right? This is like, kind of like a humble form of mindset that everyone should have. It's like people care too much about price. Of course, price is important, right? I mean, if you're any 100% APR and price dumps 90%, you're wrecked, right? But I don't really enter, like, those types of DJ farms nowadays, so I'm trying to enter forms with a mid to longer term mindset, especially as we near tax season, right? Or I guess not tax season, but near the end of the year, it's like, I'd rather in like mid November, I'd rather not try to take on additional taxable events. Because if I can delay my taxes for twelve months, it gains.
00:14:39.490 - 00:15:40.524, Speaker A: It has a lot of utility for me because I can earn like 30% in DeFi easily, right, on stable coins. So if I can delay taxes by twelve months, I can earn 30% on the stable coins that I would have had to, I guess, cash out into fiat to pay taxes on, if that makes sense. Okay, so that's kind of a short little presentation on how I think about this particular farm and the role it plays in my portfolio. Right? Okay. And I kind of want to touch on like, some Twitter activity that's, that's been going on and why, why I think Defi kingdoms is really interesting. So this is Dao, called DFK Dao, where it's like a group of people that, I guess, pool capital together to accumulate heroes and I guess play the game to maximize profits and whatnot. So this is really interesting because it's, I think the founders are satstart and Ansem.
00:15:40.524 - 00:16:34.502, Speaker A: These two people are people I really respect. I think they're crazy good farmers, right? You see DFK down here that start here, right? So I mean, for like, these daos to form, it must mean that like, hey, like, you know, these smart money is also in this. Obviously everyone's gonna make profits at some point, right? So you shouldn't expect this thing to keep going up forever, right? I mean, I should. You should expect this thing to go down, right? Because look at these yields, right? Do you expect people not to sell? Right? It's like, I'm gonna sell at some point, right? I'm not selling now. I'm gonna sell at some point, right? You should sell at some point, right? Unless you're like a super maxi. So I thought that was interesting. And Ansem tweeted this here, but like, you know, people are just really like buying these heroes, right? And part of the reason the price of Joule is going up is because it has in game utility most other farm tokens, right, for like, random Uniswap works like no one wants to hold those tokens, right? It has zero utility.
00:16:34.502 - 00:17:25.123, Speaker A: But Joule is the in game currency, meaning that you can participate in the game by buying jewel and then buy heroes with it. If you go back to my giveaway that I did, right, yeah. Almost a month ago, this thing was worth like fourteen k at the point, right? But I don't even want to know what this thing is worth because it all just make me a little sad. Not really, because, right. But I hope that the giveaway winner Tom is really happy with this giveaway, but if you want to, I guess, if you want to doubt the success of the game, I mean, just let it be known that these NFTs are going for like five figures, right? Mid five figures. And some of these mythic nFts are going for like six figures, I think. Yeah, 30,000 jewel, right? At like current prices, what's the price of jewel? 665.
00:17:25.123 - 00:17:54.460, Speaker A: I mean, that's a lot of money, right? It's pretty crazy. Okay, so I guess, like, the one thing that I don't really talk about on this channel for Defi Kingdoms is like the gaming side, right? Because I entered this farm more from like a farmer's perspective, right? I don't. I didn't really have intentions on playing the game, but maybe I should, right? Maybe. Yeah, maybe I really should. So I'm gonna leave this link in the description below. Beginner's guide to Defi Kingdoms how to start playing Defi kingdoms. I think it's a good one.
00:17:54.460 - 00:18:30.130, Speaker A: There are other youtubers that kind of talk about, like, how to play this game. I think climb crypto. There's digital slomad. I believe there's a bunch of youtubers that are playing the game. And if you want to know how to play this game, I really recommend I'll link them in the description below to their channel so you can see how can I actually play these heroes play these games? Because the reason these heroes have value is because it's going to be a play to earn model. And these heroes can help you unlock some of the tokens that are locked. I'm not going to go over it in too much in detail.
00:18:30.130 - 00:18:53.540, Speaker A: Okay, so that was a very long winded explanation of Defi kingdoms and, oh, fast forward. But let's kind of go back into another ecosystem, which is doing really well, which is avalanche. Right. Avalanche hit dollar 100. I'm assuming that if bitcoin need, their volatility is muted. Avalanche over $100 makes sense. So a few forms on Avalanche.
00:18:53.540 - 00:19:17.404, Speaker A: Obviously Trader Joe is a good one. Not only the LP forms, right. But also XJO got listed as collateral, which is really, really interesting because X Joe is an interested, interest bearing version of Joe, where if you stake Joe for X Joe, you get to earn part of the protocol fees. And if you lend out your X Joe here, right. You can earn, I guess, not really lending it out. You're just like using it as collateral. You can earn 35% paid in the Avax token.
00:19:17.404 - 00:19:49.086, Speaker A: Right. So if I can do this, then, you know, you can expect, you know, people to have, I guess, like more demand for the Joe token, right? Because before this, right, maybe I didn't have that much incentive to hold Joe. But if I can take X Joe or Neil on it and there are an additional yield in the form of Avax tokens, that offers additional utility for me. You always have to think about the utility of these tokens because, I mean, that's, that's, that's. That's like one of the key determinants for supply and demand. There's that. And obviously, you know, you can farm here.
00:19:49.086 - 00:20:11.806, Speaker A: These yields are just, you know, just good in general. So, you know, make sure to look out for that too. Obviously, I talk about aave a lot because I think this is severely underrated. Like, you can earn roughly 13.5% on avalanche, right? And you can use those collateral, borrow against it. And these borrow apys are going up just because people want to take on leverage. You want to borrow more dollars, but it kind of makes sense, right? Yeah, sure.
00:20:11.806 - 00:20:39.476, Speaker A: You're paying 7% to borrow tether, but you can earn, I believe, roughly 45% on alpha Homora. Let me connect to the avalanche ecosystem there. Yes. If you go to the earn tab on Alpha Homura, right. This is leveraged geofront protocol. You can earn, oh, this kind of went down. So this used to be like 45%, like 30 minutes ago, but I guess more people deposited or something.
00:20:39.476 - 00:21:23.428, Speaker A: But you can earn 31% and 14% on stable coins, right? So USDC here. So I mean, if you're hypothetically, let's say you're using avalanche, bitcoin, ETH as collateral, right? Because you're bullish on those assets earning decent yield, you can borrow USDC, right? And maybe you're paying a 9% yield, right, to borrow USDC. But if you're earning 31% here on USDC, is that bad debt? No, it's good debt, right? You're paying 9% to earn 31%. You're earning yield indirectly on your avalanche, bitcoin and ETH tokens. Pretty cool, obviously curve two, right? You can earn roughly 20. What is this, like 23%, 24% on stable coins. This is a more of like a simple strategy, right? You can expect these rates to be relatively stable.
00:21:23.428 - 00:22:05.742, Speaker A: You can just deposit Dai, USDC or USDT and deposit it here. So maybe we can do is you can look at, like the stable coin with the lowest net APY, which is usually tether, right? You can borrow tether@a.net 5.3% APY apr, and then deposit here earn 24%. Is that bad yield? Sorry? Is that bad debt? No, like you're paying like let's say 5% to earn 24%. Nothing bad there at all. I feel like people are just like scared about debt in general and yes, like you should be scared about debt if your health factor here is like super dangerous, right? But as long as you're earning a safe amount of stable coins against your collateral and you're earning super high yield with those stable coins, it's just a really, really simple way to form earn yield on your assets.
00:22:05.742 - 00:22:25.160, Speaker A: And hey, like avalanche. Great ecosystem. Great ecosystem. So that being said, thank you guys for watching. Yeah, and actually have an AMA with frisky fox on my private discord. So if you don't know how this Thursday. So if you don't know what I'm doing with markets, check out the link in the description below.
00:22:25.160 - 00:22:27.160, Speaker A: Thank you guys for watching and have fun farming out there.
