00:00:04.570 - 00:01:12.334, Speaker A: Thanks for tuning in to this week's news. Recap first Headline Visa Unveils plans for a Universal Payment channel Visa, the multibillion dollar payments company, released a white paper on Thursday about its L2 solution, dubbed the Universal Payments channel, or UPC, that would allow for cryptocurrency to be transferred across different blockchains. According to the white paper, Visa is explicitly planning for an interoperable multi chain future between various CBDCs stablecoins and cryptocurrencies. The payments giant envisions its UPC technology, facilitating cross border CBDC payments, reducing settlement time for digital marketplace purchases, and enabling high throughput transactions between different digital currencies. In an interview with the bloc, Kai Sheffield, Visa's head of crypto, expressed optimism about Visa's plans. Quote this is a much longer term, future thinking concept around a way that Visa could potentially help become a bridge between one digital currency on one blockchain and another digital currency on another blockchain, he said. In addition to its white paper, Visa also deployed its first smart contract to an Ethereum testnet.
00:01:12.334 - 00:02:28.518, Speaker A: The contract acts as a payment channel that accepts both ETH and USDC next Headline checksIt crypto companies leave China en masse after crypto policies tighten Last Friday, the People's Bank of China, or PBOC, and nine other top Chinese regulators issued a new list of forbidden activities regarding cryptocurrency transactions. China's crackdown is extensive, making crypto to crypto trades along with crypto to fiat trades illegal for users regarding crypto companies, the PBOC now forbids banks and other financial institutions from offering services related to crypto. Chinese staff members working for overseas exchanges like Huobi Global will also be investigated for their participation in the crypto markets overseas. Crypto exchanges themselves are starting to distance themselves from China, as both Huobi and Binance put a halt to new registrations from Chinese users. Huobi plans to retire existing Chinese accounts by the end of the year. Websites and other information related to virtual currencies are also beginning to be censored. For example, three of the most popular crypto data services, CoinMarketCap TradingView and CoinGecko, are now blocked in China, according to the block.
00:02:28.518 - 00:03:23.090, Speaker A: Additionally, Alibaba, the Chinese e commerce giant, plans to stop offering crypto mining equipment on its platform. Bitmain, a crypto mining hardware firm, also announced a similar move. Most critically, Ethereum mining pools are being affected. In addition to the PBOC's statement, China's state planning regulator, the National Development and Reform Commission, reiterated its stance on cryptocurrency mining and deemed mining an outdated industry, according to CoinDesk. Shortly after Friday's statement, two of the largest five Ethereum mining pools, SparkPool and BPOL, decided to shut down operations. Both pools were based in China. Next Headline Huge valuations could be coming for crypto exchanges Two crypto exchanges are in the process of raising money at multibillion dollar valuations by the end of this year, according to a report from the blocks.
00:03:23.090 - 00:04:10.254, Speaker A: Frank's Chaparro Gemini the crypto exchange run by Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss, is in the final stages of closing a deal that would value the company at $7 billion. Finance US is also looking to raise funds, but is yet to find the right group of willing investors. The exit of Ryan Brooks, the former federal regulator, as CEO is a reason for investor hesitation. Along with Binance CEO Chengping Zhao's reluctance to give up board control, the exchange, the block reports, is looking to raise at a valuation of $3 billion. Finance US's parent company Binance is also eyeing a funding round. Finance, the largest crypto exchange by volume in the world, is targeting a valuation between $100 billion and $300 billion. Coinbase's current market cap for comparison is $47.4
00:04:10.254 - 00:05:12.858, Speaker A: billion. Next Headline Compound's liquidity mining program went awry to the tune of $80 million on Wednesday night. Compound, the fifth largest DFI protocol by total Value locked, began erroneously paying out millions of dollars in comp tokens due to a bug in a new upgrade. Unusual activity has been reported regarding the distribution of comp following the execution of Proposal 62. The protocol tweeted out on Wednesday night. Proposal 62, which went live just hours before the bug was found, intended to split comp rewards to liquidity providers and borrowers based on new governance set ratios, rather than the original 50 50 split. However, due to the bug in its controller contract, over 168,000 comp have already been scooped up, worth around $50 million as old users came in to claim outsized rewards on Twitter, Compound Labs founder Robert Leshner explained that user funds were not at risk.
00:05:12.858 - 00:06:12.050, Speaker A: Quote all supplied assets, borrowed assets and positions are completely unaffected. Users don't have to worry about their funds. The only risk is that you or another user receives an unfairly large quantity of comp, he wrote. According to Leshner, the impact will be bounded at 280,000 comp tokens, or roughly $80 million. Next Headline The CFTC charges 14 crypto companies for failing to register with the regulator The Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or CFDC, announced charges against 14 cryptocurrency exchanges this week. The regulator alleges that twelve crypto companies failed to register as Futures Commission merchants, or FCMs, and that two made false or misleading claims of having CFTC regulation. Quote Today's actions reflect the CFTC's dedicated efforts to aggressively root out bad actors, falsely claiming to hold legitimate registrations and protect the trading public, said Division of Enforcement acting director Vincent McGonagall.
00:06:12.050 - 00:07:02.654, Speaker A: Next headline. The NFL and Dapper Labs partnership will be different. On Tuesday, the NBA TOPSHOT creator, Dapper Labs, confirmed a report from Sports Business Journal of a partnership with the National Football League. In a match made in acronym heaven, the NFT company will create exclusive digital video highlights for the NFL on its flow blockchain. The NFL NFT marketplace is yet to be named, but is expected to launch during the current season. Katie Tedman Dapper's, Head of Partnerships told Decrypt The NFL is certainly a holy grail in North America, and we're super, super lucky to partner with them. According to Tedman, the NFL's marketplace will be very different from TOPSHOT due to the NFL schedule and the fact that the NFL has so many more players on the field during games allowing for more team centric.
00:07:02.654 - 00:07:52.382, Speaker A: NFTs, the fifth sports based partnership with Dapper has the NFL joining the NBA, WNBA, La Liga, and UFC. On a related note, TikTok also announced a new NFT collection that will see some of its top content. Creators like Lil Nas X and Gary Vee partner with famous NFT creators like Coin artist and Grimes. Next Headline Ethereum researcher Virgil Griffith pleaded guilty, faces a minimum 6.5 year sentence on Monday, Ethereum researcher Virgil Griffith pleaded guilty at the start of his trial in the Southern District of New York. The 38 year old formally admitted to giving a talk on blockchain and cryptocurrencies to North Korea after being denied permission by the State Department in 2019, violating US. Sanctions for his admitted actions.
00:07:52.382 - 00:08:29.070, Speaker A: Griffith was officially charged with conspiracy to violate the International Emergency Economy Powers Act, according to the Bloc. After taking a plea deal, his maximum sentence was cut down from 20 years to 6.5 years. He will be sentenced on January 18, 2022. Next Headline A $23 million transaction fee was returned to sender on Monday a wallet associated with the cryptocurrency exchange. Bitfinex paid $22.8 million in transaction fees, or 7385 E to send $100,000 worth of USDT.
00:08:29.070 - 00:09:04.250, Speaker A: The culprit was Diversify disclosure of former sponsor, which is a deck spun out of Bitfinex that offers users access to DFI protocols without paying gas fees. Apparently, those transaction fees are paid out of one of Bitfinex's wallets. As a bitfinex rep, told Decrypt. Quote this transaction was a transaction to deposit funds on the Diversify. L two solution These transactions are extremely rare, and third party companies cover the cost of such integrations. Diversify confirmed that they will take care of it. However, the mining pool that received the fee returned the ETH back to Diversify.
00:09:04.250 - 00:10:10.826, Speaker A: Quote the blockchain is immutable, but the revolution we are part of is defined by our values as humans. Thank you to the miner of block 133-0744, who we can confirm is returning 7626 E that we had incorrectly paid today as a transaction fee, the protocol tweeted in thanks in a postmortem, the decks outlined ways to ensure this never happens again. Time for fun bits. Welcome to the Twitterverse. On Wednesday, Mata Aflac, Android tech leader of Twitter spaces, released a sneak peek of Twitter's Ethereum NFT verification process. Essentially, Twitter users will be able to connect their Web three wallets to Twitter to verifiably showcase their NFTs. In the clip Mata published, the workflow went as follows One, edit avatar two, click select NFT three, connect to a wallet like MetaMask four, choose the NFT you want to use as your avatar and five, enjoy staring at your Ethereum checkmark.
00:10:10.826 - 00:11:00.862, Speaker A: Mason Neistrom, an analyst at Mastari, described NFT verification along with Twitter tips, which allow users to tip in BTC as the first steps in creating the Twitterverse. He noted, quote that all of NFT and Twitter is foaming at the mouth to verify and showcase their beloved avatars. He went on to add, quote the value proposition of these status based NFTs is greater when combined with social media. Once individuals have verified NFTs, there are groups, tiered, perks spaces, and other features that Twitter can combine to build an even greater platform. Read Monopoly as of publishing, Twitter has not announced a release date for its NFT verification feature. For now, it appears that the social media platform is focused on Ethereum based NFTs. Alright, thanks for tuning in.
00:11:00.862 - 00:11:15.730, Speaker A: To learn more about Stephen and the SEC's regulation of DeFi, be sure to check out the links in the show. Notes unconfirmed is produced by me laura Shin Puerto from Anthony Yoon, Mark Murdoch and Daniel Ness thanks for listening. Don't.
