00:00:00.200 - 00:00:26.726, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Delaware refuel, where I recap the latest news in Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, and this is Sono. It's the 7 November 2023. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So first off today we have a bit of, I guess, like general news, not really Ethereum related news, but something that I just wanted to speak about here. So there was this tweet from Jeff Roberts where he tweeted out, the SEC is having trouble hiring crypto experts because of a rule that they must sell all of their crypto.
00:00:26.726 - 00:01:34.600, Speaker A: Now, this is obviously a really, really dumb rule, right? I mean, I understand that it's a rule because of conflicts of interest and such, but if you are a crypto expert, like, why would you sell all of your crypto to go work at the SEC? To do what exactly? Right. Like you're basically giving up all the upside in the industry that you're an expert of to work at the SEC, to possibly go after some scammers. Because we all know the SEC doesn't just go after the bad actors, they very often go after the honest actors as well. So this is, goes back to something that I said a while ago on the refill, and I think it's just a theme that I've been talking about for a while now, is where these regulatory agencies generally have a very hard time getting experts in, particularly within crypto, because not only do they have silly rules like this, but generally the upside is just not there. Like just speaking personally for, you know, for example here, I wouldn't go and work for one of these regulators or some government agency to be a crypto expert for them because there's just no upside in it. There is no career upside in it. It is just a, basically a machine of bureaucracy and political crap.
00:01:34.600 - 00:02:31.030, Speaker A: And also, if they have rules like I have to sell, you know, my crypto, or have to only own a certain amount of it, that's like a complete non starter. Because who would want to do that? Like who in their right mind would want to do that if they actually are considered a quote unquote crypto expert or someone who's deep into crypto? Now, of course, the downstream effect of this is actually, ironically enough, negative for crypto, but because what ends up happening is that the people regulating our industry are not experts, right? They don't understand things. And what ends up happening is that both they don't understand it and they're also potentially hostile towards it. So they come up with all these weird and wacky regulations and laws and things that are just unworkable. And then it requires our kind of like groups within crypto, such as the VC's, the lobbying firms, the people with money to actually correct this and to go out there and, and the exchanges, like Coinbase, for example. But it requires them to go out there and educate these regulators. Because I, if I'm being honest, I think that.
00:02:31.030 - 00:03:04.990, Speaker A: Or not being honest, if I'm being real here, I would assume that there would be basically no crypto experts at the SEC if this is the rule that they have in place, which it seems it is, where they can't hold crypto. Because as I said, you're giving up all the upside in the industry to go work at the SEC. To do what? Yeah, I just don't understand why anyone was, would want to do that now. Of course, if you were to remove this rule, you would probably get some people doing it. Some people just want to go work at maybe, maybe kind of like effect change from within at the SEC. Because obviously, as we've seen from the SEC, it's been, it's been a mess. Right.
00:03:04.990 - 00:03:36.080, Speaker A: For a while now. But I don't think that any person that actually knows their stuff when it comes to crypto would ever go work at the SEC if it required them to sell all of their crypto. That's just a non starter completely here. And what I found particularly funny was I, quote, tweeted this tweet and I said, you know, Congress in the US can insider trade, but don't you dare own crypto if you want to work at the SEC. So it's completely fine for Congress to legally insider trade and there's a million conflicts of interest there. And, you know, that's fine. The SEC can't go after after them because it's completely legal.
00:03:36.080 - 00:04:27.691, Speaker A: But, you know, you're not allowed to own crypto because it's a conflict of interest if you want to work for the SEC, which I just feel is utterly bizarre and just, I guess, like, speaks to the fact that you guys know, my views on generally, on financial regulations. I think most of them are crap. I think that there are definitely, there is definitely, obviously a huge need for certain regulations and I guess, like accountability laws, I guess, for centralized players like Coinbase and other centralized exchanges where if you're custodying assets, then of course I would want protections in place there for people and kind of like guarantees from the government that they will do something if something goes wrong or they take responsibility for it or they'll work through it. But a lot of the financial regulations go beyond that. They stifle innovation. They don't make sense. Like the one that, like, like this rule here where you can't work for the sec if you hold crypto.
00:04:27.691 - 00:05:00.958, Speaker A: And they generally are quite hostile to the industries that they're trying to, to regulate. And as I said, a bit of it's nefarious. Being nefarious and being hostile, a bit of it is just, I mean, I think, I actually think a lot of it. And this might, might be wrong, but my assumption is a lot of it is just like pure misunderstanding. Like, they just do not understand our industry. Because if you look at the people that are actually kind of putting forward these things, not only have they not grown up with computers, for starters, right, because they're, they're on the older side, right? They didn't grow up with computers because they just weren't around back when they were. When, when they were growing up.
00:05:00.958 - 00:05:42.688, Speaker A: Um, but they're also very kind of hostile toward technology generally because they've seen technology in one way or another obsolete them to an extent, right. Or make them kind of, uh, uh, feel inferior because they just don't understand how it works. And you've got all that kind of generational baggage there. And then you've got the fact that crypto from the outside looking in just looks like one giant scam because you have things blowing up all the time. And, you know, to be faith, I wasn't paying any attention to crypto, and I was just a casual observer from the outside. The only thing that the media is reporting on really is like, SPF and Doequan and three AC and all those people, you know, all those scammers and all those people who blew, blew themselves up. And then when the market is hot or when the market's, like, tanking the report on that.
00:05:42.688 - 00:06:19.048, Speaker A: But, like, generally, the mainstream media is not going to pay much attention to the actual good happening within the industry. Right. And even within the industry, we have a really bad track record of paying attention to things that are actually happening. You know, I put out a tweet today or yesterday where I said that I basically never hear about Tron and, you know, on Twitter or on, you know, disco channels that I mean, or anyone that I talk to, they never talk about Tron, right. And I get why. Because Tron started off as a very kind of like, scammy, Grifty fork of Ethereum. Justin sun is definitely not someone that you want to be kind of like, simping for someone that you.
00:06:19.048 - 00:07:01.530, Speaker A: That you kind of, like, want to be representing this industry, um, because of the. The, you know, the scaminess and the griftiness there. But if we look at the reality today, Tron is the biggest payments network in crypto. It is bigger than Ethereum, it is bigger than bitcoin, obviously. It is bigger than BSC, which is quite big in of itself, but it's bigger than everything, and it's bigger than the networks that claim to be the payments networks. Right? So if you're looking at just the hard reality of. Of how things, uh, shake out, uh, even within crypto, we don't give the credit where it's due, where essentially, Tron is offering real value to real people because they're using Tron as a payments rail, primarily for tether, for USDT, primarily in South America and I think parts of Africa as well.
00:07:01.530 - 00:07:25.626, Speaker A: I've talked to many people from these places, and they have friends and family. They all just use TroN because it has integrations directly with exchanges like binance. And it's just easy for them to own an off ram and send money to each other because they obviously want to send dollars because especially in places like Argentina, in South America, they've got hyperinflation, stuff like that. So they want access to us dollars. They're not doing this on ethereum. They're not doing this on L2s, yet. They're not.
00:07:25.626 - 00:07:50.874, Speaker A: This on other networks are doing it on Tron. Now, it started out they were doing it on Tron because of cheap fees. But these days, Tron's fees aren't very cheap at all. I think it's like a dollar for a transaction. So, obviously, still not as high as what ethereum sometimes is, or I guess, like, depending on the market conditions, a lot of the times is. But when you kind of look at it holistically, it's more. It's about more than fees, right? It's about network effect integrations, especially network effect.
00:07:50.874 - 00:08:18.746, Speaker A: And, like, overall user experience. That's why TRON is still dominating, even though we have cheaper alternatives. The network effect and the liquidity network effect is just so great. And to change that takes many, many years, if you'll be able to change it at all. So, yeah, I mean, that, that's going back to my original point about things, you know, things within crypto not being paid attention to with, you know, within crypto industry and also outside of it. And when things that do get paid attention to just aren't the best out there. But anyway, I'm going to move on from that one for now.
00:08:18.746 - 00:08:49.008, Speaker A: Just something that I wanted to talk about a little bit about. All right, I got a bunch of L2 stuff to get through. So Kraken, the US based crypto exchange, is going to apparently be following in Coinbase's lead with plans to launch their own L2 network on Ethereum. Now, they haven't chosen which stack they're using yet, but apparently they're in talks with Polygon Matlabs and the Neil foundation about a potential partnership. People were saying that. Why? You know, they may just use kind of like op stack and basically copy what Coinbase did. I don't think so.
00:08:49.008 - 00:09:21.724, Speaker A: One, because it's not a differentiation for them if they use the same thing that Coinbase is using. Two, I'm sure that these other teams are offering token incentives and stuff like that and other kind of things and other kind of promises to Kraken, for Kraken to build their kind of layer. Two, using their technology. And three, obviously Kraken wants to build this thing to support their own kind of products and services, so they have to essentially pick the best solution for them. But as I said, they aren't. Haven't picked a solution yet. And from the.
00:09:21.724 - 00:09:47.144, Speaker A: The ones that they're talking to right now, Polygon obviously has their Polygon CDK or their chain development kit that I've talked a lot about. Matter Labs is the other builders behind ZK sync. They have their own thing going on there. And I believe the Neil foundation are the builders behind. What's that? What's the kind of project called? I'm actually just going to quickly google it because I've forgotten what the project is called. I think it's just called nil the project. But I think this is separate to Mina.
00:09:47.144 - 00:10:20.250, Speaker A: Yeti separate to Mina. So nil are building ZK related things here. But in terms of who would be furthest along here, I think Polygon because they have the CDK, which is able to be used today and there are chains live on it already. I'm not sure how far along matter Labs's tech is. And the nil Foundation, I mean, I haven't heard much about them, so I doubt they're as far along as something like Polygon is either. But we'll have to see which solution they choose here. But generally, the kind of trend of these exchanges building their own L2s is quite funny to me because obviously Binance built their own layer one, which was just the direct fork of Ethereum in early 2021.
00:10:20.250 - 00:10:46.560, Speaker A: Binance smart chain after having their own chain for a while, actually. They had binance chain, which was a Cosmos based chain. And then they kind of pivoted away from that and created BSc because BSc is EVM compatible, was very easy for everything just to be redeployed there from Ethereum. And obviously, there was cheaper fees, and Ethereum fees were. Were expensive at the time and had binance integration. So everything just kind of worked because it was a bull market and they got a lot of adoption because of that. But now, you know, now we've seen Coinbase do it.
00:10:46.560 - 00:11:05.202, Speaker A: Not a layer one. They're doing a L2 with base. Now Kraken's doing it. I wonder which other exchanges are going to jump into the fray here. And I wonder how many it actually makes sense for. I think for Coinbase, it makes a lot of sense because they are definitely that kind of like main front door for retail people in the US. But I think it makes sense for Kraken as well, because they are a big run for front door in the US, too.
00:11:05.202 - 00:11:40.830, Speaker A: But if we're looking at this from like, a regulatory perspective as well, there are a lot of assets that I think that obviously Kraken and Coinbase want to list but can't because those assets are just at a high risk of being declared a security or high risk of the SEC going after the exchange for those assets. So, as I've said before, I think what Coinbase wants to do with base is basically say to people, well, we don't have this token trading on Coinbase, but, hey, you can go on base and the token is on Unisop, for example, or on a decentralized exchange. And I think Kraken would probably do the same thing. And the way they would make money from this is from running the sequences, obviously. Right. And getting fear revenue from. From that.
00:11:40.830 - 00:12:18.642, Speaker A: From that there. But, yeah, I'm going to keep tabs on this and let you guys know which project Kraken ends up going with to launch their new L2 network. All right, so the arbitram Dao has apparently approved a proposal to activate ArB staking on the network. Now, I was initially excited by this when I read the headline, and then I read the. The actual contents of it, and I was just like, oh, okay, this is not very exciting, and I'll tell you why. So you may think that this means that you'll be able to stake your arb and run a sequencer or run a validator or full node or whatever it is, and get a share of the sequence of fees right. Get a share of the fear of you that the network generates.
00:12:18.642 - 00:12:49.382, Speaker A: No, that's not what this is. What this is is basically very similar to ape coin staking. So if you remember, the way apecoin wanted to do it was essentially you can put your token up, you know, you stake your token and then you get paid out a yield directly from the treasury. So in this case, essentially you get paid out the yield in tokens that are taken directly out of the treasury for twelve months via a smart contract. So essentially the staking does absolutely nothing. It does not add any security to the network. You're not getting any fear of a new.
00:12:49.382 - 00:13:17.690, Speaker A: All you're getting is tokens being paid out from the dao itself, which to me is very, very uninteresting. Now in terms of like numbers here. I think someone in the delegate Discord channel actually broke it down here. I think. Who broke it down? I'm just. Yeah, Uncle Iroh here in the, in the datagrade Discord channel said they're distributing 100 million arB, which is 1% of the supply. And there's a, there was a $63 million unclaimed arb air drop.
00:13:17.690 - 00:13:35.098, Speaker A: So tokens that were unclaimed in the airdrop that went back to the treasury. So really it's just redistributing the unclaimed ARB tokens plus 37 million ARB over twelve months. Pointless. Yes, but that, but not that significant. And I kind of agree with this. Right. If you take it as, as, as looking at it like that, it 30, you really.
00:13:35.098 - 00:14:24.280, Speaker A: It's 37 million straight from the Treasury, 63 million that was put into the treasury from the unclaimed airdrop and 1% of the total supply to essentially, I guess, get people excited about Arb staking, you know, kick off the initial version of it. I don't know. I still think it's quite pointless to be honest. But I do kind of see that it's like not a huge deal, but at the same time I would rather it see, obviously not the pointless staking, I'd rather see the real staking where you actually got a share of the fear of a new from the network. But that's probably going to come later, obviously, because right now the sequence is still centralized, the validators are still centralized. So once that gets decentralized out by, you know, by the arbitrum and a project here, we'll probably see that there. But yeah, so I mean if you have ARP tokens, I don't know when this is going to start, but you'll be able to stake them and get a share of these rewards.
00:14:24.280 - 00:14:52.144, Speaker A: So yeah, I mean it's just really free money up for grabs, right. But still a little bit of a waste of treasury assets, I think. But maybe it has positive externalities we'll have to see. But yeah, I'll link this article in the YouTube description below for you to check out. All right, so retroactive public goods funding round three has kicked off today. So there are 627 eligible projects as part of this voting period. And the voting period will last a month until December 7, 2023.
00:14:52.144 - 00:15:27.820, Speaker A: There is a total of 30 million op tokens to be distributed here, which I believe is around what, $50 million or something like that at current op prices, which is a lot of money. Right. If you were to do an even distribution to each of these projects, which is not going to be an even distribution, but if you were to evenly distribute it to all 627 projects, each project I believe would get around $65,000 us dollars, not a small chunk of change. Right. So yeah, you can go vote on this if you're a kind of badge holder, I believe. So you can go to this link here. I'll link it in the YouTube description below.
00:15:27.820 - 00:15:48.450, Speaker A: A friendly reminder, I am part of this round. As the Daily Gwei, you have to search sassle ETH, not the Daily gwei, which I found a little bit weird, but yeah, you can search sassle ethanol. I'll pop up there. Don't know what I'm going to get. If I do get a healthy chunk, I'm definitely going to donate a portion of it to the protocol guild. Of course, I'll have to see how much I get. I don't know how much I'm going to get from this.
00:15:48.450 - 00:16:13.250, Speaker A: I don't know what the, you know what way the vote's going to go here. I'm not going to be voting on myself or anything like that. I don't really feel like that's the right thing to do there. But it's not just me. As I said, there's 627 total projects, 626 other projects besides me that are eligible here, obviously. Like not all of them are going to be quality. But I think that, as I said last time, there were thousands of projects that, or tens of thousands potentially that were put forward and they were filtered out.
00:16:13.250 - 00:16:50.552, Speaker A: And this is what we're left with here. 627, which I believe is the most amount of projects in any round so far, which makes sense. I mean, the same thing happened with Gitcoin grants rounds where it started off really small. But then as people noticed, like how much money could be potentially distributed through Gitcoin grants, more and more projects came on board and we ended up with, with much more as, as time went on, which was good and bad. Good because it obviously spread the love bad because it spread the love too much. And there was a lot of projects not really getting any, any more money because it was just, there wasn't that much money to match the amount of projects that were there. And then you had people gaming the system with like projects offering airdrops to people who donated to them.
00:16:50.552 - 00:17:11.281, Speaker A: So yeah, once you get to a certain size, you just attract all the grifters, right. And it just becomes like not great. And I think the way the optimism does it with the badge holders and stuff like that is pretty good for now. But I do wonder what the distribution is going to look like. Yeah. As I said, if it was equally distributed, which it's not going to be, the, the rewards are $60,000 each, which is obviously a huge chunk of change. Right.
00:17:11.281 - 00:17:38.913, Speaker A: But at the same time, because it's not evenly distributed, there are going to be some projects and individuals that get hundreds of thousands if not millions of dollars worth of op here. And some projects they get less than that kind of minimum that I, that I mentioned there. But anyway, you can go check this out for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right. I came across this great tweet today that's very, very long. Like this person is taking full advantage of the fact that you can tweet as long as you want on, on Twitter these days.
00:17:38.913 - 00:18:18.964, Speaker A: So this tweet comes from Defi Saint who worked closely with Arjun from Lefi here to explore cross chain bridges, to analyze them by strengths and trade offs. Now, you do not have to read the whole tweet to get the gist of what they're talking about here. You can scroll down to the bottom and there's a nice little graphic looking at each of the most popular bridging protocols, what type they are and how they're validated. So you can see here the different types such as liquidity pools, bridging protocols, burn and mint request for quote systems. The majority of them are liquidity pool systems. You know, the ones that we all use like hop and across and connects and stuff like that. And then there's other ones that are, that are kind of like more unique, maybe like Thor chain which is using an Amm model.
00:18:18.964 - 00:19:02.226, Speaker A: Jump I is like a liquidity aggregator that that was built by leafy and then you can see what they're actually validated by. And I think this is the most important bit here because not all bridges are created equal. You know, most like, pretty much all of them are created differently, as you can see in the validated by like for example, hops liquidity pools are validated by optimistic verification with native bridges as fallback for challenges. So using the same kind of, or a similar thing to what optimistic roll ups use, whereas when it comes to something like four chain there, it's validated by Thor chain validators. So inbound transactions are validated by a super majority of the validator set and outbound transactions by 20 validators. So a very, very different model there. And then you have an even more different model with CCTP, which is a burn and mint, where it circles attestation server.
00:19:02.226 - 00:19:31.966, Speaker A: So it's very centralized. And then there are, you know, various other models here which you can check out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But I think this is very important to be aware of when using these bridging protocols, especially when you're using them for large amounts of money. Like for example, I, when I have funds in a roll up, I tend to use one of these bridging protocols, especially if it's an optimistic roll up to withdraw funds from the roll up because obviously there's that seven day delay. But if it was a significant amount of funds, I probably wouldn't use any of these bridges if I'm being honest. Right.
00:19:31.966 - 00:20:10.110, Speaker A: I would only use the official bridge. Even though it's going to take seven days to withdraw, I would rather wait the seven days than risk it. And I know the risk for some of these at least is really, really low, right. But at the same time, I don't want to take on risk for large amounts of money that I don't necessarily have to because the bridges are good for getting fast liquidity, for getting like fast bridging between l two s and from l two to l one and so on and so forth. But if you have like okay, let's just, let's just put a number to it. If you have a million dollars on an l two, right, and you want to withdraw that to l one, like you'd be really dumb, in my opinion, to go through one of these bridges unless you absolutely needed to, right. Unless it's part of your day to day operations.
00:20:10.110 - 00:20:48.126, Speaker A: Maybe you're a market maker or maybe you, you know, you're a DJ and you want to ape into something really quickly or whatever, fine. But if you're just like withdrawing from the l two to l one because you want, you know, you want your assets to be on l one because you trust l one security more than l two, then in my opinion you should not use one of these bridges. You should just use the official bridge, wait the seven days, especially if you're just planning to hold it on l one. And that's all well and good, but if you have a million dollars, right? So, but you only want to move smaller, relatively small amounts around. If you have a million dollars, relatively small to you would probably be like ten k, for example. Right. 1020, 30k then okay, you can, you probably use one of these bridges.
00:20:48.126 - 00:21:32.152, Speaker A: So that's the way I view bridges generally is always by the kind of dollar amount. And the dollar amount is obviously going to be very different to, to different people. Right? Let's say you have a million dollars on chain, but your net worth, net worth is $100 million. Okay, well that $1 million is 1% of your net worth. You're not going to treat it the same as someone who has $1 million as their total net worth. Right? So it's definitely relative here. But that's why I say that depending on the kind of like money that you have and depending what you're doing with it and depending on the, the risks that you want to take, you need to basically bookmark this and see which bridges are the, you know, the most secure, which ones have the lowest risk, and which ones are validated by things, you know, by cryptography or by optimistic relays or stuff like that, rather than things like multi sigs.
00:21:32.152 - 00:22:07.344, Speaker A: Like, you know, there are some multi sig bridges out there. I mean some of the most popular bridges are multi sigs, right? The bridges from l one s to other l one s, like from ethereum, l one to other l one s are typically multi sigs. So yeah, it's just good to keep that in mind when moving funds around. But as I said, like I've used plenty of these different bridges before. I mean, I usually use jumper because it's a bridge aggregator made by leafy, which I should disclose, I'm an investor in them. But jumper's just great because what it does is it searches all the bridges and tells you, you know, and shows you a list of ones to choose from based on cost and time to bridge and stuff like that. So I always use jumper.
00:22:07.344 - 00:22:43.516, Speaker A: And then usually I think like the ones that I use the most would be like hop or across and connext of course. But yeah, you can choose from the list here and choose the one that suits you most there. But anyway, you can go check out this graphic for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, llama has announced a $6 million seed round led by founders Fund and Electric Capital with a participation from a bunch of angels. Some of them you might recognize, such as Stani from Aaver and Sandeep from Polygon here. I should disclose that I am a pre seed investor in Lamy here.
00:22:43.516 - 00:23:38.906, Speaker A: You may have heard me talk about them sometimes on the refill before, but generally llama is not talked about too much on the refill because they're more developer facing than consumer facing here. So I mean, what they're building is basically a way for developers to streamline their development process. Essentially, as you can see here, the way they define it is llama provides a full stack solution for access control and governance that lets teams focus on what they do best, building their core product. Using llama, teams can deploy fully independent instances that define granular roles and permissions for executing transactions known as actions. And actions could include upgrading a protocol, transferring funds, changing protocol parameters, or activating an emergency pause so goes back to what I was saying yesterday where how different teams have different ways of managing things, like multi sigs of their project and if it's an early stage project or a late stage project, stuff like that, like how to upgrade the protocol. Well, what llama wants to do is basically streamline that. And that's, I mean, that's the reason I kind of like invested in them is because I was like, you know, I think this is a really cool idea.
00:23:38.906 - 00:24:16.590, Speaker A: I think this is something that he sorely needed because projects typically suffer from two major things. I think the first thing is this, where essentially trying to streamline all of these different things you have to do, especially as an early stage project, such as protocol upgrades and transferring funds around, stuff like that. And then the second thing is governance. And governance I think is a bigger issue, but particularly bigger issue for later stage projects where they try to decentralize governance. They have a token, they try to create a dao that becomes very, very difficult. And there are a couple of projects that I'm aware of that are tackling that. Metropolis is one of them that I am an investor in, but there are a bunch of others that have dow tooling out there that try to tackle this.
00:24:16.590 - 00:25:04.486, Speaker A: But I think that it's going to be a long time before we get anything that makes a lot of sense. And that can become a standard because governance is messy because it's totally on the social layer, right? It's totally a kind of subjective human thing. And for us to work that out, I mean, it's always going for the least worst system, right? It's not going for the best system because governance in the real world works the same way. Democracy, democracy is far from perfect. It is the least worst system that we have at least one, ones that we know of, right, to basically govern a country or govern a society, whereas within crypto daos are still very much in their experimental phases. But I think that, as I mentioned before, I've talked a lot about dows on the RICO before. I think the ideal model for most dows is not to look like a government, but to look like a business where they essentially have like a board of executives or directors, whatever you want to call them.
00:25:04.486 - 00:25:42.290, Speaker A: And then they do have a long tail of community that can have input, that can vote on things. But generally the decision makers or the people that are kind of coming up with the things to be voted on and coming up with the things that are core to the project should be the ones that are most involved with that, aka the ones that could be considered like an executive board, right? And that's my general view of things. But anyway, you can go check out llama if you haven't yet, for yourself. Congrats to them on the raise. I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to do so. Alright, last up here, just wanted to shout out that dev connect is happening very, very soon. So I think over the next kind of like a couple of weeks or so, I mean it might have already begun.
00:25:42.290 - 00:25:58.212, Speaker A: I actually don't know the exact dates for Dev connect Istanbul because I'm not going. Yeah, so it begins on the 13 November, so very soon actually within a week here. And there are a lot of events. I mean, you can check out the schedule, I'll link it in the YouTube description below. If you are there. Enjoy yourself. Ethereum conferences are always super, super fun.
00:25:58.212 - 00:26:43.000, Speaker A: I know there's been a bit of drama around kind of dev connect given that it is in Turkey and given that there is conflicts happening in the Middle east right now. But I think generally it's pretty safe for, for most people and the events that have been canceled have been few and far between from what I've seen. So definitely enjoy it if you are there. I'll be keeping keeping an eye out for all the announcements that are coming out of Devconnect. And we'll be covering them on the refill, of course, because I'm sure there's going to be a bunch of projects announcing a bunch of exciting things, and this will be the last, I think, major Ethereum conference to end out the year here. There definitely isn't one in December, I don't think, because I discussed yesterday about how obviously December slash January is the holiday period where things are going to be more hands off than they usually are. So I'm just super excited to see all the announcements and all the juicy stuff that comes out of Devconnect.
00:26:43.000 - 00:27:26.078, Speaker A: It is a week long event here. There are so many different events. I mean, I'm particularly interested in events like censorship, WTF? Where it's a whole day dedicated to censorship and censorship generally on the Ethereum network and ways that we're actually looking at to alleviate censorship on the network to address it, things like inclusion lists and PBS and MeV burn all that stuff there. I think inclusion lists actually are much closer to going live in some capacity than people, than people would think. And that's because it doesn't require, it doesn't strictly require a hard fork. It can be done within the clients themselves. So if there is a standard that the clients can implement, I would actually expect those to be implemented at some point in maybe Q one or Q two next year.
00:27:26.078 - 00:28:07.094, Speaker A: In terms of it going into a network upgrade, it's probably not going to happen till the end of next year. Because if it does happen by then, because if we don't get Denku until March, there's a minimum six months from there until the next upgrade goes live, which puts us into the end of next year, right? So yeah, I wouldn't expect that to get to go live as part of a hard fork, but if we can do it outside of a hard fork, if we can do it just in the clients themselves, then yeah, I'm expecting to see that done there. But anyway, I hope to see all of your kind of like pictures on Twitter and all of the stuff in the daily gray discord channel that you guys share. If you are at DevConnect, have fun there. But yeah, the schedule will be linked in the YouTube description below and you can check it out for yourself. But I think on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching.
00:28:07.094 - 00:28:13.214, Speaker A: Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
