00:00:07.450 - 00:00:26.150, Speaker A: All right, this is our last demo for today. And then we'll have one more interview to go before we go into networking and kind of talk to all of us and each other. So without further ado, let's welcome our last demo for today, martin from Quant Stamp. And he's going to talk about how do we actually now make all these attempts to make L two transitions secure. So please welcome Martin on stage.
00:00:30.650 - 00:00:40.934, Speaker B: Hi, everybody. My name is Martin. I'm from Quantstamp. Quantstamp is a security company. We do lots of audits. We audit smart contracts. We audit blockchains.
00:00:40.934 - 00:01:30.406, Speaker B: We audit L2s. And so through these audits, we are actually accumulating a lot of knowledge. And from my position, I am the head of new initiatives for a very long time, I've been wondering, how could we use this knowledge that is accumulated at our company to kind of contribute a little bit more to the public good and greater good of the greater Ethereum community? And so when November came around and the Ethereum Foundation published a round of community grants focused on L two S, I was thinking, hey, let's apply. Let's do something. So I'm here today to tell you about the two grants. Or I will be speaking about one of the grants. My colleague Jan, who will be stepping on the stage halfway through, will be speaking about the other grant.
00:01:30.406 - 00:02:20.794, Speaker B: So I'm going to tell you what we did, where you can find it, and I'm going to invite you for some future collaboration. Okay, so the one grant that we applied for was concerning Block Explorers for L two S, right? If you take a look at the landscape of L two S, you have whole number of chains that build and roll up to Ethereum, right? You have your optimism Arbitrum, you have something like ZkSync. You have actually a boatload. And all of them are somehow different. Now, when you look at the landscape of Block Explorers, the situation is actually not that great, right? You have Etherscan, which has been adopted as, let's say, industry standard. It's a great product. It provides great user experience.
00:02:20.794 - 00:03:14.778, Speaker B: And many of these L2s, they actually work with Etherscan and use their services. But if you are looking for something open source, you will probably find Block Scout. And you will very quickly realize that it actually doesn't give us so much. It is not designed to be working with L2s. It actually doesn't show you all the information that pertain to L2s. And so when we were applying for this grant, we were actually thinking whether it's possible to fix this, right? We were asking whether it's possible to define a standard for an API that would be working as a data source for implementations for open source block explorers. So that teams like hackathons such as these ETH Global hackathons, they can actually come and they can develop a new block explorer front end that will also provide great experience similar to Etherscan or maybe even better.
00:03:14.778 - 00:04:13.294, Speaker B: Right? And that they can feel that this is going to be actually a useful project, because the blockchains, the L2s, will be supporting these data source endpoints that they actually require. And on the other hand, we also wanted for the networks that are building these l two s to have block explorers available to them because it's really important during the development process and then for the community and the adoption. It's really important for them to actually be able to see what data is on the L2 network and what is happening with the network in general. Right? So here I have the slide. We were actually trying to define a standard for an API that sits right in the middle, between the Block Explorer and between the chain and its potential indexer that the Block Explorer can consume. And the blockchain in some form or some middleware, can expose and feed data into it. And we did it.
00:04:13.294 - 00:05:18.194, Speaker B: We defined a whole methodology around this process. So first, we actually did take a look at all those L2 S that exist. And we were trying there's like 30 to 50 right now, and we were trying to distill this list to some representative samples. So we picked everything that we thought that kind of matters, and that captures all the variety of data and data models that exist on L2 S. And then we dissected that we actually defined the data models for this shortlisted selection. And using that, we tried to define requirements for a Blog Explorer. So we sat down and we said, hey, so if I now wanted to develop a Blog Explorer, how should it look? What should it provide to me as the user of this Blog Explorer? What features should it have? What data should it visualize? What data flow would I kind of expect? Right? And so that way we formed kind of an opinion of what an Explorer should be, but then we need to cross validate it.
00:05:18.194 - 00:06:17.558, Speaker B: So we actually went back to Etherscan and to all the other Block Explorers that we were able to find, and we said, hey, did we actually do this right? Did we forget about something? Right? Are there any additional pieces of information that the Blog Explorers show to the users and that we might have forgotten? And once we had that, we refined our own requirements. We made sure that they're a little bit more complete. And based on this whole thing, we have proposed the API. So the API currently, we've decided or this API standard, we've decided to expose it in the form of a GitHub repository. So this giant QR code that you can see on the slides, that actually leads to that repository. Normally, as researchers, we publish long papers in PDF format, right? This was actually not the project that would be suitable for such a way of publishing. We just decided to expose a repository to the public.
00:06:17.558 - 00:07:00.606, Speaker B: So what you can find in that repository is pretty much everything that we have done. We have defined those requirements for Block Explorers. You will be able to find the methodology, the reasoning behind our decisions. And we have also exposed an open API, definitions of what these endpoints for an API should look like. And so we did that. We wrote it up, we published it on GitHub, and now we believe that it's actually the community's turn to take a look at it. So, as I said, I'm inviting all of you for some collaboration in here, especially if you are participating at the hackathon that's going to be happening over the weekend.
00:07:00.606 - 00:07:24.138, Speaker B: And specifically, what I am asking you to do is the following. So, first of all, take a look at our work, right? We've done a lot in here, so please take a look and review it. We are humans. We make mistakes as well. We were really trying not to, right? We spend a lot of effort in here, but please do review it and let us know what you think. The repo is open for PRS. There are contact information in there.
00:07:24.138 - 00:08:05.730, Speaker B: Please do that then, if you like it. What we have actually defined in here is a standard that is fully modular, because we currently have some sample of L2 S that exist. But it's sitting right now at this time. Maybe tomorrow there will be new L2 S. Maybe they will have new features, right? Maybe in half a year, the world will look completely differently. So what we have decided to go for is a modular design in here where you can extend the design with additional features for the specialized L two S. So if you know of such an L2, go for it, open a PR, extend the standard, and then finally, this is a standard for the API.
00:08:05.730 - 00:08:38.210, Speaker B: So try to use it. Try to implement such an API, right? Pick your favorite scroll, pick your favorite optimism, pick your favorite anything, and implement an indexer that will be capable of exposing this API. Or on the other hand, if you're a frontend developer, imagine that somebody has implemented such an API and that you have a data source and try to come up with a front end beat ether scan, make it better. So this is an invitation for everybody who will be hacking during the weekend. Now, because I am not so pretty to look at for 15 minutes, I will be passing the word to Jan.
00:08:40.310 - 00:09:08.682, Speaker C: Thank you, Martin. I'll hold the applause because I'm told we're running over time, so I'm going to make this very quick. My name is Jan Gorsney. I'm head of l two scaling at Quantstamp. And like Martin, when the grants were opened up in November, we thought, how could we contribute to this space? And being a security company, we naturally thought, let's look at some security issues. And so that's exactly what we did. And the goal was for this grant to set up a security framework that complements and expands the stuff that's already out there.
00:09:08.682 - 00:10:10.542, Speaker C: So you probably are familiar with L2 Beat and maybe some other frameworks that exist and certainly some issues that might be common inside of our roll up space. But we found that some of these were slightly inadequate or totally inadequate, depending on sort of the questions, right? In particular, L2 Beat does a great job of a lot of things. They do things like is an escape hatch missing? Right? You look at that and you can see very clearly on the website that, yes, it's missing, or no, it's not. But what does that really mean? And does it matter that it's missing or not? Because if I need an escape hatch that requires a lot of ZK hardware because I have to do some proofs, is that a useful escape patch to me? Or what is the outcome of not having such an escape patch in this feature or in such a roll up? So what we did was we also did a bunch of effort and we put together 130 or something pages of questions that we think people should ask of a roll up. We don't envision. Most people will do this every day, all the time, and we hope to put it into some sort of a web app so it's a little easier to use. But for now, we just defined everything.
00:10:10.542 - 00:10:37.842, Speaker C: And at the end of the day, you sort of look at the classical hacks that we've seen or the issues that can affect a roll up, and we give you a sort of a scoring based on what the answers to those questions were. So if you have an escape patch, you'll score fairly high on its feasibility because it exists, it might be lowered if it does require special hardware. Again, we took the same approach. We looked at what was out there. We wanted to look at the attacks. We looked at all of our favorite roll ups. We looked at all of your favorite roll ups.
00:10:37.842 - 00:11:14.050, Speaker C: And we tried to figure out what's out there, what's missing, how can we improve it? And what is unique to roll ups? Is there something that people really need to look at for this system when it's not a side chain or something else that's sort of closely related? And then we tried to expand on the areas that we thought other frameworks were missing. And we then went a little further and tried to suggest some areas for future research. So I'm going to speed through this slide for time. But like the other one, we have open sourced the work as of today. We've looked at this or we've opened it up for you guys to look at. Sorry. And so we also want feedback.
00:11:14.050 - 00:11:52.986, Speaker C: Do the questions make sense? Do the ratings make sense? Would your favorite roll up score poorly? And if so, is that because they're actually underdeveloped? Or is that because our tuning is a little bit off? We'd love to know those answers. In particular, we'd love to see exactly how concrete examples fit into the roll up. We have some ideas and some drafts, but we aren't able to publish it in a nice, clean forum just yet, so we do want to do that. If you want to learn more, we will be giving a more detailed talk about this at the LTB event in Warsaw in the end of August. Or come talk to us or send us an email. And in the interest of time, I'll end it there. So I want to thank East Global for having us, the Ethereum Foundation, for the grants.
00:11:52.986 - 00:11:59.260, Speaker C: We do have one more that is in progress on roll up compression, and we'll talk about it at some point, but for now, thank you.
