00:00:01.240 - 00:00:27.620, Speaker A: Thank you guys verse for coming out, you know, the end of, you know, such a long week and amazing week here. ECC and nebula, just a quick question. Have any of you worked in finance at all? We got one. Banking. Trading. Investing. Investing.
00:00:27.620 - 00:01:25.580, Speaker A: So basically, I'm going to be going over the way to bring institutional investors to Defi and to your chain into your token and how we delay in more investment from the real world and to the big money. So who am I? I worked at Tendermint for two years and a Dow after I did ten years in traditional finance. Several different broker dealers, CRT Capital, Brimstone tradition. I was trading credit per millions in 2007. Now that was a very interesting period to be trading during the credit crisis. I filed for the series 763 licenses and I've dealt with institutional investors. My goal career.
00:01:25.580 - 00:02:43.234, Speaker A: I'm currently the founder of Cyborg Labs and Cosmos Core. Cyber Labs is a junkie there based in San Francisco that works with both AI and blockchain projects, as well as Cosmos Core is our subsidiary that deals with consulting mostly for Cosmos projects and any enterprise that is looking to get into the blockchain space. So this is pretty self explanatory. One of the issues we have right now is we look at the price of atom. Where is anyone here on atom? Okay, so this should concern. Yeah, why are we down at 590 when the overall crypto market has been doing pretty well? I mean, other than the short lagging period recently. But we are significantly underperforming compared to other tokens in the same market cap and other layer ones.
00:02:43.234 - 00:03:48.138, Speaker A: And especially considering our massive ecosystem and our Mason technology, this just doesn't happen. So how do we solve this? The problem is we have had no focus on bringing institutional investors into our ecosystem in any main concerted effort. There's a reason that we need to focus on them, which is this. Right now, there is five times the number of. It's five x larger than institutional trading investment versus retail investment. We want to have individual investors, but their share volume is much higher in institutional space. So who are institutional investors? Hedge funds, mutual funds, sovereign wealth funds and pension funds.
00:03:48.138 - 00:04:43.290, Speaker A: Now, these are all in the billions of dollars of investment and they can deploy. It takes them longer to deploy, but once they do, we're talking hundreds of millions of dollars at a time. And if, in order to get these institutional investors, well, actually first, this is just the beginning. You can see DeFi is that tiny little blip in the corner. We have about $91 billion invested in DeFi right now versus the trillions of dollars in other traditional investment vehicles. So the bond market alone is 190 trillion, and there's going to be some reallocation of funds from these areas into the crypto space. Now, once we had the.
00:04:43.290 - 00:05:37.810, Speaker A: Now that we've had the bitcoin ETF approval, we're starting to see more and more institutional interest, and we'll see more and more institutional investors, and you'll see much, much more money flowing into the crypto space. So why do we not have institutional investors? Well, there's a technicality in compliance, and that is you need to use a qualified custodian, and a qualified custodian are some of the digital asset custodians. Ferga, Ditko, Anchorage. Now, self custody. We preach self custody. Self custody is great for individual investors. However, if I'm an institution, if I'm a hedge fund, if I'm a pension fund, I cannot hold.
00:05:37.810 - 00:06:14.180, Speaker A: I cannot hold tokens in self custody. I can't hold any assets in self custody, and I'm required to use a dissolution. Now, these are just SEC roles. But even outside the US, we are. Right now, we have a lot of investors in Hong Kong and Singapore. The SEC rules are still basically the guidance that most institutional investors follow, even if they're not under the jurisdiction of the SEC. So most, because you still have a fiduciary you need to your investors.
00:06:14.180 - 00:07:09.310, Speaker A: And honestly, if I have a few billion dollars I'm managing, I don't want to risk losing my ledger. So this is just the basic of the SEC is compliance role. And basically, you need to use a qualified custodian. So who are qualified? So qualified custodians are also digital asset custodians. And basically they're providing you several different things, or the providing institutions many things, including audits, regulatory compliance and risk management. And, you know, they are different from one to another. Some have better cybersecurity measures, some have worse, some use full storage, but the individual custodians are.
00:07:09.310 - 00:08:06.316, Speaker A: It is so important to work with every custodian, because every different custodian has different institutional investors that they work with, and they have different user bases. Who are the top custodians right now, and who are the custodians that support Adam? We have Bitgo, Gemini, Fidelity. These are all the ones that. And currently, we just have firelocks. But who does not support it? Zodiac back, cactus, for example, the Zodiac. I just had a conversation with them last week. They have had clients recently request Adam support because they're looking to buy in $100 million and $200 million flips.
00:08:06.316 - 00:08:50.320, Speaker A: And each of these individual custodians have similar. And it's not just atom, but it's also other Cosmo secret system tokens. I've heard a request for $50 million in neutron for 75 million in osmosis. I've heard injective and other tokens in the ecosystem. Now we're focusing on atom right now, but once one of these support atom, it is. They already do. They won't do the technical lift and every other token in our ecosystem will be much easier to support and they just have to do the compliance part.
00:08:50.320 - 00:09:58.956, Speaker A: So this is basically the stages to onboarding. The most basic is due diligence and it can be more complex or easier, but there's only a lot of technical integration. Now like I just said, if we get one token supported, the rest of the ecosystem can follow. The benefits to institutional institutions. The benefits to institutions are pretty clear, but I mean, basically as technicality they need to assist. In addition to qualifying custodians, what are the other things we could do to get investors? We want to be listed on all the exchanges possible, both decentralized and centralized. And you know, a symbol listing can really push the price much higher.
00:09:58.956 - 00:11:21.252, Speaker A: Injective just got listed on, I believe it was Coinbase and their price got pushed up 75% within for the following like several weeks. Another thing we can do is work on analyst reports and we need to speak to investors in a way that they're used to absorbing information. We just did a agreement with Asari to get some of these reports. But then we have to move into the funnel of investor channels where we don't just want to speak to the Webster community, we need to go and reach out to these conventional ambassadors and we can do through partnerships with these custodians, but also through other channels. And the institutional investor Foley Braille is basically what ecfemenous. This is the way you're going to have real, real deep flows into any project. For example, the bitcoins ETF got approved.
00:11:21.252 - 00:12:03.068, Speaker A: They have had as much as 300 million in one day flow in to bitcoin. Is there a possibility of an out of ETF? Yes, but we have to go through the steps for institutional adoption in order to get there. And so this is just. If you would like to learn a little more about me, this is my website, cyborg Labs. Or you can directly on Telegram at the crypto cyborg. And I'd like to hear from you guys. Do you have.
00:12:03.068 - 00:13:09.380, Speaker A: Oh, sorry, I forgot the last slide. So basically, what are we doing about this. I'm currently working with ApdAO on Project Supernova, which is working on exactly this, getting digital actions, getting institutional investor interests and working through channels in order to eventually get to this point where we can get a an atom ETF, or possibly even an inner shank ETF, an index of all the projects in Cosmos connected through IPC as a fun and I might feel. So anyone have does anyone have any questions about Adam or other tokens or general institutional investment? Cheaper. Well, thank you guys so much for your time. I appreciate you coming out, especially at the end of this very long week.
