00:00:00.440 - 00:00:52.250, Speaker A: Good morning, I guess, everyone. So I'm going to talk about the instability of standing waste solutions for the analytics equation of starcrafts. So it's based on the works with Dmitry Pielnowski and Roy Goodman. And that was the part of my peg thesis. So I'll start with the motivation, because I think it would be good to, like, start with, like, to explain why the PD on graphs actually have a meaning. So it started, I think, like, one of the first mentions of this PD on graphs been in the Journal of Chemical Physics in 1953, when people started analyzing the free electron models of the naphthalene molecule. And here the idea was that in the naphthalene molecule, you have fixed sigma electrons, and then you have.
00:00:52.250 - 00:01:38.978, Speaker A: So these fixed sigma electrons, they make this core, which will go on the network. And then there are some three electrons, which are PI electrons, which move along this core. And, like, here, they move. For example, at this junction point, you have just continuously go through the point, but at the junction points with three hs, here, they have some complications, I guess, and they try to analyze the behavior of this particle at this point. And later on, this type of models, they appeared in physical experiments when we had some wave propagation in our wave guides, wave guides and some multidimensional models. But let's just concentrate a bit on this model from the molecule. Edelbeck? Yes.
00:01:38.978 - 00:02:03.894, Speaker A: The sigma and p electrons, are those the, like, electron shells, like, from chemistry, that I should be thinking of? Yeah. There is, like, some, like, fixed electrons. They just stay. They don't move. But the free electrons, I think the idea, it's like, from chemistry, I'm not too familiar, but what is, I understand. It's just there is some type of the interaction between the fixed electrons and the free electrons. And they, like, they move somehow.
00:02:03.894 - 00:02:24.052, Speaker A: And they found that they, like the. The electronic motion can be described by the analysis equation. In this case, do. Do you know if they're the same as the s and p orbitals? Oh, I don't know. I can tell you. Okay. Yeah.
00:02:24.052 - 00:03:06.486, Speaker A: So, and then, like, when we consider the orbitals, the electronic motion, it's just depends on the molecular orbital function of this type. And here you have, like, this network, and then you just consider the neighborhood of that network, because the free electrons just. They can't stay on this core. It just moves along that core. But then one can, like, for the spectrum to, like, analyze the spectral properties or some different properties of the function. They can squeeze the Epson ball to make the good approximation of this model. And whenever you squeeze it you just pick, you just converge Epson towards zero.
00:03:06.486 - 00:04:04.744, Speaker A: And whenever you squeeze it, you end up with a graph of this type with three h's. Here you can just think of each of these side j to be defined only on the h j. And whenever you squeeze, you also get the connection formula at this point for the functions psi one, phi one, phi two and phi three. And so here it depends on the kinds of formula, depends on the thickness parameters and the rate of convergence of epsilon. So here are some examples. If you have same thickness parameters with same rate of conversions, you get classical Kirghov conditions when you have just the usual continuity condition at the vertex and you have flux condition on this type. But if you have a different thickness parameter with same rate, you get this type of conditions which people call to be a generalized cure of condition with some coefficients alpha which appear in front of the functions.
00:04:04.744 - 00:04:45.062, Speaker A: One can get more complicated, even like some rubbing type boundary conditions at the vertex. If you play with the thickness and rate of convergence like parameters and these values, and there has been like lots of work done in this direction. So it's, yeah, like I just pointed out a few of them. Which one, you can see them here and the recent one by. Yeah. So this type of models, when we have three edges, it's actually motivated to consider a so called star graphs. It's a graph which consists of n half lines connected at the common vertex.
00:04:45.062 - 00:05:16.754, Speaker A: And here we've been working with the half lines only. So it means that here what we have is that each of the branches is a half line, so has an infinite length. And this is the example with n three, n four hs. So one can parameterize it, just put zero here. And this is just r plus each of the branches. The Hilbert space alto space is defined on the graph in the following way. So, it's the direct sum of l two functions on each of the branches.
00:05:16.754 - 00:06:11.554, Speaker A: So if you, for example, if you have psi on l two gamma, then it's just a vector function. Each of the psi j components is defined only on the h j. In this similar way, you can define so spaces, but moreover, we equip each of these so spaces by suitable boundary conditions. So for example, for the weaker space, we just get equipped with the continuity, generalized continuity condition of this type. And then for the h two space, we also add the generalized like flux condition. And these two conditions, they give us boundary conditions. And the good thing about this boundary conditions is that the graph Laplacian, which is defined as the, acts on the side as a second derivative in each of the components itself a joint operator.
00:06:11.554 - 00:06:58.174, Speaker A: So, the Cauchy problem for the analysis equation on styrograph is given in this way. So here you can just consider in general like some two PI power, but two p power. But for now, let's just set p equal to one. And in this case, the nonlinear term is also defined complement wise. So in some sense, what we have is that here we have like uncoupled system of equation on each of the branches. But then all these solutions, they are connected using the boundary conditions at the vertex. So it's known that the question problem here is globally well posed for the initial data being in h one, and the energy and mass are considered under the NLS flow.
00:06:58.174 - 00:07:45.088, Speaker A: So we're interested in the stationary solutions of this type. So if you just substitute it into the analysis equation, then you end up with the stationary analysis equation. For the omega and few omega, one can apply the scaling of this form. Scaling actually makes sense because we have only branches which are r plus, so it doesn't change our lengths of our branches. But in fact, if you have some bounded, say h, in this case, the scaling also will change the length of the h. But we don't care for now because we're only working with the r plus parameterized stages. So, and after the scaling, this phi will solve this stationary equation of this type.
00:07:45.088 - 00:08:28.746, Speaker A: And it's known that the stationary equations, they have ch solution. And for every n and for every alpha, one can find a particular solution which is given by the ch function on each of the h's. And we call it a half solid state. And if you try to imagine it in the graph, then it would be just basically a star graph with half soliton on each of the ages. So in many cases, this half soliton state is only stationary state. But one can also introduce some constraint on alphas in order to get a family of other stationary states. So the constraint is given in this way.
00:08:28.746 - 00:09:18.974, Speaker A: And it first appeared in the works of Sibyrov Matrasulov in 2010. They had like several papers in this subject. And then what's the idea they had is that they partitioned the graph with n edges into k and n k edges. So they say that the first k edges are incoming edges and n minus k edges are outgoing ages. And under this constraint, with these boundary conditions, they found that if you will move soliton like if you saw tons will run along, solitons will run along these incoming edges. Then they transmit through the vertex completely without any reflections and just keep running along the other n k edges. So they did some numerical computations here.
00:09:18.974 - 00:09:55.264, Speaker A: And I think they did also like some analytical computations as well. But numerically it was like no reflection and so on. So based on this constraint, one can find family of solutions for this stationary equation. And it's also like this again, ch functions. But now this is ch functions, which are like translated ch functions. So it means that you have ch function, you cut it at some point a, for example, and you either take left side or right side of the ch function and put it on the branch. So we call this to be a shifted state.
00:09:55.264 - 00:10:52.392, Speaker A: And from this representation you can see that when a equal to zero, then this is just a half state because it becomes just a stitch x function. So here is the pictures. What we have one equal three k equal one. So whenever a is less than zero, we get picture like this, and a is greater than zero, we get shift the state of this type. And here we can see that because of these alphas parameters, as the vertex, like, because of this generalized continuity condition, we don't have a continuity, it's just some jumps vertices. Okay, so now let's just first talk about the Hazelton state, and we'll later analyze the stability of this Hazelton state. So just a recap that the household and state has this formula.
00:10:52.392 - 00:11:29.860, Speaker A: And then for alpha, we just set alpha equal one for simplicity. But in general, you can just pick some general alpha. It still will work in this case. And also we consider a graph with n greater than equal three edges. So first, papers where people started working with the Habshoten state. It was in 2012 when Ricardo Adam and his collaborators, they started working with the minimization problem. So energy minimization with the constraint mass.
00:11:29.860 - 00:11:59.426, Speaker A: And in this case they found that the Hubsoloton state is a saddle point of the energy constraint energy functional. And they did it by just considering two different families. And they found that the habitat state minimizes the energy within the one family and maximizes within the other family. And because of that, they said that there is a saddle point geometry. It has a saddle point behavior. And. But in this case, they didn't relate it with any type of instability.
00:11:59.426 - 00:12:38.600, Speaker A: They just, I think mentioned that there might be some instability in some, maybe other work, but it's been more like just. Yeah, could you elaborate on this? Not related to the instability. I mean, I'll talk, yeah, sorry, wouldn't it imply instability? Actually, we'll later see. Yes, that's what we proved later, that there would be some instability. But I mean, it's not necessarily imply instability, because there might be saddle point behavior, but I think there are some cases when you might. It might be instability. Oh, I see, yeah.
00:12:38.600 - 00:13:06.506, Speaker A: Of the hash automatic. Okay, okay, okay. Yeah. So instability in terms of the war between stability. So I will give a definition later. So, and we started my, instead of working with this type of immunization problem, we just decided to work with the action functional, which is given like this lambda c psi, which is the energy plus mass. Here, usually we have omega parameter, but since omega is equal to one, we get this thing.
00:13:06.506 - 00:14:03.434, Speaker A: The hazelnut set is known to be the critical point of this action functional. So if we will expand it later, like with four phi plus complex perturbation, then what we'll have is that we'll get this formula over here. And because of the saddle point behavior and this minimization problem, we would expect that this action function also has a saddle point behavior. But the interesting thing is that l plus and l will later see they defined in this way, they both are non negative in the constraint space. So it means that one can intuitively think that if the both are non negative, then we should probably have that. Han is actually a minimizer of this action functional. But we will later see that it's not the case because of the higher order, high order kernel of the operator.
00:14:03.434 - 00:14:44.664, Speaker A: So, yeah, so here the spectral properties of the operator. So we can see that here, size phi is the ch function. So it's exponential decaying function at infinity. It doesn't affect the continuous spectrum. So continuous spectrum starts from one up to infinity. And then l is known to be a non negative operator with the kernel given just by phi. Because if you just calculate l minus phi substitute here, you get the stationary analysis equation again, and phi is completely, it's a positive function.
00:14:44.664 - 00:15:15.744, Speaker A: And so l has no negative spectrum. In this case, l plus has a unique negative eigenvalue. And the kernel is given by some functions, u one up to u n minus one. So kernel is n minus one dimensional. If you have n edges in the star graph, and for example, there is a particular procedure, you can find it for general n. But for example, n equals three. You can find that u one and u two given in this way.
00:15:15.744 - 00:16:19.244, Speaker A: And here, I also didn't write it down. Each of these uj is orthogonal to each other, right? So it's, and for l, which is restricted to the constraint space. So if you restrict l plus to the orthogonal complement of the phi, then l is non negative operator. And it's just because if you constrain, if you apply constraint, then a negative eigenvalue, it's actually will move, it will increase, but in order to make sure that it just passes through zero, you apply so called the criterion, which we later, which we are going to show it here. But it was proven that it all works and it's positive. Negative eigenvalue becomes positive and you're only left with this kernel and plus extra policy eigenvalues that case. And so this is our main result on this saddle point geometry for the action functional.
00:16:19.244 - 00:17:15.404, Speaker A: So we work only with the real perturbation of phi. And we see that if you just substitute, you don't have l function at all here, because we don't have complex perturbation in here. And here is our result, which says that if you pick sufficiently small c, then this problem has unique minimizer. Minimization problem has a unique minimizer u perpendicular, which is unique for every c, and also the minimizer h. One norm of this u perpendicular is also sufficiently small. And also we found that it's sign indefinite in c. And because of this thing is assigned indefinite, it means that for different values of c, you might either go below the value of lambda phi or above the value of lambda phi.
00:17:15.404 - 00:18:01.260, Speaker A: So in this sense, phi half is a saddle point of exception functional. And here the proof went, you just take this function, take the derivative, and then apply the implicit function theorem for that. And you, using the implicit function theorem, you find that for every c there exists a unique minimizer. So in some sense this u perpendicular is a function of c. And you can show that this expression, this estimate holds for the euponuclear. So. And then later in the case of unit minimizer, when you are, when you apply, when you like, take this upendicular, it minimizes it.
00:18:01.260 - 00:18:51.100, Speaker A: You can find that this difference actually can be written as cubic term plus terms of the order four. And the cubic term was found to be given explicitly by this formula. In order to show that this cubic term never like vanishes, we just compute just one of these terms. Namely the term is when you have cj cubed, and then you find that for j greater than equal to this inner product never vanishes. And so it means that you always have this cj cubed terms in this expansion and this expression. And so because of these cubic terms, you can find that m zero is sine indefinite. And since it's leading term in this expansion, then MC is also a sign indefinite.
00:18:51.100 - 00:19:50.758, Speaker A: So that kind of gives you saddle point behavior. And here is the example for an equal three case, you can just find m zero c to be equal to this. So this p equal one to be equal to this function. So now because of this saddle point behavior in the action functional, we expect to have some instability, some orbital instability as well. And it's orbital stability is given just. Yeah, so this is definition of orbital instability. So basically the idea is that whenever you start in the some small neighborhood of the half soliton, if your global solution always remains in this orbit of the half soliton, in the small neighborhood of the orbit of the half soliton, then you say that your stationary solution is orbital, is stable, so it's never leaves the orbit of the half soliton.
00:19:50.758 - 00:20:21.734, Speaker A: Otherwise if you go beyond the orbit, you just say that it's orbitally unstable. So, and that's our main result. On the instability of Hazeleton. We just showed that the Haasultant is orbital unstable. So it means that there is this time k zero. There is some initial data v such that the v is sufficiently small, but it always goes at some time t zero. It always goes beyond the epsilon neighborhood of the orbit of the half autonom.
00:20:21.734 - 00:21:18.654, Speaker A: And then the proof is actually will consist on the several steps. So we'll use the energy method just to show that all our, most of the terms in our evolution system would be very small. And then we'll reduce it to the final dimensional system. We'll show the connection between the original system and that final dimensional system. So let's just start with first expansion. So here we just show that whenever your solution is around the orbit of the half photon, then you can always expand it in this way using the modulation parameters here under the analogy conditions. Then you can substitute this expansion into the analysis equation, and you will get the time evolution system for the perturbation terms here.
00:21:18.654 - 00:22:18.608, Speaker A: And next step would be like, we will show that this term. So theta dot minus omega and omega dot, they are small. So we just apply the analytic conditions, this and that. This equation, just taking the derivatives with respect to time here and there, we will end up with the following system. And here we see that assuming that omega, u and w are sufficiently small, then this thing here would be of order two. This and these terms, the diagonal terms would be small here and here. These things would be some, some number, right? Because the inner product of derivative of the half solution with respect to omega and half solute is actually some constant number, not constantly change with time, but it's of order one.
00:22:18.608 - 00:22:58.494, Speaker A: Right? And so this matrix is invertible. So you just apply the inverse to this terms, and you end up with this estimates over here. And now, next, since we said that in the expansion which we can, we won't always set omega to be equal to one. We'll just start with omega equal to one. And as time goes, omega just will go, and then we'll just move around 0.1 mostly, as we'll later see, we just say that l plus here would also depend on omega. And I'll just show it over here.
00:22:58.494 - 00:23:40.384, Speaker A: So here l is the value, this is the value of l plus for the omega equal one. But when you have general omega, then omega will appear here instead of one. And here you'll have phi omega. So that's the changes which you will have for the l plus there and for the l minus. And we say that since we know that the kernel of the l plus is n minus one dimensional, we just call the orthogonal basis of this kernel to be uj omega. And then we also introduced wj omega, which solves this equation. And this equation can be solved because u omega is orthogonal to the kernel of the oscillator minus.
00:23:40.384 - 00:24:20.384, Speaker A: You can solve them. Next, we decompose our u in this way and our w perm in this way. So here you have the analogy conditions for u perpendicular and w perpendicular of this form. And next, we will try to show that these perpendicular terms, u perpendicular double, they always remain small. And in order to do that, we apply the energy method. So we first consider the action functional, and we just take the action function with respect to w. So that's what we have with respect to omega.
00:24:20.384 - 00:24:59.444, Speaker A: Sorry. That's what we have. So omega changes we. Yeah, so we have this thing. And then if you expand, then you will have that the action function can be expanded in this way with the omega dependent on omega one squared plus cubic term and l plus u quadratic forms for the l plus and l minus plus some higher order terms. So later substitutes, we substitute the decomposition of u and w, which we obtained previously in terms of u j w omega w j omega. We substitute it here and we end up with the decomposition of this type.
00:24:59.444 - 00:26:13.808, Speaker A: And here, the good thing with this is that l plus omega and l minus omega, they are coercive for the u perpendicular and w perpendicular in this case, because they are orthogonal to the kernel of the l plus, for example. And so it actually moves the minimum value of this quadratic form to be like, bounded by a positive constant times h one norm of these terms. And so it means that this value, this action functional, is bounded from below by the constant multiple of omega minus one squared plus constant multiple of this h one norm squared, plus some extra terms over here. And so in order to get that this omega minus one, and these terms are very small, it would be nice to get a bound from the, the upper bound for the action functional. That's what we get using the conservation of mass and energy. So we just rewrite the action functional in this way. So, because energy mass at any time t is the same as energy and mass of the initial data.
00:26:13.808 - 00:27:03.394, Speaker A: So we use that. And here we use that. We just say that assuming that our initial data is located in the delta neighborhood of the half soliton, we have this estimate. And because of that estimate, we can compute that delta zero, which is a constant of motion here, plus this term, is less than some constant multiple of delta squared. And then we combine this formula with the coercivity result, which we obtained here. And then for the omega minus one squared, and what we have that omega minus one plus the h one normal distance would be less than delta. So it was delta squared, but here has omega minus one squared squared.
00:27:03.394 - 00:27:30.074, Speaker A: So I just removed all the squared values. So delta. And here you have b, and here you have c cubed. It was m zero c. It was this previous sign, indefinite function, which is c cube. So we just get that omega minus one plus this h one norm is less than a constant multiple of delta plus c cube over two. So it's just c and the three over two plus beta plus b.
00:27:30.074 - 00:28:26.656, Speaker A: Next we. Yeah, so we obtain that this term is very small. And we know that these terms are small. And so what we do next is we just substitute the decomposition of u and w into this time evolution system. And then what we have is that we get the time evolution of the system, like this time evolution for the cj bj terms, and also for u perpendicular, double perpendicular terms. Then we apply our technological conditions that u perpendicular is in a product with u perpendicular with each of the u jc is equal to zero and same for the w perpendicular. We end up with the following system.
00:28:26.656 - 00:29:13.552, Speaker A: For the following system, we have this thing, and here we do a truncation. Like, first, it's a kind of formal truncation, but we'll see later that actually it would make sense. So the idea is that here this is of the second order term. So each of this is at least one first order term. So it means this entire thing is a cubic of the cubic order. This is of the cubic order, and this is of the second order. But so what we did is just for the truncation purpose, we just forget about this thing and we will take this as the first equation, that this bracket is equal to zero.
00:29:13.552 - 00:29:50.614, Speaker A: And then for the second system, what we do is we also apply truncation. But here, this is cubic term. This is again cubic term, but for the rw, it's a quadratic term plus other cubic terms. So we just take the leading order of this inner product and we end up with, oh yeah, also we just say that omega is equal to one. So since we know that omega minus one is also small, we just truncate with omega one. So we just take that part of expansion. And so we have this simultaneous system.
00:29:50.614 - 00:30:46.186, Speaker A: And for this hamiltonian system, what we have is that the Hamiltonian is given in this way with m zero, which was previously given to be sign definite function. But here we can explicitly calculate that each of these, for each j, this inner product is positive. So it means we will have some positive beta j squared, some of this beta j squared plus some sign indefinite cubic function. And one can show that there is some zero equilibria, there is some unstable direction from the zero, from the neighborhood of the zero point. And one can also show that whenever you will try to. So we'll try to start in the neighborhood of zero, and eventually, in the time of order epsilon minus one over two, you will go beyond the orbit of the epsilon neighborhood of zero. Right.
00:30:46.186 - 00:31:56.052, Speaker A: So it means that it's some type of very slow instability in this case. So this is a result for the truncated system. Truncated system. But now we will show that whenever you consider now the full system for the c and b, then these solutions cb of the original system, they remain very close to the solutions gamma and beta of the truncated system. And for that purpose, we just consider the like not a square but rectangle for CT and bt. So we just show that in this, if you are inside of this rectangle, picking our initial data to be delta such that delta is equal to epsilon three over two, we can get that the terms omega minus one and up, they remain very small in this case. And so using that result and the coronal inequality for the norms of the CT minus gamma t and b t minus beta t, one can get that the solutions, they are very close.
00:31:56.052 - 00:32:55.454, Speaker A: It means that the norm of CT minus gamma t, for example, is less than the constant times epsilon three over two. And because of that, whenever you, for example, if you take epsilon over two level, then whenever gamma t leaves this epsilon over two levels, c of t also leaves this epsilon over two level because of very close because they are located very close to each other. And so it means that whenever you leave the epsilon neighborhood, sorry. Whenever the truncated system leaves the epsilon neighborhood, the original system also leaves the epsilon neighborhood. And that gives the nonlinear instability of the half photon states. And also we see that it's very slowly growing perturbations and it happens within the time of, for the ribs on minus one over two. This case.
00:32:55.454 - 00:33:58.554, Speaker A: Okay, so that's actually concludes here, I conclude with the only an instability that for the half soliton. And now another part which I was want to talk about is that this nonlinear instability of haphazard actually also implies the instability of the other shifted states of the particular form. And so I'll just talk about it here. So for now, let's just assume that k is equal to one, and the constraint is equal to. This constraint is given in this form. And so it means that if we will now re parameterize our incoming h associated with the first h to be not zero plus infinity, but to be minus infinity zero, then the entire equation might be nicely given. A stationary state might be nicely given in this following form, because previously you had x minus a, but after the parameterization, it would be x plus a over here.
00:33:58.554 - 00:34:45.632, Speaker A: And so this is just to remind you what we have. So here k equal one. And so for a less than zero, we get this thing, but for a greater than zero, you get this thing. Okay? And now the l plus and l minus operators, which we've been working previously for the, with the half floating, in the half floating case, they now depend on the a. And the dependence on a is actually incorporated over here. Since our function, our shifted state f, depends on a and. But anyway, since it's a ch function, it's also, again, it's just decays exponentially at infinity.
00:34:45.632 - 00:35:04.402, Speaker A: The continuous spectrum is same. L has the same properties, it's non negative. It's a kernel given by the shifted state. And here, there are two cases. First is a less than zero, another is a greater than zero. But we're interested in the case a greater than zero. So it's this case.
00:35:04.402 - 00:35:43.580, Speaker A: I'm sorry, it's this case when you have just one bump and all the other things without bumps on the other branches. Oh, I missed this. Yeah. Okay, I'll talk about this. And in this case, for the a greater than zero, we have one negative eigenvalue of the operator l plus. And we found that the, in this case, when a is greater than zero, we have one negative eigenvalue. Then the shifted state is spectrally stable.
00:35:43.580 - 00:36:33.960, Speaker A: So I won't talk about spectral stability now, it's just the result. And it's just distinguish between this case and the other cases, because all the other cases are spectrally unstable. But here it's a spectral stable. And it's interesting to work with that, because later we'll see that even though spectrally stable, it's nonlinearly orbitally unstable. And so if we keep working with the spectrum of l plus, we can find the interesting behavior of the spectrum depending on alpha or depending on a translational parameter. So the continuous spectrum, as I said, starts from one up to infinity. Now we have only simple zero eigenvalue in this case, and we have simple negative eigenvalue, which is actually 93, can be found explicitly.
00:36:33.960 - 00:37:13.754, Speaker A: And the results eigenvalue lambda one, which depends on a in the following way. So we can see that when a is equal to zero, we are at the half state, and this eigenvalue has multiplied n minus two. Then it half slot and says you have n minus two plus one. So you got n minus one dimensional kernel. But if you are not in the household state, then you have a simple zero eigenvalue. And then if a is less than zero, you get highly dimensional negative spectrum here. But if a is greater than zero, you have only one negative eigenvalue here, and all the other eigenvals are positive.
00:37:13.754 - 00:37:56.974, Speaker A: So. And here. Yes, I missed this slide, I'm sorry. So the idea is that what happens, why do we get this nonlinear instability in terms of the orbital instability, is because of the, is because the magneto functional is not preserved under the time flow. Because usually in many systems, like for example, for the analysis on the real line, you have that the energy norm and energy mass and momentum, they all conserved. But in this case, because of the graph structure, it's not translationally invariant, like not always translational invariant. For example, shifted state is translational invariant.
00:37:56.974 - 00:39:14.784, Speaker A: But in general, if you have some other type of function because of this type of continuity conditions, whenever you move your solution, it might break this equality at the vertex. And so it means that kind of translation breaks the solution. And so the function and the function won't be in the h two gamma space in this case. And so we can find explicitly that if you take the derivative of the momentum functional with respect to time, then it's monotonically increasing function. And here is the result that will later show that this monotonical increasing behavior of the momentum function is related to the behavior of the translational parameter a. And it's given by this theory. So we just say that if you start with some a zero greater than zero, then whenever you start in the delta neighborhood of the orbit of the shifted state, localized at a zero, as time goes, your at, like your translational parameter, it moves towards some nu.
00:39:14.784 - 00:40:04.216, Speaker A: You can just take nu to be very close to zero. And then in time, what we get is that whenever you move towards the vertex, towards the mu, you still remain inside of the epsilon neighborhood of the orbit of this shifted state, localized at a t. So I think it's a bit complicated. Maybe I said it in a complicated way, but it's better to like to see it on the picture. So here is the example with n. So the idea is that if you localized, if your soliton is localized at point a zero over here, then as time goes, you just keep moving towards the half soliton. And whenever you keep moving towards the half, like you will get that this part of ch will appear.
00:40:04.216 - 00:41:00.442, Speaker A: And eventually you will end up with a function which is very close to the half open state, right, okay. And then, and here is the proof of this fax. So you, since you have non translational parameter, you add one more modulation parameter, a key over here. Using this, you get more like use more terminal conditions for that purpose. But the idea is that you substitute this psi into the analysis equation. Again, you get the equations for this matrix type equations for this term, this term and that term. And you can extract that a dot the equation for the rate of change of the parameter a.
00:41:00.442 - 00:41:52.910, Speaker A: And it's given in this way. And here. Another thing to notice is that when you expand the momentum functional, it's given this way. So it means that the logic terms here, they just have the opposite sign, but they're the same. And so you just combine these two formulas and you get this type of connection between the monotonicity of a and the momentum functional. And so since we said that momentum functional is always increasing function, we can say that if moment of functional at the initial time zero is positive and it's increasing, then this derivative of a becomes like always remains negative and so a will decrease and so it moves like our solitude will move towards the vertex in this case. And that's, yeah, that's what we have.
00:41:52.910 - 00:42:51.634, Speaker A: That's what I said. The initial datum, you can pick it in such a way that your point function is polished in this case. And since momentum function is non decreasing function, you have that momentum of the psi always will remain greater than or equal to momentum of the initial. The initial data and because of that, and the previous connection between the derivative of a and the momentum functional, you will see that you can adjust this epsilon and delta parameters in such a way that the rate of change of a would be always bounded away from zero. And so it means that you will just move towards a, will move towards zero without the rate of change, one decay. Right. It just will keep moving and eventually we'll reach the value nu, which has been like, for example, around zero in this case.
00:42:51.634 - 00:43:17.062, Speaker A: And here being some numerical simulations, what we had, which we had. So you start over here. So the idea is that you are localized on the h one. You localized at the h one at the point minus zero, five, five. So it's over here somewhere. And as time goes, you see that. You just perturb it.
00:43:17.062 - 00:44:03.594, Speaker A: And then you see that the localization, like the sultan actually starts moving towards the vertex and it starts appearing on the h two and h three. And after, like some long time, just after 40 seconds in this case, what will happen is that it crosses the vertex over here. And then it means that in this time, it's in the neighborhood of the half soliton. And once it crosses the vertex, it eventually just runs along the h two and it just goes away. That leads to the type of the stability in this case. So, yeah, thank you very much. That's the end.
