00:03:39.410 - 00:04:19.460, Speaker A: Welcome everybody. My name is Kartik. And I'm Luke, and we're going to be your MCs today for the storage provider summit. We couldn't be happier to have all you with us in attendance today, so we're watching all of this on Eepglobal TV. And for those of you who are joining us for the first time, this is we're going to be using for all of today's talks and we encourage all of you to log in and engage with all of our speakers. You'll be able to ask any questions here and we'll be able to relate those questions directly to all of our talks. For everybody who also logs in and engages, we're also giving out a poop NFT Token, so be sure to say hi to us, the speakers, and the global team.
00:04:19.460 - 00:05:19.554, Speaker A: So this summit is part of Hack FS, and Hack FS is a month long event which is a hackathon and a few summits. For the hackathon, we have over 650 developers from 61 different countries spending 18 different time zones building the latest and the greatest on IPFS and Filecoin, and just whatever creative things that are possible now with Web Three. And also part of this hackathon, we're doing two summits highlighting the incredible things happening in the Protocol Labs ecosystem. Last Friday the 6th, we did our Builders Day Summit, and today we're going to be focusing on storage providers and talking about that side of the ecosystem. So let's get into what today is all about. We have some amazing talks for the next few hours and we're super excited to share what we're going to cover. We're going to kick the day off by talking about what the business opportunities are on the storage side and we're going to do a panel covering different aspects of being a storage provider.
00:05:19.554 - 00:06:11.314, Speaker A: Then we're going to have another panel about what does it mean to invest into Web Three startups and what do investors think about when they are looking to build and fund companies. Then we'll have ZX talk about what does it mean to bridge with FalcoIn and all the new things that are possible with Web Three. Then we'll have Michelle cover how you can actually take advantage of the grants opportunities in the IPFS and Filecoin ecosystem and further along your projects in a non dilutive way. And lastly, we'll have Deep and Gail and talk about Filecoin. Plus they have some amazing announcements planned for you today and I can't wait for everybody to share the amazing things that they want. So with that, let's jump right into our very first talk. This panel is designed to or just is titled Business Opportunities and Storage Site, and we have Charles, Stewart, Kevin and Neo as our panelists.
00:06:11.314 - 00:06:34.526, Speaker A: And moderating this chat will be Stefan and I'll. Let Stefan and all of our panelists introduce themselves now. So without further ado, please welcome all of our panelists. I'll ask all of you to turn your videos on and we'll go right into our talk. Perfect. Thank you so much. Cardik before we start today, first of all, welcome.
00:06:34.526 - 00:07:37.778, Speaker A: Very excited to discuss a little bit more in detail the business opportunities on the storage provider. I want to talk about how I look at the Falcon ecosystem. Two weeks ago, I had the opportunity to look at the sky with one of my friends who's an. You know, when you live in a city like myself here in San Francisco, it can be foggy, can be really hard because of light pollution to actually see the stars in the sky. We were kind of wandering through the sky with this new telescope, and we kind of landed on this really cool region called Omega Nebula. And as I'm trying to explain to him what Falcone is and what we do here every day, day in, day out, and he's trying to explain to me all the different galaxies and the cool stuff that he's working on as an astronomer. We kind of landed on Omega Nebula as being like, that place where we connected, because if you look at this region, it's one of the most brightest and massive star forming regions closest to our galaxy that we know of today.
00:07:37.778 - 00:07:56.582, Speaker A: And it creates all these new stars. And so when I was looking at it and I was like, hey, what is this called? He's like, well, it's Omega Nebula. It's a nursery of stars. And I'm like, wow. That's exactly how I look at filecoin. Right. What we're doing here at Hackfast, what we're doing with the whole ecosystem is exactly this.
00:07:56.582 - 00:08:32.258, Speaker A: We're building new companies. We're building new stars. And I thought it was really cool. And also we had a long conversation on how he should be storing all these images, because actually, this is a real image from the telescope here in my backyard two weeks ago, how he should be storing it on File point, of course. So that's the next conversation we'll have with his engineers. So today, what do we want to focus on as innovation happens across the universe within Filecoin, not just on the front side by creating new applications, we also look at the storage provider side. There's a lot of opportunity there.
00:08:32.258 - 00:09:25.006, Speaker A: The storage provider, we have now more than 2700 storage providers and growing every single day. They thought it would be interesting to bring a couple of providers to the table and have a conversation around where innovation can happen there as well. And so as you can look at this universe, we'll talk a little bit more about infrastructure as a service onboarding of data, data protection, et cetera, as we onboard more customers to our platform. So let me welcome Neo, Charles, Kevin, and Stuart to our panel session today and very happy to have you here. So let's kick it off with a first question for Neo. Neo, you're part of IPFS main. You have a ton of filecoin powered, you've been adding a lot of filecoin power to the network.
00:09:25.006 - 00:10:06.146, Speaker A: What's interesting to me is you've kind of started in China, but can you tell us a little bit more about how PFS, Maine has reinvented itself since the start of Mainnet and where you see opportunities for some of these newer startups? Yeah, absolutely. Thank you so much Stephen, for the great introduction. Actually, fun fact about myself when I was a little kid, my dream job is to be an astronaut flying spaceship among the stars and that's really beautiful galaxies you're sharing there. Yeah. So just about myself, just a brief intro. I'm Neog from IPFS Main. We are one of the sponsors of Hack FS 2021 and we sponsored this same hackathon last year as well.
00:10:06.146 - 00:11:04.226, Speaker A: The reason we like so much about Hack FS is that we find it's a really great place to find new business opportunities of cyberspace. Both IPFS Main and myself invested projects from the Hack FS last year and we're planning to do the same thing this year as well. Well, as a storage provider, we used to call it a minor. We started all the way from the beginning of FICO Network and currently we are bearing over 300 petabyte capacity and looking to expand globally. Now we have over 90% of the capacity located in China. And if you stand from the client's point of view, it's not very good practice to have such centralized storage even though they are distributed between different data centers, but it's still within one continent. Well, most storage clients focus on availability and durability.
00:11:04.226 - 00:12:19.414, Speaker A: So we built a full set of customized Lotus seedling algorithm optimization and storage solution to ensure that clients'data is available when needed and protected against failures and errors. But more importantly is that we start to shift our focus to support other regions like North America and Europe. And in spite of different crypto friendly or UN friendly policies, I believe global expansion of ficoin storage providing service is inevitable in long term. So we are happy and looking forward to working with local ficoin storage provider groups in different continents with our expertise of ficoin storage providing services. Great, thanks. So that's fantastic to hear and I think you brought up a really good point is that it's a very strong community, right? So multiple storage providers work together across multiple regions. So when you design products or when you design solutions, you have to keep that in mind because as you mentioned, clients are looking at protecting their data across multiple regions, multiple countries, et cetera.
00:12:19.414 - 00:12:49.718, Speaker A: The other thing you mentioned, which I want to comment to is that we call this the storage provider panel session because as you mentioned, we put a proposal or the community put a proposal together to rebrand the miners terminology to storage provider. Again, to be closer to the end customer. Because that's really what all of you are doing, which is providing a storage service and then some. Cool. Next to the next, I want to bring Charles. Thank you so much NIA. Charles, the next question is for you.
00:12:49.718 - 00:13:36.674, Speaker A: Your company has know sort of evolved right from being a storage provider also to a solutions provider. When you're working with enterprise companies, you kind of figured out that onboarding data is not always that easy. So you've found ways to innovate and help your customers to bring data on board faster. Can you give us an example of what challenges you have seen to deliver a good storage service and what applications have you built? Please educate us because you have some great stuff there. Yeah, plus one is based in Montreal, Canada. We were a storage provider before. We provide about ten nodes in North America for different data for our clients.
00:13:36.674 - 00:14:19.758, Speaker A: So early this year we found that there are so many clients have big interest in Frycoin storage. With verified data, Frycoin can provide almost free for all the clients. They know this news and they feel excited about it. However, there was barrier for them because those industrial customers really come for example the big data processing or machine learning. They have a large demand of data. But however their existing structure was building on the centralized cloud platform like Amazon, Google Cloud. What do they want is that their engineers want to migrate to Fripen FOV.
00:14:19.758 - 00:15:02.186, Speaker A: So which means that they need some framework, tools or platform to help do the migration. Give an example of a local AI company called AI. They're doing algorithms. They have a huge amount of data labeling on their network. Currently storage on the AWS spends about thousands of dollars per month just for script. But when they migrate to Frypoint, the first question is that their data scientists have been getting used to using S Three as the framework. So they upload download and there are lots of development based on S Three.
00:15:02.186 - 00:16:16.602, Speaker A: Now, the question come to us that if they cannot doing this migration easily with a turnkey solution for example Monday they are being so afraid of doing that. So what do we do is that we're building the entire solution for them. We're building the cache layer for them to upload to accelerate the data access from the storage to computing. We're building the S three compatible interface to us called FS Three. It is gateway to migrate your existing data from AWS to APFS, then through the Frackle backup to Frackle network without much human interaction. We're also building the aging environment for them to secure data in a catch environment, doing encryption before they upload to fragment network with those we also provide them the API access. Because developers getting used to API access is not like the normal end customer like they were using web interface, so they wanted to have those kind of and also some permission based access for some specific data.
00:16:16.602 - 00:17:25.674, Speaker A: So with all those help, they'll be able to start migrating. Then we also help them to apply for some devgrounds while they are building the tool so they get support from the Firecom Foundation. Another interesting thing is that they have company currently located in China, which is using AliCloud as a bridge to send the data from China to Canada, which is lots of cost when they're using that protocol for transfer because AliCloud charge a large amount, a large amount of money when you're doing the transportation. Cross candidates with the FireCon. We have so many nodes, over 3000 storage providers all across the world and we have so much power in China, so most of them willing to provide those service for free. So with this advantage, they'll be able to downgrade their cost by 70% without impact over their business. So that's why we see that it's Freight One and FFS.
00:17:25.674 - 00:18:21.120, Speaker A: That great tools, but we really need us as solution provider to give them greater tools to accelerate their development. Excellent. I like you brought up a ton of good points here. One is that what I'm hearing is that storage providers like yourself are also innovating, right, by bringing more interfaces and make it easier for customers to onboard. So also secondly is that the egress from existing cloud providers is expensive and anything that we can help with that making that easier so that more data can be ingested in even different formats. Because one of the unique items of Falcon here is that you have that unique ID and it doesn't really matter if it came in through an S Three interface or a virtual file system or a custom SDK. Cool.
00:18:21.120 - 00:18:54.858, Speaker A: Thank you for that, Charles. So, Kevin, you're at picnic. One of the things, as we kind of mentioned already, is that the provider community is very strong, right, very interconnected. One thing that keeps me impressing is how collaborative everyone is. Also for this panel session was so easy to have the support from everyone to communicate and sit on this panel. You for sure have been engaged with onboarding and data movement of some large customer data sets in petabyte scale. Can you give us some examples and educate the team on what you've seen there? Yeah, certainly.
00:18:54.858 - 00:20:10.046, Speaker A: So I wanted to acknowledge that over my years of participating in the blockchain space, the Filequin ecosystem is definitely one of the most collaborative open source communities. So first, thanks to you, Stefan Protocol and Hack FS for inviting the Picnic team to today's panel quick intro. So Picnic is a San Diego headquartered cloud storage venture and our mission is to set the enterprise standard for Web three infrastructure so that all the blockchains of today, they're not spinning up nodes and validating off of Amazon web services and using centralized infrastructure. So, to your point, Picnic, we are really lucky to be a part of numerous teams throughout the Filecoin ecosystem helping some of the coolest pioneers onboard their data sets onto Filecoin. So the first example that comes to mind is Starling Lab, which is a joint venture between the University of Southern California Shoa Foundation and the Stanford Department of Engineering. And they aim to protect human history by leveraging Filecoin as the archival layer to their data stack. So my team and I have been supporting them in preparing, among many various things, the movement of their data sets, the egress from where they are today, starting from tape storage.
00:20:10.046 - 00:20:36.470, Speaker A: When you have Petabytes of data, it's not easy to go digital, especially if you're talking at that scale. It's not easy to source the data of that scale. It's not easy to get it to the multiple storage providers. When we say 3000 on File coin, how do you get it to them across a blockchain network so that Starling is able to enjoy decentralization and redundancy of copies. But it's going to happen. It's been happening. It's been brilliant.
00:20:36.470 - 00:21:14.422, Speaker A: So it's been really exciting time for all of us in the Falcon community. I can think of so many other projects we're working on, but I'll cut it there so that we can share some time with other folks on the yeah, great. Great. Kevin so basically, data management, like you said, right? And data onboarding, just like in other cloud offerings today, when you're moving petabytes in capacity, you want to move it fast. Sometimes sneakernet is the fastest way to do it. But the whole management, the data management aspect around that is where we see a lot of opportunity. I think that will sort of get disrupted as well.
00:21:14.422 - 00:21:51.800, Speaker A: All the traditional tools today, by the way, charge a ton of money if you go to some of the traditional. I don't want to call out any um, so I think there's a ton of opportunity there as well. Stu thank you so much. Kevin stu, you have been an early adopter of Filecoin, right? And have extensive security networking experience. What recommendations do you have for the team here and for the audience when it comes to security networking in this space? I think you're on mute. Stu.
00:21:53.870 - 00:22:23.954, Speaker B: Somebody had to do that. So hopefully everyone's heard that yesterday there was a large break in to Polynetworks. It's a DFI provider, and there was $600 million worth of their stuff taken and most of it's been returned. It's an interesting story. So the security stuff is always in the news lately. I do want to break it down to some of the pieces. First of all, if we start with the actual blockchain and filecoin, that's been well proven.
00:22:23.954 - 00:23:04.446, Speaker B: It's been wholly tested. We don't see a security issue there, so we don't worry about that. But then we look at the different components, such as storage providers, like at Picnic. We have to be concerned about the physical security of the hardware. We have to be concerned about all the things that a normal provider would be concerned about. Denial of service attacks, protecting that inbound p to P connections into the network through some kind of firewall. Of course, you harden your OS, you protect all the systems that you're running so that your system is secure.
00:23:04.446 - 00:24:00.590, Speaker B: Then the other component is on the client side, and in our ecosystem, the client is the one sending data into the filecoin network to the storage provider. So that has to be protected. One of the big concerns we have, and I think the poly network breach tells you about protecting your wallets. So you have to do everything from making sure others can't access it, proper use of the wallets where you store them, and of course, protecting the keys and not losing the keys. So everything like you would expect from a normal operation, backups, backup of those keys, the wallets. And then on the network side, as Kevin mentioned, we're talking large volumes of data. So if we just look at having to transfer a pebabyte of data, if you have a ten gigabit connection to the Internet, that takes about nine days to move a PIB.
00:24:00.590 - 00:24:12.790, Speaker B: And on the internal side, the network requirements are even higher. We're typically looking at 40 to 100 gigabits per second internal connections because of the massive amounts of data. So hopefully that's a good overview.
00:24:14.010 - 00:25:08.134, Speaker A: Thank you. Yeah, no, great. Stuart, I think what you're highlighting is in every single stack, every single layer, every single step of implementing a systems or a storage provider infrastructure, you see opportunity for improvement. Let's go back to Neo. So, Neo, where do you think the Web Three future leads or leaders should be focusing on and building out new businesses abroad? Maybe? What's your view from IPFS mains perspective? Well, technically there are two types of tools application and infrastructure. I believe both of them are equally important to Web Three ecosystem. And on the current FICO network, there are a lot more capacity than storage.
00:25:08.134 - 00:26:27.826, Speaker A: So it means that there is a huge amount of capacity, basically for free, for hackers to use if they choose to use a Web Three powered network with the free storage or even potentially negatively priced storage. Well, it's a safe proposal that allows storage providers to set negative prices for verified storage deals and that will unlock lots of innovative applications or smart contracts that built directly on top of Ficoin network after PL as EVM or other VMs into Ficoin. As for the infrastructure, aside from the data management Kevin mentioned earlier, I believe as more and more storage providers start to take real storage deals, contract management tooling will become super handy. Especially for large scale storage providers. Content content filtering system will be essential as well. People will start to realize how important this is when the data is against local legislation. Lots of storage providers in China have this hesitation when they couldn't verify the data, so they just don't take sort deals at all.
00:26:27.826 - 00:27:32.834, Speaker A: Also, like Juan mentioned earlier, the Composal defill could take market orders like bids, deals, asks, and leverage a dex decentralized exchange to see how the market really values these orders. And with this sort of ability, the ecosystem will be able to begin come up with hardware futures. You could do futures on hard drives, SSDs and GPUs and so on, or even spacetime futures, which is wild as you could actually do futures on the storage contract themselves. I'm super excited to see what happens when that emerges. Very cool. Yeah, no, I think you brought up some really good points like filtering data, qualifying data in an automated scalable way, guaranteeing that certain data is legit, et cetera, and then optimization all the way on the back end stack as well, like tuning for hardware. Definitely lots of opportunity chipsets, right? Customized chipsets.
00:27:32.834 - 00:28:27.030, Speaker A: All of that will eventually help us get ahead and provide more compute capabilities as well down the road. Thank you. So let's go back to Charles. So Charles, one of the things that you're a big proponent of this is how you're building the stack of services and are able to compete against hyperscalers. So any suggestions and opportunities on where startups should focus on in helping the Falcon ecosystem and competing against the hyperscalers? You have some very specific talking tracks there. Let's go through it. Yeah, we are very exciting to working with the Frycon network because we see that there are huge opportunities in the Frykon network.
00:28:27.030 - 00:29:39.434, Speaker A: In my opinion, Frico network for now is not just one of the biggest or even the biggest support network that also has numerous computing resource as well. Memory, GPU and CPU, they're all hyper performance servers. So with all those resources, we're actually not just building one of the largest storage network, we are also become one of the largest computing network across the world. Which means that potentially like fraternity network competing with all the existing cloud systems like AWS, Google and Azure, whatever. There are so many limitations about those centralized cloud systems. First, their source code is all closed source code, which means that you don't really know what they perform behind the scenes. Did they take your data? Did they using your privacy for business purpose? Is your data really belong to yourself? When you want to retrieve your data, where you get it? All those questions you don't know, right? But with firecom, everything open source.
00:29:39.434 - 00:30:47.586, Speaker A: You have any doubts, you can check the code. If you want to add something, you can write your own code and deploy on the network. So with this one also we said we currently have almost 700 nodes which is active on the network you can reach and more than 200 nodes accepting data. Imagine how many data centers AWS and Google has just 20 data centers across the world. How many regions fragrance network reached? If you check the hacker FS by today, across 18 time zone, we have more than 600 teams and we have so many storage providers across the world we can build the largest decentralized storage and computing network. So for the lots of startups who want to join this great network, you can think about how can we change all the service current cloud service providers are doing to our network. For example live peer, they are doing the video live stream and transcoding, right? They can use the fracture network.
00:30:47.586 - 00:31:41.286, Speaker A: Doing the fuel mining is ongoing like us. We're doing the storage providers with the FS three, trying to replace the current S three storage. And we're also building the HCOM building framework to replace the AWS snowbird snow family services. And there are thousands of opportunities there. For example, the CDN services, the cloud front services, cloud monitoring services and other service like load and balancer service all those Apties which is currently provided by AWS or other cloud services. We can do it on Fractal network which is even better. We have so many storage providers with verified data you get storage free.
00:31:41.286 - 00:32:11.434, Speaker A: Can we get computing free as well in the future I would assess that it's possible. We need a good economic model, we have more potential beauty. Think about the decentralized which is driving by the community economic model compared to those four profit only companies. There's a huge advantage. And also trust. We have more trust than them because we are open source code everybody. The storage is really your data is your data, your data is yeah.
00:32:11.434 - 00:33:11.060, Speaker A: So those are the opportunities and focus I think the staff working on and growing the entire community and the network. Thank you. Thank you Charles. And one thing that I know you and I talked about this and you mentioned it already, is the infrastructure as a service that you're looking to build right over time as a storage provider. So it's not just what we're seeing right now in the storage provider world is you're not just a FalcoIn storage provider, you're actually building extra services with other blockchains. And so you could look at all of our storage providers as the future managed service providers of the next decade that will have multiple stacks of blockchains collaboratively working in the same data center offering all sorts of services. But it all starts with getting that data first because that's where all the magic happens, right? So bringing them the compute close to the data like you said is quite interesting.
00:33:11.060 - 00:33:51.930, Speaker A: The next question is for thank you Charles. Very excited to see what your team is working on and what you will come out with next. Let's go to Kevin. So what are some of the problems you're seeing Kevin, and what are some of the business opportunities that you would recommend teams to focus on? Yeah, that's a really great question. So I think like Charles was saying the panelists before me, it's about better integrations and architecting solutions that make sense to the market. As it stands mean he fired off a lot of the big keywords. A lot of the big players hyperscalers as part of the Web Three trend.
00:33:51.930 - 00:34:33.402, Speaker A: Falcon is decentralized. It has different technological requirements to work. But there's this gap, it's this void where here's your Web Two user today, the folks who are used to using the hyperscalers. And then there are the Web Three technologies like Filecoin, and you have to traverse them if you're one of today's data generators or storage users. We ourselves, all of us in this call, are used to these de facto cloud tools like S Three from Amazon or from the view of today's, I don't know, thousands, tens of thousands of storage architects. This admins everywhere, whether you're academic, whether you're government or private. I mean, we all use the same data, movers over and over the same few names.
00:34:33.402 - 00:34:58.310, Speaker A: You've got Veeam backup. Restore. You've got Arclone Rubric Net backup. And that's it, right there's so much business opportunity if an entrepreneur like one of you in the audience can bridge that gap that I mentioned. So you can build the arsenal of tools that allow web Two users to not even notice that they've migrated to Web Three. They've gotten over that void because they're now on Filecoin. It's just that seamless.
00:34:58.310 - 00:35:39.582, Speaker A: Also on that note, another thing is knowing how to use or interface with Filecoin or any Web Three technology. If you're used to web Two, they're proprietary, but you're used to them. The MSPs have gone out there, the trainers, the different big hyperscalers put out business development effort, training sessions for the different segments. But with web Three, with Filecom, you have to understand wallet management, token economics, et cetera. The list goes on. An entrepreneurial idea would be to just aggregate those new knowledge requirements into a new system role so that, again, the Web two user doesn't even notice that they've migrated to Web Three. They just know their data is decentralized.
00:35:39.582 - 00:36:10.538, Speaker A: They can pay US dollars fiat to the dockland storage provider, or et cetera, to Charles team, who integrates many different things or fog on as part of the offerings. And that's an entirely separate role, the Web Three ecosystem. And then I think the last thing I wanted to mention, you said the word opportunity. I think it's just tremendous. I wanted to take a step back and really paint how big cloud storage is. Kevin, sorry to interrupt you. We hear a lot of static noise from the microphone.
00:36:10.538 - 00:36:34.066, Speaker A: Not sure if you were on a roll there. I love that. By the way, I hate to interrupt you because you're making such a great topic there. Wait, so can you check your microphone quickly and then we'll try again? Yeah. How's that? How's this? Oh, perfect. Awesome. Okay.
00:36:34.066 - 00:36:54.140, Speaker A: Yes. My apologies. I just wanted to make sure I made that point for all of you in the audience. One of the most incredible opportunities just disaggregating into a new role, the ability to put all the new knowledge. Requirements and supporting folks who go from web two to web3 seamlessly. I think that was the last point. Hopefully I made that clear.
00:36:54.140 - 00:37:30.822, Speaker A: And then just stefan, I think my last point was you mentioned the word opportunity coming from the traditional Wall Street world management, consulting, private equity. I always think about market opportunity. Take just a really quick step back and really paint how big cloud storage of an opportunity that is. Okay, so today's, public government, private clouds, it's approximately 100,000 exabytes stored. That's insane. In four years, that number is at least going to double to 200,000, according to some of the key research groups like Cybersecurity Ventures, Allied Markets and Markets. I mean, the estimates, like in 2027, 2028, cloud storage is going to mark.
00:37:30.822 - 00:38:03.906, Speaker A: It's going to pass the 300 billion dollar mark. That's like a kegr on the order of something 22, 23%. Just think about that, folks. Even if web3 is slow to take off, which it's not, you've heard Neo, his team's been around for what, a little over a year, two years. That since testnet to mainnet, they're at 200, 300 petabytes. The growth is incredible. But even if it's slow to take off, which it's not, filecoin is just a small fraction of that, which it's not, the addressable market will still be a massive 100 billion dollar opportunity for entrepreneurs who help web two move to web Three.
00:38:03.906 - 00:38:33.302, Speaker A: So I implore all of you, just take a bite of that opportunity and seriously just hack away at it. Very cool, very cool. Thank you. Thank you, Kevin. Couldn't agree more. Next question is for Stu. People ask sometimes, why does Filecoin not have built in encryption in the stack? What's your response to that? Because sure you have an opinion on that? Yeah, absolutely.
00:38:33.436 - 00:39:17.518, Speaker B: So I think the question is a little more complicated than people know. When I hear the question like, why don't you encrypt data? Well, there's really four actors in this ecosystem. There's the protocol itself, right? The filecoin protocol. And when you look at the purpose, the purpose is you can store data in a decentralized manner around the world and then people can retrieve decentralized storage platform. The other two actors, though, are the client and what I'll call the customer. So the client is that piece that accepts the customer data and then processes it and sends it to the storage provider. And there's an opportunity, there's a business opportunity in terms of managing those client relationships and expectations.
00:39:17.518 - 00:40:07.490, Speaker B: And so if you want to encrypt there, that could be encrypted and sent to the storage miner as an encrypted blob, right, that we simply store, and then they can manage their permissions in terms of who can access this, who gets the key, how do they get the key? And then finally, the customer, the ones that we've spoken to, actually don't want to use encryption, even though they do have sensitive data that they don't want to be publicly exposed because they're afraid of a single point of failure where something happens to that key all of a sudden, where's our data, who's got the key? It has to be managed properly so they don't want to take that chance. So it's really up to the customer and the client to decide how to negotiate those requirements and then where that encryption, if it's to happen, where it happens and how it gets managed.
00:40:10.860 - 00:40:11.784, Speaker A: Yeah, really cool.
00:40:11.822 - 00:40:11.976, Speaker C: Yeah.
00:40:11.998 - 00:41:03.590, Speaker A: I think like you said right, there's an opportunity again in every stage and even different encryption technologies can be added on the front or on the back. And I think again, it's an example of how we think about the ecosystem, how we believe innovation will happen over time and will change over time across the ecosystem. Great. Unfortunately we're at time here, but I wanted to make sure if there's any questions in the chat, we have a couple more questions lined up too, but we're going to get ready for the next panel session. In the meantime, I'm going to pass it on to Kardik who's going to look at some other questions that came in through the chat and I will be back with you in two minutes. In the meantime Kartik, take it away. Thanks everyone for joining at least on the panel session and I'll be back in two minutes.
00:41:03.590 - 00:42:13.800, Speaker A: Well, that was an incredible talk and so many amazing points here. We'll give anybody who has any questions on the chat, feel free to kind of type them in. We'll relate those questions to our speakers and I saw some really interesting points here and I was going to still ask you to kind of keep all your video on. So maybe one question for everybody until we receive a few more questions here are just in terms of you kind of talked about, you covered a lot of opportunities that are here, whether it's on the opportunity of the space itself on storage or kind of ancillary tools around it. But what specifically I guess keeps you up at night and what do you worry about and maybe I'll start this with Charles and then we can go to Kevin. But what kind of are things that you're concerned about as this ecosystem grows and what matters on that side? Yeah, for me with the Fryco network currently let's remember that Frycoin is mainly online just one year, not even one year yet. So there was still lots of infrastructure protocol layers.
00:42:13.800 - 00:43:03.340, Speaker A: It keep on evolving. So when startups start their design and linear to think on the about long term, we kind of like we start a project, we expect it's perfect, then it will make it works as your course. So that's what I see that for some young developers, young startups, they come in here very excited and said, oh, this is not paid. Oh that is a pay. This startup feels like a little distress. So what I see is that if you think something is not there, you can do two things. One thing is that you have building open sources, building libraries from the core operators and open source to the others so we can make the network and to evolve fast.
00:43:03.340 - 00:44:54.396, Speaker A: Another thing that always thinking about long term, like when you're writing code or you're doing this. How about others? Is this a real need or this just because I like it? I think it will be great but where's real need? Always do some research before you start. This is something I'm thinking another part is about security when we're doing those application we are aiming at for industry usage where industry user accepts those solutions about security side I see there's a lot of bigger is great but they don't think about security for example how to protect our customer data how about some legal things? Those things are really concerned about it kevin, I see is an active engagement going on in the chat here with you and a few of our attendees so maybe I'll ask you here as well for the live stream what keeps you up at night? Yeah, I don't know if you were reading the live stream and then asked the question it's so perfect the first thing that comes to mind, I mean just to make it clear for all of us who don't understand that saying it's generally a negative connotation what's keeping you up at night? We're all working so hard in the hacking community and so hard in the Web Three community to make decentralization work for cloud storage or even more aggressive goals, cloud compute, et cetera. The existing infrastructure today, when we colloquially call it Web Two, that has had so much maturity from different legal jurisdictions, from security. And it's not just a matter of ethics or legislation. There's also been so much work to functionally, technically keep systems going in ways that provide the security and comfort to its users in the mean, I think Vibov, thanks for being so active. Vibov mentioned role based access management.
00:44:54.396 - 00:45:47.408, Speaker A: I mean, RBAC's control, that doesn't really exist today because we're hacking so quickly, we're building so quickly, at least getting the capacity up, but we also have to make sure that we're covering our bases. It's not just a liability thing. But to encourage users, you have to protect them and their data. And so what keeps me up at night and a better spin on it would be what's the opportunity here would be for hackers in the community to see that there's a need to bring the same professionalism, the same security standards, but somehow be creative and allow it to work on a decentralized platform like Filecoin. So I think that's my answer and that's a huge opportunity, not my expertise, but I'm sure someone in the audience will be great for it if not is already working at it. Absolutely and I think this sort of overlaps with what you just commented on, Stuart, with encryption in this space. So maybe I'll let you comment as well and then we'll go to Neo and wrap it up.
00:45:47.574 - 00:45:52.016, Speaker B: Sure. Comment on encryption or security. It's music in my ears.
00:45:52.048 - 00:45:57.172, Speaker A: Everyone's talking about security either or the question still stays what keeps you up. Yeah.
00:45:57.226 - 00:46:02.020, Speaker B: So I always try to understand the risks and balance them.
00:46:02.090 - 00:46:02.324, Speaker A: Right.
00:46:02.362 - 00:46:59.352, Speaker B: So it's really about managing the risk, so trying to understand what those risks are. Right now, I would say a lot of our attention is turning toward government regulations, some of the hearings in the Senate and the new amendments being proposed or passed, those present. Of course, the kind of risks that we need to be concerned about and how that affects us, as opposed to kind of the traditional infrastructure and application type of risks that we always have to worry about. So that would be my answers, just what's out there, what's coming, and how's the environment constantly changing. As somebody who's worked a lot in the enterprise space, I continue to evangelize the fact that the blockchain technology offers us far more security than the Web two way of doing things. I spend millions of dollars trying to protect what is in some ways unprotectable. There's just so many rooms for you to get hacked, often at a social level, not just a code level.
00:46:59.352 - 00:47:16.210, Speaker B: So seeing a protocol like filecoin or other blockchains where the security is built into the protocol and you don't count on people you can trust. Right. It's really a trustless system. So now we're looking outside the protocol, right. Off chain problems.
00:47:17.380 - 00:47:43.716, Speaker A: Absolutely. And Neo, maybe close this off. Love to hear your thoughts. As yes, yes. I think you guys got almost everything covered. What keeps me at night? Well, that's actually a classic interview question. One of the proper answer is, aside from occasional nightmares about interviewing, I work so hard that I rarely have a difficult time sleeping.
00:47:43.716 - 00:48:31.028, Speaker A: But when you ask that question to executives, you might get answers like team dynamics, talent issue, corporate culture, and people related issues. But for me, the real answer is how to achieve effective communication when our team is distributed in different regions with different time zones. I personally started working remotely from four years ago and way before the COVID pandemic, but still try to improve on high effective communication. I think Protocol Lab seems really good at this. And ethereum global. Stephen Nor, do you have any tricks to share? Neo, that's that me. Yes, that's you.
00:48:31.028 - 00:49:14.308, Speaker A: Yes. Jumping in tricks, I think keep building the community as strong as possible. I'm a strong believer that innovation comes through of throwing ideas at each other and collaboratively working on and brainstorming on doing things in a new way. And I feel like some of the greatest ideas just come by drinking a beer or just when you're not really focused on brainstorming, but when you're just trying to make something work by really solving a problem. I think that's why we're so huge on hackathons. That's why we're so huge on accelerated programs and huge on building this together with the ecosystem. So I want to thank you all for coming.
00:49:14.308 - 00:49:39.256, Speaker A: Great conversation. Again, we should do more of these. I hope this was helpful to the community. And then let's take it to the next panel session. So thank you, Kevin, Charles, Stu, and Neo for joining us this morning. We're going to be introducing some new panelists. Kartik Yeb.
00:49:39.256 - 00:49:56.476, Speaker A: There we go. Go ahead, Kartik. Yeah. Thank you so much for that amazing conversation. I feel like there's still an active discussion going on on our chat on eight Global TV. So if there's more questions for our speakers, I'll encourage all of our speakers to come say hi on the chat. We're ready for our next panel.
00:49:56.476 - 00:50:23.816, Speaker A: And this is another one I'm super excited about. And the panel is about just what are investors looking for in Web Three startups? This covers all of Web three, not just IPFS and Polycoin. So without further ado, I'd like to welcome Isaac, Stefano, Blake, Gabriel as our panelists. And Stefan will still be moderating this chat as well. So a lot of familiar faces here. Let's want to say hi to all of you and let's get this started. Awesome.
00:50:23.816 - 00:51:14.980, Speaker A: All right, thanks, everyone. Great conversation. So we thought as as we're looking at I know the rest of the team may have not seen the image I put this morning in front of the team here, but I look at the universe as a falcon, universe as a nursery of stars, essentially. Right? We're building the new the next gen MSPs, but also new applications. New projects are being born every single day. And Hackafest is one of the big nurseries, I would say, right, where we're building these new projects. So this conversation today, what we wanted to do is talk a little bit more about what it would take to move your project forward and either raise funds or participate in one of our accelerating our Amazing accelerator programs.
00:51:14.980 - 00:51:37.036, Speaker A: So we have four representatives. One from Techstars, one from Tachyon. LongHash and Outlier Ventures. All four are either running accelerated programs or are starting to run a new accelerated program. So with me, we've got Gabriel. Gabriel, let's kick off the conversation. You're a very experienced web.
00:51:37.036 - 00:52:03.764, Speaker A: Three accelerator. Obviously, you're currently running a program. Now, compared to a year ago. What trends have you seen, particularly in raising capital in the Web Three space, and what recommendations would you give to the new entrepreneurs in raising capital? Yeah, yeah. Great question. So first, super excited to be here. I love coming to Hackfs.
00:52:03.764 - 00:52:55.420, Speaker A: I love coming to these events. It's always amazing to see all the incredible builders. I'm Gabriel, the managing director of Tachyon. For those of you that don't know, tachyon is a part of Consensus Mesh we've collectively incubated and invested in north of 100 projects and companies within the ecosystem. Some that are some of the key pillars of the ethereum ecosystem, companies like Infuria and MetaMask and Three, Box and Pegasus and Truffle, so on and so forth. Tachyon is our accelerator, which is where the most ambitious early stage web3 founders come to join us for a twelve week sprint to really hone their value proposition, test their assumptions with real customers and prepare for the next stage of investment and growth. And so I think at this stage I have mentored advised north of 65 70 web3 founders and companies, many of which have gone on to successfully raise and or exit.
00:52:55.420 - 00:54:40.844, Speaker A: And every time founders come through a cohort I think the thing that hasn't changed is the good old fashioned principles of how you go about building a company, how you go about building a startup, right? Companies are built to solve problems and most startups never actually find a real or valuable problem to solve. So it doesn't matter if you're a web two startup or a web3 startup. The fundamentals are the same, right? The fundamentals are have you honed in on a really good problem? What is that problem? Who has that problem? What's the intensity of that problem? How often do they have that problem? Are you operating in a good market? Are you operating in a market that is large and or growing and moving fast? Have you figured out what your startup does in terms of being a differentiated solution in the market? Do you have an insight into the user or the customers that you have and the problems that they have? Investors are not investing in your vision quest, right? Investors are investing in companies in teams that have the ability to hone in on really good valuable problems and solve those problems for real users. Outside of that, I think the other solid fundamentals would be show, don't tell. Can you actually prove demand? Do you have the ability to build a real product? Are your early users or customers really interested in this? Can you prove traction? Can you prove demand? These are the fundamentals of building any startup, any company. I've been a three time founder, two time entrepreneur, where I went in house to build companies. Those things never change.
00:54:40.844 - 00:56:00.170, Speaker A: In terms of the trends and maybe some of the nuances of building a web3 startup, I think two of the most unfair competitive modes in terms of web3 startups are community and composability. And a lot of the trends that we're seeing right now for web3 companies that can really think about where they fit into the stack and then can actually build a strong community around their product, those are the ones that we always see that break out. And in terms of some of the trends that we're starting to see, obviously we're like in NFT summer, but we're really interested. And we're starting to see more and more investors approach us about this idea of composability and convergence. So as we start to see NFTs converge with DeFi or NFTs converge with Dows and Dow Tooling, or NFTs can converge with social gaming metaverse type of plays, I think those are really kind of like the interesting plays in terms of what we're starting to see and investor activity. But the fundamentals are the fundamentals of how you go about building a company. And I think my other esteemed panelists here, I think, would 100% agree with me in terms of what they see in terms of successful companies.
00:56:00.170 - 00:56:16.824, Speaker A: That's awesome. Yeah, I know some great ideas there. NFTs. You mentioned NFT. I just want to jump in on that. It's definitely a hot season. But my take is that eventually all data that we store create, right.
00:56:16.824 - 00:56:52.820, Speaker A: Will eventually store it as sort of like in an NFT type of format. Do you agree with that or do you see that the Web Two world is starting to see that? I think we're always starting to see some of those primitives, and I'll tell you, like gen one of NFTs. So I was building my startups back when social media platforms were the big thing. I've seen this meta trend already play out. Like, I know how this plays out. Back when companies first started getting onto some of the social platforms, they tried to take their shitty print publication and slap it on the Facebook page and call it a day. They weren't actually hacking around the nuances of the actual platform.
00:56:52.820 - 00:57:38.548, Speaker A: And I think we're seeing the same thing with NFTs, right? Don't get me wrong, I'm all about Aping into the board apes and the crypto punks, and I think it's fun and it's great. But I'm really interested to see Gen Two, Gen Three versions of NFTs and how you start to hack around composability and use NFTs and their composability to continue the consumer journey and experience. And I think that's why we're starting to see NFTs converge with other trends like DeFi, like Data, Dows and Dow Tooling. So, yeah, I couldn't agree with you more. And you're going to start to see new and interesting use cases of NFTs as they map to extending the consumer. Awesome. Awesome.
00:57:38.548 - 00:58:04.456, Speaker A: Love it. Moving on to Isaac. Isaac, Techstars is recently new to the Falcon ecosystem. You guys are starting a new acceleration program. What is Techstars looking for when recruiting web? Three founders? Yeah. Well, Stefan, thanks for inviting me to join this awesome panel. So I'm Isaac Kato.
00:58:04.456 - 00:58:40.180, Speaker A: I'm the managing director of the new Filecoin Techstars Accelerator. I'm a serial entrepreneur and a longtime early stage tech investor. So I've started two companies. I've run three. I've raised a couple hundred million dollars in equity and debt capital, and I've had a couple of good exits. I was also a VC for about a decade, most recently with General Catalyst partners, and I'm a longtime angel investor, so I'm super excited to be spinning up the new filecoin techstars accelerator. It's quite a mouthful, but it'll run next year from March 21 through mid June.
00:58:40.180 - 00:59:27.844, Speaker A: And if you don't know, techstars is the global network that helps entrepreneurs succeed. We have roughly 50 accelerators in the global network. Collectively, our founders have raised over $15 billion of capital. There are, I think, now 15 unicorns, and we have a collective market cap of about $52 billion. Really notably on the point of trying to help founders find success, of the 2700 companies that have gone through a techstars accelerator, 86% of them are still in business or have exited. And our blockchain and crypto alums include folks like Chain Analysis and Trading View and Rweave. And my own crypto journey starts in 2013, when I brought the first bitcoin miners to Iceland.
00:59:27.844 - 01:00:20.250, Speaker A: So I built the first large scale data center in Iceland, and I stumbled across bitcoin miners who were sort of a perfect customer for us to bring to Iceland, and they ultimately compose about 50% of our business. I think in late 2014, we estimated that 5% of global mining capacity for bitcoin was actually in our facility. Wow. So that was a fun and wild ride. So to get your question, what do we look for in terms of founders? First and foremost, the first lens we ever look at a company, at a prospective applicant, is the founder. We care first and foremost about founder quality and their DNA. So regardless of whether you're doing Web Three or something more traditional, we certainly want to see people with a big vision and a desire to make a very big positive impact on the world.
01:00:20.250 - 01:00:59.520, Speaker A: We want to see brilliance and capability. Execution really matters. One thing that I look for specifically is Founder Market Fit. So I want teams or solo founders who have really deep insight into the problem that they're trying to solve. They're not just sort of tourists trying something cool out, but they've thought about this problem for a while. Maybe they've experienced it themselves, and maybe they have an earned secret. Maybe they've figured something out that nobody else has figured out, and particularly how to apply Web Three infrastructures and methodologies to the problem they're trying to solve.
01:00:59.520 - 01:02:17.040, Speaker A: I look for people who have evidence that they're rapid learners, and iterators, I think, the sole competitive advantage that most companies have at these very early stages is just how quickly you can move, and you've got to be humble enough to learn and get feedback quickly and make quick changes and implement them. So that matters. And then specifically for Web Three founders, I'm going to completely echo one of the themes that Gabriel mentioned, which is that we want people who understand not just the tech stacks and the Web Three and token infrastructures and mechanics that they're using, but how they apply to real world problems that they're trying to solve. Because at the end of the day, while I firmly believe that decentralized infrastructures should provide meaningfully, better solutions to a lot of the problems out there, we're still ultimately trying to solve a customer's pain point or fulfill their desires. If it's a consumer application and it's just not enough to build cool shit, you got to build cool shit that other people care about. So I'll say the exact same thing. We want people who understand how to take the Web three world and make a fundamental difference to solving a problem or fulfilling a desire.
01:02:17.040 - 01:02:55.028, Speaker A: Cool. You got to create cool shit that our people care about. That's a tagline I'm going to start using. Awesome. Maybe let's move to outlier Ventures. Blake, Outlier Ventures just closed their application round. This will be your first cohort and you've been investing in open data economy for the last seven years, right? What type of projects are you looking for and where do you experience the most value and where do you think new startups should be focusing on? Great question, Stefan.
01:02:55.028 - 01:03:21.760, Speaker A: And allow me to start by thanking for the opportunity to be here. I'm always honored and humbled to be in front of hackafest and I truly believe there will be a lot of great projects coming out of it. I'm Blake Lazenski. I'm the program manager of the FalcoIn base camp at Outlier Ventures. Quickly about our organization. We started in 2013 and one of the probably first European web free focused investors. Probably still one of the biggest globally in terms of number of deals.
01:03:21.760 - 01:04:02.850, Speaker A: Then around 20, 16, 17, we started investing on a venture scale in seed and precede deals. But around 2019 we understood that with the expertise and people we have on board, the optimal value we can deliver to founders and teams is actually through an acceleration program. And that's how Basecamp came to life. And as you mentioned, Stefan, this is the first time we're teaming up with an external organization. And I'm super glad it's Protocol Labs to deliver a version of Basecamp that is dedicated to a specific technology stack. So in terms of projects we're looking for, I'm very keen to see projects that have a token in their future and are crypto heavy. I believe this is where we as Outlier Ventures can add maximum value.
01:04:02.850 - 01:04:56.924, Speaker A: We accept solo founders and teams. My perfect sort of mindset to come to the program with would be to be great on the technicalities but also appreciate the value of go to market. I would also like to see projects that see the value of Protocol Lab stack beyond just simple storage capacity and many other implications that come out from the technology. We would like to dedicate the program mostly to the middleware layer and the infrastructure. We think this is the key to the persistence of the metaverse and making it truly open, as well as introduce an optimal user experience to NFTs. As you mentioned, we have a lot of experience investing in the new data economy, maybe to some extent longer than anybody else. And we have a full supply chain from Data to Compute in our portfolio.
01:04:56.924 - 01:05:48.976, Speaker A: Ocean Protocol that allows users to create a decentralized marketplace for Data secret network, which is the first blockchain with data privacy by default fetch AI, an open access tokenized decentralized machine learning network, as well as Kudos decentralized compute network enabling blockchain scalability. So where can we add the most value? We are extremely commercially minded, hence my point about amazing technical minds coming to us. We always put emphasis on fundraising and tokenomics. In the last twelve months of basecamp, we helped raise 130,000,000 of seed capital for our projects. Since 2019, the combined value of the base camp portfolio is $1 billion. At the peak of the bull run, it was closer to $3 billion. And we have several billion dollar networks, including Bozem Protocol and Dia Data.
01:05:48.976 - 01:06:22.300, Speaker A: We also work with a network of 1500 co investors, from world leading investors in west and east, from tier one VCs all the way down to community pools. So we truly can help you find capital anywhere. So we look for technical teams that want to create a scalable business and attract capital. That understand. There is a gap between creating a great MVP to hit the market and actually bringing it to that market and commercializing it successfully. And this is where we can help. Also including hiring of commercial people and custom go to market strategies.
01:06:22.300 - 01:06:53.530, Speaker A: We rely on our huge network of partners, including large enterprise organizations. And finally, we have a very complementary alumni stack around data economy, data marketplaces, compute and computation. Cool. And that's great. By the way, you're calling in from UK or somewhere in Europe, right? I'm currently calling in from Ibiza just to get some program starts and fix I want to be at right now. Yeah, that would be cool. Poor guy.
01:06:53.530 - 01:07:20.604, Speaker A: Yeah, poor guy. Because one thing I wanted to call out is that we have four great partners here on the table, but all of them are calling in from different areas. Right. We have representation in Europe, Asia and the US. And that brings me to the next partner, Stefano. Maybe you can tell us, where are you based today? I'm also based in an island, but I'm in Singapore. I'm in Singapore.
01:07:20.604 - 01:07:32.324, Speaker A: Oh, there you go. Pretty much on the other side of the world. Yeah. So welcome. So you're from LongHash Ventures. You closed your recent application window as well. Very familiar with the web.
01:07:32.324 - 01:07:54.436, Speaker A: Three world. How are investors differentiating themselves, particularly in a bull market condition? Yeah, well, first of all, also super excited to be here today. Thanks a lot for having me. Very glad to be able to speak to everyone. So I'm Stefan Aburi. I'm the program lead at Long Hatch Ventures, and I'll just give a quick intro to. Our organization.
01:07:54.436 - 01:08:45.128, Speaker A: So we're a Web Three investment fund, and we're also Asia's leading Web Three accelerator program. For those of you who haven't heard of us before, don't know us. So we've accelerated over 40 projects over the last about three, three and a half years, and we've helped them raise over $100 billion in funding. And earlier this year we launched a $20 million D Five focused and to an extent NFT focused now fund, where we've invested in over 30 companies, including the likes of Instadap, Sapper, mintable, and Alchemy NFT. And yeah, as you mentioned, we just closed applications, I think a couple of weeks ago for our Next Cohort, which will have a file contract. So it's the second time that we partner with Protocol Labs to run the Filecoin frontier Accelerator. Super excited.
01:08:45.128 - 01:10:10.976, Speaker A: So some great applications and we're in the process of reviewing them in the next few weeks. I think then, to your question around how investors are differentiating themselves, and especially in the past twelve or 16 months where we've been in a pretty strong bull market, I think that first of all, of course, you see a lot of capital available for projects. And I think as investors, you even see some notable investors that are really almost like fighting to actually be able to get into funding rounds. And so I think if you go back a few more years, or even a decade or more, where capital and the network was all you needed as an investor to bring to the table, that's definitely not the case, and it definitely hasn't been the case over the past year. I think that investors really need to put forward their value proposition beyond money and network to their portfolio companies. Whether you're meeting investors through an accelerator program or through other channels, I think that investors have to get their hands dirty. They really need to help the startups with developing the product, the strategy, scaling growth, and even to continue to innovate, right? Particularly in Web Three, where you see protocols, they launch a V one, then there's a V two, and so on and so forth.
01:10:10.976 - 01:11:09.716, Speaker A: And I think investors need to be part of that development in one way or another. And I think investors really have to become venture builders, right? I mean, capital is not enough. And as a matter of fact, we started out as an accelerator and then we launched a fund, but we decided to keep the accelerator because for us, it's a structured way for us to be able to help projects. And I think particularly when it comes to Web Three, you need investors that are also knowledgeable about the space. Right? So it's not just the Web Two topics like the go to market, the business model, et cetera, but it's really around designing the tokenomics, helping the projects decide which decentralized governance model they go for, things like that. I think you bring up some good points, stefano is like the token sale is definitely or the tokenomics in general is definitely new to a lot of traditional investors too. So maybe a question for Gabriel.
01:11:09.716 - 01:12:23.090, Speaker A: Would love to get your perspective on what sort of the recommendations you give to startups when it comes to token sales and raising capital around that, right? Yeah, 100%. I think the introduction of tokens is unique to Web Three and so in terms of building your startup, it's definitely an unfair competitive advantage compared to those of us who built our companies in the Web Two era. But I see a lot of founders and a lot of teams rush to launch a Token before they've actually built utility and or a community around that token. And I think that's a big miss. Shout out to Jesse Walden from Variant, formerly of a 16 Z the goat. He wrote a piece a long time ago called Progressive Decentralization, which has always been kind of like the framework, our mental model for how we think about companies and how we think about startups and how they should think. About launching a token, which is you've got to find utility and function first, and you should really spend a lot of time focused on your community, especially the early, early stages of the community.
01:12:23.090 - 01:13:28.128, Speaker A: Launching a Token is just like launching a product or just like launching a company. It is that hard. And trying to do both before you've actually found utility or function or product market fit with your startup is a big miss. And what I see is I see a lot of investors who push startups to try to launch a Token that has more to do about optionality and liquidity for the investor than it actually does. Does it make sense for that particular project and that particular startup? So for startups who actually find utility and function, find product market fit, who find early use cases and then can rally their community, it's a massive unfair competitive advantage as they go into market. Essentially, your community are both your users and your investors in some cases. In that case, which I think for a lot of startups, is the holy grail, but I always have founders step back and make sure that their token has real utility, has real use, has a real function, and it's not just about trying to create liquidity.
01:13:28.128 - 01:14:34.084, Speaker A: And I think it's really important for founders to focus on that first and foremost. Cool. Yeah, I know. I couldn't agree more with you. It's definitely a topic that's coming up a lot more often now as startups are investing and sorry, raising capital definitely in a bull market. Some of the startups question like, hey, why should I join an accelerated program? So maybe Isaac would love to get your perspective on why should they join an accelerated program? And when they choose a program, of course, we have four programs here at the table and we're going to create more what should they be looking at right when they select one of the accelerators? What's your take on that? Yeah, well, you have four terrific options right here. And when I'm talking to founders about, hey, why should I come into your accelerator, let alone any accelerator? What I always say is, look, our value proposition boils down to we will dramatically increase your chances of success in your entrepreneurial pursuits.
01:14:34.084 - 01:15:18.884, Speaker A: It's as simple as that. If you don't think that we're going to ten x the probability of your succeeding, you shouldn't come because you're going to give up a decent chunk of equity for in most cases, not a ton of money. But what you're getting is an incredible basket of goodies that will really help you to find success. Certainly the Techstars numbers, and it sounds like my colleagues numbers, really play that out if you go to a high quality accelerator. So to disaggregate that a bit, what should you be looking for? For sure you want to find a place that will dramatically expand your network. It's in our tagline. We are the global network that helps entrepreneurs succeed.
01:15:18.884 - 01:16:00.416, Speaker A: And I think everybody else here would agree with that. But you should be sure that by coming into an accelerator you're going to just explode your network by orders of magnitude. And then oftentimes that's the most valuable thing that you'll get, whether it's access to investors or customers or prospective hires, ecosystem partners, mentors. What we often do is get people who maybe have been toying wheeling away and quiet, but are not necessarily natural networkers. All of a sudden they have access to people they never could have dreamed of. And so I think network is a big part of what you should be evaluating. Certainly closely tied to that is access to capital.
01:16:00.416 - 01:16:40.196, Speaker A: If you're going to come into an accelerator, we should really be able to help you to raise money. And I think everyone here is quite good at that. But you want to make sure that look at our track records and see have you been able to help the companies that have gone through the accelerator raise money? Certainly again, the case of Techstars, we have a global network of 15,000 early stage investors as well as the very strong personal networks that each MD like I have. And again, we have a great track record. But make sure you're going to actually get people who will help you raise capital. It's still on you. You're the founder, you have to bring your A game to do it.
01:16:40.196 - 01:17:18.396, Speaker A: But we can help a lot on that front. Mentorship and expertise, I think that's just super critical. Mentorship is part of the core experience at Techstars. In fact, it matters so much that we take two of the first weeks in program doing mentor speed dating to help you find three to five lead mentors who are dedicated to spending time with you while you're in program, but also that kind of leads to the next point. Make sure that you're going to get long term support from an accelerator. We do not say, okay, you've been through your 13 weeks and then kick you out the door and say goodbye. We're here for the long haul.
01:17:18.396 - 01:17:59.576, Speaker A: We're investors in your company. We have a ton of incentive to see you succeed. And again, we put a lot of effort not just at the MD level, but at the techstars global network level to ensure that there is long term support for our Alums in the form of portfolio services. So that when you get onto the next thing, you're trying to raise the you're trying to build your team, you're trying to find the right, you're moving into a new sector, whatever. You can usually find it throughout techstars, not just while you're in program, but for hopefully years after. And I think the last thing is everything always still kind of boils down to people. So spend time with the MDS and the program teams.
01:17:59.576 - 01:18:30.410, Speaker A: At the programs you're evaluating. Make sure you like them. I know I can't speak for the others, but I know at Techstars, most founders tell me, look, I experience techstars through the lens of the managing director. Make sure that you like the MD because you're going to be spending a lot of time with them. Make sure they're accessible, make sure they actually have some value to impart and some wisdom to impart. I think those are the high level things that I would evaluate. There are plenty of others, but those are maybe the most important in my mind.
01:18:30.410 - 01:18:56.270, Speaker A: Yeah, people do business with people, right? Yeah. Whatever you sell, you're selling to human. Thanks, Isaac. So a week ago, I was actually talking to one of my friends who pitched an idea of a startup. He's doing his own startup and he's pitching to a VC. And the response he got was like, love the idea. Can you add crypto to that? I thought it was funny because then I can.
01:18:56.270 - 01:19:43.710, Speaker A: Again, it was sort of an indicator that there's a lot more momentum there too. And this is a traditional VC firm. I'm not going to bring up their name, but anyway. Stefano at Long Hedge Ventures, what are some of the use cases that you're seeing that are gaining the most traction with investors? I was going to say before I answer that question, you reminded me I think this was in 2017, there was an iced tea company in New York, if I'm not mistaken, that put blockchain or crypto in their name and their stock went up like I don't know how much. But anyway, hopefully not a top signal. Look, I think in terms of winning cases, I think Gabriel said it earlier, if last year we had DeFi summer, this year we definitely have NFT summer. And I think we're right in the midst of it.
01:19:43.710 - 01:20:40.704, Speaker A: I think obviously there's some hype there's a lot of noise, there's a lot of things to waddle through. We as an investor do come across a lot of NFT platforms and I think I mentioned we have invested in some of the earlier ones. But I think also to link it to Gabriel's point is really around utility. And some of the winning NFT models going forward are around utility. We've seen it with gaming, of course, axie Infinity is the most, I would say famous or well known example, but there's plenty of others. We are seeing it with some of these social dows and launching NFTs that have some utility linked to and even we're seeing it in the Metaverse in the form of real estate. Right? So metaversal real estate, if you will.
01:20:40.704 - 01:21:38.384, Speaker A: I was hearing, I think yesterday some fairly well known media houses from Asia buying land in the Metaverse and then looking at launching NFTs that have utility around having events. I mean, we're basically now all used to being on Zoom for these kind of events. And while I guess a lot of us are probably itching to meet up in person, but there will still be a form of this virtual in the future. And how can we actually make it a better experience by leveraging this kind of technology? So I think that's one emerging, let's call it a use case of NFDS that I think are starting to gain some traction among investors. And I think the other one is DFI is still really big and I think we believe that we're just getting started. Right? I think in the past twelve or 16 months we saw DFI explode. Right.
01:21:38.384 - 01:22:42.996, Speaker A: And I think what we're starting to see now is that we're going beyond the simple, for lack of a better word, applications of TradFi coming into DeFi and starting to see the more sophisticated products coming in. So things like derivatives, structured products, all these more sophisticated financial instruments starting to crop up as the DeFi version of it. Which is very exciting because I think for one is that we see more momentum in this space. But then second, I also believe that this is one of the ways that we can at some point in the future start to link with the traditional financial system. Yeah, I think it's great to see all these new products. I see it on the lending side as well. It's sort of like an iteration, right? You have the first program, high interest rates, high collateral requirements and slowly on they start to implement what currently exists in the traditional financing world and starting to improve on it.
01:22:42.996 - 01:23:25.888, Speaker A: So it's amazing to see all the innovation. You did mention something that I want to pick up on is that the Metaverse? I want Blake's view on that because that line of ventures has been very vocal about and very engaged on bringing the Metaverse in different verticals. So what's your take on that, Blake? Where do you see web3 storage startups and trends in this whole new metaverse evolve. Do we have Blake? Yeah. So thank you for bringing up the Metaverse operating system. Probably organizationally, one of our favorite things to talk about. And allow me to start by saying that at Outlier Ventures we consider ourselves an evergreen investor.
01:23:25.888 - 01:24:04.160, Speaker A: So looking into the future, we invest and support startups throughout the bull market and bear market. Actually, some of our best investments were made in the deep dark freeze of the crypto winter. So in the context of the Metaverse operating system and trends, we try to look beyond the web itself up until the point when digital becomes undistinguished from real. In context of social media, you can also see it happening with gaming virtual worlds. So from the perspective of trends, that means the world will become more automated. And it's important how data is permissioned and controlled. It has to be user centric.
01:24:04.160 - 01:25:14.280, Speaker A: The difference would be the user is in control of the data and they can give permissions and commoditize that asset. They can participate in the value that is generated from data in combination with things like FalcoIn and IPFS, access to other protocols that when combined, enhance privacy, preserving computation, commodification of data in data marketplaces and institutional buyouts. You need data for AI and machine learning. And we have those complete projects in our portfolio and can accelerate startups working with decentralized cloud in its totality. Other aspects of the Metaverse operating system thesis that this is touching I believe is financialization of data the user centricity based on the principles of sovereignty, which is very close to my heart personally. And I truly believe currently you need expensive hardware to access the Metaverse. So those kind of technologies can increase performance and can offset some of the costs by renting out the capacity and in turning cryptocurrencies and joining the virtual world economy.
01:25:14.280 - 01:25:45.232, Speaker A: So I think you need data for AI and machine learning, as I mentioned, and I truly believe Falcon and APFS is the key to solve that and make the metaverse truly open, persistent, and interoperable. Awesome. Yeah. Thank players. Any axio infinity players on this panel? Because I just installed it like two weeks ago. I'm still trying to get my right team together. No.
01:25:45.232 - 01:26:26.050, Speaker A: Any recommendations on what combination I should go for? No. Anyway, put it in the chat. All right, well, we have one question from the audience. Kartik, can you maybe take that question and we'll wrap it up? It was a really awesome discussion. I think this question, I'll rephrase the question, but it's been answered in parts. But maybe we'll kind of ask this more concretely, but do you have any frameworks around how should you think about forming a legal entity or launching your company? If you have a token and obviously this question is going to differ based on where you are. But for all of you here, any comments, advice, or frameworks that you like to talk about would be great.
01:26:26.050 - 01:26:54.356, Speaker A: Who wants to wait into this one? It's very hard question. Yeah, I'll take a shot at it. But I'm sure Stefano, I know you guys have worked with a bunch of DeFi projects. Blake as well. I'm sure Isaac, you guys are working with them as well, I guess. First and foremost, I'm not an attorney. I don't play one on TV or hackathons, et cetera.
01:26:54.356 - 01:27:28.640, Speaker A: So this is not legal advice for anybody. But yeah, we've worked with a number of projects who have launched Tokens, pied Out, ILO Finance, secured Finance, Power, Loom, so many great companies. I would say, and I know our legal counsel would love this. First and foremost, get really good competent counsel. Do not skirt this. Do not skirt this. You want to find counsel who is extremely competent in both web3 and has done this before.
01:27:28.640 - 01:28:01.304, Speaker A: So don't get your brother in law because he practices law on the side. Don't do that whole thing. In terms of jurisdictions that you're looking for, it really depends on the nature of your project and the nature of your Token. What we have seen historically is a number of different structures and setups. We've seen a Delaware C Corp parent and then a child that sits in BVI or Cayman Islands, something like that. Something with friendly jurisdictions. Again, this is not legal advice.
01:28:01.304 - 01:28:36.852, Speaker A: Here's what I would tell you. If you have even a single customer, even a user who's using a VPN who's based in the States, you're not going to skirt the SEC, so don't even think about it. We've seen a number of jurisdictions that are friendly to DeFi, that are friendly to Tokens. I named a couple Singapore shout out. Singapore has great jurisdictions for Token and Token based projects. But I cannot stress this. Please, please go get really good competent counsel.
01:28:36.852 - 01:29:36.392, Speaker A: If you are thinking about launching a Token, it will more than pay for itself in spades in saving you a whole bunch of headaches and potentially ending up in an orange jumpsuit. Yeah, I will just add to that and I will also give the disclaimer that I am also not a lawyer and this is definitely not legal advice, but I think the jurisdictions are important and so we are quite lucky that we're based in Singapore. And generally when you're at the really early stage before you've launched a Token, before you've decentralized into a dao of know, a lot of our Accelerate keys would have incorporated in Singapore. It's super easy and it's also super cheap and very fast. So that's an a very I think globally it's one of the most crypto friendly technocratic jurisdictions. So that's usually a starting point. But I echo what Gabriel said, just get a really good lawyer.
01:29:36.392 - 01:30:09.124, Speaker A: There's not that many that understand crypto, but we can introduce I'm sure all the other guys here can also introduce it depending where you are and speaking to a good lawyer on this is critical. Thank you. It sounds like the legal environment could use some innovation there as well. Maybe we should do a session around that at some point. Anyway, great conversation. I really appreciate everyone's active participation. And thank you again.
01:30:09.124 - 01:30:32.700, Speaker A: We'll hope to do more of these the next session. I want to thank all of you, isaac, Gabriel, Stefano, and Blake, because I know for some of you, it's really late out there. So appreciate to do that on a Friday afternoon or Friday evening or Friday night. And with that, we're going to move on to the next topic. Kardik, I give it back to you. Thanks, everyone. Have a good rest of hackafast.
01:30:32.700 - 01:31:02.730, Speaker A: Thanks, everybody. Thank you for moderating an amazing chat. So next up, we have our next talk by ZX. ZX leads the crypto econ lab and drives the Falcon ecosystem growth at Protocol Labs. He will be talking about bridging with Filecoin and just the new ventures in Web Three. This is a talk that I've had a sneak peek into, so I'm super excited about it. So without further ado, I'll welcome him on stage and I'll let him kick off with a talk.
01:31:02.730 - 01:31:22.552, Speaker A: Great. Thank you, Kadik. Just give me one moment. Everything is great. All right, thank you. Hi, everyone. Welcome to Hack FS Storage Provider Summit.
01:31:22.552 - 01:31:56.490, Speaker A: My name is ZX. I work on crypto economics, lab and ecosystem growth at Protocol Apps. Today I'm very excited to talk about bridge with Filecoin, New Frontiers, and Web Three. And I think we really represent a lot of tremendous growth and building opportunities for both lab builders and entrepreneurs in the ecosystem. And the Hack FS is the perfect place to get started. And then I'm pretty sure our ideas and venture does not end here. There's lots of amazing program like the accelerator program that we just saw, really help us take our ideas and businesses to the next level.
01:31:56.490 - 01:32:12.120, Speaker A: Great. Let's get started. Let's do a recap. What is filecoin? This is the island economy analogy that we often use. So Filecoin is like an island on the island. There are different kinds of participants. You have researchers building the protocol and the algorithms.
01:32:12.120 - 01:32:55.036, Speaker A: Then you have developers building tooling experiences, application and products, or even L2 protocols. And then you have token holders providing liquidity and facilitating transactions or providing collateral. And then you have miners amassing all these physical and capital resources to produce storage related goods and services. And then we exchange that with storage clients through Filecoin. And the overall goal of everyone in the ecosystem is to really bring in more participants and use cases and clients into the network. And there are many lenses to look at Filecoin just like any other blockchain network. It's a utility token, it's a platform, a protocol, a blockchain network, a community and economy ecosystem, and an evolutionary system.
01:32:55.036 - 01:33:41.400, Speaker A: And there are different stages to the economy. So we kind of move past the capacity building stage. We're now coming close to nine exabytes of storage with 50 petabytes coming online every single day. And there is some very recent upgrade that really lower, that makes the chain more scalable and really lower the transaction cost and kind of increase the transaction throughput of the Falcon network. And that paves the way for more adoption, more application, more deals, more transaction on the Falcon network. And I think the collective goal of everyone is really bring us to the so called stage three where we have really strong brand around Falcon, a full through product, very diverse market. We think of Filecoin as an Airbnb for cloud services and then Falcon itself can be a sustainable economy.
01:33:41.400 - 01:34:37.660, Speaker A: And so Falcon as a layer one is really unique, right? It's unique in the sense that it's well positioned to support both web Two and Web Three use cases. And then we will explore more of these later today. So today's talk, we talk about bridging with File coin. So a lot of that really is like building bridges to really use the storage, use all this, tap into the potential, tap into the compute, tap into all these different aspects of the Falcon protocol. Because Falcon is a layering protocol, so it cares about the very basic thing, which is are the miners storing your data good? And then do you have a periodic proof that they are storing it? So then you saw people building bridges in various form with different ecosystems or with different web two companies and industries. And these are not just the traditional token bridges that we might be familiar with in web3. I think these are storage bridges, data bridges and value bridges.
01:34:37.660 - 01:35:25.200, Speaker A: And also just to talk about some of the web two opportunities when using storage on filecoin, because FalcoIn is a protocol, it's somewhat different from a traditional web two product where you expect to see one way of how things work, right? Storage is provided on filecoin in the form of sectors. It gets proven, the protocol checks on it every 24 hours. And then using storage on Falcon really is to use the storage provided by storage providers on the Falcon network. So all sort of features are possible, like redundancy, encryption indexing, fast retrieval. Many teams are building on better indexing to enable fast retrieval services. And then Filecoin is a layer one, so it's designed to enable emergence. So there's lots of room for L2 protocols that can emerge on filecoin.
01:35:25.200 - 01:36:07.556, Speaker A: And while the cost of storage is very competitive today on filecoin, many miners are offering free storage for clients, some are even offering negative prices. But Falcon storage is not just about cost, just like airbnb for cloud services should be about the experience and we will talk a lot more about that. So there are many examples of kind of abstract bridges of application that makes using storage on Falcon easy, right? You have NFT storage ChainSafe, files. There's also a textile bucket web, two storage. Asteri many of these tools are popping up. I encourage you guys to try it out during the hackathon and build amazing product and experience with it. And another big opportunity here would be like, client minor.
01:36:07.556 - 01:37:09.112, Speaker A: Right now there are close to 3000 storage providers on the file point network as a client coming to the protocol, which one do we choose? Right? So there's lots of room here of improving the UX of the clients. I think some of the two that I mentioned earlier are great examples. And then there's also space for geo matching platform kind of like Airbnbs or Dropboxes on the Falcon network. And we started to see many of this emerging and then reputation system will come into key and then that will also extend into credit and other ratings and then that also give us the opportunity to define grades of storage services which then have become a precursor to commoditized cloud storage which is something that we have never really done before and we talk about DeFi a lot. But it's also entirely possible to have exchanges whether it's centralized or decentralized or even new form of exchanges based on new structures on cloud services. And as we mentioned, there's lots of compute GPU sitting around storage. This colocation of storage and compute represents tremendous opportunities.
01:37:09.112 - 01:38:43.188, Speaker A: I think we'll hear from one of the large storage providers later today to talk about different opportunities as the Falcon storage providers and then you can run analytics algorithms and then offer snark GP as a service. We all know that the metaverse will likely require lots of both storage and compute resources. The Falcon network will be a perfect place for that and then people also researching and building caching and retrieval services given that you need classroom to become a search provider on filecoin there's also token price volatility which doesn't have to be borne by either the miners or the client. There's actually lots of opportunity for financial services on filecoin to be really useful to help with managing risk, providing liquidity and reducing uncertainty and then everyone can benefit with a more predictable kind of financial situation and then data services will become increasingly important as the level activities increases on filecoin. When you understand what's the risk profile both for the storage and the storage provider and the clients and then that enable participants to make more informed decision we start to see like mining return calculators, more and more sophisticated analytics with lenders and strong network analytics really paved the way for more sophisticated products on filecoin. So we talk a lot about web two style interactions. I also want to emphasize Falcon really brings a unique and new building block to web3 and we use this diagram to really illustrate, we call that the dataverse and this is what we call like a data supply chain.
01:38:43.188 - 01:39:24.340, Speaker A: It's very common in web. Two world, right? You have production of data. Many times this data are actually public, right? Then you have Refinery, can you mine inside? Can you clean up data? And then you do curation you package that in the format that people want and then deliver value or satisfy some kind of desire and then you generate value and then potentially attribution. Except that in the traditional Web Two world, many of the attribution really happen in the last stage. But in the case of Web Three, you really have this network structure and I think this is where the whole content address web of IPFS really come in. You have this network of nodes and edges. How do you define them? That is like a full on protocol of defining what is an edge.
01:39:24.340 - 01:39:59.972, Speaker A: And there's lots of research on this from the traditional network science literature. But IPFS layer gives you this network structure and enable us to define the structure over it. And then what the Falcon layer really brings to the table. I think one is huge volume, very cheap supply of storage. But as you already know, it's not just about price, it's really about that experience and the value. And the next piece is this periodic proof about the data being stored on filecoin. And then before Falcon gets an EVM or user defined smart contract system, there's lots of Bridging layer, which is the main thing of our talk today.
01:39:59.972 - 01:40:56.230, Speaker A: And then we will see a few more examples and they enable others to build smart contract layer logic on top of the filecoin storage network. And we already started to see people experimenting with this, but I think I will go over some of the example of some of the other Web Three successes and how do we really crack this and how do you really showcase the immense potential at the intersection of Filecoin and Ethereum or other smart contract platforms? So going back to this again, so these are not just the regular token bridges. This is something that the world has not even seen. We have not fully appreciate the potential and the power of these storage bridges. So these are not just like token, they could be storage value data attribution flow, it could really be anything. The sky is the limit. And Hack FX is a perfect venue to really explore, build teams and kind of try it out, really experiment what could be possible.
01:40:56.230 - 01:42:10.110, Speaker A: Many of the successes in Web Three started in hackathons like this one. Some of the other announcement or kind of like progress that you made with these bridges, like Falcon Chaining Bridge, falcon Ethereum Bridge, Falcon near bridge, there's also free storage on the near bridge and more recently there's lots of joint grants. I think we hear from Moss later on talk about these exciting grant opportunities. And then there's different kinds of bridges with polygon near hedera and lots of ecosystem momentum, really kind of enable experimentation, empower this kind of trial and error to figure out what is the right use case and then we talk a bit more about some of the use cases. But before that, let's just take a step back and look at DFI and NFT, some of the successful case study in Web Three. So back in 2015, when Ethereum first came up, people talk about smart contract, but it took us a long time to figure out what is a part of Market fit, what can we really do with it that can really satisfy and customer demand? And there were many debt back in 2017, I remember pretty vividly. I also make a few of those, but they didn't make it right.
01:42:10.110 - 01:42:55.912, Speaker A: I think one strong thing with DFI is really leveraged the building block that Ethereum brings to the table. It really didn't really go too far into interfacing the real world. It really is like simple mathematic calculations that you can perform on Ethereum. Right? And then there are many protocol that's being built on top of the underlying layer. One very composable building block that enable even more emergence. So some of the takeaway here potentially would be like what are some simple operation that cannot be enabled by this entirely new building block that's introduced by Filecoin? And then we look at NFT. NFT was also a concept for a while and then people kind of saw the need for it and people defined a standard of what is an NFT.
01:42:55.912 - 01:43:22.852, Speaker A: So that's ERC 721. But they didn't really take off until CryptoKitties, which I believe that was in Enward. Correct me if I'm wrong, but I believe that's in E downward they really showcased the immense potential and what can we do? Sorry, pardon? Eat Waterloo. Oh, Waterloo. That's right, that's right. Thank you. So like CryptoKitties really demonstrate what is possible with NFTs and then we see lots of companies and really building.
01:43:22.852 - 01:44:02.300, Speaker A: And then now we saw this NFT summer. So some takeaway here will be the importance of defining a standard. Having reference implementation concept will go a very long way. And then we still need to find product market Fit for whatever we are building, whether it's a protocol marketplace or a platform or an application. So just some more Web Three ideas that are enabled by Filecoin. I think we talked about this on a previous talk, just going over them again. We have Data Bounties where we have smart contract putting together funds for the storage of a particular CID, right? It could be a collection of NFTs, it could be some data sets and then this fund only pay out when there's a proof that has been stored on Filecoin.
01:44:02.300 - 01:44:53.004, Speaker A: Last I heard, this has already been implemented. I think maybe we can take this hackathon as an opportunity to really figure out what are some interesting games or like DAP that we can develop on top of this. And Data Dows dows cannot be formed as a building up on data. Bounties dows cannot be formed around data that the community cares about, right? People can join and join this Dow by having proven that they store a piece through Falcon and through all these bridges. Or they could just contribute to the pool and then on top they have storage insurance, commodity futures, miner are incentivized to repair data if, let's say the Falcon protocol reports, oh, this piece of data is missing, now you have a bounty to fix those. Or like there will be penalty already on the Falcon protocol if the miner is not storing it. And then we talk a lot about NFTs.
01:44:53.004 - 01:46:08.552, Speaker A: I think we celebrated NFT, but we also noticed there are many areas of improvement. And I think one obvious one would be like, can we really redesign rethink the flow of NFT and what is the value proposition value like? Because I think the metaverse should be open and the value is really in the contents, right? So there is lots of room here to really rethink about what is the economics, what is the future that we want to see. And then we leverage unibuilding blocks on Falcon to define new protocols. And as mentioned earlier, we talk about what is a node, what is an edge, and really defining those even in NFT setting, what is a node, what is an edge? Potentially, let's say I merge two NFTs to create a new one. Inherently there is a relationship, right? How can we really think through about value attribution and make that in a more transparent and fairer way to really enable a greater community and a greater economy and verifiable computes, right? CID, which is unique identifier of the content on filecoin, they can be binary of an algorithm. You can also store that on filecoin. In that sense, you can verify compute based on the algorithm and based on the input data.
01:46:08.552 - 01:46:35.148, Speaker A: When you have compute and data, you get more data. So that create a very interesting sub reinforcing loop. And I think lastly, I think there's lots of room for L2 protocols on filecoin. You really leverage this guarantee, this basic building block that the protocol provides. You can do multiple perpetual storage protocols on filecoin, pay once for ever. You can see like maybe ten of this on filecoin content delivery protocols. You can also see many of this on filecoin.
01:46:35.148 - 01:47:32.724, Speaker A: And another observation here is when you look at all these web two platforms when they first started out, users have really strong incentive to use the platform upload data to use the storage. Can we think about more creative incentive for clients to use Falcon to use web3, to really bring their digital existence onto the web3 infrastructure? So with that in mind, Falcon really is an exponentially growing ecosystem, and many of teams come into our ecosystem through the previous iteration, hack FS. So I'm very excited for hackfs this time around as well. And as we participate in the hackathon, we think about what new interaction can we enable, what kind of businesses are we building and how can we find product, market fit and to recap. Filecoin is really uniquely positioned. There's immense opportunities building layer, two protocols, platforms and product on Filecoin. And we should constantly think about the business model.
01:47:32.724 - 01:48:10.640, Speaker A: And there are many areas as we lay out that we can explore together as a community. And with that, I would like to pass on the time back to Karthik. Thank you for excellent presentation. There was a lot of information, and I know everyone's going to take some time to digest that. Given that we are a little short on time, I want to remind people to continue the conversation in Discord if that's a good place for them to reach you. I know we're really excited to get the conversation underway. I do want to introduce our next speaker, Michelle, who works at Protocol Labs on the growing Filecoin ecosystem.
01:48:10.640 - 01:48:17.170, Speaker A: I'll let Michelle intro herself a little bit better than I can and get things started right now.
01:48:21.270 - 01:48:53.290, Speaker C: Thank you so much. Give me just a second to get going on the slides. Hello, everyone. I'm Michelle Lee, also known as Mosh, in various slacks, GitHub and discords around the Internet. Really happy to be here today to talk about some grants opportunities for your IPFS and File Point projects. I am calling to you from Philadelphia. It's in the northeastern US, but it's got a pretty subtropical climate, and it's about 985 degrees outside today and 90% humidity.
01:48:53.290 - 01:49:57.280, Speaker C: It reminds me of the jungle a lot, especially with my friends who I go mountain biking with in the woods here and in a jungle, everything's growing all the time. They're intertwined, they're interdependent. You've got vines choking trees, which are shading, ferns which are catching sediments so that other plants can take root and grow. And that feels a lot like how Web Three is these days, with just an infinite number of projects that are getting off the ground, getting started, combining to make new really, really exciting space. But this can't happen without a few key resources water, air, nutrients in the soil. And it's through this grant program that the Filecoin project is really committed to providing some of the resources for projects building on the stack to take root and grow. So today I'm talking about grants, but there's also all sorts of technical and architecture design support.
01:49:57.280 - 01:51:01.620, Speaker C: Our entire team is an open book. We love to talk with you about your projects today. I'll focus specifically on grants, though. I'm part of this ecosystem development onboarding team, and our goal is to enable developers and entrepreneurs like yourselves to execute on your dreams through advocacy, grants and collab support as you iterate towards success. So coming in through independent projects or certain events or hackathons, however you come in, there's a certain point at which projects just need a little more support or funding to keep going and push through. And whether for you, the escape velocity means business, profitability, or the next level of investments, or joining an accelerator program, or successfully building an independent volunteer community for your project, whatever success means to you, we want to help you get there. So there's two main types of grants programs that I'll dive into today.
01:51:01.620 - 01:51:59.814, Speaker C: But like I said, this is not the only form of support we provide. So if you're kind of stuck or you're thinking that you would love to connect with other communities to take your project to the next level, we're happy to chat no matter what structure that takes. But I'll give a little bit of an overview of one of the grants programs. It's called next Step microgrants. The idea is that it's a flat $5,000 in filecoin tokens to take the next step on your hackathon or independent project. The main criteria is that Filecoin IPFS or Lib PDP was used in the project stack and it can be either directly or through a framework or library or service like Pinata or Textile NFT Storage, Estuary, anything that directly or indirectly uses the stack qualifies. It's a very lightweight application with weekly review, and it's selected based on criteria, so it's not a zero sum game.
01:51:59.814 - 01:52:43.170, Speaker C: There's no stack ranking. If your project meets these very simple criteria, we would be excited and thrilled to support you. So the applications via GitHub issue, I'll walk through how that works. First of all, in the Dev Grants repository, you can check out some accepted grant applications to take a look at what we funded in the past, take a look at how those successful applications have shared their info. And then to apply, you create a new issue, it kicks off a template. You complete the six questions, which includes some proof of your open source license or a link to the project showcase submission that you previously made. But it's less than two pages.
01:52:43.170 - 01:53:32.866, Speaker C: Hit Submit New issue and we will review and get back to you within a week. So just want to get out of the way and help you keep building. The other major grants program that I wanted you all to be aware of is the Open Grants program. And this is funded by multiple parties, not just Protocol Labs, the Filecoin Foundation, a lot of other collaborators and partners as well. And these grants typically are $5000 to $50,000 for novel work to apply the stack in new domains, bring significant new usage, add a really awesome tool to the tooling stack. So it tends to be kind of end to end projects rather than hey, I started something and just want to take the next step. We also have some dedicated tracks for projects that integrate across web3.
01:53:32.866 - 01:54:16.366, Speaker C: We just announced a collaborative grant program with Hadera and with Chain Link and there's many, many more to come. I would call the application process still pretty lightweight, but a little more involved than the Micro grant. And we review those every single month. So average two weeks for you to get a response, and at most one month. So figure out your project idea, talk to your collaborators, talk to your partners, talk to friends, or come into the discourse and slacks and share some of what you're thinking. You can also check out the Request for Proposals, which are listed in the Dev Grants repository in the Filequin project. And these list areas of interest that we're particularly interested in funding.
01:54:16.366 - 01:55:26.698, Speaker C: But we're also very much encouraging and welcoming of your novel ideas. After that, you submit a PR using the proposal templates that's linked, and like I mentioned, we will get back to you within a month with the response. Sometimes there's a little bit of back and forth just to clarify what you meant, or structure it in a way that's a little bit more amenable to the grants program. But in general, it's still a fairly lightweight submission process and we're very happy to have it be a conversation rather than has to be perfect on the first shot. Just a few of the projects that we've funded through this program in the past give you a sense of many different layers of the stack and totally different domains. Agam is a really cool IPFS app that allows you to do asynchronous jam sessions for musicians. So let's say I record a little guitar riff, it gets posted to IPFS, and then I can send the link to Ajam, to my friend, to ZX over there, and from five states away, or two continents away, ZX can layer another track onto mine and we can write a song together.
01:55:26.698 - 01:55:58.194, Speaker C: So, pretty cool, especially in the pandemic when it's harder for musicians to collaborate in real life. Next project was funded through an open grant. Totally different type of project. This is a utility that splits and preps really big files before they get stored on filecoin. And it's called Go graph split. So this was just an idea for a really simple, nice reusable tool, and Go Graph Split is the result. The last one I wanted to share is on the right.
01:55:58.194 - 01:56:40.450, Speaker C: It's called the Geoweb Project, and here we're funding not just software, but also a system. So this team is actually working with their state government on a plan to anchor digital property rights to physical land. It's an environment where property records are not particularly well trusted, property records with the government at least. So they're working on building a digital system that crosses over into the physical realm. Really cool. Our grants also fund community building work, software, educational materials, so really anything that contributes to growing the ecosystem as a whole. So that's just a showcase.
01:56:40.450 - 01:57:21.070, Speaker C: If I were to leave you with one message, I would say it's just that we don't bite. We really welcome conversation throughout the application process. If you want to create a draft PR or file a work in progress issue. We're happy to comment on that before you submit formally. If you're not ready to do that yet and just want to chat, you can send us an email at grants@filecoin.org or find us in the Filecoin Slack at grantsquestions. And think of this as no matter where you are on your journey or where you think you're headed or don't know where you're headed yet, nondilutive capital is always a great thing.
01:57:21.070 - 01:57:32.260, Speaker C: So thanks for having me here. Hope to see lots of project proposals and submissions in the future and look forward to being in touch. Thank you.
01:57:35.350 - 01:58:06.118, Speaker A: Michelle, thank you so much for that amazing presentation. Just got a couple questions here so we can just get a little bit more context. And I know, of course, we can all find out this on the Falcon Slack and on GitHub, but when you think about these grants, how are you planning on structuring this internally? Is it more about you need specific problems to be solved, or is it know anybody who wants to continue building on this ecosystem? We can do this thing. How do you kind of balance the demand versus kind of core things that you would like people to focus on? And could you share a little bit about that? Oh, you're muted, by the way.
01:58:06.144 - 01:58:09.530, Speaker C: Sorry, let me unmute because I know how to use computers.
01:58:09.610 - 01:58:09.902, Speaker A: Thanks.
01:58:09.956 - 01:58:59.214, Speaker C: Keptik. I think the balance historically has been 75% open 25% RFP type projects. Some examples of RFP projects are like the reputation service that's being built so you can query miners and their prior deal stats and make a selection based on that, or different wallets, for example. But the vast majority of the grant proposals are people submitting their own ideas. And we really like to see that because it means not only they're contributing work that we wouldn't have been able to produce within the existing community, but also ideas and bridges to domains that they are really experts in and that they care about. Yeah, there's no preference when it comes.
01:58:59.252 - 01:59:10.260, Speaker A: To and then maybe just another way to dissect that same question. How do you think about IPFS versus Filecoin in this equation? And is that even a distinction to the program?
01:59:10.630 - 01:59:54.670, Speaker C: Yeah, I think we're taking a much more integrated approach now on the ecosystem front, where IPFS has always been a part of Filecoin and Lip PDP as well, uses really key building blocks there. And now we're also seeing tools on the other end, tools like Estuary NFT storage, Web Three storage, and Yada that kind of wrap the two together from the consumer end. So that's why there's no point in us drawing lines or making distinctions between projects that use certain subsets of these technologies. For us, it's a win to decentralize the web and data on the web, no matter which of these protocols is more prominent for a given builder.
01:59:55.170 - 02:00:07.090, Speaker A: That's absolutely fair. And one last question for me, and I'm going to put you on the spot here, but could you share a little bit more about some of the RFPs that are going on and sort of what matters in terms of priority right now to the ecosystem?
02:00:07.430 - 02:00:59.826, Speaker C: Yeah, I would love to. You can also find and read so everything I talk about, you can find at Filecoin Projectdev Grants and then look under RFPs. But right now we've announced several collaborations with other Web Three projects, right? So there's a lot of apps being built incorporating smart contracts. A lot of these smart contract platforms are built to be really nimble, like really fast transactions, fast chain throughput, very lightweight. An enterprise application might make 10,000 calls a minute to a chain. So these chains are not designed to be really fast, but they're not designed to hold a bunch of data. And so if you think about smart contracts being like the logic layer of Web Three and Filecoin and IPFS being the data layer, they work really well hand in hand.
02:00:59.826 - 02:01:21.126, Speaker C: And so some of the RFP areas are on building integrations between, for example, hedera Token service and Filecoin storage, file connected Storage, or using chain link Oracles that take filecoin storage and connect it to off chain systems. So quite a few RFPs listed in that realm.
02:01:21.318 - 02:01:43.890, Speaker A: Awesome. Well, thank you so much for sharing those insights and talking about the Grants program. And we have a little bit over 100 projects that are planning on submitting on Sunday, so we'll be sure to tell everybody how they can actually keep continuing to build on their work and get more non dilated funding. So really appreciate this and thanks again.
02:01:44.040 - 02:01:47.250, Speaker C: Fantastic. Thanks for having me. Good luck to all the teams.
02:01:48.550 - 02:02:30.802, Speaker A: Thanks. All right, so hope all of you are enjoying the rest of the day. We are one talk away from today's summit before we finish everything, and I'd like to invite our next two speakers up here. So our last talk of the day is going to be about Fogline Plus and Deep and Galen will talk about what Falkland Plus is and as they're on the Fogline Plus team and just what it means to verify incentivize and onboard useful data. So we have both of them here now, and I'll ask them to turn on their video and get us started. Welcome. Thanks.
02:02:30.802 - 02:02:54.620, Speaker A: Kazakh. Really excited to be here. All right, let's make sure Deep and see my screen. I can see your screen. Sweet. Looks like we're going to go ahead and jump in. Thanks for that intro.
02:02:54.620 - 02:03:14.426, Speaker A: As you said, talking about Filecoin Plus, verifying incentivizing and onboarding useful data onto the Filecoin network. I'm Galen McAndrew. I'm with the Filecoin foundation and the Filecoin foundation for the decentralized web. With me. Co presenting is Deep Kapoor. He's with protocol. Labs.
02:03:14.426 - 02:03:54.586, Speaker A: We kind of dual attack this project and work on it from both the social engineering and the technical infrastructure side and it is all open source and community driven processes. So we're excited to tell you guys about it and how you can get involved. And then we'll have time for questions at the end. But if anything comes up or we're going too fast or you have a burning yearning question that you want to ask, feel free to just pause us and jump in. All right, so to that end, our agenda with the time that we have, we're going to go over just what is Fill Plus? You may see it written this way. Big F, little I, little L plus. That's the Filecoin Plus program.
02:03:54.586 - 02:05:01.390, Speaker A: Talk about how it works and its core mechanisms and concepts, go over some of the kind of incentive mechanisms, how it fits into that marketplace ecosystem, and then talk to you about what you need to do to get data cap and then how you could get involved in program a couple of different ways. So why don't we launch into it? Basically a short answer is that Filecoin Plus adds a layer of social trust to the Filecoin network to incentivize useful storage. We're going to unpack what some of these things mean as concepts. The core mechanism is different actors, different entities. That could be an individual or it could be an organization play a role in essentially the allocation and spending of data cap. So this graphic kind of highlights in a complicated way all of those interactions. You don't need to memorize this to understand how the system works, but effectively, through a community governance model, people can apply to be a notary.
02:05:01.390 - 02:06:03.570, Speaker A: Those messages will go to some root key holders to approve it and sign messages on the chain so they have this audit trail and then notaries have the ability to allocate that data cap to clients. And then clients are going to seal deals with storage providers and those deals are going to be verified through the miniature of datacap. So it is a novel resource that is, like I said, granted to notaries, then down to clients and then clients use it in addition to phil to make deals. It is not the same as some other currencies or tokens because it is a single use credit. So it is not a currency that is going to flow or that you could go purchase. It is consumed as it's used and it can't be transferred. So it's more like saying, like, I have gotten kind of a coupon or a stamp that I'm going to then be able to use in these kinds of transactions.
02:06:03.570 - 02:07:32.994, Speaker A: The way that it works downstream to the storage providers is they are going to get extra rewards by serving deals with datacap. So we'll jump into how that deep. Yeah, let's jump into a little bit more. So, looking at Filecoin as a network today, the supply side of the market is primarily served by storage providers that make storage available to the network effectively so they have access storage available or they've built out data centers which they're willing to rent out space over a period of time on effectively. So clients in the market are effectively looking at ways in which they are able to utilize these services spread out geographically with different availability concepts, standards, compliance, et cetera, to identify storage providers that they would like to work with in addition or as an alternative to cloud storage options that may exist for those particular clients. And so the way the network incentivizes the existence of supply, and especially during this initial growth phase of the FalcoIn network, was effectively looking at how much relative storage as a storage provider you are serving to the network, especially with regards to what everybody else is bringing to the table. So effectively Filecoin does a lottery or something close to one where it looks at the amount of power you have.
02:07:32.994 - 02:08:36.402, Speaker A: And power is measured as both a combination of the quantity of the amount of data you're making or space you're making available, but also the quality of what you are sealing on the network. And based on how much power you are making available to the network, you are more or less likely to win block rewards. So every epoch in Falcon, which is 30 seconds, several search providers have the opportunity to win block rewards. And the likelihood of you winning block rewards is directly influenced by your relative power on the network. So now that you have the basic sort of economics of the supply side down, let's talk about the incentives of the supply side and why Filecoin plus leverages or what it actually leverages to make a storage experience for a client more friction free effectively. So today as a storage provider, you have the option to just make your space available or you're bringing on space to the network because you already know that you're going to seal a client's data in it. So that's the difference between just sealing a sector versus sealing a deal in a sector.
02:08:36.402 - 02:09:31.878, Speaker A: And the benefits of serving a deal are that you actually get additional revenue. So not only is the network compensating you for making supply available to the rest of the market, but also you're earning money from the actual deal from a client because that client is going to pay you as you're offering them a service of storage. So for the period of time that you're giving them storage as a service, they're paying you per epoch effectively in Filecoin. And additionally, if a lot of people come to retrieve the data that's being stored so say it's like a public good open data set. So like COVID data or environmental change data, et cetera. Access to that data itself can also be paid for, like the way you would expect from a CDN every time you go and actually fetch that data, the provider that's actually giving you that data is. Taking opportunity costs and bandwidth dedicating hardware resources to ensure that your data gets transferred and then just in general, making sure that they stay available and online for you to access that data as well.
02:09:31.878 - 02:10:37.440, Speaker A: And so that also yields additional revenue. But this tends to come with liability as well, right? Because as a storage provider, you own the hardware on which somebody else's data is now being stored. So not only do you have to deal with getting that data onto your hardware, but also the implications of storing that data over a period of time. And so while there's concepts already in the Filecoin deal making network around content policy in terms of service and conditions in which a deal can actually happen, it still is additional work. It's very simple for a storage provider to start out by just saying, hey, I have got a new hard disk of X terabytes that I'm just going to upload to the network and make available for supply down the line rather than having to negotiate with a client up front, identify what they'd like to store on behalf of that client and turn it into a deal. As it comes to network. And what we see in the market is that price is effectively set as a combination of needing to offset these additional costs that come from making a deal, which includes the potential liabilities and then obviously the fact that it's an open market which tends to drive pricing down, at least in the nature of the market today.
02:10:37.440 - 02:11:58.530, Speaker A: Or you start to look at Filecoin Plus as an alternative where if clients come to a storage provider after going through the Filecoin Plus program where they've received this resource data cap that Gillen just talked about, data cap effectively becomes like an alternate form of payment for a deal. So it could be used in addition to Filecoin or in place of Filecoin, but it's a completely independent value that's being set where a client can say, yes, I got data cap and I'm going to use data cap on this deal. And the way a miner interprets that is basically that the likelihood of how storing that data for them will increase that presence on the chain is boosted by ten, basically. So there's a ten x multiplier on the storage that they're actually offering to the client that's coming and compensating them effectively in data cap. And so miners become significantly more incentivized to choose to provide storage to specific clients that are coming with data cap. So not only does it offset some of the liabilities by making it much more lucrative for a storage provider, but also these clients are going through a vetting process to even receive that data cap in the first place, which we'll be talking about soon after. So it also reduces any of the risks that a storage provider may actually be taking on by creating a deal or having a long term partnership even with a specific client and network.
02:11:58.530 - 02:13:13.578, Speaker A: And so as a result, we end up seeing that clients that are willing to go through the process with PACOM Plus to receive data cap are more easily able to identify storage providers that they can work with and also tend to receive storage at extremely low prices. So the main takeaway for you here, if you want to switch to the next slide, is actually that storage providers are willing to effectively provide free storage for verified clients that go through the Filecoin Plus system. Because the incentives that the File Plus program creates for them outweigh the short term cost to both onboard a client and their data to the network, and then seal it and maintain it over a period of time. So it's become a very interesting and useful lever for clients that are willing to go through the process to ensure that they are receiving the best possible deal when coming to store their data on FalcoIn. And it also helps miners who are able to offset their risks and increase their rewards over a period of time. So what does it actually mean to get data cap as a client? So, datacap, as Galen said, it's a resource that basically gets allocated to a client and is single use only, so you need to go get it from somebody who can actually give it to you. And if you recall in that diagram, there's this role of a notary.
02:13:13.578 - 02:14:21.874, Speaker A: And so notaries are elected through like, a community election process and granted a certain amount of data cap that they can dispense over a period of time to clients. And so you as a client or a developer in the Falcon network, either you already have an address to which you'd like to go and make deals from and so you'd like to go get data cap to that address or you're acting on behalf of an additional user down the line. Say you're building a service on the network or something that interacts with Ether or different blockchains and you want to ensure that you are able to get the cheapest possible deal for you or for your users on the network, depending on whether or not you're using your address or somebody else's address. You're going to go and try and get data cap for that. And so we interpret or we like to think of this path as like three stages, the first of which is getting a very small amount of data cap with a very minimal investment through what is called like an auto notary or an automated notary. One such notary that a lot of people use exists at verify Glyph IO. What that particular program does is it basically checks to see that you have a valid GitHub account that has existed for more than six months.
02:14:21.874 - 02:15:27.974, Speaker A: And assuming you don't go to it more frequently than once every 30 days, I believe it will give you 32GB of data cap in the next possible message that will land on chain. So that typically takes about 30 seconds. And so that's extremely useful because that's the size of the average sector that a storage provider actually offers on the network, which means that on average, the deals that you're going to make are always going to be less than or equal to 32GB at a time individually structured within the network. And so when you are coming through that process and this enables you to have at least one, but oftentimes many, since especially if you're storing smaller files that are in the mebibytes or I don't even know what the Kib term is, using binary is not as intuitive. But yeah, if your files are smaller, obviously you're able to make even more deals. But this ensures that you get at least one and it's extremely useful for testing and developing around Falcon Plus and ensuring that you understand the end to end flow and are able to utilize datacap as a client. Next, there's this process of going directly to an actual human notary.
02:15:27.974 - 02:16:14.114, Speaker A: So not an automated notary where a human is doing subjective vetting, due diligence and analysis to choose to give you some of their ground effectively as a client because they believe that you are worthy of this. So their measure of worthiness we'll dig into a little bit more in the next slide. But tends to be sort of a combination of trust that they can establish with you as a client and understand who you are. What you bring to the table, but also the data that you're onboarding and why it's useful and valuable and enables Filecoin to be a more productive network and achieve its mission to be the data store for humanity. So individual notaries exist all over the world. We currently have 23 active notaries distributed in most regions. Recently in the last notary election cycle, we also had a notary elected from Oceania.
02:16:14.114 - 02:17:04.762, Speaker A: So we're adding more continents as we go along. But notaries will typically grant like between zero and 50 Tebbytes of data cap to an individual client. So this is a really good way to go if you're working on building an actual production use case where, just like the test, GB magnitude is not enough, but you actually want to onboard either one or multiple data. Sets or you're working to build a solution where at least for your first round for production, like having 50 TBytes of data on board onto the network does cover your needs. Then there's this third sort of tier which is if you're bringing on a really large data set. And so we've seen this be really popular with a lot of archival use cases. So projects that are working on multi pebby byte scale data onboarding onto the network have come through this.
02:17:04.762 - 02:18:17.626, Speaker A: And so this path, instead of applying to an individual notary, you're applying to groups of notaries effectively. And so those groups of notaries become collectively liable as fiduciaries of the network to ensure that you as a client coming with the scale and demand of the network are worthy of receiving data cap at this magnitude. And so the application process for that looks a little bit different, and I'll talk to those in a second. But the intent is that it's a fully open and transparent process where you do some requisite amount of KYC address questions that are coming in from the community or from those groups of notaries and receive like a massive amount of data cap associated with your address that gets allocated to you over time. And so that process is a little different in that for the first one you're going to a website and signing in with GitHub, giving an address and getting data cap. For the second one, you go to the Falcon Plus registry and we can share links about this, but it's plus fill, you sign into that and you just identify a notary that typically is either in your region or in your relevant field of work. And you're able to identify somebody that you can work with, can understand your use case, understand your business needs, and can give you the data cap that you require.
02:18:17.626 - 02:19:30.918, Speaker A: And then there's this third tier, which is effectively not through such an easy or handheld process of a website, but rather through like a GitHub issue so that it is open and transparent and openly discussed. And we also have community governance calls that we'll be talking about at the end of our presentation because we'd love to see you there. But one of the topics of conversation at those calls is these large data set, notary applications that are open at the moment and ensuring that clients that are interested in being unblocked to store Pebby byte scale data on the network do receive the support and sort of the friction free experience to the extent that we can on the network. And so this is more the collective responsibility, large scale archival use cases on Falcon and unblocking them from moving forward. Can I talk a little bit about yeah, so deep sort of touched on some of this. We'll just speak briefly about what it looks like to get verified again. After you do sort of that first auto verification process as kind of a sample test run, were you to go directly to a notary? What they're going to do is that we have some community standards that we sort of all share and aligned on, but each notary can have their own individual process.
02:19:30.918 - 02:21:32.346, Speaker A: So there is not necessarily one hard and fast kind of application or set of questions that everyone would need to answer to work with that middle group of going directly to a notary. But in general, that kind of KYC know your client due diligence is essentially just going to be the notary asking a little bit more about you the client to say, are you an individual or an organization? Can you share your website or your social media handles so that we can vet a little bit that you exist, who are you? And then tell us a little bit about your use case and the data type. So the data type could be someone who's storing primarily documentation and the use case, is it's a technical archival data set of sort of written documentation, or it might be a data type that is video archival video files from some journalistic endeavor that they collected. And then there's conversations around whether or not this data is public or private. And then the questions become what is your anticipated sort of storage behavior? And there's some kind of guidelines that we encourage people to use around how much redundancy do we encourage people to bake into their system and then what kind of geographic distribution? So our goal and intent through these programs is to kind of both help clients make good archival data decisions using some industry best practices, but to also have diversified network strength and so helping with geographic and storage provider diversity. And the next question is around deal and data transparency. So we want to have these deals existing transparently on the network and sort of getting the clients to share and understand that current expectation.
02:21:32.346 - 02:22:39.810, Speaker A: And so that's the path in that middle sector where you may be getting in the tevyte range of data cap, working directly with a notary in your region. And then if you want to learn more about the Filecoin Plus program or what you could do to get involved, the first great place is just following this link to these docs. These are on the five coin docs, and it's a set of steps that will walk you through everything from standing up a Lotus Lite node and creating your first address linked to that Lotus Lite node and then going through the process of using that auto notary to verify and get your first little sample set of 32GB of data cap to then experiment and play with. You could work directly with a notary if you want to, onboard larger data sets, maybe again as something that you wanted to test or a service that you were building out or developing. And you can find more about that in our kind of GitHub repo right now, as well as in that plus phil.org link that we sent in the chat. You can find both of these links.
02:22:39.810 - 02:23:38.774, Speaker A: We also would love to invite you all to get involved in our community governance. You can join a call, those are happening every other week. And we discuss some of the topics, directions that the program is going. How can we wear the friction points, how do we unblock people, because the overall goal of Filecoin Plus is to help sort of grease the wheels on deal sealing, how do we get more data onto the network in a way that is working for all of those different entities. And so in those governance calls, we want to try and understand where some of those friction points are and then see what solutions we could implement. We also invite you all to apply and become notaries and become those stewards of the network directly working with other clients. And so you may be interested in working with a larger array of clients that are creating that data and so you could help connect them to that data cap.
02:23:38.774 - 02:24:42.310, Speaker A: To get those verified deals, we also always need additional tooling. We have lots of interesting ideas and processes for things. The Five Point Foundation has grants available at a range of sizes for people to help build tools that are going to grow and improve the overall filecoin network. Some examples are things like reporting and investigation tools on various deal making and behavior practices to investigate where datacap is in that different funnel and maybe again, helping automate some of that process of how we would unblock by finding the stickiest point. We also want to improve the notary due diligence process. What are some tools that we can help build in conjunction with our notaries and have a robust tool set that helps our notaries do that KYC process in kind of a fair and transparent and equitable way, again in an international scale. So to all of that, you could work directly with the Filecoin Foundation.
02:24:42.310 - 02:25:29.030, Speaker A: Contact us. We're happy to help talk to you about our different dev grant opportunities. And we are standing up kind of different bounty boards where we'll share out some of these primed ideas, seed ideas, but we would just love to hear from community about what ideas they may have. We super appreciate your time and listening to us about Filecoin Plus and verifying and onboarding useful data to the filecoin network. Love to open it up to any questions, discussions that the group might have. Gillandeep that was an incredible introduction to Flockland Plus. We had a couple questions, but you already answered all of them in the last slide because you went into every single subsection of how this appeals to different parties.
02:25:29.030 - 02:26:18.678, Speaker A: Maybe I'll just kind of rephrase some of the questions that we can go maybe deeper into it, but I think maybe just understanding how you're prioritizing which group to kind of get involved more. You obviously talked about the devtool side, the notary side, the sealer side. So is there like a particular group that is more important right now? And how are you thinking about bringing people in? Sure, yeah. My reaction to that is basically no. I think that all of these stakeholders are really important and individually play a role that supports each other effectively. It's very hard to just have extremely efficient notaries and then not have clients that want to leverage those notaries to use the network. And if you have a lot of clients and you don't have the supply side of the marketplace to storage providers that are interested in taking those deals, then it's also not particularly useful.
02:26:18.678 - 02:27:19.974, Speaker A: I think one thing that the network has going for it right now is a very strong set of storage providers that are willing and able to serve the needs of clients on the network. And so we sort of view Filecoin Plus right now as an enabling function for those clients to say, hey, how do I prove that I am a productive member of this ecosystem? And then how do I convince a storage provider to effectively pick me or work with me to ensure that I get high quality storage over a period of time? And so effectively, we'd love to engage people that are notaries, that want to be notaries, or people that are clients and want to be clients or are also just on the supply side of the marketplace as storage providers. But also in general, the Focal Point Plus program is relatively young. We think about things on the 510 year minimum horizon with these things. And as a network, Filecon has only been around for a year. Filecon plus was instituted as a FIP at that stage as well. And so I think we've got a lot of learning to do and a lot of improvement in our processes.
02:27:19.974 - 02:29:02.350, Speaker A: And so even the bare minimum, hey, show up to our calls, check out the GitHub repo, talk to us, give us your feedback, engage on slack, GitHub, et cetera, is still useful. Like minutes of time from somebody who has a helpful perspective at this stage still adds a lot of value. And so I would almost say reduce what you think the standard is for you to participate and engage in the system and be productive and help this sort of flywheel effect of ensuring that the network is productive and come engage in whatever the natural fit is, because I think we'd love to have you. There's also an advantage as we have lots of things that can be worked on in parallel. And so someone coming to this particular program with ideas or tooling, for example, that they wanted to help build, are not in any way going to slow down or be at the cost of us engaging with them and helping get that project going while also prioritizing onboarding more of those large data sets or working to unblock the notary due diligence process. And so one of the things that's just really exciting is, as Deep said, if somebody comes in and they have a new perspective or a new idea and a little bit of bandwidth that can really quickly, rapidly turn into a lot of exciting opportunity and potential because we can then maybe connect them with other community members that are thinking the same way or that are kind of pulling that same direction. And so the nice thing about a very broad, open source community governance model is we don't have as many kind of individual hierarchical blockers where changes or projects or programs need to really kind of fit into some kind of roadmap or particular process scale.
02:29:02.350 - 02:29:47.894, Speaker A: And so it allows us to really work on lots of exciting things in parallel. This was really well said and I think I'll summarize this by saying if anybody's interested in getting involved, showing up is the first step and it's early enough that you can figure out how you can best participate in that ecosystem. So with that, I want to thank both of you for talking about Foglin Plus and for that amazing talk. And we'll wrap the day with a quick message to all of our hackers that submissions are due this Sunday and can't wait to see what everybody builds. So happy hacking, everybody. And if you are stuck or if you have any last minute things that you need help on, be sure to ping the Mentors Channel on Discord. And we want to make sure that you're ready for this Sunday.
02:29:47.894 - 02:30:05.950, Speaker A: So thanks for tuning in, thanks for watching all the summits and engaging with us on the chat. And once again, happy hacking. And while we close this off today, enjoy some lo fi beats on Meetglobal TV. We'll see you all next week. Bye.
