00:00:00.360 - 00:00:09.845, Speaker A: Going to speak for us about the period index problem for higher degree homology groups over Hensel semiglobal fields.
00:00:11.505 - 00:01:04.231, Speaker B: Thank you so much for the invitation and the introduction. Yeah, my name is Edi Wong from Western University and today I'm going to be talking about the period index problem for higher degree gala comalgic groups over Hansel semi global fields. So my talk will be more of a like algebra flavored. But I think this is also a problem like a lot of number theorists interested about, even though I'm working with a different kind of field. Yeah. So first the outline of this talk will be first I'll introduce the classical peer index problem and how it relates to this like generalized one and my main result. Then I'll be introducing the main technique like I used in proving my theorem, which is like patching for arithmetic curves and also like local global principles in gala cohomology.
00:01:04.231 - 00:01:35.975, Speaker B: And if you have time, I'll also be introducing a sketch of the proof. And also this is actually the first time like me giving a online talk of this of a slightly longer period. So I'll just like pretend I have a blackboard. I'll just like write while I'm talking. Yeah. So first let's start with. Let's start with the motivation which comes from the classical period index problem from the bar group.
00:01:35.975 - 00:02:54.145, Speaker B: So if you start with a field F and a central simple algebra over F. So this is a finite. A central simple algebra is a finite dimensional associative algebra over the field F which is like simple. And also the center of this algebra is exactly the field F. For a central simple algebra, there always exists a finite field extension E over F such that when we base change this central simple algebra to the bigger field E, it splits into a matrix algebra. So we would also say like a split over E. Okay, so if we have two central simple algebras, from now on I'll use like CSA for like central simple algebras.
00:02:54.145 - 00:04:30.565, Speaker B: So like central simple algebras A and B are equivalent if there exists M and N such that when we tensor up this A with the matrix algebra of size N, it's isomorphic to like B. Tensor with like this matrix algebra says M. And we also say this like a sort of like Moreta equivalence. Then once we define this equivalence relationship, we can define a bar group as the group of equivalence classes of central simple algebras over F. And my remark is that the bar group is torsion. And if we take the M torsion part of the Braer group, this isomorphic to h2f with coefficients mu m here this mu m is the mth root of unity. Okay then.
00:04:30.565 - 00:06:06.983, Speaker B: Yeah, then let's, let's go to the elements in a in a bar group. So if you take a bar class alpha, we can define the index of alpha as the minimal degree of a field extension E over F such that alpha splits over E. So here like by alpha splits, it's just saying the corresponding central simple algebra of splits over E. And we also define the period of alpha as the order of alpha inside var group. So if we have like a period of alpha sp, then we must have like hi alpha like stays in hi F like with sorry with H2F with coefficient up. Yeah, so there is a fact actually just due to Braar so we know like period of alpha and the index of alpha has exactly the same prime factorization. So meaning we always have period of alpha divide like index of alpha also divides period of alpha to the same power D.
00:06:06.983 - 00:08:59.921, Speaker B: But this D depends on alpha so then this will motivate the classical period index problem. So we may ask does there exist a D such that we have like index of alpha device period of alpha to the D for all like alpha inside the bar group and if so is there a bound for D? There are like some known results in the literature and I'll like summarize a little bit. So when F is a global field we have, we always have period of alpha equals index of alpha so meaning this case is d equals 1 and if we have like f is qp of t, this result is due to due to Saltman. So if we have P doesn't divide the period of alpha we will have like index of alpha divides period of alpha squared meaning this here the Exponent B is 2 and when F is a function field of two variables over a separable closed field little K. So this result is due to Deon. So the result is saying if we have like characteristic of K doesn't divide period of alpha we will have. We will have index of alpha equals period of alpha and this is also the case when D equals one and another classes of views.
00:08:59.921 - 00:11:01.141, Speaker B: I want to say a little bit, it's like somehow like our focus like the focus of this talk When F is a, when F is a semi global field so meaning is a one variable function field over a complete discretely value field. So if we say this complete district query value field has like residue field small K. Yeah, so when the characteristic of k is co prime to period of alpha, I'm not going to state the whole statement of the results of this results, but I will be giving some examples to see what's going on there. And also this result is due to Harbinger Kaufman question also by Max Lublic. Yeah, so the first case of a semi global field which basically recovers Saltman's results is when F is a one variable function field over qp. And in this case when the characteristic of the residue field co prime to alpha, they also have index of alpha divides period of alpha squared. So here also D equals 2.
00:11:01.141 - 00:11:35.975, Speaker B: And also in the equicharacteristic case, so if F is a like field of lorant series over A over like C or like maybe other algebraically closed fields and you take a one variable function field over that, you will have index of alpha device period of alpha squared, which is also D equals 2. And another example you can also like.
00:11:36.955 - 00:11:49.975, Speaker A: Sorry to interrupt you in all these cases. So this D is there's a minimality condition. So the smallest D is 2. Like do we know that, you know the index and period are not the same in these cases or they don't have to be the same.
00:11:50.355 - 00:12:08.295, Speaker B: I think here they do have proof. This bound is a sharp bound. I see. Okay. Yeah. So when the dimension of the field gets bigger, I think it's impossible to have the case index equals period. Thanks.
00:12:08.295 - 00:13:00.945, Speaker B: And another case is you can also making this complete discrete valid field of higher ranking. Then you can for example do like a field of lorant series over QP and then you have a one variable function field over that. And in this case you have so like the dimension of the field introduced like sorry, increased again. So here you have index of alpha device period of alpha cubed, meaning D equals duration. So these are like some of the, like some of the known results. Of course it's like not all of the known cases. And this like peer index problem for bar group has been like a longstanding open problem.
00:13:00.945 - 00:14:05.525, Speaker B: And yeah, and then like this talk, I will do a more generalized peer index problem for hard degree gala cohomology groups. As we have already seen, like the bar group is. The bar group is torsion. And following Kotl we want to, we want to generalize this like mtorsion part of a bar group to a high degree version of it. Here the coefficient is mu n, but we twist it to the N minus length power. So here by twisting we mean the galva action can be different and I can be bigger than two. So like Kato is saying, we can sort of view as this as an analog of like high degree, like higher degree Bar group.
00:14:05.525 - 00:15:28.115, Speaker B: And so like in this talk, like for simplicity, we will be focusing on. We'll be focusing on the on the case when I miss a prime number. And when we think about like classes, we take non trivial classes alpha in H1F with coefficient mu m twist to I minus one power. So in this case we always have period alpha equals l and we can similarly define the index of alpha as the gcd of the degrees e over F such that alpha e alpha splits over e inside hi of E. So we also know a fact. Generalizing bar's classical result, we will have index of alpha divides L to the D. Here D also depends on alpha.
00:15:28.115 - 00:17:52.493, Speaker B: And yeah, and so this also raises the question as an analog of the classical period index problem, if we are given this fixed I field F and the prime L, whether there exists an exponent d such that the index of alpha divides l to the D for all alpha in the higher degree gala coop and if so, is there a bound? Recently this was studied by Harbater, Hartman, Krashen. They studied for a semi global field F using the field patching technique and my work relaxed their assumption on the field. But before stating my results, I will first introduce a few definitions to make everything like more precise. So we define a Hansel semi global field as a one variable function field. Overall excellent conceal in this clearly developed field. So like here the assumption of like excellence is actually like looks like a very strong condition, but it's actually very mild. Most of the rings we have encountered are probably like excellent.
00:17:52.493 - 00:19:12.375, Speaker B: And therefore most of the objects in algebraic geometry as like finitely like finite type stuff or whatever. They are all like excellent. So this is not a strong condition. One example of a for example a han DVR will be will be like will be like a ring of algebraic series over a field over a field little K. So here by algebraic means it satisfies some like algebraic condition. For example, square root of like 1 minus T is algebraic, but like for example like E to the T is not algebraic. And by completing T like respect to like this uniformizer T, this t hat is the ring of power series or this field K.
00:19:12.375 - 00:21:12.417, Speaker B: And also in terms of like studying the generalized period index problem, it turned out to be easier to study a more like a stable bound for like hi of E with coefficient mu l for all finite extensions e over F. So which motivates the following definition called the stable I splitting dimension of F at L, we use the notation ssd. This is defined as the minimal degree. Sorry minimal degree, sorry, minimal exponent D such that for any finite extension field extension e over F and for any alpha in hi of E we have index of alpha divides l to the D. So this is like a more uniform bound. If we can find a bound for this ssd, then this automatically gives us the classical period index bound. Okay, so Harbinger, Hartman and question, they prove the result for the SSD for like a semi global field.
00:21:12.417 - 00:22:54.995, Speaker B: And my work relaxed their assumption on the completeness to like the accent Hansalian case. So here's my main result. So if we have a Hansel semi global field, meaning that's a one variable function field with accent Hansilian over accent Hasilian discrete value field. Let's suppose this accent Hasilian, this reval field has residue field little k and this characteristic of the little K is not L. Then I've shown that SSD of F is bounded by SSD of the residual field k and ssd of the one variable function field over little k plus some correction terms which is 2 when l is odd and when l is like 2, this correction term is and also this result can also be generalized to non prime coefficients if we can decompose this M into this prime factorization of L1 to the A1 all the way to LN to the AN SSD of F at M is bounded by the maximum of SSD of of like one of the outliers. Okay, yeah, so this result is a iterative bound depending on the SSD of the residue field and the rational function field over that. So these two terms comes from the underlying geometry of the model we pick for the Hansel semiglobal field.
00:22:54.995 - 00:24:53.815, Speaker B: And I'll introduce that later. So the ingredients in the proof. So first we have a like patching result for a Tau algebras in the Hansel semi global setting. And also we need a like local global principle for the hard degree Gala chromology group. So first for patching this field patching technique was invented by Harbater and Hartman in their 2010 paper called Patching over Fuse. The idea is that if we want to give a if you want to give a algebraic structure over a base field F, this is the same as to give such a structure over a suitable collection of overfills. And one of the easiest example we can think of is like just do the easiest algebraic structure which is like vector space.
00:24:53.815 - 00:26:49.135, Speaker B: So if we start with a base field with two overfills and which admits a common overfilled f0. So if we start with a vector space over f1 and the vector space over f2 of the same dimension. So let's suppose after base changing to base changing to like F0, they are isomorphic and we fix this isomorphism phi. Then the question is. Then the question is, does there exist a vector space over F such that when this vector space v space change to the field fi is isomorphic to the vector space vector spaces vi when I is 1 and 2, and also make this whole diagram commute, meaning, like we want this vector space, like we want this vector space induce the same isomorphism phi. So note that here fixing this phi is very important. Otherwise like any vector spaces of the same dimension will be isomorphic and this question will not be interesting at all.
00:26:49.135 - 00:28:09.783, Speaker B: Okay, yeah, Such a such a question is called a patching problem. And we say if a solution like if V exists, because V is a solution to the patching problem, use notation v1, v2, column 5, indicating that we want to fix this file. So then I'll like. So instead of, instead of like giving very technical definitions, I want to use this slightly easier example to give a sense of what kind of fields can satisfy patching. For example, we can take this T to be the ring of power series. And we take Kerdi x as a projective t line. And suppose has the close fiber X, which is just like Kerdi x base change to K.
00:28:09.783 - 00:29:15.605, Speaker B: So the picture of this curve will be thickening at the closed fiber and the function field of Kerdi X this F hat is this like one variable function field of the Lorant series field over K. And this is a example of a semi global field. Then for constructing the overfills we need to do it from the geometry of the closed fiber. So we first pick a point X. And in this case to be simple, we can take the point at the origin and we can define the ring RP hat as the complete local ring at the point P. And in this case this will be Laurent series in two, sorry, this will be power series in two variables. And if you draw the picture of spec of Rp hat, this will be a thickening at the origin.
00:29:15.605 - 00:30:57.701, Speaker B: And for other overviews we can take U to be the I find K line constructed from just like X, taking away the point P. And we define the ring Ru hat as the ti decompletion of this ring, where we take F from the function field and we require F to be regular along U. And in this case this ring will be K joint x inverse double bracket T. So to look at this picture, it's going to be like a pinch down at the origin, we can define the fuse FP as fraction field of RP hat and the FU fraction field of RU hat. So in our case here, this FP would be would just be the Laurent series in two variables. And for fu there's no like more explicit description of this ring and we leave it at this. And for the common overfilled F0 we can, in this case we can kick that.
00:30:57.701 - 00:32:46.445, Speaker B: We can take that to be to be the Laurent series over the Laurent series over K. And we call FPS and FUS this local fields as patches and F0 as branch field. And such a branch field exists when P lies on the closure of U in general, but in our case, since we are like specifically picking this point P and U like is automatically satisfied. Okay, so in Harbitter and Harman's paper 2010 paper, they had shown that patching for vector spaces over this quadruple fuse F FP FU F naught always has a solution. And for like, the strategy of their proof is basically to show that there are two properties can be satisfied. One of them is the intersection property where you have F equals the intersection of FP and FU inside F0. And the second one is called the factorization property.
00:32:46.445 - 00:34:40.045, Speaker B: So it's just saying if you have like a matrix A0 in GL over F0 invertible, you can factorize that into the product of matrix AP over FP and the AU in FU. So you can write a not as product of these two. So once we know these two properties like to prove patching for vector spaces host, it's really just like a few lines to say by like a few arguments using change of basis. But actually like to get to these two like properties, it takes like 30 to 40 pages to prove. And these are called the criterions for patching to hold. And once you prove like patching for vector spaces, you also get patching for more complicated algebraic structures, for example, like central simple algebras, like associative algebras, like etal algebras, for example. And actually like in general you can, you can do this patching business for a for some more complicated curves instead of just a projective P line, like projective t line.
00:34:40.045 - 00:36:15.711, Speaker B: And also you can work with more points. You can take a finite collection of points on the close fiber and for the, for the, for the patch constructing from, I find often often open sets, you can take any of them inside X, excluding these like collection of points we picked. But like, then once you constructed these like over fuse, you actually got an inverse limit of fuse and you can show that patching actually holds over there in the more like complicated case. But in this talk we will be focusing on the four fuse case for simplicity. And yeah, so like to get patching for other objects you basically treat them as like vector spaces with other structures. And in this talk we will be mostly focusing on etal algebras. So yeah, then I have like maybe the last bit of like notation to introduce, but it would be straightforward from the previous semi global case.
00:36:15.711 - 00:37:51.907, Speaker B: So in our hencel semi global case, so we can take T to be the ring of outbreak series, you can take a T curve kerdi X and you can take F to be the function field of this curve. And once you base change this function field to like. Oh yeah, so like this ring of algebra series, you complete that, you get a complete discrete DVR which is a ring of power series. And you can base change this curve to T hat to get a curve we dealt with before. And for the function field of X hat it's basically just base changing F to T hat and then we take the fraction field. So then for the local fields we define FPH as the fraction field of the Hanselization of this point at the point P and you define like fuh as the fraction field of the han solisation of the ring F in the function field and the F regular along U. Geometrically you can think of like tensilization.
00:37:51.907 - 00:39:41.735, Speaker B: So like geometrically like completion is like sort of like thickening but geometrically handsome. You can think of that of like you take the inverse limits of a tall neighborhood of the point P or the open set U and we call like these two fields Hansel patches. And also one remark is that if we complete the Hansel patches respect to the ideal on the ring level like respect to the ideal defining P and U, we can recover the patches. Then this comes my patching result for ET algebras. So patching for etal algebras would hold for this quadruple fields of Hansel semi global fuse and Hansel patches. One remark I want to make is that even though previously in the semi global case and in the complete business, patching is first proven for vector spaces and then got generalized to other algebraic objects. But it's actually like actually like we are not really entire sure whether paching would hold for vector spaces here as their original proof doesn't doesn't really like generalize, which is like very surprising because one would always expect like one would usually expect like if you have a proof work for complete that should work for like henceilian so here we have to, we really have to do something different.
00:39:41.735 - 00:42:01.765, Speaker B: So once we start with a patching problem for etal algebras in the in the like a Hazilian scenario, and we can always lift it up to a patching problem in the complete case. And same for the isomorphism is a base change. And by the result of Harbater and Harman we know that there is a solution L hat over F hat to the patching problem upstairs. And then we want to like apply a like modified form of RT approximation to descend the solution to an ET algebra L over F. So like, let me briefly write down RT approximation. So if you start with a ring that's excellent Pencilian DVR and you have a functor from the category of t algebras to sets that is locally a finite presentation, then the fact that there exists a t hat point of this functor would imply the existence of a t point of the functor. So it's basically saying if you have a formal solution, you can approximate algebraically.
00:42:01.765 - 00:42:28.635, Speaker B: And in our proof, once we like to apply a chain approximation, of course we need to check the properties of the functor being locally a finite presentation. And after we got a got like, we got a like candidate of this L over F, we hand it from RT approximation. We still need one more step to check L over F is indeed a solution.
00:42:34.985 - 00:42:39.085, Speaker A: You meant published that it is not not equal empty set.
00:42:39.825 - 00:43:30.155, Speaker B: Oh yeah, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, this is not not empty. So yeah. So then why do we need a passion for algebras here? Because when we try to, we want to construct local fields over those patches. But usually the properties of when you base change field to a bigger field, it's no longer a field. But we can always treat these local splitting fields as direct summons of etal algebras. And then from there we can use patching to descend to a global splitting field. That's why we want to consider patching for a Tau algebra instead of for other objects.
00:43:30.155 - 00:45:08.465, Speaker B: And then. Yeah, so then one more thing, we also need to know a local global principle for Galva cohomology as a last step of our proof. So like, the idea of like doing local global principle is that we want to know if a certain property is satisfied locally, whether it's also satisfied globally. One example would be like a Hasminkowski theorem. If we have a like quadratic form over Q and we know Q is isotropic over Q if and only if Q is isotropic over the local fuse QP and the real number R and in General, a lot of objects are classified by Galva cohomology. And one can define a local global map from Gala cohomology, like mapping to all the other local fields, the product of all the local views. And here V ranges from all the discrete valuations on on F.
00:45:08.465 - 00:46:40.195, Speaker B: And we say like local global principle pose if the kernel kernel of theta is trivial. And also like if the kernel is non trivial, we just say local global principle fails. And in this case it's also interesting to study the size of the kernel, which we also call that Tate Shaffer Riverwich group. So better local global principle holds or like what's the size of the taste Schaffer river group is unknown in general. And in the case of semi global fields, and also in my case Hensel semi global fields like it suffices to study using patching suffices to study like local global principle with respect to patches instead of over those completions with respect to discrete valuations on F, which is pretty good because we can just work with a finite collection of fields which has a lot of geometry going on for applications. Also usually enough for us to do it over patches or Hansel patches. But in this theorem we want to do that for the hard degree case.
00:46:40.195 - 00:47:54.627, Speaker B: So when I is bigger than one, this result by Harbinger Hartmann question in 2004, sorry, 2014, they show that we have this local global principle. In this case like I'll do like the four field scenario. So like your local fields are just like two local fields. So this map is injective. And in my case this can be generalized to the Hexalian case. So first you have this local maps here. And if you start with a class on the bottom mapping into like zero over the local fields and by these natural maps you have alpha f hat.
00:47:54.627 - 00:48:38.311, Speaker B: And here mapping up you have zero. And by the result of Harbinger Harmon question, we know like local global principle holds. So this is equivalent to the trivial class. And here by arcing approximation we can show the map. We can show the map of phi is injective, which forces alpha to be trivial. And then we also get a local global principle here. So in the H1 case, because basically it classifies torsos which are schemes to prove this theorem is a lot easier.
00:48:38.311 - 00:48:51.493, Speaker B: But in this case there's some slightly extra work to do. Yeah, so then these are all the ingredients. Do I still have a couple of minutes to maybe say a little bit about the proof?
00:48:51.599 - 00:48:54.405, Speaker A: Yeah, for sure. Yeah, maybe two minutes.
00:48:54.905 - 00:49:48.131, Speaker B: Okay, sure. Yeah. So let's first like come back to the theorem. We show this as an iterative bound which depends on the depends on the bound of the residue field and the rational function field over that. The reason we want to compare to these two fields is because for the patches they have like residue fields that are finite separable extensions of the residue field and also the rational the finite extension of the rational function field over the residue field. And we would like to construct splitting fuse once we take alpha Here we want to construct splitting fuse over like FP and FPH and FUH by constructing those over these like rad steel fuse. And there are a lot of specialization results in et al.
00:49:48.131 - 00:50:24.815, Speaker B: Co molecule that allows us to do that. And we can always treat the splitting field as direct summons of etal algebras. So after we constructed this local splitting fields patching for etal algebras just allow us to get a candidate for a global splitting field. And from the local global principle we just proved, we can prove this candidate is indeed a global splitting field. So which gives us what we want. So yeah, here's the end of the proof and also the end of my talk. Thank you so much for your attention.
00:50:27.315 - 00:50:27.675, Speaker A: Thank you.
