00:00:00.320 - 00:00:34.124, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Way refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today's the 13 May 2021. Alright, everyone, let's get into it. So what a crazy last 24 hours, huh? I woke up and I was like, wow, what the hell just happened? Right? We had Vitalik and dog coins and Elon and rug pulls everywhere. So let's, let's go into it, right? Let's, let's break it all down. Let's see what happened here. So I woke up to when I went on Twitter and I saw this tweet from Larry that basically said Vitalik is starting to dump dog tokens.
00:00:34.124 - 00:01:12.474, Speaker A: Now, I got to give a bit of background here for those who don't, who aren't aware of this, but essentially, you know, all those dog coins that have been pumping lately on the back of the dogecoin pump that happened. So essentially, a lot of these projects would send these tokens to Vitalik just for free for marketing purposes, right? Like, because Vitalik's address is tagged on Etherscan, everyone can see it. And it's just an easy kind of way to do marketing, I guess, because the tokens are free to print and all that sort of stuff. But the flip side to this is that these tokens aren't locked or anything. So Vitalik could dump them at any time that he wanted to. And he did. He basically ended up dumping all the dog tokens I think he had in his, in his wallet for ETH.
00:01:12.474 - 00:01:54.788, Speaker A: And then he donated that ETH to charity. So you can see here, Hudson Jameson put together a summary of all the ETH that went to charity here. So he donated over 13,000 to Givewell, which is Coinbase's charity drive here. Over 1000 ETH plus all the Elon tokens, which was another kind of, I guess, dog token to the Methusulah foundation. He donated over 1000 ETH to Miri, an AI safety organization, 500 ETH plus 10% of the shib, another dog token to crypto relief, and 500 ETH to charter Cities Institute. All up, it was about 16,000 ETH, which equals $60 million at current prices. So he basically just gave away $60 million.
00:01:54.788 - 00:02:24.250, Speaker A: Now, when we dig into this and we say, okay, where did this money come from? Well, he sold it into uniswap pools. And obviously he was, quote unquote dumping on people by doing that, right? But you know, that, that's the framing that I saw a few people kind of use on Twitter and they were like, vitalik's dumping on people. He's like, harming people. You know, he's rug pulling them. And I'm like, well, I mean, this is a free market, right? Like, this is not. He didn't start the thing. He didn't, you know, request tokens, they were just sent to him and, and he didn't profit from this.
00:02:24.250 - 00:03:01.206, Speaker A: He sent all the money from, to charity. And you can see it all on chain and it's all provable. So when I see people saying, oh, you know, this is really bad, Vitalik did something really bad here, I'm just like, what do you mean? Like, this is, what do you mean? He decided, but just because the token price crashed after he kind of dumped it, I mean, these, these investors and these people, like, speculating on this stuff, like this, this could have happened anyway. Like, there could have just been bigger kind of whales doing the same thing, the metallic, and there were a lot of people who had a lot of tokens as well. So to that, I just say, like, this is the game. Like, you don't, this is investing. You don't buy something and then, like, you have a guarantee that it's not going to fall and it's not going to dump.
00:03:01.206 - 00:03:34.668, Speaker A: Like, even the, the quote, unquote, you know, defi tokens, the good things, they can fall like 30, 40% in a day as well. There's, there's literally no guarantees here. And if you're buying into a dog coin thinking that it has a future, well, I mean, maybe you have to learn the hard way that it doesn't have a future. They're scams, most of them, or at least, you know, just opportunistic projects being put out there to make money from that. The kind of like, I guess, theme of the week or whatever. So from that perspective, I just really thought it was just so dumb to see people saying that this was a bad thing that Vitalik did. I think it was an amazing thing.
00:03:34.668 - 00:03:56.490, Speaker A: I think essentially what he did was what I was talking about yesterday. He did something that would be classed as chaotic good. So essentially he, he chaotically, you know, um, uh, went out there and basically swung his, uh, swung his arms around and like, I'm going to dump all these dog tokens. I don't care who gets in the way. I'm going to take this ETH and I'm going to give it to charity. That is chaotic good. And I think that what Vitalik's done here is awesome.
00:03:56.490 - 00:04:13.868, Speaker A: Uh, I have no problems with it at all. Uh, so, yeah, kudos to Vitalik for doing this. I mean, we're lucky to have Vitalik, not just in ethereum, but in humanity. He does so much good, good things. He donates so much of his money. He mean, we. Anyone who knows Vitalik knows that he's not someone who really ever cared about the money.
00:04:13.868 - 00:04:57.556, Speaker A: He has over a billion dollars of ETH just sitting in his account. He's not out there buying lambos or fancy houses or anything. I mean, he basically wears, like, meme t shirts everywhere. He doesn't care about money, you know, and he works harder than he ever has. Race always working, always doing stuff in the background of ethereum research and development and things like that. So, yeah, kudos to Vitalik for this. And actually, the last thing on the, on the dog coin thing here is that when Vitalik was doing this, all the groups that had, I guess, like the Shiba Inu group, which is the most popular dog coin on Telegram, was asking, you know, who is Vitalik? Because a lot of these people don't know who Vitalik is, because a lot of these people, as I mentioned, you know, a couple of refuels ago, they're playing in the casino coin market.
00:04:57.556 - 00:05:36.568, Speaker A: They're not investing in crypto for the fundamentals. They're just here to make a quick buck. So why would they know who Vitalik is? And I actually think this is super important because it means that aetherium has users that have that, that don't know. These users don't know who created aetherium, which just speaks to a theorems like decentralization and all this sort of good stuff. And, and really, really, I guess, like, was one of the most positive things to come out of this, I think, for Ethereum in general, is that we have users who are getting value out of the platform. Yes, they're just speculating on dog coins and whatever, and you can debate whether that's valuable or not, but they, for themselves, they think it's valuable. So they're getting value out of this platform without knowing who the creator was.
00:05:36.568 - 00:05:53.656, Speaker A: And this was kind of a constant thing that people would fight Ethereum about where they'd be. Like, it's all centered around Vitalik. Vitalik can do whatever he wants. You know, everyone knows Vitalik created it, and that's not true. There's a. I mean, I've met people before who had no idea who Vitalik was, and they just thought that Ethereum was cool and, and looked into it. They didn't care who created it.
00:05:53.656 - 00:06:22.910, Speaker A: All they care about is that they can use it and do stuff with it, and that's how it should be. So that's really cool. On the contrary, I would love to know if bitcoin was used by people who don't know who Satoshi is or, sorry, not. No one knows who Satoshi is, but, like, they don't know that Satoshi created it, because the allure of bitcoin really is that that origin story that no one knows Satoshi is. So that is part of the reason why people buy it. Whereas with Ethereum, there's a lot more things you can do on it than just like, I guess, follow the narratives and stories. So, you know, there's.
00:06:22.910 - 00:06:59.446, Speaker A: There's obviously going to be a lot of people that come into this ecosystem that don't know who Vitalik is. So I thought that was really cool. So the second rug pool of the day, I guess, if you want to call what Vitalik did a rug pull, was Elon Musk putting out a statement about Tesla and bitcoin here? And I'll read out the whole statement just for listeners. So he basically said, tesla has suspended vehicle purchases using bitcoin. We are concerned about rapidly increasing use of fossil fuels for bitcoin mining and transactions, especially coal, which has the worst emissions of any fuel. Cryptocurrency is a good idea on many levels, but we believe it has a promise and we believe it has a promising future. But this cannot come at a great cost to the environment.
00:06:59.446 - 00:07:37.722, Speaker A: Tesla will not be selling any bitcoin, and we intend to use it for transactions as soon as mining transitions to more sustainable energy. Also looking at other cryptocurrencies that use less than 1% of bitcoin's energy per transaction. Now, this obviously opened up a massive, massive can of worms. It got the bitcoiners all triggered, it got the Ethereum celebrating because they're like, wow, finally Elon is clueing into the massive energy use of bitcoin. And, you know, Ethereum is moving to proof of stake soon and all that good stuff. I'm of the opinion, just generally, as an aside here, that Ethereum shouldn't be celebrating or shouldn't be like, pumping up Ethereum's move to proof of stake until it's actually done. Because right now we have no kind of like, leg to stand on.
00:07:37.722 - 00:08:11.500, Speaker A: We'd be hypocrites, because Ethereum is using a shit ton of energy as well. So from that perspective, I don't think we should be cheering just as an aside, but focusing back on the main point here, I think this is not the whole truth. I think. I mean, Eric Connor put out a good tweet about this. I think Tesla stopped accepting bitcoin for purchases because no one was buying Teslas with BTC. And this is always the same thing with all of these kind of places that accept BTC as a currency to purchase something. Why would anyone use their bitcoin, right? People don't buy bitcoin to use it as money, or at least most people don't.
00:08:11.500 - 00:08:25.676, Speaker A: And I'm talking like, 99.99% of bitcoin investors and users do not buy bitcoin to use it as money. There is no point. It is inefficient. It doesn't. It's not a good money because it's not volatile. It goes up and, you know, obviously, as I said, it's volatile.
00:08:25.676 - 00:08:49.836, Speaker A: So it goes up and down a lot. And in general, you want to hold it because you're expecting it to appreciate. That's the main reason you buy bitcoin. Now, people will say, okay, people are buying bitcoin to escape currency controls and escape inflation and all this good stuff, and that's fine at the end of the day, but they can buy other things for that. They can buy stable coins on Ethereum for that. They can buy stable coins and exchanges for that. Us dollar stable coins if they want to, you know, and buy dai and stuff like that.
00:08:49.836 - 00:09:19.494, Speaker A: Right. Decentralized, stable coins. So from that perspective, I think that's the real reason here. And, I mean, I don't think Elon went into this not knowing how much energy bitcoin mining consumes. I would be very surprised if he didn't know about this. I think what ended up happening was that they bought, I mean, Tesla bought BTC. And then, because, you know, Tesla's a bigger organization, I think some, maybe some executives in the company are now questioning this and being like, well, bitcoin actually uses, like, so much energy.
00:09:19.494 - 00:09:50.988, Speaker A: And we have all these people coming at us, coming at Tesla and questioning us for doing this. Is this really a good strategic decision for our company? Now, I personally was surprised when, when, you know, Tesla invested in BTC. I don't have a very strong opinion on the proof of work versus proof of stake argument or if proof of work is a waste of energy or whatever. So I'm not going to debate about that. But I do think it doesn't matter what I think. What matters is what the majority thinks, and the majority hates proof of work. We saw that play out with the NFT mania.
00:09:50.988 - 00:10:16.854, Speaker A: They absolutely hate it. It doesn't matter if you believe that proof of work comes from renewable energies and it encourages renewable energies. None of that shit matters. What matters is what everyone believes to be true. And unfortunately, that is the reality of the society that we live in. Because facts, you know, facts are facts, but the narratives are more powerful than the facts a lot of the time. So I always thought that bitcoin is fighting back against this energy FUD, as I like to call it, was a losing battle.
00:10:16.854 - 00:10:48.304, Speaker A: Because even if they're right, it doesn't matter. What matters is the narrative. And I'm very, very, very happy that ethereum is moving off proof of work. But until we do that, we don't have cause to say, celebrate here. The merge is obviously coming, and I've spoken about it a lot, but we cannot be celebrating and resting on our laurels and thinking we're better than bitcoin because we don't use as much energy, because we do. And I think we actually, at this point, would be using, you know, a high percentage of bitcoins energy, or at least, maybe even more one day. Because, as I showed yesterday, a theory of mining is now profitable, more profitable than bitcoin mining.
00:10:48.304 - 00:11:14.500, Speaker A: So, you know, we might see that play out there. But anyway, I'll leave it at that. As I said, I don't have a strong opinion either way here on the energy use debate, but I think it is something that's going to be more and more. It's going to be a talking, more of a talking point over the coming months. And on that note, I guess I'll finish off by. There was a tweet from zero hedge today quoting JP Morgan on why they think a theorem over bitcoin. So they basically said a theorem 2.0
00:11:14.500 - 00:11:53.000, Speaker A: shifts from an energy intensive proof of work validation mechanism to a much less intensive proof of stake validation mechanism. As a result, less computational power and energy consumption are needed to maintain the ethereum network. Now, what I find funny about this is what I was just saying. Whether you believe bitcoin, you know, is energy efficient or encourages energy efficiency or whatever encourages renewable energies, it doesn't matter what. What matters is what everyone else believes. Now, if everyone else sees proof of stake and they're like, to themselves, oh, wow, proof of stake actually doesn't use any, any. Sorry, it uses some energy, but it doesn't use, like, anywhere near the same amount of energy that bitcoin uses.
00:11:53.000 - 00:12:52.956, Speaker A: Why aren't we just using this? And I think that's what's going to win. I do not think that bitcoin is going to win. Their arguments against, against all the, all the kind of like detractors here, I think they're going to lose. I think they are losing. And I think the only winning move is to transition to proof of stake. Because in that world there is no, like, there's no narrative that the detractors can form and say, well, you know, it's using all this energy, because you can say, well, it's not. And you can just refute that very easily because refuting the proof of work, high energy cost arguments is a lot harder than simply saying, well, ethereum doesn't use proof of work, right? Because you have to go through the motions of going through, you know, okay, how much of bitcoin's energy use is proof? Is renewable? Um, where, where is it located? Okay, can we quantify it? Can we quantify how, um, how much renewable energy is, uh, is, uh, research is being done because of bitcoin, uh, mining, all this sort of stuff? It's a lot harder than just saying, well, if you doesn't use proof of work.
00:12:52.956 - 00:13:54.780, Speaker A: But anyway, just another data point there something to keep an eye on. I'm going to move on from that for now. So Connext network, the interoperability protocol for L2s and different blockchains here, is now doing $25 million in weekly volume, which is up 35 x in the last five weeks. So this growth is awesome to see, obviously, because cross chain, cross l two, cross, everything is growing. I think, as I've said in the past, things like connects and hot protocol, these bridges between different chains and different L2s are going to be the real winners of a multi chain future here. And I, you know, I think it's still up in the air about how a multi chain future actually, you know, comes to fruition. Is it going to be like hundreds and thousands of blockchains all talking to each other? Or is it just going to be a handful of them all talking to each other? I do think it's going to be a power law distribution where even if you have hundreds of blockchains, blockchains talking to each other, most of them will be very low value and it'll be like 90% will be like a handful, maybe five blockchains talking to each other and then maybe, you know, a bunch of l two s around that and things like that.
00:13:54.780 - 00:14:16.736, Speaker A: And then you'll have like hundreds of smaller ones that are all vying for that top dog position that's just how I see it playing out. But yeah, great to see this growth from connects network here. I'm loving, I'm loving the growth here. So the ETH global scale scaling Ethereum hackathon, a finalist were announced. So there's twelve finalists here. I'm not going to go through all of them. There's a lot of good projects.
00:14:16.736 - 00:14:57.552, Speaker A: I was actually one of the judges for a bunch of projects here. So definitely go check out each and every one of these. But I think just judging on the retweets and likes here, the most popular ones were zenith, which is a tool that uses flashbots to enable arbitrary meta transactions. So externally owned accounts or normal Ethereum wallets can enter l two s without ETH. That's really important, right? Onboarding into l two s is going to be a very hot topic going forward. So any solutions that can, I guess like make this easier for people is, is really good in my book. I think there was another one down here that I saw before ETH sorbet, which is again another smooth transition to l two protocol, which I'm not sure how they're doing it.
00:14:57.552 - 00:15:22.676, Speaker A: I haven't looked at the project yet, but I just, I was just going through this thread before, so definitely check that out there. Another one, I think this was the most popular one, is called ray tracing. And what Ray tracing allows for is it allows tracing Mev hiding between the glass shards of the ETH one to e two devnets and testnets. That's pretty cool as well. So I mean, Mev in general is really cool. So definitely go check out the whole finalist list here. There's links to all of the projects you can play around with them.
00:15:22.676 - 00:15:59.814, Speaker A: There's live demos for some, for most of them, I think, and all that sort of good stuff there. So yeah, definitely go check it out. So maple finance announced on Twitter yesterday that their upcoming main net launch of the Matt Maple protocol is, has been published. And the details of the liquidity mining program have also been published here. So they're going to be deploying to mainnet on May 14, which is tomorrow, which is really, really cool here. And, and they'll be doing a liquidity mining program as well. So if you are interested in doing or taking part of this on May 21, which is the liquidity mining program start date, then definitely go check this out.
00:15:59.814 - 00:16:28.610, Speaker A: You can get, see there's a bunch of key dates here as well. So yeah, really exciting kind of developments here from Maple protocol. Gnosis announced yesterday that the gnosis safe is now supporting multiple networks. They're going to be supporting, well, they are supporting polygon, arbitrum and binance smart chain here. So I guess really cool to see them supporting more than just ethereum. Gnosis safe is becoming, or has become the staple multisig wallet for Ethereum. It lets you do so much.
00:16:28.610 - 00:17:02.094, Speaker A: I mean I use it, I'm part of a bunch of different multi sigs and I use it frequently and it's just really smooth. It works really well. It's, it's, you know, it's still a little bit technical on the technical side of things, but you know, for someone like me who's a power user, I can get through that. But they will definitely, I guess, improve that over time, which they have been. And the one thing I do really like about the gnosis safe is that they have these apps ecosystem where there's always different apps and like defi apps, for example, that you can use directly in the gnosis safe. So you don't have to do like wallet Connect or anything like that. You can just use it directly from the safe, which is really, really cool here.
00:17:02.094 - 00:17:36.980, Speaker A: So yeah, I guess kudos to gnosis for rolling this out. And on that note, Polygon had a really big day yesterday. Obviously they had the no. S a f announcement, but they also had infuria and Truffle announced that they're going to be supporting the Polygon network here, which is just really awesome. And as a lot of you guys know, I am an advisor to Polygon, so I'm very happy whenever this stuff, this stuff happens. And more support comes from the Ethereum ecosystem projects here. So that's three killer projects that are now supporting Polygon, which is going to make developers lives easier, it's going to make users lives easier, and it's going to make the whole system more robust here.
00:17:36.980 - 00:17:56.620, Speaker A: So really awesome to see that. And a final note here. Slingshot, a project that I'm actually a seed investor in. Just a disclosure there, but they are live on polygon in open beta. So Slingshot is a decentralized exchange aggregator. So essentially can go on there. And I think they're one of the, they're going to be quickly one of the biggest decentralized exchanges on polygon.
00:17:56.620 - 00:18:21.068, Speaker A: I know that curbs on there m stables on there, sushi swap and quick swap. So slingshot just acts as to aggregate all of these sorts of things and give you kind of like the best prices on polygon here. So really, really cool to see that. Arbitrum had a major announcement today. So their main net is opening to developers on May 28. Yeah. So essentially arbitrum, for those who don't know, is an optimistic roll up solution.
00:18:21.068 - 00:19:20.698, Speaker A: They have beaten, I guess, optimism to the punch here and getting to public mainnet so developers can start building on and deploying their apps to Arbitrum on May 28. And I'm assuming that shortly after this release, and once there's, there's a bunch of apps on here, the albatrum will be opened up to the public and people will be able to use it and use these apps on L2. And as I announced the other day, OKX, a very popular centralized exchange out of China, announced that they're doing l one to l two transfers with Albatrum. So essentially you can go, sorry, not l one to l two, direct centralized exchange, direct OKx transfers to arbitrum, which is amazing. Like, you can, basically what you can do is you can go from, you know, any centralized exchange to OKX, and then you can go from OKX to Arbitrum, and there's your onboarding there. And I'm sure a lot of the other centralized exchanges are going to follow suit here and basically add support. But really good to see that Arbitrum is coming out, you know, with their devnet here.
00:19:20.698 - 00:19:53.464, Speaker A: And then I'm assuming that the users will be able to use the arbitram mainnet after developers actually get apps on there. So really cool to see that. And they have teased that they have a bunch of announcements coming out over the coming weeks about which projects are going to be building, have already been confirmed to be building on Arbitrum. So that's going to be exciting. I think. If I had to guess, I would say that Arbitrum has some of the major projects planning to deploy there and major Defi projects especially. So definitely keep an eye out on that one.
00:19:53.464 - 00:20:30.496, Speaker A: So Frank Chaparral from the block put out a tweet yesterday where he said, I just spoke to a large investor, 1 billion plus, who said that the retail market is underestimating the amount of institutional capital sitting on the sidelines for ether by one to two orders of magnitude. I tend to believe him. Now, this is bullish. But at the same time, it makes me question, like, why are they sitting on the sidelines? Are they waiting for a dip? I mean, we just had a dip, right to $3,500 overnight, and I don't know what the ETH price is right now. If I check my chart, I think it's like 3800. Um, so were they waiting for that or they're waiting for a further dip or they're waiting for approval. Because I know institutions have to work within a framework to purchase things.
00:20:30.496 - 00:21:00.848, Speaker A: I don't know. But this just speaks to what I've been saying, I guess, over the last couple weeks is that institutions are buying ETH, and they're all going to make announcements in the coming months, whether that's part of their earnings reports or just like, naked press releases and stuff like that. It's happening. There is no way ETH has been able to move up this fast on pure spot bid because most of it is spot buying. It is not leveraged or kind of like margin buying here because funding rates have been. Have been really low. But essentially you need billions and billions of dollars to move the ETH price up like that.
00:21:00.848 - 00:21:28.050, Speaker A: And that's exactly what's been happening. And institutions are taking this ETH off exchanges as well and going into custody or cold storage and stuff like that. So all of that is just obviously incredibly bullish. But I'm curious to know why they're sitting on the sidelines here. And Frank followed up by saying that he'll be. There's an episode that drops tomorrow, which is today, if you're listening to the refuel on the Scoop podcast here. So definitely think there's going to be a bunch of more information there.
00:21:28.050 - 00:22:06.876, Speaker A: And maybe Frank's just, you know, just hyping up his podcast that he had here, which is pretty smart. I think it's pretty smart, but Frank's usually, usually a really great source of information, so I don't think he's lying, definitely. I mean, I'm going to be listening to that episode to see what other Alpha nuggets fall out of it here. So Ryan Watkins from Massari put out a great tweet and something that I've been thinking about lately, but I've actually avoided tweeting too much about the flippening because I feel like I'm going to make the flippening not happen by tweeting about it. So I'm just going to avoid it. And then if it does happen and I tweet about it, what's going to happen is it'll be just like the death of ETH party that was hosted on clubhouse, and it'll just, like, completely reverse. Right.
00:22:06.876 - 00:22:46.752, Speaker A: But anyway, what Ryan Watkins put out today was a tweet that said, not sure there's ever been a stronger setup for ETH Fleet flipping BTC in the coming months. We have EIP 1559, proof of stake, and the ETH two merger Defi and NFTs institutions announcing ETH positions and the ESG tailwinds or the low energy use tailwinds. Meanwhile, there's an unclear catalyst path for BTC. I agree. I wholeheartedly agree. I was talking about this on the refill, I think a couple of days ago where I said that we have major catalysts coming for ETH in 1559 and the merger, but. But we also have Defi and L2 stuff happening, and he didn't even mention L2 stuff, but we also have that happening at the same time.
00:22:46.752 - 00:23:04.784, Speaker A: And we also have Insty's buying ETH. We have the ESG tailwinds. So. And I actually think BTC has one more major catalyst coming up, and that's the ETF. I think that's. That can be huge. And I think if an ETF gets approved in Q three or Q four of this year, ETH would definitely bleed against bitcoin for a little while there.
00:23:04.784 - 00:23:54.724, Speaker A: But for me, the flippening has always been an inevitability. These days. I think it's even more inevitable than it was in the past just because of all these reasons that Ryan is outlined here. But in saying that, you know, there's always those euphoric periods, it is going to be very hard just based on, I guess, like the charts and trader and traders and kind of like the sentiment around this for east to permanently flip bitcoin the first time. I can see like a mania led, temporary flipping happening and then, like, you know, bitcoin taking the number one spot again. But I think once it happens, the, you know, I think that kind of like, breaks a lot of narratives, and I've spoken about this a lot in the past, so I won't repeat myself here, but yeah, something to keep an eye on, that's for sure. So Igor from the block covered the X token exploit that happened yesterday, where almost $25 million was stolen.
00:23:54.724 - 00:24:17.688, Speaker A: Igor is one of my favorite followers on Twitter, actually, because he is very smart and very quick at breaking down what happens with these hacks. So essentially, I think from hack to this thread was maybe one to 2 hours. So it was very, very quick here. But unfortunately, this is just another defi exploit. And this exploit was actually very. I wouldn't say it was very complex, but you had to be very smart to. To kind of see this.
00:24:17.688 - 00:25:28.114, Speaker A: And, you know, this sort of stuff's going to happen all the time because what these hackers can do is that they can essentially, basically simulate this using something like, I guess, you know, a simulation platform like what block native has or basically do simulations on their own kind of computer and just see, okay, would this transaction work or would these transactions work if I did them on main net? And how much money would I come out with? And that's exactly what's happening at all times here. And what they came out with was almost $25 million of user funds, which is really, really sad to see here. But I think, you know, as more of these kind of hacks and exploits happen, we learn from them, we get better. But, but the thing is, is that because there's so much more activity now and there's so many more apps, you know, launching and things like that, the, the hacks are probably going to be more frequent than they were in the past. But I think if you look at the reputable defi projects, or at least the big ones, the ones that have been around for a while, a lot of them have never been hacked or, you know, a very, I guess, like hack and exploit resistant, because they've been through like, you know, lots of different audits. Like Aaver V two, for example, had five different audits. They've been through formal verification like Maker, and they've just got like a Lindy effect that they've been around for a while.
00:25:28.114 - 00:26:21.192, Speaker A: So, you know, I mean, it doesn't mean they won't be hacked or can't be hacked, but the fact that they've been around for a while, like especially maker, and you know, it's, it's been kind of like, you know, chugging along just fine, means that it's less risky than some of these newer protocols. And X Token isn't like a new, new protocol, but it is relatively new. So. Yeah, but I hope none of you listening or watching lost money in this, and if you did, I hope it wasn't too much there. I'm curious to see, you know, if X token, if the X token team compensates users here, I think they will not sure how that, how they'll do it, but, you know, I'm sure they will find a way to try and compensate users for this hack. Finally, we had a major, major alpha leak from Stani last night on Twitter where someone put out a tweet that was actually deleted. Now I see here, but the tweet basically had a picture of Aave saying that their account had been flagged as part of some AML or KYC thing, but that was actually an error.
00:26:21.192 - 00:27:06.650, Speaker A: So what actually happened is that there's a private pool on rv institutions that are still practicing with defy before aping into, you know, the open DeFi protocols. So as you can imagine, why this is a major alpha leak is because it means institutions are actually now playing with DeFi and it confirms it. And, you know, people have been speculating on this for a while, and so have I. I've said, you know, once you're into ETH, you're into defi. It's just like the default thing that happens, but this is just a huge alpha leak. But on top of that, I think a lot of people were debating whether this is a good thing or not. Are we inviting regulation into Defi? And I don't think we are, because as long as the smart contracts remain decentralized and open to everyone and KYC and AML less on Ethereum, then it's fine.
00:27:06.650 - 00:27:38.184, Speaker A: And some people are saying, well, it's a slippery slope, because eventually the more of this we invite in, the more of it we're comfortable with, and then eventually it just becomes like the traditional banking system and it's all regulated. I don't think that's possible on Ethereum. Ethereum is a credibly neutral, neutral platform. If someone builds something that has, you know, regulations all over the place, then users can choose not to use it and use something else. That's why we have multiple protocols. That's why we have multiple protocols doing the same thing. We have Aave, we have compound, we have cream, we have other money markets, we have Rari capital with fuse and things like that.
00:27:38.184 - 00:27:59.538, Speaker A: We have different amms, uniswap, sushiswap. Right? We have Amm aggregators, we have all this sort of stuff. So by decentralizing out the different apps and not monopolizing it and, you know, relying on just one app, we can resist this a lot. And I don't think it becomes a big problem because of that. So I don't. I just really don't buy that argument from people. But that's a, you know, that's a whole, probably a whole episode in of itself.
00:27:59.538 - 00:28:41.094, Speaker A: I won't spend too much talking about that, but I did want to talk about, you know, the fact that institutions are coming into DeFi and what this means for, I guess, different DeFi apps now. I don't think institutions are going to be touching any of the newer apps. What, both because of the hack risks and because of the, the fact that they're much smaller. I do think institutions are going to be touching rv and compound and maker and uniswap and all, you know, all the top apps, the ones that have been around for a while, as I just explained, the ones that have Lindy. It just makes sense from that perspective. But at the same time, I'm sure that they're going to be smart about it. They're probably not going to announce if they purchase any Defi tokens until a later date.
00:28:41.094 - 00:29:24.790, Speaker A: They're definitely going to be loading up on it because there's no way they come into DeFi and they see the PE ratios on these things and think to themselves, I'm not going to buy that. That's overvalued because it's not. A lot of DeFi is actually undervalued because it's generating so much cash flow that's actually flow. A lot of it's flowing to token holders like MKR and Aave and Sushi and stuff like that. That I think this is something that could kick off a DeFi season two. And I've spoken about, you know, DeFi season round two before and I've been saying that I thought that the high gas fees would actually mean that I think a lot of people can't participate so we can't get new investors in. But if those investors are institutions, then it doesn't matter because institutions will buy a lot of these DeFi tokens and then people will buy them on centralized exchanges and stuff like that.
00:29:24.790 - 00:29:45.678, Speaker A: So that's just the speculative side of things. I still have my core DeFi positions that I've held for a while, but we'll see, we'll see how that kind of shakes out there. The market's a bit shaky right now. I think it's just short term noise, so I'm not too focused on that. But yeah, I think this could be a big tailwind for Defi in general. Alright, that's it for today's episode, everyone. Thank you again for listening and watching.
00:29:45.678 - 00:29:53.014, Speaker A: Be sure to subscribe to the YouTube channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
