00:00:16.360 - 00:00:44.654, Speaker A: Welcome to Unlayered, the podcast where we explore next generation blockchains. I'm your host, Saul, alongside my co host Dave. And today we're joined by Vixit, who is the founder of Dispatch Protocol, and they are best known for building solar Plex, which can be found at Solar Plex XYZ. Prior to solar Plex, Vixit has spent his time in various product and engineering roles in the valley at companies like Dropbox and Oracle. Vixit, we're super excited to have you. How's it going today?
00:00:44.954 - 00:00:53.460, Speaker B: I'm glad to be here and thanks for having me. Like I mentioned earlier, San Francisco summers gold and so I'm kind of enjoying that, actually.
00:00:53.642 - 00:01:22.364, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah, a nice change up there. I mean, on our end, it's been a bit of a warm week here in New York City as we're transitioning over to fall. So that's my personal favorite season. I think a lot of people have that same sentiment. One thing that I think is worth mentioning is we're both entrepreneurs in like, the intersection of crypto and social. I'm still building in stealth, but hoping to start kick off the alpha in a couple weeks. So I think probably thought deeply about a lot of the themes that you've perhaps thought deeply about.
00:01:22.364 - 00:01:33.964, Speaker A: To kick things off, though, why don't we actually start with just a bit on your background and how you found yourself building dispatch and eventually building solar plex on Solana.
00:01:34.864 - 00:02:56.068, Speaker B: Yeah, there's a few things that led to this, actually. My background is in AI for the most part, and so I've spent a lot of time in AI, and I'm likely one of the few people that have been moving away from the AI world as people have moved away into it. I spent a lot of time building language model powered chatbots and things in the last few years, and I went a Dropbox after that, but I headed up AI there. The challenge that I was looking at was, well, what am I doing during the pandemic that is not sitting at home in meetings and doing regular work? And so I started to go back into looking at crypto, of which ive been a longtime follower, but not really doing much in it from a building perspective. As I sort of went deeper into it, I sort of started with Ethereum, and then I was exposed to Solana because of actually a bunch of things. A friend of mine was building on Solana, and he knew this, a lot of folks from other places, and so we kind of got connected, and that was a really productive few weeks because it really showcased what blockchains are capable of. When you go outside the Ethereum model, then you suddenly realize that Solana is this really interesting builders model to have for you.
00:02:56.068 - 00:03:57.646, Speaker B: And so we hacked on a bunch of stuff on the side, and one of the things I've done before, sort of chatbots, was work at a company called Bloomreach, where we essentially helped companies bloom their reach, if you will. It's always been about engagement and retention, and sort of how you can have brands and things go towards that. How do you increase retention and engagement of your brand? So we built a lot of tools using machine learning there. Famously, I think we powered pretty much every e commerce website. That wasn't Amazon, who wanted Amazon style personalization and things like that. Translating these two things together, one of the obvious things was, well, there's a lot of wallets, but there's no way to reach them. And so in order to actually, if you wanted to create something like bloomreach on the crypto side, where you've got a bunch of these users, they've got a bunch of wallets, they're making all these transactions, but there's no way for any of them to reach them.
00:03:57.646 - 00:05:21.350, Speaker B: How do you make this happen? And so dispatch was born out of that idea where we built out a protocol, the dispatch protocol, which is a messaging protocol, and essentially said, here's an easy way for you to contact wallets one by one, or on mass, if the case may be. And as we started to build, we realized the industry was super early for something like that, because having an infrastructure and protocol to do it is one thing, but really the user of that protocol didn't really exist, because no one was really targeting users in the way that web two channels have now gotten used to and are pretty sophisticated at. But as we were running experiments with users, we found that the need for engagement and retention existed. But the way to do it was not actually sending messages to your wallet, it was to do it much more publicly, which is, can I have messages on a forum, for instance? And so we actually took the same protocol, but instead of making it like an inbox, we converted it into a forum. And that's what dispatch forums was born. And so mid last year to late last year, we were doing a bunch of experiments with the likes of Solana spaces in the DJ Nape Academy, and we ran a very successful campaign for DJ Nape Academy, where they used dispatch forums to give away gold stars. And that really showed us, all right, this is a real need.
00:05:21.350 - 00:06:13.494, Speaker B: People are unable to engage with each other using sort of blockchain specific identities. And once we started there, I think we evolved from we're building a protocol to we're building a protocol that powers a product to building a product led protocol. And I think that's where we are now, where we took a lot of the user feedback. We looked at the trends of what was happening in the social media space, especially around the Reddit blocks, and the Twitter API shut down all this stuff. And we really realized that at the end of the day, what communities need is, in fact, engagement and retention, and the ability to do so in a social way is very important. But the channels that exist don't really do much for that. And so that's kind of our main focus, and that's how solar Plex has really evolved over the last six months.
00:06:14.314 - 00:06:37.554, Speaker A: So tell us a bit about the transition from dispatch forums to this current product offering that is solar plex. Keeping in mind that my understanding of solar Plex, based on just keeping in tabs with the community and seeing some teaser videos, it kind of evokes similarities to Twitter, or I guess, now it's x. What's the product decision on that side?
00:06:38.494 - 00:07:33.854, Speaker B: It's a great question. We've also iterated through our own hypotheses in terms of figuring out what to build and what worked. So, like I mentioned dispatch protocol, which did forums, or before we call it solar place, it was called dispatch forums, and that was a protocol that anybody could use to build their own forums, which is great, except that this happened right at breakpoint, where suddenly the appetite to build stuff disappeared for a lot of reasons. And we realized that actually, while the need was there, the go to market strategy we had of having people pick up our SDKs building on top of that didn't really work, because even it was like there was a lot of effort involved in that. The friction was too high. And so our realization was, well, why don't we build a landing site, if you will? Right? And we call that solar plex, which is for a couple of things. Solar plexus is the nerve center of your body, right? Which is when you've hit boxing, for instance.
00:07:33.854 - 00:07:56.724, Speaker B: Right. And also solar, as in Solana. And solar Plex was the nerve center of Solana. And so we basically took that and we came up with the concept of Plexus Flex, like a subreddit, but a decentralized subreddit, if you will. Right. And the Solar Plex evokes the first Flex, which is the Plex for Solana or the Solana community. But as an open protocol, anybody could build their own plex.
00:07:56.724 - 00:08:54.640, Speaker B: You could have an ether Plex, you could have an AI Plex, yada yada. And so that's what we built out as the immediate successor to Dispatch forums, which is a Reddit esque mechanism, a Reddit esque UI that allowed you to come on and see a bunch of subreddits or plexus, see a bunch of content happening. And it looked very similar to the Reddit UI that we launched right before Grizzly Thon, right around the time the sandstorm hackathon was happening, or had ended, actually. And the Grizzly Thon really propelled us into a great community because we found a lot of people posting products, a lot of people posting insights and things around those products and giving feedback. We were starting to do Ama's and things. At this point, the protocol was sufficiently decentralized and not fully decentralized. And by that I just simply mean that dispatch forums there was no middleware.
00:08:54.640 - 00:09:22.750, Speaker B: It was a web app. And the blockchain direct. Right. And obviously there's good things and bad things there. The part, of course, of it being more expensive to directly write to the blockchain for every single post. So how did you, how do we, one of the first product decisions was, well, let's make it cheaper, let's make it faster, let's make it easier to scale, let's make it searchable. And when you start adding that stuff on, you kind of have to go from fully decentralized to sufficiently decentralized.
00:09:22.750 - 00:09:56.486, Speaker B: And that's kind of where we are. And from a higher level product decision, we found that while the Reddit model is great from a starting point, everyone's used to crypto Twitter, and they're all looking for a UX that they're used to. Compared to Reddit, which has a very fundamentally different model, the biggest thing for us was mobile. Posting using a wallet on mobile is so hard because no one really has any kind of wallet integrations. You haven't got a phantom. It's a very high friction process. And what we also realized was that getting that 1st $0.01
00:09:56.486 - 00:11:09.604, Speaker B: into your wallet is tricky. If you're not a crypto user already getting that $0.01, how do you even do it? We had some fundamental learnings from launching solar Plex V one, especially from a mobile perspective. One of the most interesting things for us was people found it really hard to figure out what to post on solar Plex v one because you had to figure out the right subreddit. You had to figure out a thing to make you sound interesting or smart. And we found that the behavior there was like, not only was there a mobile friction and the wallet friction, there was, what do I post friction? And so taking all of this stuff, we sort of combined what has worked for crypto, Twitter, and the model that we want, which is a combination of subreddits and feeds, which today looks a lot more like Twitter in that it's feed first. But we have the concept of communities, which is the subreddit model, and that's one of the biggest differentiators from X, for instance, where these communities could allow you to do segment the feed in various ways, segment user basis in various ways, segment content in various ways that also look like this today, which is a feed first way for communities to engage.
00:11:10.064 - 00:11:33.724, Speaker C: I think it's interesting that you mentioned the advantages that it has over X. And I'd just like to double click on why you think social media needs to be decentralized. And then crucially out of those things, what's actually going to bring people over from something like X? Because you can say things like decentralization to a normie, they're just not going to care. So, yeah, I'd just like to get your take on that.
00:11:34.224 - 00:12:30.112, Speaker B: The short answer is, and this may be a controversial thing, but decentralization almost doesn't matter to anybody. From a regular usage perspective, no one's going to shift their preferred tool because you are now decentralized. I mean, there are some ideals involved in there and some people might have strongly followed their ideals, but that's a very small percentage of people. For us, it was a very clear question, which is whose lives are we improving and how much are we improving it by, by doing what we're doing. And if you look at, if you look at this sort of a few trends that have played in this, right, I wouldn't consider decentralized social media as the need. I would say, what is the need of people on current social media? And can decentralization solve that? And if that answer is yes, then it makes sense for us. And if we go deeper into what is the need of people who are currently on social channels, we'll start with the social, aka Reddit style channels for a second, because that's about communities.
00:12:30.112 - 00:13:37.850, Speaker B: And we are focused exclusively on communities and people within them, more so than the individual atomic unit, which is there biggest thing on Twitter. Right. And for a community, what we found was being able to feel ownership of your followers, your engagement, your data, the ability to monetize was just not there. If you look at what happened, Reddit, barely 60 days ago, 96,000 subreddits went dark in protests of Reddit's monetization scheme, where they locked down third party applications, they closed off their APIs, they kicked moderators out of the subreddits that they had created because some of them had it logged in in 60 days or whatever. And famously, the Reddit CEO had a karma of -200,000 on his EMA. So just proves to you that are people happy with what's happening in communities? No. At a similar time, discord introduced monetization, or certain kinds of monetization, which also had similar protests, because now discord is able to take away that 30% tax, if you will, from people.
00:13:37.850 - 00:14:49.454, Speaker B: Right? And Reddit doesn't even allow you to monetize in a way that makes sense for the community. And Twitter locked down their API around June, July, which allowed nobody to. So all of these things that all three big social media channels suddenly had the same thing, which is, how do we monetize in the face of attack from the LLM world? All of this to say, the primary requirement for a lot of communities was give me autonomy over my data, followers and monetization. That is where I think decentralization comes in, because decentralization aids you in giving you autonomy on data, your monetization mechanisms, your followers, and being able to have that as a building block gives the communities sort of checked one that said, all right, I can move here and I would be able to get these things, but that's not enough. Which brings me to point number two, which is one of the biggest things communities want. On a scale of one to ten, we've spoken to more than 200 people on this now, and the most important thing that they have on their list of needs is the ability to recognize their most engaged users and reward them. Right.
00:14:49.454 - 00:15:46.804, Speaker B: Impossible to do today on Twitter Reddit, or in some ways, you get on discord, but not much. I mean, these are all badges and things you get which are relegated to the silo of each of these companies. Really, our question was, well, you want to recognize your most engaged users, but these people don't give you the option to, well, why don't we start there, make it really easy for you to recognize your users, reward them, and do it in a way where these rewards are individually owned and not within the confines of my silo. And that, again, is where decentralization helps, because these rewards are now owned by you in your wallet, and it gives you the ownership of whatever you want to do with it. And it's a public, permissionless system that allows you to access that. So our two big things were autonomy and sort of delight in some way, and recognition for users, which we've been hypothesizing and saying, here's what we should build in our product out. And that's kind of some of the product decisions we've taken have been to solve for these two things.
00:15:54.504 - 00:16:38.968, Speaker A: So I want to talk a bit about, you brought up Reddit, and that's something I studied a lot, especially in light of the API changes, increasing cost. And obviously X did the same thing. Definitely a contentious issue and actually annoyed me a lot because I think maybe 30% of subreddits and stuff I usually use were just completely offline. To me. It felt like moderators had way too much power over that. There's no reason they should be allowed to just turn off because they arbitrarily support Apollo, which this all boiled down to one specific third party app called Apollo, which is basically a better UI or UI people like on mobile that uses the API. And the API used to be cheap enough for Apollo to run, and so they made costs go up, the app shuts down.
00:16:38.968 - 00:17:21.084, Speaker A: Everybody's mad, and in solidarity they start shutting down subreddits, or the moderators do, and that's why they were getting kicked off by the CEO and the leadership team. The reason I bring this up is it's not the first time we're trying experiments with opening up social graphs. And maybe decentralized isn't the right word, but at least allowing a lot of freedom over the data that you mentioned. If you go back to the 2010s, Farmville was built on Facebook's graph, and you could do whatever you want. You could annoy all of your friends with notifications of this game. I used to get them all the time. And Instagram, I believe, was actually built and bootstrapped off of Twitter's graph.
00:17:21.084 - 00:18:05.954, Speaker A: But the key challenge is this is not a durable business model if you are the developer of the social network, because if you open yourself up like that, competitors can come in and take all your users. And so it's almost like by design, the developers, that is, should have control over the platform. And making everything composable and decentralized will eventually create these loops where you might be attacked effectively by someone else who wants to steal your users, or they could just jump to another platform. I guess it boils down to this. Do you agree with that notion that decentralization isn't it's a feature, not a bug. The lack of decentralization that is, and closing off these APIs is what we expect in social media.
00:18:06.904 - 00:19:00.086, Speaker B: That's a great point. I might think about it a little differently. My hypothesis, or my claim is that the reason users have had to be siloed and protected by all these companies is because of the business models that they've aligned on. The only way to monetize is if the user stays within your platform. The question is, well, what if there was a different way to make money that did not allow or did not require you to have to lock in users to your platform? And if so, then the lock in is almost irrelevant right now. From what my perspective at least, there are in fact different business models that you could use here that could be completely open, where you actually create channels where businesses talk directly to the consumer. And it goes back to what we talked about dispatch protocol earlier.
00:19:00.086 - 00:20:31.514, Speaker B: Some of the people had it where the channel the longest, the shortest channel between a business and a consumer is what we really care about in a few business, because you want to be able to talk one on one, but you can't scale that. And so social media companies came up with the concept of Personas and cost per clicks and cost per impressions and the whole ad model that we know of today, and maybe not love as much. And you know, and that's I think has led to the silofication or having to lock down your users. If we think about the opposite side of this, are there business models that could be done in a way where your users don't have to be on your platform, but if there was in fact a shared data layer that allowed you to monetize in ways that aligned with your principles in your community, then you offered that community thing that were actually useful for them, then this might work. Our hypothesis here is not so much that decentralization prevents business models to be done or for earnings to happen, it's that centralization precludes you from any business model that's not ads. And if you go here, you've got to do things side by side. You've got to have a business model that works in a decentralized fashion while giving users the choice of what platform they want to use and what services they want to use, and people to pick and choose and be able to use things like micro payments in a way that were not possible through web two means, especially because everything is centralized intermediately.
00:20:31.514 - 00:20:38.118, Speaker B: So maybe not a direct answer to your question, but I feel like those two things are connected in my mind.
00:20:38.286 - 00:21:24.160, Speaker A: So just elaborating a bit more because this is a good point and important when you are effectively, it sounds like you're federating these channels between businesses and their consumers across maybe their subreddits or whatever you call them on solar plex. How does that scale to a world where this becomes the big app? Everyone uses it. And maybe I, for instance, interface with 2030, 40, 50 companies over the course of six months. Is that where the main feed plays in? How do you effectively create a market on my attention? Because I'm not going to be able to individually click on 60. We have this problem with Discord, by the way. I'm in like 70 servers and I look at two of them. So how does this scale in the long term?
00:21:24.352 - 00:21:58.604, Speaker B: If we use an existing model of scale, decentralized protocols that we use every day. Email, right? Email. Email as a protocol exists and everybody has an email address that is compatible with every other email address. And it depends on if you're a vc or someone that loves shortcuts. You use superhuman on one side. If you're average person that use Gmail, if you're a corporate person at a Wall street bank, you might use exchange without look, right? And proton mail and you know, you name it. So really what you distinguish yourself on is the app layer, right? But your identity remains the same.
00:21:58.604 - 00:22:48.752, Speaker B: Like you've probably logged into this app with your email today, right? And nothing else. And I think that we are well bust needing we know we need it for sure the same thing for social media and identity. So I imagine a world where there's not going to be one protocol, there's going to be 15 protocols that are at the base layer in the same way as we have email. I imagine multiple identity systems that coexist. There's not going to be any one winner takes all system because it's fully decentralized in that world. What does solar plex do? Our sort of goal there is very simple. In a world where there are x protocols and y identity systems, solar Plex aims to give communities the best ways to recognize, engage users and reward them.
00:22:48.752 - 00:23:44.494, Speaker B: Whether you happen to be a threads user, a mastodon user, a blue sky user, a protocol X user that doesn't exist today or does exist today, you should be able to connect all of these things into a solar plex community. Because it's a simple matter of what I logged in with, whether I logged in with my gmail or I logged in with my protonmail, I'm still on this site and if we take the exact same barrel, then the higher level value that you give is what brings people back. And I think that the value that you can give people is actually on multiple levels. By consolidating communities across protocols, you allow the community leaders and people, people like that to actually make life easier. You said 70 different discord channels, probably 120 telegram groups, some subreddits, Twitter. Today we have this. Diversification of social media has also meant fragmentation of content and attention.
00:23:44.494 - 00:24:31.376, Speaker B: In some sense, this consolidation, ironically, through decentralized identities and platforms, actually make it easier, because now you can build open tools that are the equivalent of buffer or tweet deck on both sides of that spectrum, respectively, that are open and much more fully featured, where you're not relying on a company to shut down API access like you were with Apollo. I think that's net. Net a good thing. And apps will compete on the basis of higher level value adds, not at the protocol level. I feel like it's all interconnected. And if you offer someone a lot of value for whatever they're doing in arcade communities, then there's tons of different kinds of business models you can have. Each of these business models can deserve its own deep traffic.
00:24:31.376 - 00:24:38.764, Speaker B: But we have a variety that have already been proven out by web two, and some of them are extensible to this new world of decentralization.
00:24:39.384 - 00:25:21.096, Speaker C: Yeah, it's interesting that you mentioned these different business models, because I feel like so far the discussion has maybe more focused on the developers and the APIs being removed and removing their monetization options. But really, I think the devs are going to go where the users are. And at the moment on Reddit, the users are being rewarded with moons. And on Twitter they just now started receiving all that money for engagement on their tweets. So there is currently a financial incentive to stay on those platforms. I think you mentioned in one of your blog posts as well, that you think there are big issues, obviously. Well, not obviously, but there are big issues with advertising on web two and the second order effects that comes from that.
00:25:21.096 - 00:25:28.324, Speaker C: So it'd just be really good to try and understand what you think the sort of monetization models are available for web3 social.
00:25:29.464 - 00:26:18.630, Speaker B: Yeah, great question, by the way, because I wouldn't say we have the answers today. I think we have hypotheses and claims and experiments, so we are pretty early on there. That said, I can probably talk through from that lens, which is that I don't know if I have the right answers, but I have ideas to your first point about users flocking to where the money is and where sort of devs flocking to where users are the money is. The answer is absolutely. I think that is going to happen because when you have a billion users lying around and you can monetize, that should be the place you go. The question is, what are these devs building and what are they able to build? For instance, Reddit has something called user scripts. Moderators use user scripts, which are basically chrome extensions that are very brittle ways to manage communities because they literally test UX and says, if this button is green, do something.
00:26:18.630 - 00:26:55.946, Speaker B: And that breaks anytime Reddit pushes a change. So there's a need for moderators to manage communities of hundreds of thousands of people. And the best they have is a chrome extension written by some random person on the Internet that allows you to manage that. That's the state of the art, right? The same thing happens for Discord. You've got these bots which have very specific UX limitations. The only person that can change that UX is in fact discord. And for X, I mean, the fact they shut down their API, I don't even know what anybody can build anymore because we even the receiving end of that, where we used to use Twitter to crawl for AI and use and stuff, all that got shut down.
00:26:55.946 - 00:27:30.874, Speaker B: And that was one of the decisions we took. We were like, okay, we're not relying on any of these guys to do anything fundamental. So while there are users, I don't think that's very dev friendly. And so we'll come back to that because that's one of our core hypotheses for solar plex is accessibility. I talked about autonomy. I talked about delight. The third pillar we built on is extensibility, where we say offer users and devs the ability to create Figma style UX plugins like embeddable chess game directly in the feed without asking us for permission or relying on our product team to figure out what that should.
00:27:30.874 - 00:28:20.014, Speaker B: The long day low plugins, if you can offer developers that experience, they will come, because now they've got some users and some people to build for and they can grow their pie by acquiring more users there. But this isn't addressed. The second point you made about users getting monetization options on Twitter. Now, the short answer is, no one can compete in the short term with any of that. But I do think that the world is stepping towards sort of, we talked about the creator economy, we talked about influencers, but really theres far more micro influencers than there are major macro influencers. And I think there was a really interesting stat. I think something like 96 or 97% of people on Spotify who have music on it make $50 or less every quarter, and the top 3% make millions.
00:28:20.014 - 00:29:07.924, Speaker B: The same thing happens in YouTube. Likely the same thing will happen on X if you follow the same principles. So where are the micro influencers being able to make money from? Do you have 5 million impressions in the last three months? Do you have x amount of followers today to make that money? The answer is not so much. So are you now relegated to not monetizing on Twitter for the effort, or just like Reddit? There's in fact a tracker for Reddit mods that are moving from Reddit into other communities. And the short answer is people want to move where they have the right option to monetize. So I think the future of sort of how social web3 social looks like is the Internet has always been about communities. We've had communities from the days of Usenet and BBSS, and that hasn't changed.
00:29:07.924 - 00:29:54.424, Speaker B: Centralized media companies have come along and made it much more individualistic, but they have, in a nod to communities, launched features like that. I think what web3 social has the ability to do is to create brand new business models for community based social media in a way that centralized companies cannot, which captures back the original intent of all these things anyway, in a way that micro influencers and community leaders who have audiences already but are not able to monetize on existing channels will find it valuable to bring their audience with them. And their audience is likely to come along if they can give them that delightful experience beyond just a click of a light. Right. So I think in my mind, here's how you do it. You basically give the communities what they need and from both sides, and I think they will shift.
00:29:59.804 - 00:30:25.554, Speaker A: I think we talked a lot about how a web3 can improve social media through its permissionless nature and just making things kind of a protocol that any developer can plug into and build on top of. What about the other side of crypto, specifically tokenization, whether it's nfts or actual liquid tokens themselves. What role do you see these primitives playing in the future of social media?
00:30:26.694 - 00:31:14.184, Speaker B: Yeah, great question. And maybe something that a lot of people have talked about, especially fintech and all the keys and everything going on there, if you break it down. I am more bullish on nfts as mechanisms that survive in the social media age, as opposed to tokenization in the way that we know from front deck or bit cloud and things like that. I think what will scale is known speculative uses of crypto that are also social. I think speculation is great, but it's not for the average person. The average person is not buying shares of their friends and hope that it makes money or for influencers. I think that companies like role have existed before where you can create tokens for your different kinds of things like that.
00:31:14.184 - 00:31:49.260, Speaker B: But if I were to step back, I think here's what happens. There's two ways to monetize. If you're a company today, you can issue stock or you can create a product. Some people buy stock, some people buy products, and most people don't buy both. If I'm a Dropbox customer, I might not own Dropbox stock. That's right. Right now, we have nowhere to do this for individuals, aka community creators or influencers, except for maybe BTS that issued shares in Korea and maybe Beyonce, if she can pull it off.
00:31:49.260 - 00:32:35.036, Speaker B: For people like that, no one can really issue shares that you can buy as a consumer, not in the least because of regulation. And so tokenization of people, while web3 make it possible, is so fraught with things like how we test and securities law that at some point, it is an issue to deal with from a financial regulation perspective as opposed to social. So I'm like, okay, we'll leave that aside because we don't know where that goes. And it's not dependent on a technologist, it's dependent on society and regulation and policy. Right? But when it comes to non fungible stuff, becomes really interesting, because digital assets, they need to be sold and bought more. So now than ever. We need a mechanism to figure out provenance of this piece.
00:32:35.036 - 00:33:32.354, Speaker B: We need mechanisms to attribute the monetization for that. So if you combine Providence and attribution digital assets, that basically is an NFT. And if you think about how we've done that in the past, we've created crappy DRM systems. The reason we've done that is because you wanted a way to compensate the original artist for whatever they had. And so we create DRM, but actually, we don't need DRM if every digital asset, in fact, has provenance, and you knew where it came from. So that whole business model can be upended by saying a digital asset that has providence, ownership, and monetization baked in and now easily available from a creator directly to the audience, that's massive, right? And so I feel like that will play a huge role in web3 social. Because what is social if not connecting influencers and their fans together without a middleman and making money off of their creations in a way that they can control without a middleman.
00:33:32.354 - 00:33:51.754, Speaker B: Right. So it's like remove the record label deal which used to exist there, and have artists create and communicate directly with their fans. We don't have that today. We're leaning towards it, but we haven't gotten that yet. And I think that's the next big thing. And so really bringing it back, NFts for sure are going to be a huge deal here.
00:33:52.454 - 00:34:09.514, Speaker C: Would you say you're maybe more bullish on soul linked, the new LinkedIn spin off, which is started on Solana, where basically people will pay you to read their messages? I think dialect as well. I think about toying with that idea. Is that an idea which you think maybe has more legs?
00:34:11.254 - 00:34:41.114, Speaker B: I think the short answer is yes. Earn.com led the way there with Balaji and his bitcoin mechanisms back in the day. And I think that there's a lot of value in being able to ping people and pay them to get access to it. I think that we've worked in that space before, and one of the reasons we moved away from that ourselves is that we feel like there's a huger need for artists and creators right now. And so that's where our focus is.
00:34:41.614 - 00:35:28.114, Speaker A: Yeah, intro.com is like the web two equivalent to where you can spend some money, talk to someone famous at different scales, and it was never super clear why. I guess it makes sense to have it on crypto rails, but it's certainly been an experiment that's tried before. One thing I did want to also bring up that I'm noticing more and more with kind of consumer products and crypto is the rollout strategy super important. Distribution is very hard and has to be thought about carefully. I noticed you guys have, I guess, an early release with an invite code system, which we saw with Friendtech as well. What was your thinking behind that rollout strategy? When does it scale to a broader user base? How are you thinking about distribution?
00:35:28.614 - 00:36:09.992, Speaker B: There's a few learnings from social systems that have existed before. Like for instance, Quora. I was a very active member of core when I first came out, and it did really well. When the audience was self selected, it was a bunch of people who really knew what they were talking about and you could get high quality answers to everything. And then they scaled and suddenly quota became basically SEO spam. Our fundamental thing here is our mission is allow communities to engage and connect and thrive. And how do you do that in a way where you can scale this without having the quora spam problem, or in crypto especially.
00:36:09.992 - 00:36:49.410, Speaker B: There's so much scam stuff, there's so many bugs, 100%. And so our mechanism of invitation course was as simple as let's spin up communities with high degrees of quality. Let's figure out ways where we can experiment with what decentralized moderation looks like, experiment with what mechanisms to do some of these things look like, which have been pains of social media for a while. Right? And it allows us to onboard people slightly slower, but I think it allows us to do it in a high quality way. And it also sets us up for scaling in a way using decentralized mechanisms that we don't think have been done before.
00:36:49.602 - 00:37:15.624, Speaker A: Love that you brought up Quora, by the way. I used to be such a power user back in like, I think it peaked around 2012 to 2016 ish. And I tried using it the other day and like, to your point, it was like this SEO thing. I can't even find the. Finding the first actual answer to the question, it's such a pain, I don't even know where to. You're just digging, you're clicking on ads and stuff that really a great example. As they scaled, the product just really fell off a cliff.
00:37:15.624 - 00:37:18.404, Speaker A: But the initial value prop was so strong.
00:37:18.944 - 00:37:31.194, Speaker C: Do you have any thoughts on how you're gonna deal with bots once you fully open it up? And also, would you consider using incentive programs to try and get more people on, or do you want to try and keep it slow?
00:37:32.374 - 00:38:49.994, Speaker B: I mean, our metrics are just that. We're having a hard time keeping up so slow for us is at this point, we're not too worried about that. But we have a superpower in the crypto world that we, we haven't had before, which is we've got a blockchain and we've got potential to use this in a way that hasn't been possible before because we haven't had a public database of stuff. And so ever since the dispatch protocol days, if you will, just not that many days ago, this concept of a blockchain enabled list of who's blocked, who's muted, who's been a bad actor, and being able to leverage that to make posting harder. If you're reporter for spam, those are the kind of things that we can very easily pull off. As an example, building on Solana has this benefit where if somebody marks you as spam or somebody marks you as a bot, we could actually have you take a blockchain enabled transaction, much like a captcha, which you would have to then do and prove that you're human, because otherwise you would have to do three things together. That just increases the surface area, which you could do as a human, and you're done for once, but now you wouldn't.
00:38:49.994 - 00:39:40.680, Speaker B: So there's a lot of throttling, there's a lot of verification, and there's a lot of lists that are public available to you. You can use these transactions in a way to solve for that. So our thinking in the immediate, very immediate future, actually, is we just introduced the moderation tab a few days ago, and there you can report different things as spam or bot. You can report content, and unlike in the traditional world, I think being able to link it to transactions and some way to figure out how to make it so that you can't do it automatically very easily. And the best part is, because if you're a repeat offender, price to do that transaction goes up. So at some point, it's not just that you can come in and just do it and then allow your bot to come in again, because the second time you got reported, we can almost double the transaction cost. There's some interesting ways here.
00:39:40.680 - 00:39:44.084, Speaker B: You can use blockchains to combat boxmen.
00:39:44.504 - 00:39:50.524, Speaker A: That's super cool. It's almost like, yeah, the curve gets steeper as you keep abusing the platform.
00:39:51.384 - 00:39:52.312, Speaker B: Exactly.
00:39:52.488 - 00:40:43.894, Speaker A: I want to continue on this topic, actually, because I think this is one of the most common challenges that social media companies, no matter how big or small, deal with, is moderation. And then over time, how do you scale moderation? I think Facebook is infamous for employing tens of thousands of manual moderators that scan content before it gets pushed to the feed. And TikTok does some sort of sampling approach before it actually gets pushed to the main feed. And so the question I'm asking is, and you've touched on it actually, because it's permissionless. Theoretically, someone could post essentially anything, at least the first time. And you mentioned this concept of decentralized moderation. Architecturally, how does the platform handle moderation today, and how do you think it'll handle it in the future if you guys start getting hundreds of thousands of users?
00:40:44.634 - 00:41:19.272, Speaker B: One of the most important questions in our mind, so definitely be very top of mind for us. I think there's a couple of things here. One is, what does it mean to moderate versus what does it mean to censor? Right. And I think censorship versus moderation is a line that we always want to make sure we tow, because the whole point of building something decentralized is you don't get censored. But we can't have you doing things that are against not only rtos, but laws in every country in the world. Right? So definitely the reason Facebook has so many people to do moderation is that they're a centralized system. Right.
00:41:19.272 - 00:41:55.394, Speaker B: And therefore they need mechanisms to have trust, which is, again, this is a whole huge problem we all know about. Yeah. So we have some ideas there. I think, number one, when you are not an individualistic social network, but not about communities first, that means every single person belongs to a community no matter what. Which means the atomic unit of moderation can actually be delegated to the community first, rather than a large number of people moderating millions of individuals. Right. And I actually wrote about this many years ago at this point seems like.
00:41:55.394 - 00:42:57.808, Speaker B: But if you look at how decentralized systems work in terms of city states and governments and things like that, they sort of take governments and they break it down into atomic units, all the way down to the village level in India. This is a very specific thing where everything is at all down to the village level, to the point where there's five village elders that sit under a tree making decisions for their village. At the very top is the presidential prime ministerial system, and that scales fine for a population of a few billion people, or 1.4 at this point. So if you take a leap from that and if it works for governments, could you make it work for communities? So if I imagine the sort of world as being a set of communities, each of them is empowered to moderate things on their side, and each user or user of this system identifies with a community. That's sort of a mental model. And now the question is, well, what does it mean to moderate? Even if you gave the best tools to communities to moderate things, like, what does it mean? I would say there's two parts of it.
00:42:57.808 - 00:43:50.358, Speaker B: One is, can you enforce the reach? Reach is going to be the most important thing because it's like if you're on the Internet, you have a website, but no one links to you and you can't be found, you exist. And the answer is, yeah, maybe there's this aspect of reach or this aspect of content, right? The first thing we can do is prevent your content from reaching anything. And so the single easiest thing to have communities moderate is if you are put on a list where you need to moderate it, your reach becomes zero, no one finds you. So you are sort of tested tier one. Right now, this is for sort of more not as serious levels of moderation person, if it's a much more serious level of moderation in a hate speech, objectionable content, all this kind of stuff. Then you also have the secondary thing of taking that content off whatever data storage system it's on. I think that's sort of, in my mind, a tier two level of moderation where there'll be a lesser number of people.
00:43:50.358 - 00:44:46.830, Speaker B: But I think that needs it can't just be at the community level. And so what we're thinking about is using communities, and this is actually Wikipedia and stack overflow to this really well. So we're learning from them, right? But essentially they have a concept of moderators that work fine, they elect councils that vote on decisions and they vote on all these things in a way where it's all automated at this point, right? But they have no audit logs, there's no audit chill. So right now, the biggest challenge with moderation in both these sites is the opacity or the opaqueness of how not visible these decisions are. And people are always frustrated with them that. So if you think about tier two moderations with a set of communities which elect a council that actually weighed into sort of these things, right, you can imagine being able to do this in a way which is more automated and because it's all on chain, it's actually visible. So now it is not incumbent on just us to make tools.
00:44:46.830 - 00:45:16.334, Speaker B: Every community could actually pitch in and build tools and make sense to them, right? And over time, we can imagine a marketplace of tools that are available to people to do all kinds of moderation, all kinds of, you know, things like that. So in the ideal world, we go away from the 10,000 moderators to a billion people, but instead distribute it to communities and councils of communities in a way that actually we might call a Dao in the crypto world, but I hate using that word because it doesn't mean much to anybody outside the crypto world.
00:45:25.734 - 00:45:53.334, Speaker C: I think you mentioned just then in your answer that you'll be able to delete data. So, yeah, I'd love to just dig into the tech stack and the decisions you've made around things like storage, because I think Varcaster was listening to them on a podcast this week, and I believe that the whole of the state is off chain, basically. So just wondering if you've gone down a similar route, a different route, advantages, disadvantages and how you're storing the data and things like that.
00:45:53.994 - 00:46:40.124, Speaker B: Yeah, we're actually very inspired by broadcaster. They've done such an amazing job of thinking about some of these things for the last year and a half. So, like, I mentioned in the very beginning, we started dispatch forums as a fully decentralized system where all data was stored on Solana. Now, one good thing about storing data on Solana is that if you store data in accounts, you can actually delete it. However, it's stored on the log. So it's, it's there. If somebody wants to recreate that data in our sufficiently decentralized world, which we are inspired by from the way forecaster dealt with it, what we've done is we've taken a combination of the solar Plex protocol, which is a fully functional protocol, much like file clusters in terms of actions and all these kinds of things, posts and moderation, whatnot.
00:46:40.124 - 00:47:41.482, Speaker B: And we are, because we have that we store state on Solana, but we store data in caches that are then uploaded to rv. Now, at this point, because it is a cache and it's on rv, the data removal process is tricky. We're going to have to figure out ways to delete data, which is why what we're doing now is we're actually hooking into the proto protocol, which is done by the guys at Bluesky for the post and content systems specifically, because they are in fact building a lot of these systems at decentralized scale. And it makes sense for us to combine forces rather than have to rebuild the exact same thing from scratch. At this point we've done is the solar plex. The site uses a combination of two protocols. One is the incentives on chain, all that stuff which is helping you with points and wallets and nfts and things like that, or reactions.
00:47:41.482 - 00:48:05.354, Speaker B: And then there is the ad proto, which is helping you with things like conversations, moderation, and sort of storing data and stuff like that. And with a combination of these two, you have a record on chain of these things, but the content is available off chain, which means it's actually more, it's tenable to delete it or get rid of it. Then instead of a fully blockchain world where it would be on the log never to get deleted.
00:48:06.134 - 00:48:20.794, Speaker A: Yeah, it seems like it's, from a product standpoint, striking that balance between permanence and just the nature of humans. And we're not perfect every time we want to update things or remove them. That's something you guys thought really heavily about, it seems.
00:48:21.574 - 00:48:44.110, Speaker B: Yeah, definitely. Our solar Plex V one protocol supports all of these things. Um, but the big challenge is that it does record everything on chain. Now, from a censorship resistance standpoint, that's great. From a content standpoint, it's not that great. Right? And again, it's in the innards of the logs and stuff. And so theoretically you could and you could not.
00:48:44.110 - 00:48:59.224, Speaker B: But I think it's easier to think about this from a perspective of how do you draw the line between decentralization, federation sensitive, resistance moderation altogether, and there's like this giant Venn diagram and you've got to really draw the line there.
00:49:00.004 - 00:49:31.414, Speaker A: Absolutely. I think what's clear is you guys are onto something very exciting, user base that's using the product, and it's hard to find an invite code and things like that as you build towards this longer term vision and hopefully scaling out to millions of people, and crypto broadly just scales out to more people. Does this product replace something existing or is it almost a new paradigm of interacting people, communities and people with each other?
00:49:32.434 - 00:50:27.054, Speaker B: Yeah, that's a great point. This is all hypothesis now, so I'm going to caveat that, of course. But that said, I think the way to use crypto is to use it as an infrastructure layer. I think for the longest time crypto has been at the forefront of almost like an ideological movement where one uses crypto because theyre a crypto user. I think in order to onboard people that are not crypto, first crypto needs to be an infrastructure choice in the same way as you add a credit card to your e commerce profile. It doesnt matter whether its visa, Mastercard or a gift card for that matter, as long as it follows the same protocol, the system just works. And I imagine where crypto lands is, websites support different chains in the same way they support different kinds of credit card systems, or PayPal, whatever, like pay using x, right.
00:50:27.054 - 00:51:20.614, Speaker B: So you might have an allegiance to blockchain twelve or three because you have accounts there, or you may not, at which point it almost doesn't matter. So I think the first and foremost thing for us is to onboard people. Crypto needs to be in the background in a way that is not ideologically leading towards the sort of idea. The second question was, well, what does it replace? Our goal is not to replace anything. We want to be complementary. We want to be complementary to almost everything that people use, because I think those are well designed products that serve a specific need. And our goal is to say, well, what is the need that they don't solve? And our goal here is to say the big need that is not being solved is communities recognizing users, getting higher engagement, more fun, and being able to recognize them and reward them in ways that it's just not possible today.
00:51:20.614 - 00:52:24.492, Speaker B: And I think that because it doesn't really exist in the way we think about it as we know of it today. It might be closer to that new paradigm world where on one side you've got ways to think about it, you've got Patreon and Substack, you've got x subscriptions, you've got various kinds of subscription mechanisms that exist. In fact, I would argue that Huberman Lab for instance, they built out a whole infrastructure to do subscriptions for their most loyal users according to tiers. And that's this custom code that someone wrote for them. Well, if you go back to that micro influencer person I talked about earlier, they don't have the capacity to build this stuff, so where are they doing it? And Uberman acquires users on YouTube and all the other social channels, but their retention and engagement is almost not there. Yes, you can comment on the YouTube video, but is somebody from their team really looking at it and saying, you're one of my most loyal users? Let me give you a discount. No, right.
00:52:24.492 - 00:52:39.824, Speaker B: So I think that there's a different way to think about what we're doing, which is complementary to what channels exist. But like I said, we are early enough that we have a good idea of what it could be. But I think there's a long way to realize that vision just yet.
00:52:40.484 - 00:53:07.484, Speaker A: It's a great example. By the way, I'm a big fan of that podcast and it's funny, I didn't realize that was a whole custom integration. And it's a good analogy to make. Also because to your point, crypto doesn't have to replace YouTube. People can still drive traffic top of funnel through free YouTube videos and then create tooling around that to help engage the best listeners or customers or things on that front. So I think that makes a lot of sense.
00:53:08.144 - 00:53:38.020, Speaker C: I think so far on the platform there's been a couple of early successes with some of the features. So I think the tipping has seemingly gone really well. And also people are able to mint nfts which are effectively sticker reactions. So just wondering where youre thinking about going next in the near term vision, because I think theres a lot of angles you could move into. Like can we bring on trading? You mentioned mobile. Is the focus maybe on that? Yeah. Or are you thinking of something else?
00:53:38.052 - 00:54:17.914, Speaker B: Really great question. I wish I knew the answer to that in a very specific way. I can tell you our framework, think about it. Which is, you know, for the people who are already using the app, how can we give those communities the best way to reward and recognize the users right that's the framework. And our experimentation continues to be in that world, which is, how do you chris? Right now, for instance, we've only started a couple of default communities, but we want to add more communities starting in the next week or two. And each of these communities, aka subreddits or their feeds, will bring with them different needs. And our goal is to figure out how to make that really good.
00:54:17.914 - 00:55:02.558, Speaker B: So our focus continues to be that sort of recognition rewards piece for communities as a framework, and that can take various kinds of feature sets you can think about. People have asked us for leaderboards. There was a really great feature request day morning that said, hey, can I burn two reactions for a chance to spin the dice again so I can get a rare one? And that's a great idea. I mean, it's like a really cool thing, people to say, oh, I got two that I don't want, and I can burn it to give a chance. But also, I imagine that the kinds of rewards can change. I mean, right now it's reaction packs. But you can imagine there could be different kinds of digital assets that you could be giving out, right? Like, for instance, a lot of the comic book artists on Solana are on solar plex.
00:55:02.558 - 00:55:30.844, Speaker B: There's some really great examples of comics. Well, what does it look like for a creator of comic books to engage with their audience? And what do their rewards look like? I mean, you could have comic book character reaction packs, which is cool, but you could have comic books themselves. And I think those are some of the areas that'd be really interesting to explore, which is the new world of combining digital assets with a feed in a very seamless fashion. And what does it look like in a way that helps communities?
00:55:31.324 - 00:55:43.708, Speaker C: And I mentioned trading as one of the other things. Is there any way that you could bring on, like, for example, hack a sub, Reddit trading subreddit, and then bring, I'm like a uni bot type, you.
00:55:43.716 - 00:56:32.148, Speaker B: Know, Wall street bets was one of our first inspirations for sort of how something like that might look like, you know, I think we've talked about this a lot. In fact, I know people who have built stuff like this in a group chess where you can trade or you can have a pool of money or tokens to buy stuff. I think it's about focus. There's a lot of speculative things you can do in the world when you're on crypto. And in some sense, the question is, well, what scales longer term, is it the speculation, or is it solving a business need? And I think I always personally lean towards the business need. We know for a fact that engagement and retention are really what everybody cares about. And speculation is great for acquisition, but not really for engaging retention.
00:56:32.148 - 00:57:25.006, Speaker B: So I would say that from that perspective alone, trading in the way that Wall street bets or other people do it, I think it's sort of not sure that we would want to go that direction again. It also goes back to all the financial regulations and SEC and things like that. We don't want to be in a place where people are trading securities in a way that is not kosher. But on the flip side, people want to trade reaction packs and people won't be able to maybe exchange or lend each other comic books. And maybe there's something what we might term trading in the background, but actually is much more of a renting or lending digital assets and setting the price for those things and secondary sales and things. I think that kind of makes sense. But a lot of people are working on that problem.
00:57:25.006 - 00:57:48.432, Speaker B: Like marketplaces are already there, there's a lot of these things. So we imagine that we leverage all of these things. The good thing about permissionless is that I could go in today and integrate with a marketplace contract in a way that is really fun to use, where everybody wins. Like we don't have to rebuild it. So there's a lot of scope for many of these things. But I think our lens will always be let's try not to.
00:57:48.448 - 00:58:21.904, Speaker A: The speculative use cases, it makes sense. It's always tough to decide how much you want to lean into that versus the risks that come with leaning into that. Especially this industry vixen. We covered a lot of ground and learned a ton about how you think about social and solar plexus strategy. Kind of a closing question here. Throughout your journey and all the experimentation you've done so far, has there been anything not obvious or surprising? You've learned that maybe we didn't touch on so far.
00:58:23.604 - 00:58:50.624, Speaker B: The not obvious things. Well, so many of those things, we've had to iterate so many times because of that. People don't care about wallet based identities. Nobody wants to log in with their wallet. They're like, people want to log in, but that's such a small number. Everybody cares about real world identities and they don't really care. We actually reduce the cost of posting down to 100th of a cent in solar plex v one.
00:58:50.624 - 00:59:09.704, Speaker B: And the non obvious thing was getting that $0.01 for 100 posts into your wallet. It was impossible. If you think about it. How do you get that 1st $0.01 unless you already have a wallet, the answer is Mohn pay or any one of these really tricky things. And certain things can be bought.
00:59:09.704 - 01:00:15.832, Speaker B: The thing was, well, everybody cares about crypto, but actually no one wants to make 100% to post. So that's interesting. Another really interesting thing was we're actually blown away by how people are thinking about cnfds and sort of the range of use cases you can have when nfts are cheap to mint. Right? And we'd actually, we see so much feedback from people about very creative uses of cnfts. And that was not immediately clear to us because we were thinking of it as people like, what does someone look for on a social site? They look for pushing their brand, they look for making money, they look for social interactions, maybe some good content. But actually, if you look at the Reddit behavior, it seems obvious at hindsight. People care about karma points that buy badges and stars, gold stars on Reddit, and they do all that stuff knowing that it has no value beyond a small little image on someone's profile.
01:00:15.832 - 01:00:41.454, Speaker B: That's it. And so that behavior actually translates really well into the crypto world, where now there's two incentives. Not only do you have, you can buy it and give it to other people as a gift, but it has some intrinsic value on a marketplace. And so it almost brings in the collectible mentality, which, you know, which we hypothesized that it wasn't clear to us, but turns out that actually people care about that.
01:00:41.794 - 01:01:03.674, Speaker A: Very wise words to close off on. Kind of reminds me of the Fortnite Skins model playing out in Reddit, too. We can certainly learn a lot from that. This has been an awesome conversation. Yeah, yeah. Awesome chatting with you, Vicset. Thank you so much for joining us, and we wish you the very best with solar Plex and excited to try it out as it continues to scale and grow.
01:01:04.214 - 01:01:18.204, Speaker B: Absolutely, yeah. Thank you so much for having me. This is great. Thank you for the questions. It's really good people to get these questions because sometimes as you're deep in the weeds and some of these things, it's not clear how, how to think about it. But this is really helpful as well.
01:01:18.504 - 01:01:25.264, Speaker A: Awesome. Well, glad it's been useful for you, too. Thanks again. This has been another awesome episode of Unlair.
