00:00:04.090 - 00:00:43.606, Speaker A: Tanks on the street. You'd be forgiven for thinking this was Ukraine. Armoured vehicles patrolling the thoroughfares of a city at war. But it's not. It's China. Hanan promised, to be precise, and the tanks have been sent in to protect the local branch of a bank, one embroiled in a scandal as users were denied access to their bank accounts due to a system upgrade. In May, the chinese authorities announce an investigation into several shareholders of Hanan Xin Kaofu group, in which they discovered the group had taken control of five rural banks through internal and external collusion and illegally collected deposits.
00:00:43.606 - 00:01:35.242, Speaker A: So you have the accounts of ordinary citizens that have now been frozen and have been frozen for four months. So they took to the streets in protest and then the government sent in the tanks. These banks were promising higher than usual interest rates, and they were then diverting the funds they collected to invest in other financial products using, quote unquote, online platforms. Almost all of the bank's assets were diverted away, leaving the banks on the verge of bankruptcy. And the point of this story is to illustrate that what happened the last few months in crypto is not unique to crypto. It isn't a story about web3's reckless abandonment of financial principles. It is simply a byproduct of being the carbon based eat, excrete biological hot mess that you, me, all of us, unfortunately, are.
00:01:35.242 - 00:02:55.182, Speaker A: Now, as we pick through the rotting corpse of the three arrows debacle, proponents of Defi have been extremely quick to point out that decentralized financial entities performed exactly as they were supposed to. Yes, even Luna and UST performed as they were supposed to, catastrophically in that case. Now, as the centralized lenders collapsed to their knees in a frenzy of painfully worded PR statements, we're now being told by the great and good bro, it was the squishy humans to blame. Humans are bad, algorithms are good, code is law. But is it really that simple? In this episode, we'll look at what some are hailing as the triumphant return of Defi and pose some of the arguments for and against. Were you in any doubt this is the defiant criminal? Sorry, essayist Arthur Hayes, writing on July the first. What's conveniently going unmentioned by much of the meteor is that both centralized and decentralized lending companies platforms had exposure to three AC, and only the plays in one of these two markets won't bully up.
00:02:55.182 - 00:03:32.086, Speaker A: Centralized lenders failed en masse, while their decentralized counterparts liquidated collateral and operated with no hiccups. 3 hours capital's greatest trick was convincing everyone that they were, in fact, geniuses and then leveraging that reputation, literally to exploit arbitrage anywhere and everywhere. It could be found by taking out massive loans, persuading lenders to fork over capital with little to no collateral. Yes, I'm looking at you, Voyager. Those are human relationships. Therefore, they are a point of vulnerability. Let's contrast that with Defi three arrows.
00:03:32.086 - 00:04:02.306, Speaker A: Capital's cult of personality has no bearing on a protocol's decision to loan funds and secure them. It is just a string of alphanumeric characters. You either have the collateral or you don't. Which is one of the reasons touted for Celsius's urgent and aggressive repayment of its debts on maker. No hotline there, offering a chance to beg for more time. Any changes to a protocol's policies have to be voted on by the governing Dao. Decisions are final, and it's all transparent because it is all on chain.
00:04:02.306 - 00:05:05.910, Speaker A: Which is why so much of our information about hacks, vulnerabilities, and major events are transmitted to us by Internet sleuths on Twitter. And that also includes liquidation levels of major accounts at risk, like Celsius maker compound Ava, decentralized lending platforms operating according to strict, code enforced mechanisms. Where were the headlines about them being in trouble when all the shit went down? Oh, yes, right here in the Wall Street Journal headline, DFI's existential problem. It only lends money to itself. This article was published on June 30, and it did feel like a convenient pylon, lumping Celsius and blockfi or crypto lenders into the house of cards. That is, decentralized finance. Author John syndrome's argument is that crypto's financial structures, far from disrupting and improving upon existing models, have simply repeated them, aping the sins of their forebears on Wall street.
00:05:05.990 - 00:05:18.110, Speaker B: And I quote, Celsius is an example of how DeFi replicates the apparatus of shadow banking that has historically flourished at regular intervals to sidestep strict regulations applied to traditional lenders.
00:05:18.930 - 00:06:00.010, Speaker A: Sidestep, the article goes on, to castigate Defi for being a closed loop, borrowing and lending to itself, an uruboros eating its own tail. But as you've probably already realized, the author didn't really understand Defi and why it had nothing at all to do with Celsius or blockfi's problems. Well, not exactly, anyway. Arthur's article, well, it came out the next day. Ten days later, Dan Moorhead of Pantera Capital wrote an impassioned piece denouncing the Wall Street Journal article as a screed wrapped up in outrage. Yes, I also had to look up the word screed. Apparently it's a long speech or writing, typically one regarded as tedious.
00:06:00.010 - 00:06:34.950, Speaker A: Actually, John's article is quite short. You can read it in about a minute. I'll link it in the description if googling it is beyond you. Dan handily avails himself of both the caps lock and a bold font to make his point. It's centralized finance that failed. DeFi removes human subjectivity in financing decisions. Parties agreeing to conduct transactions openly, transparently on the blockchain, as opposed to backroom deals by opaque, human, potentially conflicted financial actors, is the vision we should be striving for, rather than clinging on to inefficient, centralized financial systems.
00:06:34.950 - 00:07:36.506, Speaker A: The problem with that, of course, was that much of what sprang up during Defi summer was almost entirely defined by essentially backroom deals that led to innumerable rugs and a much more apt house of cards analogy as liquidity literally evaporated overnight, like a house of cards. But Dan does have a point. Borrowers on DeFi lenders have no choice but to repay debts or be liquidated, and the robots that power smart contracts do not care a hill of beans who you are. Compare that to centralized lenders who, without fault, blocked access to the funds of the very people whose money they'd been gambling with. There is a flip side to this, of course. As much as it's comforting to point the finger at centralized lenders for being inveterate gamblers, you could kind of argue that defi itself sort of created this monster. Now, as fun as all the food themed deFi protocols were during Defi summer, this was a level of risk most simply couldn't live with, or didn't have the skills to live with.
00:07:36.506 - 00:08:49.562, Speaker A: Burned too many times, rugged too many times, victims of information asymmetry and struggling to understand pretty much all of it. Many crypto users longed for a product that would give them a taste of the yield, but without the panic attacks and the likes of Celsius, obliged with websites that looked and felt like the safe world of traditional finance. Now that's obviously a simplification, but as more and more new participants flooded into the space in 2021, they were always going to gravitate towards platforms that felt familiar, not ones with yabs or pickles as their image. Now, there's nothing about curve, for instance, that looks comforting. So maybe there's a lesson here that DeFi needs to work harder to provide comfort and reassurance to users, and it might be comforting to know that a loan will have to be repaid no matter what. But in the real world, this leaves no room for clemency or common sense, or a case by case reading of a human, a real human's particular situation. Now, of course, you could argue that banks and other big institutions already implement decision making by algorithm, removing humans from the equation and reducing life to statistical probability.
00:08:49.562 - 00:09:25.846, Speaker A: As someone who grew up with the NHS in the UK, trying to understand, healthcare in the US is particularly hard. If someone is sick, you try and make them better. You don't ask what their insurance package is. I don't know. Now let's not forget that the typhoid Mary of this whole sorry mess was itself an algorithm. Many smart people looked at it and either misunderstood the risk or just thought, fuck it, this will be fine, someone else will pick up the tab. And as much as the Defi protocol themselves functioned well, the tokens attached to those protocols have sunk every bit as much as every other altcoin.
00:09:25.846 - 00:10:15.866, Speaker A: But it is worth remembering that most of the big DFI tokens enjoyed their first big rally nearly eight months to a year or so before the rest of the market really caught up. So it is possible they'll actually be the first to pick up again as their market cycle unwinds. And if we check in the top 100 dFI tokens on coin gecko collectively, there is just a sign that maybe, possibly, they are starting a new cycle with the likes of curve, thorchain and synthetics posting particularly impressive gains recently. But I'd have to say it's too early to call it definitively. Alex Gilbert from the Defiant wrote a great report on this this week, as other Uniswap and Makerdao were also posting strong gains against the rest of the market. So here we have well established defi heavyweights all moving well. So there is something else we haven't covered today.
00:10:15.866 - 00:11:00.362, Speaker A: Stablecoins, which were all lumped into a trash can filled to the brim with toxic waste, basically following the collapse of UST. But they are an essential primitive in Defi and the UK just announced a bill to define how stablecoins may be used as a means of payment. I have no idea how up to speed you are on UK politics, but the race to succeed Boris Johnson is now hotting up with Liz Truss and Rishi Sunak, the front runners. Top fact, Sunak actually went to the same school as me, which really means very, very little indeed. But you're a wizard, Harry. He is extremely hot on stablecoins and back in May, announced plans to legalize them as a payment mechanism in the UK. Now, I have to say I would take stablecoins over CBDCs any day.
00:11:00.362 - 00:11:41.814, Speaker A: And while we're on that point, the existential risk that seems to hang around USDT without ever really resolving one way or the other, is starting to be balanced out by USDC, which is creeping ever closer to parity with tether as it aims for maximum transparency. But of course, USDC is centralized, and check here for a deeper dive into that particular hot potato. But of course, we always have the people's defi champ die to keep us warm at night. Except that 54.3% of the collateral backing Dai is. Yes, you guessed it, it's USDC. And that is, however you want to spin it.
00:11:41.814 - 00:12:11.294, Speaker A: Ironic. So where next for DFI? Well, it boils down to yield, doesn't it, really? The money robots continued functioning even under the most extreme of conditions. But that's only one piece of the puzzle. Finding a way to drive sustainable, organic yield to users. One that offers a better return than the measly fractional percent offered by the banks. But where would that yield come from? If you don't know that, then you're in trouble. Well, one route, of course, is genuine revenue.
00:12:11.294 - 00:12:45.898, Speaker A: Believe it or not, there are companies in this space that make money. Uniswap, for instance, is one such example. And there's also a route to bringing real world use cases with real, measurable returns, rather than the big dog alpha arbitrage we've seen up till now. Maker allows real world assets to be supplied as collateral. But really, for this to happen at scale, we're going to need meaningful regulation. Which is why that news about stablecoins in the UK is particularly interesting. DFI definitely isn't dead, but the DFI of the future is likely to look very different to the one of 2020.
00:12:45.898 - 00:13:15.170, Speaker A: And that might just be the best news of all. And if we return to that story about the tanks in China, there is evidence, the proof of why we actually need DFI to begin with. No matter whether it's perfect or not right now, the fact is, if your government can roll tanks into your town to prevent you taking your money out of a bank, well, that's a problem from the edge of the abyss. This was the defiance.
