00:00:05.610 - 00:01:21.750, Speaker A: What up coordination? How's it going on the pod? Today we have Holka Brammer who is a research scientist at Protocol Labs and we are talking about hyper certs. You can think of hyper certs as an NFT that acts as sort of a carbon credit, but it doesn't just work on the carbon and carbon capture vector, it works on any impact vector. So as opposed to a carbon credit that says that you took ten tons of carbon out of the atmosphere, think of a hyper cert as a carbon credit on any impact vector. So a hyper cert that says that you funded ten months of open source software, a hyper cert that says that you took ten people out of poverty, a hyper cert that says that you fixed ten potholes in your community. Any impact vector can be made into a hyper cert. So in this episode we talk about bootstrapping, a triple sided marketplace between people who are issuing hyper certs, people who are consuming hyper certs, and those who are evaluating the hyper certs for their legitimacy. What would it look like if any impact dow that is creating impact can just issue hyper certs and get rewarded for having those hyper certs and the more impact they have, the more value they're able to capture if there was buy pressure on hyperserts in this hypothetical future world.
00:01:21.750 - 00:02:05.058, Speaker A: So really has been a lot of it's just been a huge pleasure to work with Holka on hyperserts. This has actually been a collaboration between Super Modular, my new company, and Protocol Labs. We've been building out Hyperserts XYZ together, and Protocol Labs is just really smart, really been a good partner in developing hyperserts, and there's a Pilot app available at Hyperserts XYZ, so we're at a minimum viable product for at least one side of those marketplaces and are starting to think about how could this actually go into the wild over the next quarters? So if you're interested in how do we align incentives so that people can just work for Impact and get paid for that, then this episode is for you.
00:02:05.144 - 00:02:06.258, Speaker B: We did an episode a couple of.
00:02:06.264 - 00:02:40.270, Speaker A: Weeks ago with Legion and Matthew Frelek in which we talked about making Impact Investable or Purchasable and this is kind of an episode that follows up with a tangible example of how that could be done and I'm just really here for it. What if we could create a systemic incentive for people to work on the public good and work on the commons and get paid for it? I think hyperserts is a really interesting primitive for making that happen. But this is a complicated technology build out and if it is obvious, then it'll only be obvious in retrospect. So really good episode with Hulka and I hope you enjoy it.
00:02:40.340 - 00:03:18.950, Speaker C: The world has woken up to refi and celo is here for it. Celo is the layer one for the regenerative finance movement. It's fast planet positive and built for the real world. Celo has committed to producing a sustainable future from day one and has built its technology around one of the lowest carbon impact consensus mechanisms and is the world's first carbon negative EVM compatible layer one blockchain. Celo is a movement to create the conditions of prosperity for everyone. Whether it's tokenizing carbon credits with Toucan, providing capital to underserved communities with unicorn, or building for millions of users around the globe. Celo was created to transform crypto enthusiasts into a movement of change makers.
00:03:18.950 - 00:04:02.426, Speaker C: Follow along on Twitter@cello.org to learn more about how Celo is accelerating refi for a positive, lasting impact on people, communities and the planet. And if you're a builder interested in refi, be sure to join the build with Cello hackathon live now with a prize pool of over $100,000, working in Web Three is awesome. It's freeing, powerful and so much fun. But working outside of the typical W two employee structure is a deal breaker for so many people. Opolis is helping the self sovereign worker focus on what they do best their work, while Opolis manages the back end. There's a lot of nation state overhead when working in web Three, and Opolis takes care of all of the back end stuff, freeing you up to do what you do best your work.
00:04:02.426 - 00:04:35.490, Speaker C: Opolis leverages group buying power through a community employment coop, helping you save 20% to 50% on high quality, affordable healthcare options through Cigna. So do what you love and maintain your financial security with Opelis. You must be authorized to work inside the United States to receive Opelis's benefits. But Opelis is expanding its services to Canada starting on June 1 of next year. So book a 30 minutes free consultation with Opolis experts and join Opolis by December 31 to get 1000 work and 1000 bank tokens. Go to Connect Opolis Co Bankless to get started.
00:04:35.640 - 00:04:40.042, Speaker A: So what are impact evaluators and how do they affect the legitimacy of hyperserts?
00:04:40.126 - 00:06:25.800, Speaker B: Yeah, so basically the basic setup could be that just like some people create impact, some people fund the impact either like prospectively or retrospectively through a hyper Cert. But it really becomes interesting if you add kind of the function of an evaluator because the evaluator would kind of specialize in evaluating an impact. And I'm thinking of like, that's probably like an impact evaluator just for a specific topic or like a specific impact vector, and then this evaluator sends a signal to the retrospective funder or to the funders in general about, was this work really impactful? How did we see over time this impact? And we can also submit multiple evaluations over time to track if there was more and more impact created from this work that has been done. Because sometimes you do work at one point in time, but it actually has impact over a long time period. And we can use evaluations over and over to really see and track the impact and then adjust the rewards to the creators according to that. And the Evaluators, that can be like a full range of either people or mechanisms that are basically used. And sometimes we can just ask the beneficiaries of a public good what they think really about the impact and then the funder can kind of listen to what the beneficiaries really says.
00:06:25.800 - 00:08:29.038, Speaker B: But then sometimes it is more really like something that experts have to really look into very deeply because it is maybe about some technology that is not that accessible to others. So we kind of create kind of a panel of experts that look at it and ideally we would commit to how we really evaluate that impact and how we select the experts up front so that the expectations from the projects again kind of can be formed and they can create these reliable expectations. And then the impact evaluator can also be just like a smart contract that looks at some data and automatically then evaluates the hypersert or the work that is described by the hypersert and that basically points to whenever we create a hypersert. We can also add the functionality that there is either already funding for a certain evaluation mechanism or we can define kind of a smart contract that will automatically evaluate this hypersert later on according to some mechanism that we specify upfront and then the evaluation points basically at the hypersert for all the retrospective funders to actually see and to observe. So we create market signals for the funders which are the most impactful public goods which should they actually purchase in this sense and reward the creators of that hypersert and the creator of the public good. And that again then creates kind of a reputation for certain evaluators. So the more reputable they are, the more often they have actually been right in saying this is really impactful and then later on it turned out to be impactful and other evaluators agree with that.
00:08:29.038 - 00:09:39.310, Speaker B: So it's really like a mechanism where we build up trust in the system for different evaluators and the trust is always kind of the relevant trust is from the funders to the evaluators. So those evaluators who are trusted by the funders, they have a lot of influence about which public goods get funded. And those evaluators who don't do a good job, or they just say, oh, everything was really great. They don't really provide a very interesting signal for Funders, so Funders won't listen to them and they have no influence on the market here. I have two different thoughts on this. Because the impact evaluators, it's a problem. That is currently, when you look at the classic impact markets or like the classic impact sector, there is a problem that we don't see actually a lot of negative evaluations of impact.
00:09:39.310 - 00:11:08.900, Speaker B: Like we don't see a project was funded but it was not the most efficient way of spending that money. We don't see that because currently neither the funders nor the project creators really want to know if their resources or their time were not really used very efficiently. And that's why an Impact report most often actually tells everyone hey, you did a great job and with this mechanism we really incentivize that we have meaningful signals to the funders because the funders have to decide based on this information which hypersets they want to buy and based on which HyperSense they want to buy. That is again, what they can then display on their website to whoever gave them the funding in the first place or to others. If it's a company, to their customers, or if it's potentially also an individual who funded the impact, then you can basically show those hyperserts to actually show what you have done with what kind of good you have caused with the funding that you have. So in that sense hyperserts can turn or the idea when hyperserts become kind of a norm or in retrospective funding a norm, then hyperserts represent something like the new rolex that you show off, like what good you have done in the world.
00:11:11.350 - 00:12:13.682, Speaker A: Yeah, it feels like that reputational economy with the Impact evaluators is going to be really important. And I can almost see different markets being created, not only in different niches, obviously open source funding, Pandemic, Prevention, DSI are all different vectors of impact and they're going to have different sub niches of impact evaluators within them. But if one impact evaluator favors a different methodology or approach or is just more lenient than another one, then you kind of create an economy in which the evaluators that have built the strongest reputation and methodology in a rational market are going to be the ones that are going to create the most demand for their hyper certs. And to me that's kind of a really neat idea is the fact that we could have this diversity of a market of evaluators and there can be all sorts of diverse, different, not only types of impact certs, but ways of evaluating them. And I think that that diversity is important because it allows the system not to be captured.
00:12:13.826 - 00:12:59.654, Speaker B: Yeah, and it points to another thing that we really want to build, like an open ecosystem where every player in the ecosystem can optimize their own function in the ecosystem. So evaluators get better and better and more efficient in evaluating the Impact funders get more efficient in allocating their funding and finding out who are the evaluators to listen to. And with those signals, the project creators. And they can also optimize their own function in the system. And that's how the system overall gets better and better over time. And that is why this is not thought of. Like oh, we just build one system and then it works.
00:12:59.654 - 00:13:36.820, Speaker B: But more building a primitive on which different applications and different evaluations can work and also different evaluator platforms can be developed so that we get really this dynamic that everybody kind of improves their own function of the system. And that's really kind of the power of markets, that it's not centrally controlled, but everybody has incentives to contribute in their own way to the system overall. Yeah.
00:13:39.750 - 00:14:20.270, Speaker A: Clearly I think that this is powerful. You and I have been working on this for about half of a year now. Where do you think one of the questions I always get when I explain this to people is where does the buy pressure come from for these hyper certs? So people typically it's a triple sided marketplace impact, dowels are creating impact. People we think will be purchasing this impact and creating buy pressure for it and then you've got the evaluators in the middle and so once people sort of understand the architecture of the evaluators, the next thing they probe at is where does the buy pressure for this come from? So any thoughts on that side of the marketplace?
00:14:20.850 - 00:15:16.802, Speaker B: Yeah, I think the difficulty is to imagine how that system suddenly is bootstrapped and suddenly exists. I think when we think of a system where retrospective funding became already a norm and it is just like the normal thing to do for those institutions that today already fund impact because we spend a lot of money. Through governments foundations on public goods. We just kind of reallocate that and then also show others how they can more efficiently allocate this money. So maybe there are also like new funders coming into this space. So there's a world in which that is kind of just like the normal thing that happens but the world or the steps towards that world, I think that's the difficulty to imagine that. And that's where I referred earlier to it a little bit already.
00:15:16.802 - 00:16:49.898, Speaker B: But let's start with something like price competitions. We are currently thinking of partnering with Vidadao on the longevity price in order to kind of use hyper certs in that system. So basically we announced some kind of a price on longevity and the Vidadao community, they are working on that currently already. But then when we connect hyper certs with that it is basically whenever this price is actually then paid out, then the retrospective funders, so whoever gave out the price, they receive hyper certs from the projects that kind of won the price competition. And that's just like the first step where we have actual retrospective funding and then if we imagine that this doesn't happen just once but we have a lot of different price competitions where they all run on the same system with hyperserts so on the same primitive. So every project that works in a specific sector kind of uses hyperserts in order to apply for different price competitions. Then later on we can generalize this system where we don't need to actually announce the prices as specific anymore.
00:16:49.898 - 00:18:08.250, Speaker B: But people just know that there will be retrospective funding in the future. So the buy pressure really comes here from funders who got used to funding retrospectively instead of prospectively more or less with the money that they are currently already spending on creating Impact. But they realize that if they do it afterwards, they can allocate their funding much more efficiently than if they just try to bet on different things in the first place because without anything in the future they don't create any real incentives for the project after they got the funding to really create the impact. So it's kind of a mindset shift for funders. And the way to get there is or like one way to get there is through different price competition and probably also for when we just work with some funders who are open to experimentation and see kind of the value of the whole system that they just start doing this. And the more people actually start doing this, the more other funders see the value in funding it afterwards.
00:18:08.990 - 00:19:23.006, Speaker A: Yeah, it does feel like as the mechanism gains legitimacy, it opens up the opportunity for new funders to come in. Some of the ideas that we've talked about is, well, Gitcoin Grants is already doing $6 million per quarter with the funding for open source. What if each of those grants contributions was contributing to a hyper cert? What would it look like if we made hyper certs cool to collect such that you wanted to show them off on your online dating profile? Going from virtue signaling in web two where there's no actual proof of virtue, to proof of virtue in web three where you've actually put your money where your mouth is and have purchased a certain amount of hyper certs. And then you look at organizations that have ESG goals that possibly a way of meeting their ESG goals could be to purchase hyper certs. And that creates buy pressure. And then the ultimate final sort of progeny, or at least supposed to be progeny of the public good is governments. So local, state and national governments, a lot of the funding that they use is or that they're supposed to be using their funding on is creating public good.
00:19:23.006 - 00:20:20.900, Speaker A: And so what if there was a private market of people who are already creating that public good in their community? You don't have to worry about the government administering and creating that public good in communities anymore. They can just purchase hyper certs in their local community, providing a market based incentive for people in their local community to get going. So those are off the top of my head, the actors that I could see creating buy pressure for hyper certs. And I think that the future is quite bright. If you can align that triple sided marketplace, the Impact creators, the hyperserts purchasers and then the Impact evaluators, it feels like bootstrapping those network effects together is going to be kind of part of the challenge here. So what is the status of the project? Hypersearch XYZ exists and what are the initial pilot projects that we're going to run here?
00:20:21.990 - 00:21:42.826, Speaker B: Let me add one thing to what you actually said because I think when we look at the public goods problem in general and we see it as a free rider problem and wherever we can actually make transparent who are actually the free riders, that can also increase kind of the pressure on them. So if we take the case of open source software, we can actually kind of make more transparent who are the ones who use open source software without really paying for it. So that is something that we can not perfectly but approximately we can actually see that and then if those that really use that, they also buy hyper certs from the projects that created the software that they're using. Then there's some kind of, let's call it a leaderboard of those who are the best contributors to the software. They're actually where their tools are based on. And then you have a list of those companies that build software and have a business model and use open source software but they're actually not paying for it. And now we can actually see that because they are not purchasing hyper certs.
00:21:42.826 - 00:22:08.920, Speaker B: So we basically have a list of kind of the good companies and then the bad companies who kind of just free ride on the open source software of others and that also then kind of creates the buy pressure. So that's kind of the thing where we can also work on kind of the shaming aspect of public goods usage without paying for it.
00:22:11.050 - 00:22:20.858, Speaker A: So there's kind of like you're creating a set of the different actors in the system and based off of their hyper certs balances, you can see which ones are supporting the public good versus free riding on it.
00:22:20.944 - 00:22:40.126, Speaker B: Yes, and I mean it's similar to what happened in the carbon market, right. We know which companies actually produce more carbon. So according to that, they also should buy more carbon credits in specific areas like open source software. We can try to create a similar system.
00:22:40.228 - 00:22:54.514, Speaker A: Yes, I think that I asked you a very loaded or I made a very long and loaded comment and then I asked you a question at the end of it and I think the question was where are the pilots that hyper certs are being rolled out in the next few months?
00:22:54.632 - 00:24:00.090, Speaker B: Yes, one thing is that we are developing kind of this primitive and we develop that further thinking currently. How can we also make it easy for different projects also on different chains to use the hypersert primitive and to still have kind of one kind of public good space where all hyperserts live in? Because that's also something cool with the project that a lot of people are interested in using hyperserts and joining this ecosystem that is just like starting right now. But there's a lot of interest. Last week we had a community call with ten different projects, just like pitching how their idea and how hyperserts fits into their project. So that was kind of the first hypersert community call. So we are developing this primitive further and then we want to show that it works in a few different impact markets ourselves. And I already mentioned the potential cooperation with the longevity price.
00:24:00.090 - 00:26:17.438, Speaker B: So running a price competition with hyperserts second is that and you referred to it a little bit already. Can we attach kind of a hyper cert to the Gitcoin grants protocol so whenever we actually have a funding round on Gitcoin, the funders can receive hyperserts or get awarded hyper certs from the projects that get funded. And there more completely. We are thinking about just running a pilot early 2023 on both like ten projects in a specific vertical in open source software, looking back on their impact that they had in 2022 and so running like a retrospective funding round on Gitcoin and then whoever participates gets actually hyperserts awarded from the projects. And that is kind of like a test run to make this really like a module that anybody who runs a grants round with the new grants protocol that they can just flip on a switch of like yes, I want to issue hyperserts with my projects for the funders that support me either prospectively or retrospectively. And then we also look at how can we use hyperserts in our own ecosystem at Protocol Labs, how can we use that in combination with funding in our ecosystem if that is like IPFS or Filecoin or the other projects because we have done retrospective funding already but haven't used hyperset as a primitive yet. But if we can add that and then also track in our own ecosystem the public goods that we fund and then also invite other funders who are also interested in funding some of that technology and kind of combining our strength and funding open source software in our own ecosystem and in that sense, also trying out the mechanisms that we develop for our own projects.
00:26:17.534 - 00:27:05.742, Speaker C: Goldfinge is a decentralized credit protocol with a mission to connect the world's capital to the world's growth. Goldfinch focuses on real yields from real companies, so start lending your USDC to real businesses, driving growth worldwide. Goldfinch's borrowers are proven fintechs and credit funds in emerging markets who need access to Goldfinch's capital to drive economic growth in regions faced with barriers to financial access. In just under two years, Goldfinch has loaned over 100 million USDC, reaching over a million people and businesses across 28 countries. Goldfinch is doing what DFI was always meant to do expanding financial access to those who have historically been shut out of the TradFi system. So become a Goldfinch member to put your USDC to work empowering real businesses growth. Join Goldfinch's new member vault to be an active investor and take part in supporting Goldfinch's security and expansion.
00:27:05.742 - 00:27:53.230, Speaker C: Receive yield enhancements generated by protocol revenue plus access exclusive communication channels and more. So go to Goldfinch Finance to get started. Coinshift is a leading treasury management and infrastructure platform for DAOs and crypto businesses that need to manage their treasury operations. Every crypto.org needs to manage its treasury and Coinshift offers a simple, flexible and efficient multi chain treasury management platform built on top of the highly secure nosis safe. With Coinshift, your organization can go from primitive single chain treasury management to expressive, flexible and multi chain treasury features such as global user management, global contacts, proposal management and many other features that can be shared across an entire organization, allowing users to save time and reduce operational burdens and gas costs. Coinshift even has data tools like account reporting across the seven chains on which it operates.
00:27:53.230 - 00:28:07.474, Speaker C: Used by industry powerhouses such as Uniswap Grants, Balancer, Consensus and Masari. Coinshift is speeding up the coordination and efficiency of the organizations that use it. You have to keep up with the frontier and Coinshift makes that easy. So sign up at Coinshift XYZ Slash.
00:28:07.522 - 00:28:29.150, Speaker A: Bankless so it feels like starting with open source software, starting with things in the filecoin community are the ones that you and I know most just because we spent so much time on those problems. But what's cool is that this is generalizable to any type of impact, any other specific vectors to add to that shortlist?
00:28:30.290 - 00:29:12.110, Speaker B: We have a few on the shortlist. Probably something that we have thought about quite a bit already is also AI alignment and AI safety because that is something that is just so important that we get it right now because the primitives that will define how AI is developed and used in the future, the research and the primitives are defined now. So that's something where we think hyperserts and retrospective funding can also be very helpful for this impact vector.
00:29:12.770 - 00:29:26.210, Speaker A: Yeah, well, if people want to get involved, whether as an impact evaluator, a purchaser of Hyperserts or an issuer of hyperserts, where can they find out more about the project?
00:29:26.360 - 00:30:05.598, Speaker B: Yes, definitely. Just go to Hyperserts XYZ and there you find you can sign up for just like email updates if you want to get email updates from time to time. But if you want to get more involved, join our Telegram group. That's where a quite active community is starting up and ask questions there, introduce you and your project and then join our community calls and get in contact directly telling us what kind of role you would play in this hypersert ecosystem. Great.
00:30:05.684 - 00:30:08.560, Speaker A: Is there anything I didn't ask about hyperserts that you want to say?
00:30:12.210 - 00:30:38.310, Speaker B: There's so much about hyperserts that we can say, but we got a pretty good overview, I believe. Yeah, I think we get through some of the benefits. What does really an interoperable hypersearch system look like? The different roles of the actors we covered that. And the practicalities.
00:30:39.450 - 00:31:03.620, Speaker A: I've got one in a world in which hyperserts is maximally successful. What does that world look like? Take me to it's. 2022 right now. So let's say 2032 there's a deeply liquid set of hyperserts that are being purchased and issued every day or every week and what is the world in which hyperserts is maximally successful look like?
00:31:04.390 - 00:32:24.678, Speaker B: So that's a world where basically all the talent that today is I don't want to say wasted but to some extent wasted on a lot of products that the world actually doesn't really need. All that talent is really focused on the most impactful work that they can do and this is possible because they know that they get rewarded for this work if they are successful and that is kind of the function that hyperserts play here. So all the people who want to start new things they are not thinking about the specific classical business model but they think about impact but in a very similar way. So they are thinking about what is it that will maximize the impact that I can have in a specific area because that is exactly the same as what is it that will get me like a retrospective reward in the future. So those things, those two questions are now aligned and kind of entrepreneurs, social entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs are actually now more or less the same thing. So we don't have that. Some people are for profit entrepreneurs and others are social entrepreneurs.
00:32:24.678 - 00:33:19.050, Speaker B: These are just like fully aligned and that is kind of the status of kind of more the entrepreneurial side. But then there exists a lot of impact. DAOs and other organizations that just found a good way to recurringly produce impact and they found a sustainable model to finance that through hyperserts because they over and over produce impact and funders will then reward them for this recurring impact. So they build then also scalable models for this impact and it's not just like by project by project basis but they can build large scale organizations that become really efficient in providing this impact and get rewarded for that impact.
00:33:19.470 - 00:34:31.780, Speaker A: Yeah, one of the things that's really deeply cool about a lot of well, one of the themes I guess I'd say I'd be seeing on the Green Pill podcast is like, how can we provide a systemic incentive for people to work on the commons and on public goods and instead of have to work on their own private goods? And I think one of the things that really excites me about hyperserts is that it closes the gap between value created and value captured. For entrepreneurs as an entrepreneur you have to worry about capturing value so that you can pay your staff, so you can pay your bills, so that you can continue living and if you could just be rewarded for the value you create then that's much different than only the value you captured. And once that systemic incentive alignment is handled you can take the world's talent and. All of the amazing, beautiful resources and talented individuals in the world and you can reorient them towards working on the most important problems in the world. So it feels like a systemic incentive change. I'm just really excited to see where this goes. I think that there's a lot of upside to getting this right, but it's going to be hard and I hope to have you back in a year or two and we can compare and contrast how things have gone.
00:34:33.670 - 00:34:59.274, Speaker B: That's the interesting thing that the project in itself is kind of like a high potential public good because there is of course, some kind of uncertainty if this like how we really implement this, but if it works, there's really a high potential upside for a lot of other projects to build on this.
00:34:59.472 - 00:35:07.674, Speaker A: Yeah. Are you saying that we should issue Hyper Certs to track the build out of Hyper Certs so that we can have more rewards for building Hyper Certs?
00:35:07.722 - 00:35:40.070, Speaker B: I mean, the nice thing is that currently we don't need to do that and I think it's also like we want to produce this as a public good to get this started and then other people building on top of that so we ourselves don't need to get retrospective rewards for building this. So this is kind of our public good that we are giving to the world and then later on we want to see what kind of impact that really creates.
00:35:40.570 - 00:36:21.430, Speaker A: Yeah, I love that. And while we're talking about the build out of the Hypersearch XYZ platform, I think I want to give a quick shout out to Raid Guild, which has been doing a lot of the legwork on the development and it's been really great working with Raid Guild as a dev team to get that out there. And so you can see the work that they've done. If you go to Hypersearch XYZ and you click on the demo button over there, you can see the demo app that's been up there, or I guess it's called Pilot App on the UI. But it's been really nice to play with that on Testnet. All right, well, I think that's all the time we have. Any last words before we break Hoka?
00:36:22.170 - 00:37:33.006, Speaker B: No, but as you gave a shout out to Rate Guild, I can definitely agree with that. And it's not only the work is really cool that they did, but also just really fun to work with them. And the same is true with everybody else who is involved currently in the Hyperserts project that is like the direct contributors on the team, but also the community that is super excited about Hyperserts, which the community Call just showed. But then in addition to that, all of this came out of the communities from funding the Commons and Shelling point and those are also the communities if you want to get involved not only through a Telegram group but also want to meet the people working on this come to the shelling point and funding the commons conferences. We will have many, many more of those next year, in 2023, because we want to really build out this general public goods community, so also show up in person. We would love to get in contact with more excited people who want to build public goods and build a new ecosystem for that.
00:37:33.188 - 00:37:33.774, Speaker A: Yeah.
00:37:33.892 - 00:37:34.654, Speaker B: Beautiful.
00:37:34.852 - 00:37:39.834, Speaker A: Well, I think this is a good place to wrap. Thanks so much for your work on this and looking forward to seeing how it grows.
00:37:39.962 - 00:37:41.100, Speaker B: Yeah, thanks for having me.
