00:00:00.200 - 00:00:20.594, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deli Gwei refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Zosano, and today's the 4 April 2022. Hi everyone. Let's get into it. So a couple of things just before we get into the news from the weekend. I will be on a Twitter spaces with Dao under on Wednesday, April 6 at 06:00 p.m. Australian Eastern Standard Time.
00:00:20.594 - 00:00:47.928, Speaker A: I think that is quite late us time and early morning european time there. I think it will be recorded. So if you do end up missing out on it, you'll be able to kind of like, I rewatch it or relisten to what I should say. We're just talking about all things Ethereum, something, you know, pretty laid back. Nothing, nothing. Probably too spectacular out of the ordinary for people who watch the refuel every day. I feel like if you watch these other interviews I do with other people, you probably hear the same things that I talk about on the refuel.
00:00:47.928 - 00:01:32.350, Speaker A: But I guess, like, the point is always to reach a newer audience and to guide them towards the daily, to guide them towards learning more about aetherium and things like that. So if you're keen on listening to that anyway, it'll be happening here and I'll link it in the YouTube description. And I recorded two videos today with the popular YouTube channel altcoin daily. Now, we talked about the merge in the first video and then L2s in the second video. I thought it was a really great conversation. And I think that I'm going to be able to reach a much broader audience by talking to the altcoin daily audience because they probably typically aren't daily listeners or viewers, which is really awesome. Like, I always want to reach newer people because of the fact that we need to kind of like educate the broader crypto space about Ethereum, especially around kind of like bad narratives around the merge and how Ethereum scaling stuff like that.
00:01:32.350 - 00:02:14.302, Speaker A: So I was, I was really honored to be invited on to do those videos with Altcoin Daily, which should be out sometime this week or next week, I believe, but keep an eye out for that. I'll share them in the Discord channel once, once they've come out. But it was very, very fun to do that there. All right, so something that I guess is not directly crypto related, but just kind of like got announced was that Elon Musk has taken a 9.2% stake in Twitter, so he's bought 9.2% of Twitter share, sorry, passive Twitter shares here, which makes him, I think, the largest Twitter shareholder. Now, Twitter stock prices up 25% in pre market trading, and Doge is also up because people are speculating that, you know, Elon Musk is going to integrate Doge into Twitter in some way, which isn't a bad thing to speculate on.
00:02:14.302 - 00:02:55.706, Speaker A: He's been pretty consistent with his doge kind of like outlook, but at the same time, who knows, right? So what, what does this mean? What does it got to do with crypto besides the doge thing? I think that, you know, since Jack Dorsey left crypto, Twitter has done a bunch of things that they probably wouldn't have done without Jack Dorsey there, such as the NFT integration. Right. The, the ethereum integrations in general. Uh, and just going more towards the web3 stuff, because Jack Dorsey has not been, I guess, quiet about how much he thinks web3 is just, you know, pointless and the same as the existing, um, infrastructure and not like a step above what we, what we currently have. Uh, and, you know, I've said before that I think Jack Dorsey is basically a bitcoin maximalist. That's, that's probably why he thinks like that. But I don't think Elon Musk is.
00:02:55.706 - 00:03:41.934, Speaker A: I think Elon is still very open to learning more about crypto in general. He said some uninformed things in the past around particularly scaling and how dogecoin could scale and things like that. But, you know, he's with, I mean, you know, he's kind of like spending a lot of time with dogecoin. Vitalik is, is an advisor, I think, to the Dogecoin foundation or something like that. So Vitalik and Elon, you know, having conversations and things like that, then what could end up happening is that Elon could kind of like, use his newfound influence in Twitter to kind of push more ethereum related integrations here. You know, that's kind of like my, my dream, kind of like listen, or at least kind of like features that I would like to see. But other than that, yeah, I think, you know, Elon's been active on Twitter recently, saying kind of like how he believes that the algorithm is, you know, the algorithm's kind of like, not great.
00:03:41.934 - 00:04:09.098, Speaker A: The way Twitter kind of like, handles news and fake news and propaganda and all that sort of stuff is really, really bad. And he's been quite vocal about that. Now, he took this stake in Twitter on March 14, and he was posting about these things, I think, two weeks after that. So he's obviously got some sort of plan here, but it remains to be seen exactly what it is. So, as I said, not, like, totally crypto related, but Elon has been very active within, you know, the crypto space. Just because he's promoting doge, talking about doge, doesn't mean he's not active within it. That's just, like, what he's interested in.
00:04:09.098 - 00:04:42.798, Speaker A: He, you know, Tesla obviously kind of, like, had their bitcoin buy last year, and I think it was last year or the year before. It might have been the year before. God, time flies. But, yeah, there's kind of, like, movements here, so there is relations here to talk about. I'm curious to see if Elon Musk does anything with his newfound staking in Twitter here and seeing kind of, like, what influence he has on a broader spectrum here. But I just wanted to kind of, like, mention that, because I did think it was, you know, not totally crypto related, but something relevant to all of us in crypto. All right, so something that Terrence from Priorlabs tweeted out the other day that I actually didn't know about.
00:04:42.798 - 00:05:00.540, Speaker A: So he tweeted this out saying, fun beacon chain fact. Once 327,680 active validators are reached. Activation. Exit cues rate limit increases from four to five. Every epic five instead of five instead of four, validators can now be initiated. Activation. That happened today.
00:05:00.540 - 00:05:20.660, Speaker A: Okay, what does this mean in plain English? Well, I'll back up for a second. Actually, I didn't know this. Right. I, you guys know, I pay a lot of attention to the Ethereum protocol layer, a lot of attention to the beacon chain, things like that. But I didn't actually know this was a thing. And this was in the code. Like, you could actually go read the code or read an annotated version of the spec, and you could see that this, this existed there.
00:05:20.660 - 00:05:52.530, Speaker A: But it obviously wasn't something that was talked about much because of the fact that we needed to reach, like, a very high active, you know, validate account to kind of, like, get here. And it's not exactly something that is, I guess, like, bullish for the price or anything like that, for example. Right. So it tends to get less coverage. But in saying that, what is really cool about this is that I've talked about this kind of, like, entry exit queue before with the beacon chain. Well, and, you know, the deposit queue, essentially, or the validator entry queue now. Right now, that is quite high because there's a lot of ETH coming in.
00:05:52.530 - 00:06:27.376, Speaker A: There's a lot of validators need to be activated each day. And I think before it changed from four to five per epic, it was about 900 validators that could be activated per day. Now it's 1200. So we've obviously sped this up so the queue will actually clear faster than it would have before. And that's because we've reached a certain amount of active validators as coded into, kind of like the beacon chain. So, I mean, what I find really cool about this is two things. One, the fact that I'm still learning stuff about beacon chain, about Ethereum core development, even though I've kind of, like, engrossed myself in all of it, I, I'm still learning stuff like this, which is just amazing to me.
00:06:27.376 - 00:06:51.528, Speaker A: You know, what else don't I know? Like, I'm gonna have to go back and, and read through it and see what else. I don't know. I'm sure there's other things I don't know here. Um, and, and two, I like the fact that we, that this is actually a thing, right? This is actually a feature where we can actually speed up the amount of validators that can come in once we reach a certain number of active validators. And, I mean, guys, lately, you know, staking has been blowing up on Ethereum. Like, I don't know if it's the. I mean, I suspect it's the fomo of the merge is coming.
00:06:51.528 - 00:07:20.486, Speaker A: People are like, oh, what's the merge? Oh, wow. You know, it's going to be, when Ethereum actually goes through proof of stake, it's going to be really bullish for the price. And I can stake my ETH and get a four or 5% kind of yield right now as kind of like a risk free rate, and then post merge with the unburnt fear of when you're going to stakers instead of miners, those yields could jump up to eight to 10%. Now, to us crypto degens, eight to 10% yield may not sound like a lot, right? But let me, let me put this in context for you. So this is eight to 10% on your ETH. This isn't on stable coins or anything like that. This is on ETH.
00:07:20.486 - 00:07:48.806, Speaker A: When ETH is obviously an asset that will appreciate over the long term. Long term. Well, maybe not obviously to some, but to me it is, right? So not only are you getting eight to 10% yield, you're getting it on ETH. And if ETH goes up, you know, say, two x, from there, it's a lot more than eight to 10% effective yield. Secondly, it's a risk free rate or near risk free, where the protocol is actually paying you this ETH. Right? This is not coming from people taking out leverage. This is not coming from speculative kind of activities.
00:07:48.806 - 00:08:10.102, Speaker A: This is coming directly from the protocol. And, you know, it's, it's, it's constant. It's, it's, it's kind of like known. Uh, it's easy to reason about. And as I said, it's very low risk, especially if you're staking on your own, um, because the biggest risks are slashing. So you actually have to be, you know, actively attacking the network or you, maybe you've had a redundant setup that you, that you set up and it's accidentally signed. Uh, kind of like two things at once.
00:08:10.102 - 00:08:46.638, Speaker A: Um, or, you know, you go offline for too long. But as I mentioned before, going offline isn't actually that big of a deal. Uh, and yeah, even staking with kind of like. I mean, there are the centralization risks as well if you stake with a centralized exchange, but still, like, it's very, very low risk yields compared to other yields in crypto, especially within Defi. And it's a yield that isn't reliant on leverage or anything like that. Like, what I mean by this is that leverage based yields fluctuate greatly depending on what the market's doing, right. But whereas with, with the ETH staking yield, it's going to pay four or 5%, I mean, depending on how much ETH you staked is the yield.
00:08:46.638 - 00:09:23.278, Speaker A: So let's say it's just paying 4%, right? It's going to pay that 4%. If the amount of ETH stays, a stake stays the same, it's going to pay that 4% no matter if ETH is $5,000 or $2,000, right. It doesn't matter. The yield does not change based on that. The yield changes based on how much ETH is staked. So from that perspective, people absolutely love this, right? This is like an Internet bond, essentially, as bankless has been calling it for quite a while. And a bunch of other people have talked about this as well, and then throw in everything else kind of like the merge coming and, and all the other upgrades coming and, and just like the issue introduction with the merge, like, I feel like there's just like a very, very big fomo to get into staking right now.
00:09:23.278 - 00:09:56.190, Speaker A: And that's why we have this, this kind of like, validator queue that's. I mean, the amount of. I think the validator queue is almost 14,000 validators right now, which is crazy, right? That's 14,000 times 32 ETH, which is a crazy amount of kind of like eat that's come in and it seems to have stuck around there. Like we're clearing out validators each day, but there's just more and more people staking and we're at, I think once, once the validator. Sorry, once the, the queue is cleared and once those validators get activated, we'd be at near 11 million ETH staked. Guys, that's absolutely crazy. Like, I mean, that's a lot of ETH, right? I mean, eats market cap is really large.
00:09:56.190 - 00:10:19.684, Speaker A: So even just like eight or 9% of the kind of like, supply, there is a huge amount, tens of billions of dollars. So very, very cool to see, to see all that playing out. But yeah, cool of Terrence to bring up this, this kind of like, fun fact here. I didn't know about this at all. I'm glad that I do now know about this. And I wonder if it jumps up from like to six, from five, if we reach a certain number of active validators from there. So we'll have to see.
00:10:19.684 - 00:10:38.274, Speaker A: Oh, it does happen. There's a comment here when update to six at 380,000 validators. That's not too far away, right, guys? Like, this is cool. I don't know. I'm gushing over this because I just think this is a really cool thing that I didn't know about. Now that I do know about it, I'm just running through the implications in my head there. But, yeah, I mean, there's a couple other things around staking that I wanted to talk about.
00:10:38.274 - 00:11:18.856, Speaker A: And a massive milestone reached by rocket pool over the weekend. They onboarded their 1000th node. And, you know, you can see super fierce here talking about this. I'm sure there are over a thousand nodes now. I haven't checked, but this, this happened two days ago, so this is really cool. You know, that's, that's over a thousand nodes worth of ETH, kind of staking with Rockerpool. And, you know, the funny thing is, like, Rockerpool is doing really well, I think, compared to where they are in their life cycle, they, they're limited in what they can do compared to something like, like a lido because of the fact that they need to spin up, like these new nodes, they're limited by the re, if they can be minted and things like that, especially with the validator queue being the way it is.
00:11:18.856 - 00:11:44.362, Speaker A: But their growth has been really, really nice to see. I would, I would have liked you know them to have, like, grown more than what they are now. But, I mean, look, I don't think it's a big deal. I think Rockerpool, I think Rocket pool is as easy to stake. Like, I'm just trying to run this through in my head. So I say this right, and I get this right. I think rocket pool is as easy to stake it as it is with, with kind of like Lido in that you can buy kind of like Reth, just like you can buy Steve.
00:11:44.362 - 00:12:09.270, Speaker A: But when you want to actually put your ETH in or deposit your ETH into it, it becomes harder. Like, change your ETH into our ETH through the protocol itself. It becomes more difficult because there's, there's kind of, like, more stuff that needs to happen in the background for more ra to be minted. And it can run out very quickly compared to something like Steth. And you can see here, Spencer noon put out a kind of, like, tweet thread looking at some data of, like, where's most of these ETH? Kind of like, coming from? Into the beacon chain. And most of it is coming from. From Lido.
00:12:09.270 - 00:12:51.728, Speaker A: You can see here in the orange is Lido on this chart, which I think is like 70% of the, of the ETH that staked came in March. And you can see, you know, in other months, they've been quite big, but in March has been really, really big. So 70% of the stake that went into the beacon chain was from, from Lido, which, look, it's not the end of the world, at least Lido distributes the stake amongst centralized staking providers and doesn't just concentrate it in one, but it is not exactly ideal. We would like, we would love to see a more kind of like, even distribution of stake, but this is kind of like the reality of what it is today. But in Spencer's tweet, tweet thread here, what he basically says is that he thinks this is new money coming in. This isn't existing money. This isn't people with, you know, ETH that they've already got staking.
00:12:51.728 - 00:13:44.186, Speaker A: He thinks this is new money, especially. You may be institutional big money coming in and staking their ETH. And it makes a lot of sense because if you, I mean, it's been, what, 15 months since the beacon chain went live. If you already had ETH and you haven't staked it by now and, and, you know, staked it when the yields were actually higher because it was less e staked then, if you're staking now, you're a low percent of the people, that would be the ETH that was, that would be going into the beacon chain, I believe. So if it is, which the evidence points to new ETH being staked, new ETH that's being purchased off the active, off the public markets and being staked, that's even more bullish because it means that we're removing supply from the active market of ETH, putting it into staking and people kind of like, and we're getting more validators spun up, which is obviously good for network security and good for sharding when it's implemented and things like that. That to me is the most bullish thing. Like it's all well and good for people who already have ETH to stake it and that's fine.
00:13:44.186 - 00:14:18.252, Speaker A: But, but if we have net new buyers coming in buying ETH and they're not only holding their ETH, deciding to stake their ETH, that's amazing. I really, really like that. Even if it's through, you know, one, the majority is through one provider, I don't think that's actually a huge deal, as I say, because it's Lido. If 70% was going to Coinbase, then I'd be a little bit more concerned. But because it's lido, I'm not as concerned. But obviously, you know, we'd prefer a more equal distribution. Maybe we had like 20% going to Lido, 20% going to rocket pool, you know, 60% going to the other providers sort of thing, you know, equally matched between them.
00:14:18.252 - 00:14:47.712, Speaker A: Ideally, you know, you have some percentage being self stakers and stuff like that. But I do get these days, if you're a new money buyer, there's not that many new money buyers that are going to be able to purchase the 32 ether stake on their own. That's, it's a lot of money guys like, I mean, it just keeps going up too, as the ETH price goes up. So I think the only people are going to be doing that are like big funds and institutions. But even then I don't think they're going to stake on their own. They're going to go through some sort of provider if not setting up their own infrastructure. But I feel like most of the time they're going to go through one of the existing providers just because it's already there for them to use.
00:14:47.712 - 00:15:26.348, Speaker A: They'll pay a small fee on it and maybe they repackage those products for their own customers. If they're an institution, as I described last week, where these traditional finance institutions can repackage those kind of like yields and sell it to their customers and all that sort of stuff there. So I imagine there's a bunch of that stuff going on, but very cool to see that this is most likely new money coming into the ETH staking ecosystem. And yeah, I mentioned, you know, almost 14,000 pending validators on Twitter the other day. The Fomoto stake ETH is real. It is. I mean, it's just amazing to me how, like, in a few months, the narrative around ETH staking, the merge, the Easter introduction, triple hvening has totally come into, like, the limelight.
00:15:26.348 - 00:15:56.390, Speaker A: We now have mainstream media coverage of this stuff on things like CNBC and stuff like that. So it's just, I mean, if you've been watching the refuel since pretty much day one, I'm pretty sure within the first kind of like few episodes I would have mentioned this sort of stuff. And day one of the refuel was, I think, late 2020, I believe it was. So if you've been watching since then, you knew about that since then. If you've been following me before that, you've known about it. And the fact that it took this long for people to clue into it is just hilarious to me. And I think a lot of people even eat bulls.
00:15:56.390 - 00:16:31.564, Speaker A: Underestimated just how uninformed most of the people were, even within crypto around this. And now everyone's suddenly kind of like clueing into it. Everyone's like, ah, you know, holding ETH into the merge and, you know, after the merge is like the most kind of like the best thing you can do, the safest way to kind of like earn money, whatever. Like, I don't, I'm not going to make any comments on what's safe and what's not safe. But look, guys, if you've been around for a while, you're ahead of the curve, that's for sure. Which is, which is, which is obviously really cool. It's, as I said, one of my highlights of doing the refuel is going back and looking at how early I called stuff and how early I kind of told you guys about stuff before it becomes kind of like, you know, mainstream knowledge.
00:16:31.564 - 00:16:57.712, Speaker A: And I always love, I always kind of like, love doing that. So. So, yeah, there's that there. And finally on the staking front, Summer esat has updated his Ethereum staking guide. So he's added info for fallback to ETH one nodes for prism, takeu and nimbus, added steps for pruning geth and added steps to clean up system d logs here. So I've highlighted these guides before on the refuel. They're some of the best guides out there for setting up staking, you know, solo staking your own.
00:16:57.712 - 00:17:33.948, Speaker A: So definitely check out these from summer esat here. I'll link it in the YouTube description for you. All right, so the ultrasound money website has a new dashboard live where they're showing the total value secured by the Ethereum network. So if you scroll down here to the bottom, I believe you can see total value secured on Ethereum. Now this is counting kind of like the ERC 20s on Ethereum. This is counting the ETH on Ethereum, obviously, as well, and nfts and stuff like that. So you can see here that obviously the Ethereum network is securing, securing $416 billion worth of ETH, $320 billion worth of ERC, twenty s and twenty billion dollars worth of nfts.
00:17:33.948 - 00:18:02.926, Speaker A: Now, the nfts are a bit harder to kind of like measure. I think it just depends. You have to kind of like measure the most active ones and then it becomes a bit difficult because there's no active market for them. It's more of kind of like going off the. Maybe the floor prices and stuff like that. But still it's, you know, it's 20 billion here out of the 760 billion, which is, I mean, it's not nothing, but like, obviously RC twenties are a lot bigger. And you can see on the right in the rc 20 leaderboard, stablecoins are, you know, the first, the top three, USDC, USDT and BUSD.
00:18:02.926 - 00:18:25.542, Speaker A: Top three there. And then four is actually Shiba Inu, which is quite funny to see there, one of the dog tokens. And then you have wrapped bitcoin and a bunch of other tokens like CRO Matic Steth, which is like obviously Lido staked ETH. And you can keep scrolling down the list here. So very cool to see this new dashboard. The ultrasound money website is one of my favorite websites. I absolutely love all the information they have on here.
00:18:25.542 - 00:19:12.646, Speaker A: I mean, they just started out with kind of like this burn tracker and, you know, you can simulate the merge and see kind of what the ETH supply is going to be post merge. Now you've got the total value secured thing here, you've got the monetary premium, so you got kind of like ETH's kind of profits compared against other companies and stuff like that and apply, you know, implied ETH price based on this. And you can, you got like sliders here that you can play around with, you know, projecting the supply chart here based on a bunch of different factors and a list of everyone that has the bat signal, which is the ultrasound money signal, in their twitter. Kind of like our name here. Now, one of my most proud achievements is that I'm number one on this list because it goes by follow account, the. The first bit, and then. Sorry, it goes, it goes, it goes by the amount of people that are following you from the fam.
00:19:12.646 - 00:19:24.350, Speaker A: So I have, you know, pretty much all of the ultrasound money people following me as well, which is. Which is pretty cool here. So I really like that. But, yeah, that's a little thing there. And there's a bit of a q and a down the bottom as well. So you haven't checked out this website. Be sure to do so.
00:19:24.350 - 00:19:51.872, Speaker A: It's a. It's a very good one. All right, so immutable has done something that I think more teams need to be doing, and they've shared the kind of. I guess. I guess like they've shared something called an IMX tokenomics portal, which is, they're calling a one stop shop for the token vision and strategy of immutable x in scaling ethereum nfts on l two. Now, you can go to this link here, which is basically a notion kind of document. And you can see on here basically everything got to do with the IMX token.
00:19:51.872 - 00:20:25.106, Speaker A: Now you can go to, like, protocol metrics, grants, dashboard supply schedule, which is obviously something that a lot of people are kind of, like, curious about. And as you guys know, I'm an angel investor in immutable x here. So this obviously kind of, like, affects me. But you can see here, you know, who got in on, sorry, the private sale, what their unlock cliff is, which basically means, like, their tokens are locked for a year and then they unlock. And then they unlock length of two and a half years and unlock frequency of 28 days. You can see public sale, public sale and project development and foundation reserve and the current unlock status, the supply forecast. This is really, really cool.
00:20:25.106 - 00:21:06.974, Speaker A: I mean, this is basically giving you all the information you need to know about the IMX token itself. And then you've got, like, protocol metrics here, a bunch of different ways to kind of like, look at protocol metrics such as transactions, sales, you know, tweets and stuff like that, and team information. And there's just like a bunch of stuff on here. So you can go check this out for yourself. There's the roadmap and stuff, too, and check it all out. I really, really like that they've put this together that immutable has put this together, especially the kind of like token, sorry, where is it, the supply schedule? Because I think a lot of people get scared sometimes where they say, wow, all these tokens aren't circulating yet. Where are they? You know, when are they coming to market? And they want to make a more informed decision with them when they're buying tokens.
00:21:06.974 - 00:21:36.070, Speaker A: And I, you know, I totally get that. I do that too. And it's not usually easy to figure out information. It's usually buried in some documents, if not pub, and sometimes it's not even public. All so the fact that this is just front and center now with all the available information here is something that I really wanted to highlight and you can go check out, I'll link it in the YouTube description for you below. All right, so Starkware has announced something called the Star Gate, Stark Gates Alpha, which is a Starknet bridge. And now it is live on Testnet.
00:21:36.070 - 00:22:03.050, Speaker A: Now this is not to be confused with that project Stargate or layer Zero. That's kind of like using that terminology. This is actually Stocknet's bridge from Ethereum, kind of like layer one into Stocknet L2. And as I said, this is live on, on Testnet now. So this is, as I say, the gateway between Ethereum and Stocknet and allows users to do everything they can expect from a bridge. So if you want to see how it works, you can visit the technical documentation. You can read this blog post for a bit more information on it as well.
00:22:03.050 - 00:22:32.644, Speaker A: This is cool. I mean, the Stocknet ecosystem, as I've said to you guys before, is coming together really, really nicely. And the reason why I'm really excited about the stocknet ecosystem in particular is because it is not your traditional EVM compatible network. We've already got plenty of those and those are awesome and I love them. But I, as I've said before, I do like to see more experimentation happening outside of the EVM. So very cool to see that this is entered kind of like Alfa on Testnet. You can go check out this blog post, I'll link it in the YouTube description for more information on that.
00:22:32.644 - 00:23:04.024, Speaker A: So David Mihal has updated his l two fees dot in fo website to now show what percentage of ethereum l one fees are paid by l two s. So you can kind of like go into total l one security costs here and kind of like see, you know, one day security because I've showed this before and then you can see percent of total. So the current percent of total is actually quite small. Still, it's 0.7%. So out of all the l two s, they're using 0.7% of Ethereum's block space. And I think they peaked at, I would say 1% ish or maybe just over 1%.
00:23:04.024 - 00:23:39.214, Speaker A: And then you can kind of like, see, oh, yeah, here we go, percent of l l two fees. So I think the peak, the highest they've been is 1.4% and they're at 0.7% right now. As I said to you guys, this is going to be a bit of, a, bit of a long journey to get l two phase, sorry, to get, you know, the amount of block space that l two s are using up to those kind of like higher marks, like 1020, 30%. I think it'll happen maybe quicker than we realize once it once again's going. But for now, layer one Ethereum fees are mostly high due to MEV arbitrage transactions, which is also mev.
00:23:39.214 - 00:24:15.708, Speaker A: A lot of people still live on layer one ethereum. There's a lot of kind of like bot activity as well. There's a lot of NFT activity. There's a lot of, you know, drops trading, minting, all that sort of stuff. So I think until that activity moves off, layer one, or at least gets priced out, because I do believe eventually L2s will price out the MEV activity. And MEV is really only profitable a lot of the time when there's kind of like liquidity there to MEV and users and trading going on. But if all that moves to L2s and it's going to become very hard for, you know, Mev to be extracted and then kind of like l two s will keep kind of like eating into that market share.
00:24:15.708 - 00:24:53.594, Speaker A: So right now, you know, on average, I would say they're around kind of like 1% ish of block space, but they're going to go up over time, I believe as kind of like we get more adoption of these l two s and as we, as we kind of continue the journey there. But cool to see this. Check out this website. I'll link it in the YouTube description. So Zappa has announced that if you hold a Zappa NFT of any kind, you can now participate in the beta test of their iOS mobile app. So you can basically join the discord, verify NFT ownership, react with this certain emoji and download the app and feedback form in the iOS app, test the channel. So obviously I'll link this in the YouTube description for you to check out as well.
00:24:53.594 - 00:25:07.398, Speaker A: I got an invite to this a bit earlier, believe it was last week before they kind of, like, announced this. And I played around with the app. The app is very smooth. I really like it. I really love how it. How it plays out. And the reason I got the invite before is because you guys know I'm an investor in Zappa.
00:25:07.398 - 00:25:32.334, Speaker A: So obviously they wanted to get their, their investors kind of like, testing it out and on board with it. But now it's pretty much open to anyone that holds an NFT as a NFT, which is very, very cool. So this is, this is cool because you guys know that I'm not really a big mobile wallet user. I do pretty much all of my transactions on my desktop using my hardware wallets. But in terms of what I use my mobile for, I want to. I'd love to be able to track my entire zapper on my, on my mobile. Right.
00:25:32.334 - 00:25:51.434, Speaker A: Because right now I do it on my desktop, but I. I don't really do it on my mobile. Yes, you can do it if you go to the Zappa website and import everything. But I'd love, like a native mobile, kind of like the dashboard tracker there. That just works nicely on, on iOS because I use an iPhone. And, yeah, I really like that. The fact that they're kind of, like, building this app and I think it's going to bring a lot of value to people.
00:25:51.434 - 00:26:14.048, Speaker A: And they're also building a wallet, by the way. This isn't just an app that's like Zappa itself. They're actually building a full blown wallet, which is, which is definitely going to, going to come in handy for a lot of people as well. So definitely go check this out. Even if you don't own one of the zap nfts, they're pretty cheap to get your hand on one, you know, whether you buy it on secondary or otherwise. So, yeah, if you want to check it out, it's not. It wouldn't be too expensive to pick up one of these nfts either.
00:26:14.048 - 00:26:32.322, Speaker A: Here. All right, so we have a very interesting exploit out of the inverse inverse finance ecosystem that happened over the weekend. You can see here, ego from the block broke it down. So basically $15.6 million was stolen, which is very small compared to the ronin hack we saw. But still, that's $15.6 million worth of user funds that has been stolen.
00:26:32.322 - 00:27:14.814, Speaker A: The most interesting thing about this kind of exploit is that the attacker actually put, put up at risk 901 ETH. So in order to do this expert, they have, they had to risk 901 of their own ETH to get to basically manipulate, I believe it was an oracle manipulation that happened here in order to kind of like still these funds from the protocol. And you can read egos full thread here to check it out. But I mean, I think that's pretty crazy, right? I mean, 901 ethan headmath, maybe $3 million or something like that. If I'm doing my head math correctly, to steal 15.6 million, I mean, obviously it was worth it, but at the same time, that's a big risk to take. It's like you're risking $3 million that could have gone against you if you didn't do the exploit right.
00:27:14.814 - 00:27:31.198, Speaker A: And it didn't work out to make another 15.6, which is. Which is fine. I mean, obviously the payout was. That was a big deal. But yeah, I just thought it was like a big risk that the attacker kind of took here. But I guess unfortunate for the inverse kind of like finance team and the Invoice finance project that they were exploited.
00:27:31.198 - 00:28:33.630, Speaker A: You know, at this point in time with all these exploits, exploits going on, and I've wondered about this before, I feel like 99% of projects are eventually going to be exploited in some way. Whether that's through a white hat where, you know, the bug is found and a white hat is able to kind of like rescue the funds before a black hat does, or there's a critical bug that's been found, it hasn't been exploited, and it gets patched by the team. You know, I feel like 99%, if not 100% approaches are going to go through this in terms of what actually gets exploited and funds that get kind of like stolen and funds that get stolen and that aren't kind of like recovered or reimbursed by the protocol. You know, it's probably, probably going to be a decent percentage as well. So it's always good to think about these sorts of things and think about the risks as well. And this is why I always bring up risk with you guys, because no matter what protocol you're using, even the ones that are extremely battle tested and are like the golden childs of Ethereum and of Defi, such as Uniswap and maker and RV and compound, I mean, all of these things can have bugs in them. All of these things can be exploited in some way, whether that's via direct exploit on the contracts or whether it's an oracle manipulation or some other kind of economic exploit, these things can happen.
00:28:33.630 - 00:29:23.942, Speaker A: So it's always good to play it safe. And that's why I was talking about before with the, the beacon chain yield for staking your ETH. It's near risk free because of the fact that, yes, there can be bugs in there, but it's a, the beacon chain is a lot easier to reason about because it's not doing any of the, you know, I mean, it's doing a lot of really fancy stuff under the hood, but it's not doing a lot of the stuff that has a large attack surface, like what, what Defi does. Because with Defi, you have the economic exploits, which are quite, quite intricate. I mean, you have the oracle exploits which, which are, which are a big deal, and then you have a bunch of other ones that can be done as well, such as kind of like exploiting the, the borrowing rate or the, or the kind of like funding rates and kind of like, kind of like flooding the market with, with a certain asset and then withdrawing another one. There's a bunch of fancy stuff you can do here, and I'm sure we're going to see more of them. But yeah, anyway, I just wanted to kind of like point that out.
00:29:23.942 - 00:30:12.792, Speaker A: It was an interesting kind of like, kind of attack here. Raider Igor's thread for a full breakdown on how that one worked. All right, so Scooby Truples has a really, really good thread that I want you all to read on Steth and Reth vaults on Alchemyx, and basically all the ways that you'll be able to kind of like earn an even greater yield on your ETH or on your staked ETH derivative tokens such as Reth and Steth. Now, obviously there's additional risk here, but I mean, you can see all the use cases that Scoopy has talked about. So use case one, turbo staking, getting eleven to 13% on your ETH is good, but what about 22% to 26%? You can leverage your borrowing for two times leverage, effectively doubling your apy. You can self liquidate your position to exit with your original deposit plus earned yield at any time. Obviously extra risk here, guys, but huge.
00:30:12.792 - 00:30:48.762, Speaker A: I mean, 22% to 26% yield on ETH, like paid in ETH is crazy. Like seriously crazy. That's, that's, that's a really cool use case there. Uh, use case to spend and save, you know, love. Do you love your precious ETH stack and can't bring yourself to sell it, but also want to realize some of your newfound wealth where you can deposit into alchemyx, borrow al ETH and cash them out? Watch as your debt gradually melts away because it's a self replaying loan. It's going to pay that debt back with an ETH stake deal there, cash out plan, you know, think basically DCA ing out and in and stuff like that. You know, there's other, I mean, this, he's got like seven use cases here, which I highly recommend giving a read.
00:30:48.762 - 00:31:21.958, Speaker A: But this is what's going to happen, guys. Like we're going to have the vanilla ETH staking yield, then we're going to have the derivative yield, then we're going to have the turbocharged derivative yields. And I wouldn't be surprised to see 50 plus percent dj and yields on staked ethics probably even higher than that, depending on like the market action and some of these yields, or a lot of these, these higher yields will actually depend on market action. So if the market's hot, the yields will be kind of like higher. If the market's quiet, the yields will be lower. But you're still always going to get that vanilla yield from the protocol itself, which isn't relied on market forces. So that's really, really cool and really bullish.
00:31:21.958 - 00:31:34.534, Speaker A: But give this thread a read, obviously be in the YouTube description below. I'm running out of time. Gone over time. I knew I was going to go over time on this episode. It was so much to talk about. But there's one last thing I wanted to talk about, which is probably gonna take me about five minutes. So this episode is gonna be a long one today.
00:31:34.534 - 00:32:16.688, Speaker A: But a walkie shared a meme on Twitter where he's got like a picture of I guess I think that's Jesus. I don't want to insult anyone by getting this wrong here. I'm not a religious person, but I'm gonna assume that's Jesus talking to a bunch of people and, and they're saying, you know, I give you the tools to end climate change, poverty and corruption. And the people then ask when moon when? Token, we all know this, right, guys? Like, this happens so much in, in the ecosystem when we have all these amazing tools. We can do so much good with these tools, but most of the time, people only care about making money from them. And I've talked about this before in, at length where I've said that making money is fine, especially people who are new to the ecosystem and their only goal is to make money because maybe they don't have much and they really want to create a lot of wealth. That's totally fine.
00:32:16.688 - 00:32:57.112, Speaker A: But I think there is a kind of like a fine line to tread here. And I think that when you think about the greater good of society as a whole. Making money is a lot of the time, very good for the individual, because obviously the money is going to help you in your own life, and it's going to help you do things to improve your own life. But as a collective, it can be very poisonous. Like, for example, if you make a lot of money and then you give none of it, none of it back, it kind of like results in what we've been seeing with, like, the 8th Corps developers saying, you know, not being paid enough, right, public goods not being funded enough, leading to tragedy of the commons and stuff like that. And then people not embracing the tools to kind of like, you know, fight these existential issues such as climate change, poverty and corruption. And I think we can do better.
00:32:57.112 - 00:33:32.256, Speaker A: We can do a lot better. And I think it's gonna take a while for us to get to the point where we do better. Yeah, because this stuff is definitely secondary to the money making aspect of crypto. But as I've discussed with you guys before, when I talk to people outside of crypto about what I do, like, people ask, you know, what do I do for a living in real life? Whether it's family members or extended family members or other people's family members, I describe it to them. I first start off by saying I'm in the cryptocurrency industry because I know everyone knows about cryptocurrency. I'm not going to mention Ethereum because there's a lot of people, surprisingly, they have never heard of Ethereum. So I just mentioned cryptocurrency, and then I'm like, oh, yeah, you've probably heard of bitcoin as well, blah, blah.
00:33:32.256 - 00:34:04.266, Speaker A: And then they're like, oh, yeah, isn't that all a scam? Or, you know, isn't that all kind of like, just kind of like a pump and dump? Like, I see all this stuff about people losing money, and then they've heard of nfts and stuff like that. And I, and then I spend the next, like, 1015 minutes explaining what I do and explaining how there's this whole other side to crypto, the tech side that you don't hear about in the mainstream media. And they get really interested at that point. A lot of them do end up getting very interested. They're like, holy shit. Like, I had no idea that this side of kind of like cryptocurrency existed because they still think cryptocurrency is all currency. They still think it's just money.
00:34:04.266 - 00:34:40.250, Speaker A: And they're like, oh, the government's going to ban it or it's not going to work, because how can you have a money that goes up and down in value? And then on that note, when they say that, I explain to them just like, well, your dollar's go up and down in value, too. You're just comparing dollar to itself. If you compare the dollar to what things you can purchase with it, whether it be or just fiat currencies in general, if you compare it to things you can purchase with it, your purchasing power goes down over time. And I use the classic example right now of people's utility bills, especially in Australia. They're actually going up quite a bit. I say to them, how much of your bills gone up recently? And they're like, this, this such and such. I'm like, okay, well, then your dollars haven't been stable against your bills, have they? And it starts ticking.
00:34:40.250 - 00:35:02.998, Speaker A: It starts ticking in there. But that's kind of like, you know, a side note there. And that's more on the kind of, like, money front of things. But then I explained to them, you know, how these tools can actually be used to do better coordination or have better coordination with humanity. I tend to lose some people when I, when I talk about this because this is, like, deep crypto stuff, but some of them are interested in it. They're like, okay, well, you know, I can see how this could work. You know, a lot of them say, oh, yeah, there's a lot of corruption in the government.
00:35:02.998 - 00:35:29.456, Speaker A: We need. There should be a better way to kind of, like, organize. There should be a better way to do this, such that, blah, blah. And when I start talking about social media as well, and I say to them, social media has, like, you know, kind of, like, not destroyed society, but, like, I think on Netflix maybe made society worse off, at least kind of like democracies, because of the fact that there's so much bad information out there now. And it just kind of, like, hits people, and they find that. Find it very hard to kind of, like, go, go through the noise to find that signal. But I truly do believe crypto plays a part in all of this.
00:35:29.456 - 00:35:55.000, Speaker A: And that's what I explained to them. And, and they do. They do get it. And some of them aren't really interested in it, but, you know, a lot of them, a lot of them do get it. So, yeah, I mean, I just thought this was a great, great, kind of, like, meme from a walkie here that kind of, like, really explained exactly what's, what's going on. Like, everyone just cares about money a lot of the time in the crypto ecosystem, which, as I've said, is totally fine. Guys, it is not something that's bad necessarily, but I think that what, you know, you gotta need, a lot of people should look beyond money.
00:35:55.000 - 00:36:16.206, Speaker A: You can make money, but then think about how you can give back on, obviously, Gitcoin grants, other public goods funding like the protocol guild and stuff like that. I think that's always a worthwhile cause to think about there. But anyway, on that note, after this very long episode today, I'm gonna end it there. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow.
00:36:16.206 - 00:36:16.694, Speaker A: Thanks, everyone.
