00:00:00.320 - 00:01:05.826, Speaker A: Hi everyone. My name is Ken. I lead our institutional business at Pendle, so I deal primarily with institutional LP's to come in and provide liquidity into trade by Alan Pendle. So today I'll be sharing a little bit about the emerging defi yield markets. And to us, yield, or APY, is the number one product in DeFi. And if we think about where we were in the last DeFi summer in 2020, where obviously we saw concepts like liquidity mining being pioneered by the likes of synthetics and compound later on to more DJ designs like OhM and Alice in Wonderland, triple digit APY's good old days, you know, obviously we've matured a lot since then, but that was when we first saw strong demand for yield, and we saw the first billion TvL in the middle of 2020, and we have matured a lot since then. So today, clearly, we have different types of reliable and sustainable sources of yields in different categories.
00:01:05.826 - 00:02:29.070, Speaker A: So we have ETH, either liquid staking or restaking protocols such as Lido, as well ETH effect health, as well as PermDex protocols, which generate real yields through fees for LP's like GMX. GMX was our largest build at one point, and we now have obviously more interesting innovations from the likes of Athena, which is basically a tokenized position of a basis or carry trade. Now, on this chart, which is a chart on trapfire rate markets, and you can see that the highlighted portion that represents specifically the interest rate swaps markets, which is the largest market in the world with over 500 trillion in notional value. So if you look at where we are in DeFi today, obviously a fixed rate market, or re market in general, is quite small. And even when you look at the entire crypto space, when it comes to market cap, we're about 2 trillion. So if we can use treadfi as a goalpost or an analogy, we have a long ways to go before DeFi is able to mature. Now, the challenge that we have in DeFi is that we would have to create.
00:02:29.070 - 00:03:15.168, Speaker A: Pendle is trying to create rate markets in a Defi native way, simply because we can't do it the same way that trapfight does. There's a lot of reliance on counterparty trusts, centralized clearing houses, legal agreements, and so forth through OTC counterparties. So the way that we do it is to make more tokens to split the yield bearing asset. Let's call this lidocaine into a principal and yield portion. And it is through this mechanism that is actually very similar to bond stripping and trap funding, whereby you would have the principal to open up PT for short. That is basically a zero coupon bond that is discounted and converges to maturity at par. And that's how you realize a fixed yield.
00:03:15.168 - 00:04:09.978, Speaker A: Inversely, you have a yield token where there is a premium upfront which eventually decays to zero, but during the holding period, you would accrue the yields over time. And this is a quick timeline on Pendle. We were actually, we launched actually in 2021, and I would say in v one of our EMM, we took a long time to get some significant adoption transactions were very expensive. In v one of our EMM, it was very capital inefficient, and we had very insignificant TVL. It was only once we launched the v two of our EMM, which improved a lot on the capital efficiency, improved a lot on the contracts that we had as well. And that's where we saw the first uptick initially from the whole LSD boom that we had in early 2023. At one point, we had 50%.
00:04:09.978 - 00:04:51.564, Speaker A: Over 50% of our TVL was locked in lsds. We also explored different narratives within the defi yield space, including rwas. We had pulls on SDI from Spark, as well as Ondos f USBC. We also experimented with perplexes that did very well. GLP was our largest pool for quite a while, as well as lending and money markets like Aave USDC as well as curve USD. But all of that kind of pales in comparison to the momentum that we've had this year with the whole LRT boom and the whole points meta. That's where we first crossed our first billion in January in TVL.
00:04:51.564 - 00:06:06.514, Speaker A: And, you know, we hit our 2nd third, and at the peak we were about 6 billion Tvl and over 20 billion in cumulative trading volumes. We also saw a lot of pickup and adoption from large whales, obviously, as well as liquid funds, institutional investors, other DeFi protocols that were also building on top of Pendle. Now, I think points is also an interesting point to bring up. So we were huge beneficiaries of the whole Eigen layer narrative, as well as the hype around points around Eigen layer specifically. And in addition to that, we had LRT issuing their own points. And this is a very interesting use case that we were quite surprised with, because I think if you think about how activity was initially incentivized in DeFi is typically through airdrops. But the issue with airdrops is that the requirement for users are quite vague, and users have to basically guess what they had to do to get those airdrops points, in our view, is a way to quantify and to make it more transparent as to how much you would earn in terms of the upcoming airdrop.
00:06:06.514 - 00:07:04.822, Speaker A: So points in a way is a new source of yield in DeFi and a way to farm more yield. So with the whole points meta, I think users got really excited in the first half of the year farming different types of points from eigen layer LRT points and so forth. And it is our view that from our experience this year, we think that points are here to stay for a couple of reasons. Obviously, that encourages users. It bootstraps initial community traction activity for protocols, but more so than that with points speculation and points trading on handle. That actually encourages early price discovery for these pre ETG tokens and points. If you think about it, it actually reduces the variance and surprise and upside and downside for what the tokens would eventually be valued, which then leads to a better token and airdrop experience, making it better for protocols to go to market.
00:07:04.822 - 00:07:52.350, Speaker A: And also by working with different communities, with panels, community as well with other protocols that helps expand the community and kickstart the protocols economy as they go to market. And the next couple of charts just shows our TVL. Obviously you can see starting from January this year, we saw a huge uptake in terms of TVL. At the peak, we're about just shy of 7 billion TVL, and also a lot of demand to trade these points and these different assets hitting. I think we hit about 23 billion at the moment. So from the past six months, I think some of our key takeaways are that the points matters here today. I think there's a lot of demand to speculate and trade these points.
00:07:52.350 - 00:08:51.874, Speaker A: And we realize that when we hit the right narrative, as you can see from this insane like j shaped curve, when you get the right narrative, when you nail it right, the results can be really exponential. Not just about points trading, but there's also a flip side to that. The huge demand to bid for points creates a market for those who are short points to basically forego those points and receive a good amount of fixed yields via PT. So a common question that we get is what's next for Pendle and what's next in the space? I think, you know, with the position that we have with restaking and the whole points meta, we want to maintain the foothold and our sustained involvement in a space with the likes of symbiotic Karak Zergit. I think there's some interesting players. At the same time, we want to maintain continuous innovation. We want to be experimental with new potential upcoming narratives, one of which is the bitcoin ecosystem.
00:08:51.874 - 00:09:51.866, Speaker A: I think there's a lot of demand from our LP's who are already invested in the space, and they want to see what we can do in that sector, as well as emerging l one s that are coming to market either in the second half of this year or next year. In addition to that, currently we're on v two of our EMM. We will be launching V three, ideally targeting January next year. And v three will be in parallel to v two separate products. So not too much to share, but in terms of the intention and motivation behind v three is that we do have some limitations, and we recognize some limitations with v two. So on the risk side, I think we do a good job in making sure that it's fully collateralized, but it also means that it's capital inefficient, and it's hard to trade in large sizes, especially on the YT side, without significant price impact. And it also limits the type of assets that we can support.
00:09:51.866 - 00:10:18.626, Speaker A: And we're limited to the chains that we're on. For example, if we want to be, if we wanted to create a market on MSOL and Solana, we would have to deploy an instance of Pendle on SVM. And that's a huge cost for us as the team is mainly EVM. So v three more to come soon and more to share. And with that, I'd just like to conclude the short session today. We are. I think we're still very early in the stage.
00:10:18.626 - 00:10:36.230, Speaker A: There are still a lot of players that are yet to come to market. And I think the innovations, hopefully those don't end the cycle. And, yeah, we're looking forward to working with top quality teams and space. Thank you. Any questions?
00:10:36.930 - 00:10:55.840, Speaker B: Yeah, I kind of have one, because Pando is quite related to the risk taking market, and they're correct. I got there. And symbiotic, how do you think the restaking market can sustain in the long term? Because, like, how can they ensure this enough revenue generated for evaluation?
00:10:55.880 - 00:11:22.310, Speaker A: That's a very big question. I think in the short term, a lot of the expectation is that most of the AV's yields will be in the form of air drops. When it comes to the long term sustainability of those yields, it's a big question mark, and I truly do not know, but I think the baseline is that it will be higher than where it is today in terms of the liquid staking side. So there is demand, at least on that front.
00:11:23.210 - 00:11:32.898, Speaker B: Yeah, and also for the point trading for AMM design, are there any problems that you think we can improve in terms of the point trading?
00:11:32.954 - 00:12:06.820, Speaker A: Yeah, great question. I think on the points trading, which is primarily trading yt at the moment, with our current implementation, it's quite. Liquidity is quite thin on the front. So, for example, if you wanted to buy six figures, not even seven figures, six figures of Ytdev, that would move the implied yield on pental by quite a bit. And that is because that amount of YT represents a larger amount of PT, on the other hand, of the trade, and that impacts the amm quite a bit, which is what we're trying to address with v three.
00:12:08.240 - 00:12:17.158, Speaker B: Yeah, looking forward to v three. And also, just one more question. How do you think about gear of gearbox this kind of year?
00:12:17.344 - 00:12:33.390, Speaker A: Yeah, I think anyone that is building in the same space that we are, especially if they are complementary to our markets, if they are creating more use case for panel assets, we're very, very supportive and we want to create more dependencies in defi for panel assets.
00:12:34.090 - 00:12:38.570, Speaker B: Cool. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah. And we have our last speaker.
