00:00:02.810 - 00:00:19.226, Speaker A: Yeah. So welcome, everyone, and thank you to Kyon for inviting me over to this wonderful venue. I don't think I'd ever be able to present in such a beautiful location reception room. But yeah. Thank you, Ernest, for, like, a great intro of myself. But yeah, I'm JK. I used to work at Steakfish.
00:00:19.226 - 00:00:52.938, Speaker A: I was the head of business and strategy there. And steakfish, for those of you who don't know, was a pretty big validator a across multiple chains. Just a quick question. Who here has worked on validators or running validators? Cool. Yeah, so this product will be for you guys as well, but for other people as well, but hopefully that you find this interesting. So, yeah, I've started a company called Apibara, and let me just first start off by explaining what Apibara is a bit. So Apibara itself, our goal, mission is to bring more transparency and accessibility to the staking ecosystem.
00:00:52.938 - 00:01:38.646, Speaker A: Defi NFt. I myself have done a ton of farming on, you know, and Defi NFTs, of course, is bringing the mainstream into crypto. But let's be fair, staking is a really sizable market already. And yet I cannot name you at least like five different dashboards where you could track your staking portfolio assets, how you're performing, and think about NFT and Defi, where I could definitely name you at least two, three good dashboards where you could keep track of stuff. So let me tell you and emphasize why staking is important. And for validators, this might be familiar, but for those of you who aren't familiar, at least you might have heard of lsts, right? Lsts are really taking center stage. This is taken from Defi, llama, and liquid.
00:01:38.646 - 00:01:55.854, Speaker A: Staking is like the top of all the defi activities. It has the largest TbL. But here's the thing. LST rewards don't just come out of nowhere, out of thin air. It doesn't come out of creative tokenomics. It's not like you're trying to farm governance tokens. And it doesn't come from providing liquidity.
00:01:55.854 - 00:02:50.450, Speaker A: LST rewards actually come from validator and staking economics behind the scenes. And what that means is that as validators perform work on a chain, whether they're proposing new blocks, testing on new blocks, or processing transactions from users, this is where the actual yield rewards, whatever you want to call it, comes from, on lsts. And let me dive a bit more deeper then. And you would imagine, like, validators are all created equal. And if you start staking, you get rewards automatically. But let me take polygon as an example, on polygon, each validators need to report on chain on Ethereum, a checkpoint where they say, oh, this is the state of polygon, and they commit that to Ethereum. This happens roughly every 40 minutes, and they only earn rewards if they post a correct checkpoint on Ethereum.
00:02:50.450 - 00:03:26.778, Speaker A: And you'd be surprised that currently, today, about 10% of all stake was delegated to validators that are really not up to speed. And this means that you're earning subpar rewards by delegating or staking with these validators. So if we extrapolate this annually, that's about like $300,000 worth of rewards just left on the table. The stakers could have easily just staked with the right proper validators and actually earned that 300k. But alas, that's not the case today. So there's a real big impact of actually underperforming stake. You're losing out on rewards.
00:03:26.778 - 00:04:03.210, Speaker A: And of course, if you have these subpar validators, that means the protocol is just slower. You have less security on a protocol. There's some cool tools, of course, out in the market today, and I wanted to give them a proper shout out. Like rated has some really good analysis on Ethereum validators. Stakeandroars.com also has a pretty good overview of staking yields. And they do have a verified validators program where they do some off chain audits around how validators are operated, and also observatory zone by rockaway labs where they score validators for different decentralization metrics, primarily on the cosmos ecosystem.
00:04:03.210 - 00:04:48.646, Speaker A: And so we wanted to throw our hats in as well. At Apibara, we wanted to help join these other projects and really help provide more transparency around the staking ecosystem. And the way we tried to approach the first product that we wanted to build out was we thought through what DeFi llama did for DeFi. Before DeFi llama, it was very difficult to understand how different DeFi protocols ranked against each other, which DeFi protocol you should really pay attention to. So, similar to what DeFi llama has been able to do for DeFi, we want to do something similar for the staking. Yeah, that's the main sentence that we're using. We want to help empower users to make knowledgeable staking decisions.
00:04:48.646 - 00:05:33.014, Speaker A: And so therefore, we've focused on two key themes. So we wanted to really try to provide the ecosystem with the latest benchmark rates around staking. And I'll show you how that looks in a bit. And then also we wanted to create a cheat sheet to help you understand how staking works because if you don't know the risk profiles of staking well, are you really making the most knowledgeable decision? So we're happy to announce to the public for the first time that we are launching protocol staking, which is Apibara's first product. Thank you. So protocol staking beta, we're going to be announcing this about 4 hours. It's currently live today.
00:05:33.014 - 00:06:20.610, Speaker A: You could check it out at protocolstaking info and this is where you could check out the latest statistics. So you could check out like the total value staked roar rates, staking ratios and inflation rates for different protocols. And I'll show you in the next couple of slides how this looks today. So this is how it looks today. Beautiful. We have 50 protocols supported and outside of Ethereum's role rate, where we do rely on rated data, comprehensive data, all the other data points here, we've manually gone through documentation code bases to really understand how to calculate each of these numbers. And so you could already see the top five chains based on total value stake is like Ethereum, Solana, Cardano, Apdos and BNB chain.
00:06:20.610 - 00:07:12.242, Speaker A: You could already start doing some cool stuff by like for example, sorting by inflation rate. Some of you, or most of you may be surprised that TrON is disinflationary and is the lowest actually disinflationary token, primarily because they have a ton of transactions. So you could already start teasing out these interesting insights by just filtering through, just looking through the data. Also, this is another insight that I wanted to just show people. This is like the top eleven total protocols ranked by total value stake. TBS. You could see there's definitely an outlier, which I would name out like Cosmos Hub, where they have an inflation rate of like 17%, which definitely is eye catching compared to the other protocols.
00:07:12.242 - 00:08:14.650, Speaker A: Sui is sort of an outlier also, but they have a separate issue where they have a pretty low float, they have very low circulating supply, which is why they have a pretty high inflation rate. Let me just skip through this one. So that's a bit about protocol staking and it's live today. We are also rolling out API access so that any validators, any data companies, anyone who has end stakers as users can really utilize all that data that you just saw there. And it should be extremely powerful, especially even if you're not a staker, if you're a defi trader or just like a regular trader, these rates are going to be very important and I'll show you an example of that in a bit. Next up, I do wanted to highlight a protocol staking learn. So as we put all that data points together, as I mentioned, we're going through all these documentation, and it's very like staking on Ethereum, Polkadot and Cosmos is extremely, extremely different.
00:08:14.650 - 00:08:50.050, Speaker A: The risk profiles, how rewards work, it's all over the place. So we try to summarize that as much as possible at protocol staking learn. This is how it looks today. We have some really nice calculation notes to let you know how we put together the numbers that you just saw earlier. And we have some footnotes to let you know that there are some assumptions that we needed to take in order to standardize the data that you saw earlier. As an example, Cosmos hub. The inflation rate functions slightly different on the Cosmos hub.
00:08:50.050 - 00:09:22.062, Speaker A: And so we try to explain like, oh, we've actually applied the actual block times of the Cosmos hub to really calculate out the numbers that you saw earlier. So you could see all sorts of assumptions that we took on the data addendum section. But I think most importantly, so on the bottom here, you'll see that we have the detailed explainers for all the 50 protocols. We summarize how staking works. Let's take Ethereum as an example. On Ethereum, there's like protocol time called slot. Of course, that's where you could propose a block, but not necessarily so.
00:09:22.062 - 00:10:18.258, Speaker A: There's a slot every 12 seconds, and 32 slots create one epoch. And every epoch is when new validators come in, validators. That exit goes out where you get rewards. So we try to summarize and create a table of just helping you understand how staking functions on each of the protocols. And we have a really nice diagram of when you start staking, when you could start expecting your rewards, when you start unstaking, when can you expect all your stake to be unstaked? We also have a nice table of just thinking through the risk profiles. Like, are there penalties slashing? Can you compound your rewards? Is there a minimum stake amount, which of course, Ethereum has of 32? E and lsts, of course, are a way to get around this. So, yeah, let's take an example of how this would apply in the real world, how our app could be used, especially even for from a DFI trader, or like a trader's point of view.
00:10:18.258 - 00:10:58.478, Speaker A: So you could start off with a learn page to learn about atom staking, the Cosmos's native token. You can learn about its different risk profiles, like how frequently you could earn rewards. You could take your time on this, and then you could come to our main app to understand that. Look, Cosmos Hub is currently yielding about 22.42% of rewards. Cool. But how could I use this information further? Well, interestingly, if you look at different lending protocols on Cosmos, namely, there's UmI and Mars protocol, which are like the two biggest lending protocols on Cosmos, you could see, to borrow, on UMI, it's only 11.7%,
00:10:58.478 - 00:11:53.262, Speaker A: and on Mars protocol, it's 1740 1%. And you could easily see, as a Defi trader, or trader, there's an easy arb to be made here, because you could borrow the assets here and then just stake it, which is effectively almost a risk free yield. But, of course, keep in mind there's going to be smart contract risks, et cetera, et cetera. But still, point being that, look, there is an arp, potentially. So hopefully that shows you how you could start thinking about staking and how it could really become an input into your decision making of your crypto assets. So, just to give you a heads up about our upcoming roadmap, we are planning to support time series data so that you have a more comprehensive understanding of how rewards have fluctuated over time. We'll have more validator specific statistics so that you understand which validators are actually performing well.
00:11:53.262 - 00:12:51.742, Speaker A: And then we'll have address level statistics, which is going to be super powerful, because once you input your address, what we envision is that we want to make sure that you understand how your stake has performed over time and help you optimize your stake. Yeah. So everything comes back and ties back to that initial sentence that I told you, that we want to really help empower users to make knowledgeable staking decisions if we go a layer deeper. What we mean is that we want to help users stake with a peace of mind, with good understanding of how staking works, and help them earn the highest rewards, going even a layer further than that. As I mentioned earlier, we want to help users make knowledgeable decisions on staking. We want to make sure that protocols have really healthy validators. And hopefully, we're hoping that by being able to distribute stakeout to really strong performing validators, we help create a healthy set and a decentralized set of validators on any protocols that uses proof of stake.
00:12:51.742 - 00:13:28.954, Speaker A: And this is our way of contributing to the general crypto ecosystem. I'm running out of time, but just really quickly going through these, the point I wanted to make is that, look, the current validator set is not going to be the most optimal set. If we look at historically, even for miners, mining pool shares have fluctuated crazy over time. Some of them have actually gone out of business. Newcomers came in and you would think this only applies to miners. Well, I got a pushback that you're wrong. Even for lsts.
00:13:28.954 - 00:14:12.678, Speaker A: Lsts have changed over time. I don't know if you guys remember, but during, in 2020 or early 2021, there were different lsts that came out, but they died off. I'm quite sure none of you recognize, for example, Ve, where I think they did have a pretty serious issue on how they control their keys. But, yeah, just trying to prove the point that LST's validators are going to keep circling out, and our goal is to make sure that we keep converging to an optimal set. So, yeah, that's a bit about Apibara and protocol staking. You could follow us on Twitter. We're going to make our first announcement in a couple of hours, and then you could, of course, visit our website at protocol staking.
00:14:12.678 - 00:14:22.160, Speaker A: And if you're a validator, if you're a data company delegator, protocol, if you're interested in staking at all, we're interested in talking with you, so please come find me. Thank you.
00:14:33.410 - 00:14:46.150, Speaker B: Actually had one. How do you guys maintain, particularly for the protocols, taking info, like, the details of each protocol, how do you guys keep that up to date? That must be a big task.
00:14:46.650 - 00:15:42.246, Speaker A: Yeah, that's a good question. So we've spent at least three weeks to four weeks now just basically creating these different, like, we call it internally a circuit breaker, where we're monitoring for any data weird outliers, because that should tell us that there's going to be a protocol upgrade or there's some economic factor that changed. And so this is sort of our way of trying to stay on top of all the protocols. But also we have plans potentially in the future, to really have bounty programs, because we feel like, yeah, it's going to be difficult for us to monitor all 50 chains, but the community members in each of the protocols are incentivized to make sure that the information is correct. And they're really passionate, so it would just take a slight nudge for them to really feel incentivized to help correct any inaccurate information. So this is like the two ways we're trying to approach the problem of trying to stay up to date across 50 protocols. And 50 protocols is not the end.
00:15:42.246 - 00:15:50.560, Speaker A: Let me just make it clear. We want to support as many protocols as possible, similar to what DFI, llama has done for DFI. Thank you, guys.
