00:00:00.330 - 00:01:09.250, Speaker A: You. I think the next nuance for how smart contracts, and hybrid smart contracts in particular, will have a very positive impact on the environment is basically more and more advanced carbon credits and more and more advanced incentives for reforestation, carbon sequestration and all these other types of dynamics. I think that fundamentally, blockchains are very good at creating proof and creating incentives. And with the addition of oracles to blockchains, you're able to prove things that are meaningful about environmental outcomes. And once you prove those environmental outcomes, then you can layer on the incentives and the transparency and truth generation of smart contracts into the world of carbon sequestration, reforestation, carbon tax credits and so on. So I think the global carbon tax credit system will probably end up running on a blockchain. And reforestation initiatives like Ayers and others are already underway in making their own hybrid smart contracts reliably trigger various critical outcomes.
00:01:09.250 - 00:02:07.700, Speaker A: I think that beyond that, you actually have a global market for interaction between carbon credits and carbon sequestration and reforestation, and capital markets and the global insurance system and derivatives and all these other kind of really critical industries. I think at the end of the day, you have a truly amazing ability to make DeFi as a market function, which creates a market for NFTs, it creates a market for yield, it creates a market for a huge number of different assets and outcomes. But more importantly, it actually creates a market for various societal outcomes. And I think there is a big market for societal outcomes like carbon credits and various other dynamics such as carbon credits. And I think this is an underappreciated factor for how smart contracts and blockchains will actually come to completely change how environment is approached from an incentives point of view.
