00:00:00.240 - 00:00:26.858, Speaker A: Yeah, so the l one will need a native token. It's not even necessarily to pay gas. I think people often focus on gas, but the main reason l one needs a native token is, like you said, for the staking. There's just no way to run proof of stake without a native token. And that is like, in my view, that is sort of like the only thing you really need an l one token for. But it's a super important one. There's no way around it.
00:00:26.906 - 00:01:18.280, Speaker B: We've teamed up with the Wormhole foundation, stewards of the wormhole protocol, the leading interoperability platform, empowering cross chain transfers for 200 plus multi chain teams, paying your unique wormhole NFT just for zero x research listeners today. Pair is an innovative pair trading exchange built on top of Simeo. Users can trade trending narratives with one click from blue chip narratives such as long BTC short eth right through the WiF versus bong. The hat stays on. Simeo's intent centric architecture enables deep liquidity, source off chain and broad on chain, and combined with Pear, has democratized access to complex trading strategies typically reserved for institutional traders. Before we get into today's episode, just a quick disclaimer. The views expressed on this podcast by either myself or any guests are their personal views and do not represent the views of any associated organization.
00:01:18.280 - 00:01:25.970, Speaker B: Nothing in this episode should be construed or relied upon as financial, technical, tax, legal, or other advice. All right, let's jump into the episode.
00:01:26.162 - 00:01:36.906, Speaker C: What's up, everyone, and welcome back to another episode of Xerox Research. Today we're joined by Jeff, co founder of Hyperliquid, an order book based decentralized exchange. Thank you for joining us, Jeff, thanks.
00:01:36.930 - 00:01:37.894, Speaker A: For having me on.
00:01:39.594 - 00:01:47.494, Speaker C: Before we get started, do you want to give a brief overview of Hyper Liquid and how you guys see it fit into the space, both as a Dex and an L1?
00:01:48.454 - 00:02:47.364, Speaker A: Sure. Hyper Liquid is most well known as an on chain perps Dex. It really took off around six months ago. At this point, I think it has a lot of captured a lot of the mind share of decentralized perpetrators and has really pushed the boundary on what can be done and what it sort of table stakes in terms of ux for decentralized trading, to the point where most users who trade there use it as their primary venue, even over centralized exchanges that they also have the option to use. So it's been really fulfilling to see that through and push the boundaries on what's possible there. These days, though, hyperliquid has also expanded into being more than just a venue to trade perps. In the process of building out the, the decentralized exchange, the dev team really had to invest a lot into infrastructure.
00:02:47.364 - 00:03:34.798, Speaker A: So that included building our own l one and then innovating a lot on the vm on top of it as well. And at this point, a lot of the work has been done to where we want to have this infra support. More than just purpose trading. It's a very unique opportunity. Happy liquid, unlike most other l one s hash, a lot of the key ingredients to a financial ecosystem has a bunch of users who love the product and stick around and use it, has a lot of liquidity. One of the, I would say, like, top 20 Tvl l one s, despite being only one application, really, until very recently. And, yeah, and I think liquidity and users are the hardest things to get for an ecosystem.
00:03:34.798 - 00:03:42.774, Speaker A: And so given that that's in place, and then a lot of the infrastructure is as well, we're excited to sort of build out this next chapter of hyper liquid.
00:03:43.674 - 00:04:00.622, Speaker C: Yeah, I'm also, I'm looking forward to the l one. I feel like it's one thing that a lot of perp Dexs are trying to do, but I don't think it's been done very well so far. And I'm excited. Like, your perpdex is fantastic. So I'm excited to see how you guys are approaching that. And I want to talk about the l one more later on. But first, us.
00:04:00.622 - 00:04:21.394, Speaker C: I kind of, you guys came into the perp space, let's say, like, over the past year, and you've been very successful. What do you think is, like, the space is obviously very competitive. What do you think sets you guys apart? Like, what's some things that you think you did well compared to other dexes that led to you guys getting, getting a lot of mind share?
00:04:24.094 - 00:05:19.084, Speaker A: Yeah, I think on the surface, building in exchange, or a Dex is a very simple, it's a very simple problem. Like, everyone knows how it's supposed to work. It's not order books are not rocket science, but the devil is in the details. And I think it really takes a team with heavy background in quantitative trading at least to even stand a chance to building a good exchange, whether even if it's a centralized exchange. And then when you make it decentralized, you have to really have a strong background in understanding lower level infrastructure and how to scale out a fully on chain solution to this problem. I'd say it's not one specific thing. Building an exchange is at least 100 different checkboxes you need to check and if you're missing any one of them, if your UI is bad, the traders don't understand it.
00:05:19.084 - 00:06:03.024, Speaker A: If your API sucks, market makers can't trade through it. If your liquidity sucks, everyone experiences very high slippage. If any of these things fail, then no one's going to use your product. I think really it's. Our team came from quant trading background, so checked a lot of the harder boxes to check, and then we really pushed ourselves to figure out what we were missing and to check those boxes. And yeah, it's really like a lot of hard work and grinding, like listening to users, there's no shortcut and there's no one secret recipe. It's just like marathon of building this endlessly iterating and building this product and not being satisfied with any shortcomings.
00:06:05.644 - 00:06:17.884, Speaker D: And on that, what do you think is required for Dexus to reach parity, or at least increase their market share when compared to centralized exchanges in terms of perpetual indexes?
00:06:19.464 - 00:07:24.488, Speaker A: Yeah, I think that's sort of a mystery to everyone from my perspective. I think every exchange kind of needs to do something new, whether centralized or decentralized. So if you're a binance and you were looking at Bitmax and just thinking like, how can I be bitmax? Like back in 2016 or 2017, or whenever they were thinking about this, I don't think they could have. I think they really needed, they really needed to come and innovate and offer users something that's ten x better. And I think for finance, the big thing was they really took over this spot market and how long tail listings, and then by the time they came into the perps competition, on centralized exchange side, they had a lot of the users and sort of like spot sort of incumbency advantage. And so I think like Dex coming in kind of needs to ask the same questions like, what can we do better than binance? It's not just like, you know, like build something that's like close enough and then like users will switch over. So with hyperlink, with, we innovated on just about everything we could.
00:07:24.488 - 00:07:50.714, Speaker A: And I think like, in many regards, it is, it is actually better than any centralized exchange you can trade on. And then in other regards, it's like, it is that kind of reaching parity. And I think there's like, for things like liquidity and just like throughput and responsiveness for market makers like that, that stuff is, it's not, it's really important. There's no easy way around it. You just kind of have to like, build good tech. And so that's, that's another thing that we focus on day in and day out.
00:07:51.014 - 00:08:28.454, Speaker C: I want to kind of talk about the vault system because you guys don't only have the HLP vault, but you also have individual vaults. Like, I can create a vault and tell people, look, I'm going to be, let's say, pear trading over the next six months and I can encourage people to deposit. I feel like this isn't a vault system that's been tried very often. And I thought it was a, like, I talked about this on a earlier podcast as well. I thought it was a great marketing tool as well because people obviously want to post about their vault. I kind of want to understand if you thought that this approach was successful, like as a product and why you guys decided to launch this. Because as far as I can tell, it's.
00:08:28.454 - 00:08:32.574, Speaker C: I think there's only like two more products that are like this and they're not very popular.
00:08:34.434 - 00:09:09.192, Speaker A: Yeah, this is a pretty funny story because we actually built the vault primitive. It really is a primitive in the l one, so people think it's a product, but it really is just like an l one op. It's like a signing primitive. So like when on hyper liquid, the nice thing about building an l one is that you get to customize the ins and outs of it. And people think we're just making excuses making l one, but it's actually very essential to building a good product. And so the vault primitive is like, if I want to sign on behalf of an address, I have many choices. I could have the private key to that address and sign using it.
00:09:09.192 - 00:09:41.558, Speaker A: And that's what all the general purpose l one s use. And that's cool. If you're an API user, you're probably going to use that. But the vault primitive is pretty cool because you can create this address and then you can sign on behalf of it, but not have permission to like move the funds in that address. And this address ends up being this sort of like copy trading primitive. And really the only reason it was built was to release HLp. But there was a bit of an afterthought of like, well, like, why not just, you know, we have this whole thing built, like, why not just like, let people use this primitive? Like, it's permissionless anyway.
00:09:41.558 - 00:10:13.348, Speaker A: And who knows? Like maybe people will come up with cool strategies. I was thinking initially, things like uniswap pools could be like v two pools especially could be replicated as like a very simple vault strategy. And it would just perform better because it wouldn't have this. I guess it could actively get out of the way of toxic flow, unlike uniswap, which gets arbed. But turns out nobody really cared about that. But they took it in their own directions and had a lot of cool, innovative ideas. And honestly, it kind of exceeded all my expectations.
00:10:13.348 - 00:10:41.264, Speaker A: And it took many months before people realized they could do these things. And so it was kind of this sort of exception to the rule where seems like usually you need to really think about a product, but sometimes when you build the right primitives and nobody else, you can't do this anywhere else, then people will just naturally use it and market it. So yeah, that's really the whole story, not really some deeper thinking behind it.
00:10:43.364 - 00:11:06.524, Speaker D: Cool. And your bridging experience is probably one of the most seamless I've seen in terms of ux. It almost doesn't feel like bridging. And so I was wondering, how did you guys approach this? What were some choices you had to make? Maybe in terms of trust assumptions, and also if there are plans to add bridging from other chains and how this will look like in the future.
00:11:07.664 - 00:11:37.630, Speaker A: Yeah, the bridging we've thought a lot about. I think we actually have probably spent too much time thinking about it. Like, I sort of regret how much time we spent. But the end product is like, people can see the bridge and at least it's open source, and we got audited twice. People can read it. It's just like 2000 lines of solidity, but it's just a custom bridge. So the trust assumptions are that the bridge is secured by a quorum of the l one validators.
00:11:37.630 - 00:12:32.432, Speaker A: And there's a system by which if there's some exploits, there's a wider set of sort of like monitors. It's sort of like the dispute idea behind the Arbitrum bridge, where the bridge can be locked, and then it requires a quorum of cold wallet signatures by the same stake weighted validator set to unlock it. I think that's basically the whole thing, but there's just a lot of details there. And then integrating it seamlessly with l one, like you said, which makes the Ux actually good. I think this is probably like at least a quarter, if not half a year of iteration and work. And yeah, I think we considered many alternatives, like IBC or maybe some other more bespoke solutions. But realize that the bridge is really the first thing that someone interacts with.
00:12:32.432 - 00:13:32.338, Speaker A: And if you sort of outsource that to another project or protocol, then you risk that thing not being optimized for what you're trying to do. And our experience with other bridges was generally that they generally leave some ux to be desired. And so we kind of just took the, took the work of building the whole thing ourselves and then. Yeah. As for your other question, the ultimate plan, actually, with the hyper liquid EVM coming out, a big reason, is to be able to support a more diverse and more institutional set of bridges. So one particular thing we're super excited about is supporting native USDC. And so right now, this custom bridge is somewhat of a bottleneck to getting institutional capital onto hyper liquid, because maybe an institution doesn't want to use arbitrum, and it's just sort of the single point of entry for the arbitrum bridge onto the hyper liquid l one.
00:13:32.338 - 00:13:56.934, Speaker A: But once the EVM is there, CCTP will let anyone sort of like, trust us as trustlessly as you can. Like burn USDC on one source chain and like mint and hyperfluid. And so those things like that also for other spot assets. We want to solve this whole problem in a relatively general way, and that's actually a big motivation behind putting the work into this hyper liquid evm as well.
00:13:58.964 - 00:14:21.864, Speaker D: Yeah, that makes a good segue to the next question I had regarding the hyperliput l one. It feels like a few months ago there was this shift towards extending the l one and not be only a periptex. And was this always the plan, or what was your rationale behind it? Is it something that you noticed makes sense along the way?
00:14:23.344 - 00:15:11.998, Speaker A: It definitely wasn't our plan all along. Initially, we just wanted to do anything that would be helpful for crypto community as a whole. So I guess back in a bit, this was 2022, and we were trading pretty heavily on a lot of centralized exchanges and in DeFi as well, and kind of had just a pretty good view of everything that was going on. And we're kind of using a lot of these protocols that were coming out and realizing that they were basically all not very good. And so when the FTX thing happened, we felt very strongly that, like we should. The space sort of like, lacks builders. Like, FTX was sort of like this big icon, and like, you know, they were like bill for traders, and they kind of like, betrayed a lot of trust and then, like.
00:15:11.998 - 00:16:17.668, Speaker A: But, you know, people like, oh, this is defi's moment to shine. But then, like, we were just, like, trading on defi all the time, and we were just like, there's no way, like, any of this stuff can can match what FTX had going for it. And so it just felt like, what could we do best? We could just build an actually good, decentralized exchange that is fully on chain, can sort of scale to actually just scale to the scale of finance as a whole, but also start humbly and actually get users start with a market that we knew in and out. And so that was always the initial plan, which is like, what can we do? What can we contribute? But slowly, as we sort of do things and users sort of give us positive feedback, I guess the sort of ambition kind of just grows. And there's a bit of, just, like, you initially assume that everything is good, and you just need to build this one thing that you're really good at, like, potentially really well suited to building, but you soon realize, like, I don't know, like, you maybe just need to keep going down the stack to build. Build it more and more. And then at some point, you're like, okay, like, I should just.
00:16:17.668 - 00:16:44.498, Speaker A: We should just, like, also release this. This, like, all this other work we're doing and let other people benefit from it. And so the l one kind of came from a lot of users. A lot of our users are actually, like, really good developers as well. Like, want to make these dashboards, like, want to. Want to build these products on hyper liquid, like, want to launch things. And we've always just been like, okay, yeah, it's like, mostly perp stacks those, like, but let's see how we can support you.
00:16:44.498 - 00:16:54.554, Speaker A: And at some point, it just, like, it just clicked. Like, yeah, we have all these, like, really talented builders and community members, and why not just, like, actually give them the tools to do everything they want to do?
00:16:55.934 - 00:17:22.204, Speaker C: One thing you mentioned in there was that you guys are fully on chain. I think, like, a lot of people assume that most order book protocols are fully on chain, but they're not. Like, a lot of them move their order book and matching engine off chain, or at least parts of it. How are you guys managing to keep everything on chain? Like, what is your approach that you would say that doesn't have or face bottlenecks and you can put everything on chain fully?
00:17:24.064 - 00:17:49.266, Speaker A: Yeah. Initially, we used tendermint because it was the most battle tested consensus mechanism that was easily modified. Uh, and with. With some modification, it wasn't too hard to get it to do around 20,000 transactions per second. Um, so that was the initial thing. And. And, like, initially just there just, like, wasn't that.
00:17:49.266 - 00:18:17.900, Speaker A: There's just, like, weren't that many orders. So it was just, it was fine. Um, but, but, yeah, at this point, uh, hyperload, the hyperload l one has fully migrated to, I guess, what we call hybrid BFT. But really, it's, I want to say, like, we didn't actually invent this consensus stuff. Like, there have been a lot of, like, really good research, and almost all the l ones use this sort of like, consensus research from the last five or six years. So, you know, credit where credits do. Like, we're not, we're not consensus researchers.
00:18:17.900 - 00:18:50.332, Speaker A: We just, like, read these papers. We're very impressed by the metrics, spent half a year reproducing them. And, you know, going from academic paper to a production implementation is, is not that easy. But, like, the core ideas are out there, and we basically just did the hard work of implementing it by hand. And I think just paying very close attention to all the low level details to make sure that the throughput doesn't degrade as you actually implement it. And so at this point, the consensus is not even a bottleneck. I think if execution gets faster, consensus will just keep up.
00:18:50.332 - 00:19:08.246, Speaker A: I think the bottleneck is first execution, and second, the hardware network bandwidth, et cetera. And then at some point it's like, I'm sure that the bottleneck will be the consensus again, but I really think that at that scale, it's like you can basically run binance, like fully on.
00:19:08.270 - 00:19:08.874, Speaker C: Chain.
00:19:11.414 - 00:19:22.954, Speaker D: And still on that. Can you describe a little bit how the hyper FBT is different from tendermint?
00:19:24.194 - 00:20:11.160, Speaker A: Yeah, the core difference is just that tendermint is based on older research. So at the time it was written, this, like, hot stuff had not been written. And I assume that hot stuff was heavily inspired by tendermint and other algorithms. Like, basically the whole, like, standing on shoulders of giants thing is definitely true in research. And so I would just say that it's like an iterative improvement. So, like, one key difference is tendermint has sort of some, like, built in weighting. So just, just like, just like, how the algorithm works, there are, like, timescales, whereas with hyper BFt, the algorithm itself is, like, more asynchronous.
00:20:11.160 - 00:21:26.264, Speaker A: So, like, you don't have to say, how long do I need to wait before I do something? In this, in this, like, multi step process, the steps look more like, once I have enough votes, which in this case is more than two thirds of the stake, I'm happy to vote on this block and progress to the next step. And no one anywhere, no evaluator anywhere in this network, in the happy path of algorithm, is waiting for a designated amount of time. When the network is is flowing smoothly and people are not timing out an algorithm, it progresses as quickly as information can be transmitted between the validators. I think that is one big core difference. That's what basically lets the block times not really have a lower bound. I guess another big difference is that tendermint was implemented earlier and is a result of, I think, a lot of trial and error and began as an academic implementation, was more research focused. So there are just like a lot of small things in the code that are like, not that interesting when you look at them one by one, but when you add them all together, do just like make a huge difference in production performance.
00:21:26.384 - 00:22:16.710, Speaker B: Wormhole is the leading interoperability platform for multi chain bridges and applications. With over 1 billion messages sent and 40 billion in value transferred, Wormhole leads the industry in cross chain message volume and total value transferred. If you're a builder, wormhole, an extensive suite of tools and infrastructure to securely build multi chain applications. You can use wormhole to power defi nfts, governance and so much more. And wormhole supports over 30 blockchains and six different runtimes. Kamer Unique Wormhole NFT just for zero x research listeners today fill out a forum, prove that you've listened to today's episode of Receiver Pro app, and you get an email over the coming weeks to claim your limited edition NFT pair is an innovative pair trading exchange built on top of Simeo. Users can trade trending narratives with one click from blue chip narratives such as long BTC, short eth right to the whiff versus bonk.
00:22:16.710 - 00:22:29.902, Speaker B: The hat stays on. Simeo's intent centric architecture enables deep liquidity, source off chain and broad on chain, and combined with pear, has democratized access to complex trading strategies typically reserved for institutional traders.
00:22:30.038 - 00:23:07.744, Speaker C: You mentioned earlier that you guys have a lot of people building on top of you, or you had, and then that's how you guys kind of evolved the product. I feel like that's the dream of most like developers, but I kind of want to ask you guys, I assume you're allowing permissionless smart contract deployment eventually on the hyper liquid l one or maybe day one. Is there, are there any products that you're looking forward to for people to launch, like a new vault system or anything of the sorts? Like GMX in its early days gained a lot of attention just by people building new products on top of them. So I'm wondering how you're thinking about that.
00:23:09.004 - 00:23:39.994, Speaker A: Yeah, we're pretty happy to let the community do whatever they see fit. So we're trying. I think that the nice thing about general purpose platforms, I think I mostly say bad things about them because it's always in the context of like, well, you can't use this to build a purpose. I think I've just tweeted this over and over again, and I still believe that there are really cool things about permissionless smart contract systems, which is just that you don't need to say what you want people to build. You give them the tools and they build it. I think that's very powerful. Our vision, though, is how the two fit together.
00:23:39.994 - 00:24:29.546, Speaker A: I think this is quite unique to hyper liquid. And I think potentially we should be explaining this more to people because people assume that this EVM is just coming. Because EVM is cool, people can build on it. And maybe we think people want to build on it, but that's the real reason is it's like this sort of, it will be the thing that takes the hyper liquid l one from a very focused application chain. It will let it kind of grow fully into the application, which is at this point, like trading like spot and purpose trading. In order to do purpose trading, a big thing is you want to make it easy to onboard. And so the EVM solves that because there are all these bridging protocols and they love to integrate with EVM.
00:24:29.546 - 00:24:59.068, Speaker A: That's the first thing that any one of the big bridging protocols makes sure to integrate. And it's like, okay, check that box. Spot trading. You need bridging of canonical spot assets from other chains like ETh, BTC, Sol. These things also solved by the bridge. And even more importantly, you really, you really want native assets on your chain. Like, why has Solana done so well? It's because that, it's because like there's this new wave of builders who, who choose Solana and like build on it.
00:24:59.068 - 00:25:44.922, Speaker A: And when your native application is on Solana, you're like, obviously, like the most natural place to trade the native asset is to not bridge it somewhere else, but to like just trade it on the chain if it's possible to do on your chain. And like, hyper liquid is the best place to do that. And so there's this like this natural synergy there with building as well. So there are all these reasons that, like really like an EVM in some sense is like, is like a generalization solution of this like, already scaled out system. So instead of like starting with the general thing and then like scaling it out, we're like starting with a scaled solution which, which we are pretty confident can can scale to be finance and bigger on chain. And then like building the generalization atomically into that. That's kind of like the vision.
00:25:44.922 - 00:26:35.264, Speaker A: So concretely, I guess it's like we're not, we don't expect there to be like replicating things that are like what hyper liquid one has natively right now on the EVM. Like, people are welcome to do that, but I don't expect that to gain that much traction given that users of hyper liquid probably are using it because they like, order books and like GM excel vault. Like, not sure that's that interesting, but something like there's a huge long tail of finance that is, that could be built natively, but I think it's better suited for these permissionless things. So things that I think would be really cool would be like a borrow lending protocol. There's a lot of work been done there on the EVM. There are a lot of really big projects, a lot of TVL and these kinds of things. It's not super gas constrained, it's not super high throughput, but it's super valuable.
00:26:35.264 - 00:27:09.664, Speaker A: One of their biggest requests is can I deposit ETH as a collateral and trade? I either do the funding arB with ETH itself or trade some other coins that are USDC margined. And this suddenly like, you know, it becomes like, we don't have to build that into the l one itself, which is quite a big undertaking. There can just be this like borrowlend protocol atomically built into the EVM that's composable with burp stacks. So things like that I think are like really cool. And, and people have already expressed interest in building these kinds of things. So I'm really excited for, for that kind of stuff.
00:27:10.984 - 00:27:26.084, Speaker C: Are you worried about congestion or block space at all if you're allowing other primitives to build on the l one? I mean, from what it sounds like, the l one's very performant and it should be fine, likely, but I'm just wondering how you guys are planning on approaching that.
00:27:27.264 - 00:28:10.758, Speaker A: Yeah, so we're actually not. I think another big misconception is we're not like pivoting to building a performing EVM or anything like that. So the. I believe in hyper liquid, the EVM will just have less demand. And I kind of hope it is like that, because if you look at like, I don't know, I haven't run these numbers, maybe, you know, but if you look at Ethereum and you look at end user transactions that go through that, like, do something that is already done on hyper liquid. So like, that includes like uniswap, like USDC transfers. It also includes like, l two blocks that are actually on the l two side end users being doing these simple financial operations.
00:28:10.758 - 00:29:05.814, Speaker A: If you added all those up, I don't actually know how much of Ethereum's block space that is, but I would guess it's a very high percentage. And so when you move all that to some native application, I do think that genuine demand for the EVM space decreases. So it's an alternative way to scale an EVM, which no one really talks about is, is like you take the things that really shouldn't be built on an EVM, or like any virtual machine for that matter, things that really like, really ought to be built natively into a protocol, do that. And like, that does just alleviate all the congestion. And so that's like our hypothesis going in, I think. Like, if there is just like act actually like immense demand for this EVM, then, you know, I'm not saying that, like, it can't be scaled, but I think we want to see evidence that that's going to happen before sort of like formulating a plan around it.
00:29:07.914 - 00:29:40.144, Speaker D: Yeah, that makes sense. And I'm really excited about some features now with the native EVM, just maybe for a little bit of context. So just this Monday, you announced that the hyperlucidal one will support a native EVM. And as I understand it, a really exciting feature brought by this integration is that the hip one assets will feature the atomic transfer with the corresponding ERC 20 contract. And so what can users expect from this upgrade? How do you think it will change the way they interact with the product?
00:29:41.844 - 00:30:56.088, Speaker A: Yeah, so the thing you mentioned is the example we gave, I think it's the most obvious one for why this EVM is not just some isolated new feature. So the idea is right now, very soon, people will be able to permissionlessly deploy hip one and hip two on Mainnet, which we're super excited about and we think will already be really cool for a lot of builders. But with the EVM, I think this gives builders confidence that soon they will literally be able to do whatever they want. So right now you can, you can launch a hip one asset with a corresponding HIV two, like hyper liquidity, which is this on chain order book liquidity provision strategy. You can do this today. And then when the EVM launches, the hip one and two deployers will be able to specify a corresponding ERC 20 contract on the EVM state and the EVM state and the other l one state are composable. They're like atomically one state that is agreed upon by consensus.
00:30:56.088 - 00:31:59.814, Speaker A: And so there will be a mechanism by which hip one token balances and ERC 20 token balances are fungible in some sense. So it's like, it's not a bridge, it's like, it's like an atomic transfer basically. And so this lets you, if you're a builder and you're thinking about using EVM, which I think many builders are, and you're looking for someone to build things like a really strong pitch to the builder, because for a builder the two important things are which chain you're building on. And how can I decentralize the supply of the governance token or the gas token or whatever you're issuing for your, for your project. And the first one, it's like, yeah, pick EVM, pick SVM, whatever. Second one is like okay, probably going to have to go to binance by bit, Coinbase, whatever. And I kind of asked them to list your token and the exchange has a lot of leverage in that discussion.
00:31:59.814 - 00:32:27.894, Speaker A: And I just think it's not a very good system. And so hyper liquid being this completely open platform to trade on chain and to have that be atomically happening on the same chain you're building on, I think is really powerful. And so yeah, if you had binance and ethereum or whatever scalable solution you wanted, atomically composed into one unit, then that is sort of the vision for the hyper good evm.
00:32:30.314 - 00:32:48.554, Speaker C: Perfect. Last question on the l one. Current traders, they don't pay gas to use the l one. How will decentralization and introducing a native token affect costs? And what challenges do you guys think you'll have as you introduce this and try to decentralize the validator set?
00:32:49.374 - 00:33:26.644, Speaker A: Yeah, so the l one will need a native token. It's not even necessarily to pay gas. I think people often focus on gas. But the main reason l one needs a native token is like you said, for the, the staking, you can't, there's, there's just no way to run proof of stake without a native token. And that is like, in my view that is sort of like the only thing you really need an l one token for, but it's a super important one. Like there's no way around it. And you know, on hyper liquid there's no plan to require the l one token to trade.
00:33:26.644 - 00:34:31.384, Speaker A: Like obviously things can change. Like maybe some, maybe there's some like novel new mechanism by which like trading like makes more sense and involves that one token, but there's, there's no reason to think that that will have to happen. So the, the thing you mentioned with, with trading being gas free is actually not, it's not like, it's not like a band aid solution, it's not like it's. It should be costing gas, but it's not. It's rather like the l one itself is so custom that we can actually have the same properties as having gas, like a native gas token charged per transaction, but rather have it be through this other mechanism. When the transaction being considered are trading, you can basically use a combination of fill rate and trading fees to make guarantees about how much is paid per, I guess, like per throughput or per state. Per, like state bloat.
00:34:31.384 - 00:35:04.610, Speaker A: And that really is the purpose of gas. And so, like, as long as the protocol is charging for what could be ddos, whether it's state or throughput based, it's fine. And so the system, hyper liquid, at first glance, sort of seems like we're just like brushing the center of the. The covers, but it's actually been thought through very carefully. There may still be issues with it, but I think the fundamental idea is sound. And I think there's a lot of write up in the docs about how this stuff works. It does force people to modify their strategies a bit if they're market makers, but people usually have.
00:35:04.610 - 00:35:18.114, Speaker A: At this point, it's kind of well known how to adapt to it, and I think it's quite a scalable solution and gives the nice property, like you said, is if I'm a user, first time using Hyperloop, I don't need to go buy some like random token. I don't want to hold just to use it.
00:35:20.414 - 00:35:56.084, Speaker D: Yeah, that makes sense. And I was thinking the points program ended at the beginning of this month, but hyper Liquid actually managed to maintain its position in the top three vertexes in terms of daily volume, at least. And compared with other points programs, I noticed that you didn't draw much attention for it. For example, with boosts, multipliers or other partnerships, explicit rules. Do you find like, that this helped attract the right type of users, or what do you think was your secret here, besides it being a good product?
00:35:58.624 - 00:36:34.480, Speaker A: Yeah, it's a good question. I think we didn't think too much about how we could market the points. I mean, they are just like, we're pretty big believers in simplicity. So it is just a number. It doesn't have any value. It's meant to signify to a user how much they've contributed to the protocol, and we kind of just feel like it's simple, it's self explanatory, and really, we don't want people thinking too much about that number. Like you said, we want this product to speak for itself, but it's a little bit of something for people to talk about.
00:36:34.480 - 00:37:19.044, Speaker A: Something people like maybe catch their attention, someone else talking about their points, like, oh, let me check this product out. And I think it, by and large, worked to that effect. And people generally like the product, and we're pretty happy with that outcome. I think one big thing that we took a gamble on and that I think has paid off is just making the points completely opaque. I think a lot of protocols launch points with the intention of inflating metrics. I guess no comment on whether that's a good or a bad idea. But if you're doing that, you kind of want it to be explicit, otherwise you're really not getting the value you want.
00:37:19.044 - 00:38:18.444, Speaker A: Like, if you would rather tell someone, you will get one point for every $1 in fees you pay. And then people know exactly how to calculate. They may just have, like some formula in their mind, and they can calculate and do exactly what, like, what inflates the metrics more. We felt very strongly that this is, like, not a good idea. Like, we don't care about short term metrics. And so taking that gamble, I think, was, was good because there's like, a large set of users who I strongly believe, like, you can just kind of look at the numbers like they make up a very large fraction of the volume on most other perp, dexs, and indexes in general, and chains in general, there's just, like, large set of users and they're very, like, I don't know, they're like, very fleeting and mercenary. And not that they don't provide any value to a protocol, but I think we just decided that not super valuable to hyper liquids long term vision.
00:38:19.884 - 00:38:59.774, Speaker C: I feel like those, the points programs that you mentioned where they're very explicit and they inflate the volume or activity or whatever, they're usually, as far as what I've read, they're usually to entice funding or like VC's, etcetera. And this is actually one thing that I wanted to ask you about, is that you guys chose to bootstrap the protocol instead of raising external funds. What was the choice behind this? And, like, how did you guys end up actually doing that and bootstrapping the protocol because your fees are reasonable. It's not like what GMX fees were a year ago where it's like on open and close, you pay something double of what other protocols ask for.
00:39:01.474 - 00:39:38.582, Speaker A: Yeah, I guess first I'd like to clarify the last point which is that the dev team does not collect any fees from the protocol. So all the fees go to a mix of the insurance fund and the. And mostly to HLP. And so like yes, the fees. The fees are low very strongly. It's like so early in DeFi and there are so many ways in which Defi is harder to use than CFI still that the fees, that fees being low is like sort of a bare minimum to getting some new users. So that's a product decision.
00:39:38.582 - 00:40:22.288, Speaker A: That being said, the protocol has collect a lot of fees and so if, if it were a business it would be very profitable. But having said it is not a business. And I think we could potentially be more clear about this. We try to say it like every so often, but like the, the team has never taken even a cent of, of the fees. And this is because we just like, we believe so strongly long term in the project that we just don't, we don't need the short term money and we don't want people ever to be able to have anything to say about this. Insider teams making so much money off these fees. I don't know.
00:40:22.288 - 00:41:05.214, Speaker A: There are a lot of negative things you can say in that line. I think a lot of protocols do make this choice and have to suffer those criticisms. Yeah, that's just how we operate. And as far as fundraising, I think it's like a similar story. I think there's a lot of interest in investing but ultimately hyper liquid is very long term oriented. So if the goal is to really be the platform on which all finance happens, this is like a very, very long term vision. And there's a lot of hurdles there.
00:41:05.214 - 00:41:52.146, Speaker A: And I think one very important thing will be what decides the ultimate financial platform of the future will be that there are no insiders on the base layer. I think VC's provide a lot of value. I think a lot of the economy has VC's to thank for that. And I don't want to shit on VC's in general. It's just there's a very unique opportunity with hyper liquid to be something more like bitcoin where like I think if Satoshi took a pre sale or like, or like VC invested in like Satoshi's initial mining stuff or something like. I don't know, like I think bitcoin just wouldn't be bitcoin. And not, not saying not like, not like literally comparing hyper liquid to bitcoin.
00:41:52.146 - 00:42:08.244, Speaker A: But I think that is like, one prerequisite to being a neutral platform. And that is like, the ambitions are just that big. And so we are checking that box, and I think it will be important.
00:42:10.544 - 00:42:55.018, Speaker D: Yeah. And maybe zooming out now a little bit more. I wanted to ask, how do you see the longer term future of the space in terms of multi chain dedicated chains, one winning chain, because it seems like there are highly contrasting approaches even within the perp space. For example, vertex edge and hyper liquid. We could say that Vertex edge accepts the premise that there will be always a lot of users on different chains, and so tries to aggregate this liquidity through off chain matching, so that deployment on more chains brings more liquidity to every chain. And hyper liquid maybe takes the opposite approach of growing its chain with more use cases and more protocols, kind of consolidating users in one chain. How do you see this? Yeah, just.
00:42:55.018 - 00:42:56.494, Speaker D: How do you think about this?
00:42:56.874 - 00:44:03.906, Speaker A: Yeah, so I'll caveat this by saying that I don't actually think, I don't have too much time to philosophize on, like, super large scale stuff, so I'm probably not the best person to ask for this question, but my, but my personal view is that it's somewhere in between. Like, I think there should be. I think finance should happen on one composable chain, but I don't think everything should. So, like, if you have a game where the, you know, like, the items are tradable and there are just millions of users using it, and, like, doing things, like, I really don't think that ought to be competing with, like, you know, like, derivatives on bitcoin, where bitcoin is like the reserve asset of the world, there's just, like, completely different scales of sort of, like, importance. And I think it's, like, totally fine for those just, like, not compose at all because there's no reason for them to compose. But I think finance happening on a bunch of different chains is just bad. Like, bridges are super risky.
00:44:03.906 - 00:44:51.280, Speaker A: I think right now it's fine because crypto so early. And, like, generally, I think teams are well intentioned and even centralized exchanges, I think broadly they mean well and trying to do good things, but it's just not, it can't possibly be the ultimate solution. And so if you don't think centralized exchanges are good, I think you should have a similar skepticism towards bridges because it's just like, one layer removed. It's still a lot of trust assumptions going in and just not, not I guess, like, atomically composable with other things. And so, yeah, I think the. I think with hyper liquid, we've always, at least thus far, we've always just thought of ourselves as, like, we're trying to build what's good for Defi, because that's obviously the product market fit that crypto has found. And it's very clear that even if it's.
00:44:51.280 - 00:45:14.344, Speaker A: Even if crypto is good for nothing else, I think it's very clear that it's, like, a better financial system. It's more. It's more accessible, it's more egalitarian. Then, like, as the world, you know, as inequality grows in the world, I think it's, like, more and more important for, like, for finance to happen on chain. And so in that narrower scope, I'm. I guess I'm a huge proponent of, like, a single chain.
00:45:16.444 - 00:45:59.444, Speaker C: Yeah, I agree with you. I, um. I think anybody who's used Defi enough knows that fragmentation, like, is just horrible, horrible ux, and not just in the sense of, like, you're not having fun. It also, like, diminishes efficiency and just actually trying to get benefit off of defi. I have two more questions for you, Jeff. One is, what are you guys going to be doing with hyper liquid over the next six to twelve months? Like, what are the plans? And the second one, which I'm going to ask now, because I feel like you're going to answer it, and I want to ask it. How do you see the competition landscape for hyper liquid now versus in a year?
00:46:03.064 - 00:46:35.930, Speaker A: Yeah, so we're a super small team, people often pretty surprised. We actually, we're five engineers, and we're fewer than ten people total. And so we're not like those teams that, you know, like, pretty common in crypto, where it's like, you have a very, very long term vision, like, raise a lot of money and sort of, like, have this, like, many year roadmap. I think it's cool. It's just like, that's just, like, not our strength. We're very much focused on, like, the next thing to build. I think it's like we're very.
00:46:35.930 - 00:47:32.854, Speaker A: We very confidently are stepping in the right direction, but we don't plan out, like, 100 steps. So six to twelve months. I think by then, the EVM should be live, the network should be decentralized. And I think those two things we're very bullish on, but I think they're also very uncertain. So depending on what happens, there might just be a ton of issues that come up. We just need, like that just ends up being the highest priority to the extent that there aren't. I think it will be whatever it takes to continue pushing the hyper liquid l one and the ecosystem around it to being the place that financial applications start to flock and start to build around.
00:47:32.854 - 00:48:14.036, Speaker A: So whatever kind of pain points developers come up with, whatever if like users, market makers, et cetera, start to face issues as it scales mev, whatever comes up there. I have a lot of thoughts there, but probably not the right question to answer right now. Whatever comes up, basically that will be our focus. And at the end of the day, it's always the users, and the definition of user is always changing. So initially it was traders and it's like traders, market makers, now it's like traders, market makers, builders. Yeah, whatever, like whatever they need. And we can help with that.
00:48:14.036 - 00:48:41.342, Speaker A: That'll be our priority. And as far as the competition question goes, there's. I probably don't have anything super insightful there either. We don't really think that much about competitors. It's not really clear who our competitors are either. I think it's, there's like not, there aren't really any projects trying to do the same thing, which I think usually is a bad sign. Like if you're, if you have a startup and nobody's competing, then it probably means your idea is bad.
00:48:41.342 - 00:49:37.174, Speaker A: But I think we're just, I think hyper liquid at this point is just like trying to do such a general thing while still having a laser focus on the core product. It's, it's very unique there. I mean the chart that I always look at, the number I always look at is like finance perps volume in the denominator and like hyper liquid perks volume in the numerator. And like, so looking at that like, yeah, I mean, I'm always extremely impressed by finance. And I guess like the top central exchanges in general, they do such a good job at, you know, they do one thing very, very well and um, you know, put their users first and uh, yeah, and like, and manage to like maintain those users. Like it's like binance in particular. Like they've gone through so much and users still trust them and use them and like that.
00:49:37.174 - 00:49:57.056, Speaker A: I think like I, you know, I look at it a lot. I'm like, I'm always impressed by the volume numbers. Um, but from our perspective, it's, you know, we're building something different. Like Defi is just, you know, earlier, it's more nascent. It's like, for a lot of people, it's not time to switch yet. And we recognize that. And, yeah, so we, like, we think.
00:49:57.056 - 00:50:43.990, Speaker A: We think about our competitors. We're like, yeah, whatever we can learn from them, we try to do, but we're also trying to pave our own way. And I think everything that hyper liquid has done well so far, I think, has largely just been, like, not from studying competitors and, like, trying to emulate something, but. But from just, like, like, thinking about first principles and coming up with something entirely new. So whether it's like, you know, like, the vaults primitive or this, like, I guess, like, even how permissionless swap listings work, or, like, having gaslifts on chain perks order books, which no one thought was possible, like, this liquidity vault that, like, does market making in an accessible way that anyone can pause into. I think these are all, like, firsts, and these are the things that hyper liquid are known for now. So I think our goal is always just, like, continue inventing new things.
00:50:43.990 - 00:50:58.326, Speaker A: And I think that's also what really adds value to the world. If you find seasoning competitors doing well and do it just slightly better and get some of the market share, I don't think that actually, that doesn't really move the needle much on advancing Defi as a whole.
00:50:58.510 - 00:51:27.714, Speaker C: Perfect. Thank you so much for coming on, Jeff. This was one of the most interesting conversations I've had so far, and I feel like hyper liquid, something that I just, like, can't get enough of, kind of. It's because you guys are kind of, how do I put this? Not secretive, but I guess not as public as I would assume with interviews and everything. So I'm actually really happy to have a, for example. I wasn't expecting you to be such an on chain, Maxi. It was kind of a surprise.
00:51:28.894 - 00:51:55.334, Speaker A: It's good to hear. Yeah, we're, we're often just busy coding. Like, I spend most of my time writing, reviewing code and then thinking about product. And so, yeah, my, like, Twitter game and interview game is definitely, like, pretty, pretty bad as far as founders go. But, yeah, thanks for having me, having me on, and it's always good to chat and long form with, with people. And I think, yeah, you had really good questions. Hopefully, my answers were not too confusing.
00:51:55.674 - 00:51:58.014, Speaker C: Your answers were perfect. Thank you.
00:51:58.474 - 00:51:58.898, Speaker A: Thanks.
00:51:58.946 - 00:51:59.828, Speaker D: Thank you so much.
00:51:59.946 - 00:52:27.924, Speaker B: We have teamed up with the Wormhole foundation, stewards of the wormhole protocol, the leading interoperability platform, powering cross chain transfers for over 200 multi chain dapps. Wormhole isn't just a bridge. It's the leading interoperability platform for multi chain applications. So go and claim your unique wormhole NFTs just for Zero X research listeners today, hit the link in the description to fill out a form and to prove that you've listened to today's episode and receiver Po app, you get an email email over the coming weeks to claim your limited edition NFT.
