00:00:06.490 - 00:00:11.280, Speaker A: So without further ado, Juan, welcome back and excited to have you again.
00:00:13.410 - 00:01:03.650, Speaker B: Thank you so much. Really excited to be here in the third hack of S, right? This is so awesome. I can't wait for to have so many more. Really great to be here with everybody. What I'm going to talk about today is why being regen matters in our space. And I want to suggest a bunch of strategies for how to do that and how to build tooling that can solve extremely large scale planetary problems by breaking down some large swath of things into smaller and smaller and smaller problems. Then how to use measuring of the world to derive some data and then use that data to put it into things like IPFS.
00:01:03.650 - 00:02:00.078, Speaker B: How to then use smart contracts to incentivize positive action and therefore creating a regen loop to a solve that problem and b create value that can then help solve more problems. So I'm going to share my screen. Let's see. So the title of this talk is in General if Regen wagme else NGMI and I'll go into detail as to kind of why that matters. And I'm going to be talking about these concepts around regenerative, crypto, economics and Prioritopia and a lot of the ideas and memes from the Green Pilled movement. And so here's the COVID of that Green Pilled book from Kevin Awakee, who will join us a little bit later. And I'll be using a lot of illustrations from that book to go through some of these concepts.
00:02:00.078 - 00:03:07.106, Speaker B: And then I'm going to go through and kind of make it really practical in terms of how to sort of approach building a region application or a region system that can solve some large problem in the world. And as we bring, a lot of that will have to do with how we grab data from the world and we feed it into these systems and how we create incentive structures to cause those actions. So this is roughly the outline of the talk. We're going to go through region and cryptoecon. We're going to talk about how to achieve Prior utopia and first of all, what it is and why we want to achieve it, and then how to we're going to go through a few examples. One is around climate change, another about kind of how to accelerate progress and then going to leave you with some ideas and how to get involved in the region movement. Like I mentioned before, I highly recommend checking out the Greenfield book and checking out the podcast.
00:03:07.106 - 00:04:10.134, Speaker B: There's a lot of really good conversations happening. This is a super promising movement and I think it's basically as excited about region cryptoecon as I was excited about crypto in the very beginning of 2011 2012. So I think that this is going to grow into something super powerful long term. And this is still very early and we're already seeing some really promising huge kudos to the book to Kevin and the amazing designer, I forgot their name, but amazing designer who created these amazing illustrations, or rather I don't know their name. I need to find out their name so I can credit them properly because these illustrations very much help convey the message. So let's take the green pill together. The TLDR of the book is that first and foremost humanity is faced with this massive scale set of coordination failures.
00:04:10.134 - 00:05:39.146, Speaker B: And these coordination failures create massive risks to our society and our lives and pretty much everything we care about. So it's all about coordination at the end of the day and it's coordination failures that cause these problems. So when you think about things like climate change or things like just hunger these days or lack of shelter for many people around the world, or just certain problems not being solved fast enough, like not having cures to certain diseases and so on. All of these problems always come down to some kind of coordination failure because we have this enormous amount of potential and capability as a species. And it's just how do we coordinate our species to cause significant action against those problems, and how do we coordinate our solutions? So the kind of general broader macro thinking about all these issues is that everything's broken, everything sucks. And it's basically kind of a doomerous perspective. And in the region movement, we sort of reject those narratives and instead replace that with a super grounded and optimistic and really kind of thoughtful perspective that if you break those problems down into smaller and smaller bits, you can often solve them and coordinate groups of people at the relevant scale to solve those problems.
00:05:39.146 - 00:06:59.540, Speaker B: And you can bootstrap those solutions into larger and larger solutions. So the broader web three world and especially blockchains and crypto economics and so on can be tremendously powerful to be able to coordinate groups of people of arbitrary sizes. You could coordinate small groups of people, you can coordinate large groups of people, you can coordinate groups of organizations, you can coordinate entire large scale communities, you can coordinate across many companies or organizations, you can coordinate nation states potentially. Like we can probably get to a kind of scale like that. And because of that, this moment is super special. This means that you have a tremendous opportunity as you're learning about all of these systems, as you're learning about how to build crypto economic structures and how to build systems to incentivize action of, again, people in small groups or large groups or organizations and so on. And so your opportunities to be able to take these tremendously powerful primitives and use them to create these regenerative structures that can have positive externalities that can solve those problems and create value for people around the world in all kinds of ways.
00:06:59.540 - 00:08:02.882, Speaker B: Usually you'll sort of orient towards some problem that you really care about and if you think about that problem in terms of a coordination problem and how to coordinate the relevant people involved to solve the problem. You can use regional crypto economics and data gathering and so on to incentivize collective action against those problems. So in the long term if we can do this right we could create a tremendously powerful movement that can solve planetary scale problems. And I think it's a super exciting set of possibilities and it's, I think, one of the best ranges of applications that all of the web three tech and all of the crypto that we've built over the last decade or so can really give. So at the end of the day it's all about coordination. Let's now define a lot of these things kind of more concretely. So what is crypto economics? Crypto economics is a kind of blend of different fields of study across many different disciplines.
00:08:02.882 - 00:09:44.920, Speaker B: So think of things like economics and game theory and law and ethics think of computer science and cryptography think of optimization and control theory, think of systems engineering. Think of all of these pieces together, which are often like highly technical subjects with the kind of social sciences of governance and political science and community management and comments management and so on, and bring all of these things together into a field of study that can blend important technical mechanism design with achieving some social or economic or group goal. And the goal is to kind of build these structures by think of being able to create these mechanisms and deploy them out into the world and have them as sort of freestanding structures that then people can interact with. Or groups can interact with or organizations can interact with and be coordinate with other parties through the medium of these mechanisms that we deploy into the world. And so to be able to kind of create crypto economic systems this means you're designing economies but those economies are social systems and they're highly complex systems and so on. So there's kind of a lot of this involves, it is fundamentally multidisciplinary and touches a lot of things and the bad news is that we're not sitting on kind of decades of thought about these subjects. So there's no tons of textbooks yet that kind of rigorously describe everything but we're building those now.
00:09:44.920 - 00:11:03.418, Speaker B: A lot of the knowledge about crypto economic systems is findable on the web. It's findable through blog posts, it's findable through talks, through books like this one and so on. But just bear in mind that this is a super green field and not just green in terms of regen but also green in terms of it's very new and that means there's a lot of theory to figure out still and a lot of theory to put into practice and so on. It's a great time to enter the field but it'll be a lot of kind of relating across what many people are doing and staying abreast of a lot of changes and so on. So think of crypto economics as kind of not being directed in any way. You can think of that different economic structures that you might make might be extractive or might be just sustainable or something like that or often we talk in economic structures about building resilient systems, systems that can absorb shocks and recover. But now there's another kind of kind of system there which can be regenerative, that over time the actions of the system coordinate the participants to create more value that over time build more and more resources.
00:11:03.418 - 00:12:33.502, Speaker B: And this is a key distinction that I think a lot of people often miss about these kinds of economic systems. You hear a lot of the world be very focused on sustainability and that tends to be about moving away from extractive or extractive systems or depletive systems that are just kind of destroying things over basically spending resources down. And instead there's an emphasis on getting to a sustainable point where you can create as many resources back into the system so you kind of find a good equilibrium. But what we're talking about here is creating systems that are not just sustainable in terms of being in that spot and are not just resilient in terms of being able to absorb shocks but instead systems that are able to take some fraction of those resources and generate more resources over time. That means that there's some economic activity that is creating value over time and this is a super key point that you'll see again and again which is what enables this amazing scalability. If you can build a system that solves some problem and over time is generating more value along the way you can then scale that solution to solve larger and larger and larger problems. So one thing worth describing is think of the coordination failures as the sort of like gray pill of, hey, everything is kind of messed up and it's really difficult to fix.
00:12:33.502 - 00:13:44.978, Speaker B: And these problems are so big that nobody can solve them and whatnot and just remember that humanity is tremendously powerful in terms of our capabilities. And when we work together against these problems and we could coordinate well, we can achieve tremendously, amazing things. And so every kind of amazing human achievements over the last thousands, tens of thousands of years and so on, you can break down into some large scale coordination, often involving lots of people often involving people across centuries or thousands of years. But at the end of the day it's all kind of broken down into systems of action that coordinate sometimes down at the level of a single individual. So you can take on these tremendously complex very difficult problems and create coordination structures that organize us to solve these problems. And so there's a meme around Moloch. I won't go into detail here but it's a meme around Moloch which is sort of like the demon of coordination failures and so on.
00:13:44.978 - 00:14:10.806, Speaker B: It's useful to kind of visualize the coordination failures of a specific enemy that you have to fight. And you can think of using crypto economics as sort of like the weapon that you're using to fight Molok. This is part of the narrative of the regen movement, which is, hey, there's a very concrete enemy in mind here. Like coordination. Failures are not just abstract things. Think of them as like, a concrete thing that you're going to fight. And then your tool of choice.
00:14:10.806 - 00:15:24.094, Speaker B: Your weapon of choice is this region cryptoecon that you can use to organize lots of people to solve those problems. There's also this really awesome part of the kind of broader greenfield movement, which is that there's this amazing loop that Kevin has pointed out in it. By the way, all of what I've said so far and all the pages here, huge credit to Kevin. And you can hear it from him in a little bit because I'm probably getting some of this stuff wrong. But there's amazing kind of feedback loop where as people come into web three and crypto, the volatility and the booms and busts in the crypto world with the summers and the winters and so on create this structure where the volatility sort of ends up drawing a lot of people, which initially started in the Dgen camp where people are just kind of very focused on financialized use cases or overly financialized structures and kind of the potential and ability to make a lot of money draws a lot of people into the community. But then over time, as the volatility plays out and so on, especially in Downturns, those people now have learned a lot about crypto. They've gone through the activation problem of having to spend a lot of time and effort to learn about crypto.
00:15:24.094 - 00:15:49.340, Speaker B: But now that they're in the community, they start interacting with a lot of other people in the space. They learn about a bunch of other problems and they start realizing that they can coordinate with each other to solve those problems. And usually there's this kind of pathway of going from being a Dgen all the way to becoming a regen. And eventually you get to the Wagme perspective. That Wagme. For those of you who don't know it, we're all going to make it. And here's how we're going to get there.
00:15:49.340 - 00:17:09.270, Speaker B: I'm going to pick a pace here because now that I've sort of established the core concepts I want to get to very practically how we work on these systems. But a few more slides of concepts. So think of classifying the range of problems that you interact with and so on, either as an individual in general and there's many ways of classifying these things or as groups and societies and the whole planet as being. About ultimately, ultimately being able to build structures that can support you as an individual or support you as a group and create value for you as an individual or you as a group and so on. And a lot of the times you end up with these structures that are shared resources from communities often that are fundamental to achieving many of the critical things that people need. So think of physiological needs from the traditional massless hierarchy as relating very closely to a set of public infrastructure that we think all people in the world should have. Things like shelter, things like food and water, things like being able to just exist and survive and thrive and so on.
00:17:09.270 - 00:18:22.054, Speaker B: And then you can think of even things like safety and being able to have access to resources to be able to do things or being able to orient towards working on problems that you care about and so on as being also reliant on many kinds of public infrastructure and so on. And you can keep going. But at the end of the day, there are individual kind of private goods that matter here. But when you kind of zoom, which often get talked about a lot because usually private goods have to be sold in a market and so they tend to relate to marketing departments and usually there's all kinds of private goods that have lots of people involved kind of marketing their use. But when you zoom way out, most of the things that you interact with on a day to day basis and that yield your current state and that have created value for you are actually public goods. They're goods that you have access to because civilization has created fundamental infrastructure to enable you to enjoy the benefits of those goods. Things like roads, things like access to water, things like clean air, things like a supply chain for food and so on.
00:18:22.054 - 00:19:28.050, Speaker B: So these kinds of systems at the end of the day end up being these broad based civilizational scale infrastructure that are public goods. But in general, public goods tend to not have a kind of group that is benefiting or profiting or incentivized to kind of grow their access. And so you end up in a world where public goods don't have a marketing department and so you don't end up not thinking about them as much and they don't even show up often in measures like GDP and so on. But in general, most of the value that humanity has gotten to and has been able to create is tied up in public goods. It is about sort of public goods. The world of startups is often so focused on private goods because that's the easiest and most straightforward way to get to a market. But I really encourage you to take that regional perspective, to take the view that creating value for a broad swath of society and for civilizational scale often relates more to the creation of public goods as opposed to the creation of private goods.
00:19:28.050 - 00:20:18.558, Speaker B: So what is the distinction here? So think of private goods and public goods as private goods are things like things that you might buy on a store or something like that. And goods that are usually the definition tends to be around being excludable and rival risk. So things excludable means that when you use it, somebody else, sorry excludable is that there's a structure where you can exclude whether or not people can use a thing. So think of being able to get a specific piece of clothing and you have it and somebody else does not have access to it. Think of also as intellectual property. Intellectual property. The idea of IP is a way of creating exploitability and non exploitability in the use of ideas.
00:20:18.558 - 00:21:40.650, Speaker B: And that was a very intentional mechanism that was created centuries ago for a purpose. And then think of rivalries and non rival as just dividing whether or not having the thing prevents somebody else from having the thing, right? So if you eat a piece of food or something like that, that means that somebody else can't eat that food. But that's not the case for say, parks or air or information and so on. Now, of course there's ultimately matter and information involved and so on. So there is some capacity constraints, but for the most part you kind of end up in this plentiful bountiful spot where you can generally see something as just not really a rival risk because everybody can have some of it or all they need without kind of infringing on somebody else's need for that thing. So we kind of want to be in the bottom right quadrant where you are in the kind of non writable or non excludable environment where you can create something that everybody can benefit from and where is not oriented towards excluding people from use. The problem though, is that this non excludability makes it really difficult to create value capture loops, or not capture, but value harnessing loops that enable the value creation in that quadrant to flow back to that quadrant.
00:21:40.650 - 00:22:45.730, Speaker B: So to give an example, when you create a private good, you can go and sell that in a market and you can charge money for it and somebody can pay you money and so on, and you, as the creator of that good, can now take that money. And if you made some margin, you can deploy that margin into making more of that good. So you have a very straightforward feedback loop between creating a thing, selling in a marketing market, making a profit, and being able to sell more of that over time. And it's really difficult to do that for public goods. Public goods tend to be paid for by communities or governments or things like that because there isn't a straightforward way to create a regenerative loop in there. Or is there? That's the key point is can you create economic structures around public goods, that by using those goods and by participating in those communities, you can create a positive reinforcing feedback loop of value creation within that good itself. And if you can kind of create a self sustaining system like that, then you can just create a public good, create a financial structure around it that then enables the greater production of that open good, that public good.
00:22:45.730 - 00:24:05.100, Speaker B: So think of it as kind of being able to, using regenerative crypto economic structures can work around public goods in a way that creates a financial structure that allows them to succeed and over time create more and more and more value for more people. So I mentioned IP or intellectual property in a moment. And so this is where centuries ago, people realized that it was actually quite difficult to incentivize the creation of knowledge and the creation of devices and so on, or even the creation of creative food. It turns out that one of the earliest notions of intellectual property was around being able to prepare food dishes. So in Greece, in a specific city, I forgot which one, they had a rule that if a cook came up with a very delicious dish that the community thought was worthy enough that they could get an exclusive license to be the only people to be able to serve that dish for at least one year. And then eventually after that, everybody could make it. And so that was an incentive to cause people to have that one extra year of being able to profit from the creation and the invention of that knowledge and then share it with everybody, describe how to use it, and so on.
00:24:05.100 - 00:25:02.614, Speaker B: But that license was a mechanism that that community came up with in order to be able to create a profit loop or a kind of self reinforcing structure to enable creative people to be able to make that creative food. The problem, though, is that that shifted something that could be a public good, which is the recipe of how to make that thing, and shifted that into added excludability. It turned it into sort of a club good where only the inventor of that food was able to sort of profit from knowing that recipe for a period of time. In a sense, this is kind of how patents work if you create a patent around some piece of knowledge. So think of the piece of knowledge as a public good. And if you create a patent, you shift over that public good into a club good. Only if you have the license afforded by the patent or whatever do you get to use the technology.
00:25:02.614 - 00:25:50.682, Speaker B: And so this is kind of why patents are really bad for knowledge and bad for creative distribution and so on. It's because they exclude the broad use and that excludability means that it's difficult to build with them and so on. Now, there could be alternatives to these kinds of structures. We could find an economic structure around knowledge generation and invention and so on, that is non excludable, that anybody can use the invention and it has a built in financial structure that enables the regeneration of that good. But it doesn't shift it over to this club good structure that suddenly becomes excludable. So that's possible. A lot of other people have proposed potential mechanisms for this but this is kind of like a non solved problem in general.
00:25:50.682 - 00:26:42.320, Speaker B: There's no good solution for this sort of thing yet. However, maybe you will come up with something like this and if you want to explore things like that, this hackathon and many others to come are great avenues for this kind of thing. Cool. So the last thing I want to leave you here with in this section is that at the end of the day, web Three is a shelling point for hopeful people who see the potential to solve all these problems and want to use mechanism design to solve those issues. And Web Three has sort of attracted a lot of people from many walks of life to build with these super powerful components and tools to be able to tackle these problems. So great. I'm going to move forward through some of these.
00:26:42.320 - 00:27:33.414, Speaker B: One thing I want to mention is I mentioned mechanism design multiple times at the end of the day. So this is a concept that comes from economics and game theory and so on. A mechanism is a structure that changes a sort of financial or economic mechanism is a structure that changes the nature of some game. And so think of a game as so. The word game is not ideal, but the sort of, like, intricate game theory here is that we use the word game to describe a system where there are agents that are participating in a structure with some resources and they have some set of actions they can take. And when they take those actions, they either get more resources or lose resources. So that's a very general definition.
00:27:33.414 - 00:28:35.840, Speaker B: But you can think of that as a game of chess or where there are two agents and the agents are playing pieces and deciding what they move and so on and they either get more points because they capture pieces or they might actually win the game by kind of checkmating the other player or something like that. That's an example of a game. But you can also think of a game as the participation of groups around a commons. You can think of being able to access a public park and having to do some work to be able to access it. And there's a mechanism in place that sort of maybe measures who is working to help maintain the park and who gets therefore to enjoy the park. And so think of the economic structure of the participants around the park in working on the park to make sure that the value of that park stays high and so on. And each player spends some resources in doing that maintenance work.
00:28:35.840 - 00:29:56.682, Speaker B: And at the end of the day you can aggregate all the expenditures of all parties and what they're putting into the park to make sure that the park is flourishing over time and so on. So you can think of designing mechanisms that can coordinate the activity of those participants towards producing that good outcome. And so think of like at the end of the day you're dealing with agents that are coordinating in some large scale resource landscape and you can use mechanisms to orient their activity and orient their actions and to get them to a spot where they can coordinate and arrive at better outcomes. So all these kinds of games tend to suffer from potential failures where the structure of the game can yield defection as like the equilibrium spot as opposed to collaboration. And so the classic example is the prisoners dilemma, where you have a case where I won't go into jail here, but you have a case where there are two potential prisoners that could either tell on each other or they could cooperate and stay silent, or they can betray each other and kind of accuse each other. And if they coordinate, they both get a little bit of a punishment, but not too much. If they betray the other party then they get no punishment but the other party suffers a lot.
00:29:56.682 - 00:30:56.510, Speaker B: Now however, if both betray each other they both end up doing worse. And so the point here is that the unfortunate equilibrium is in the case when both parties betray. However, you can use contracts and structures and mechanisms to achieve coordination. So think of mechanism design and using mechanisms to be able to coordinate groups out of situations like that where you end up in this kind of coordination failure and this is the coordination failure that I was describing before. At the end of the day, the macro scale coordination failures like climate change all boil down to some kinds of games like this. And usually you end up with games that are stacked on top of each other and so games that are very small scale and games that are very large scale and they end up all kind of relating to each other in this kind of very large dimensional surface and so on. However but you can use mechanism design to sort of warp the incentives of these structures to arrive at higher and higher coordination so you can end up in better spots.
00:30:56.510 - 00:32:03.906, Speaker B: One other concept I want to introduce here is the difference between zero sum games and positive sum games. So zero sum games is the idea that there are some kind of fixed set of resources and either when one agent gets more resources that necessarily means that other people get less resources. That's not the case for all games. So that may be true about things like chess and so on but there are positive some games like when you think about playing in the park or something like that, that could be a case where people. Are coming together, they're having fun together, they're spending time with each other. And though all parties are kind of spending some of the resources by going there, by spending their time, by maybe eating some food together or whatever and they're losing some resources, they're actually creating a lot of value together and for each other and they end up in this highly positive game dynamic where they're creating much more value than everyone brought in. Now, there are very concrete positive sum games here which include things like education and things like invention and so on.
00:32:03.906 - 00:33:21.802, Speaker B: Like when people invent things and invent solutions they end up benefiting tremendously from those solutions but so does everybody else. So think of the broader research program of the world in science as a massively positive sum game where everybody's trying to learn as much as possible about the world and as we derive solutions and so on to various problems, we can all benefit from those solutions and we can scale the broad utility. So at the end of the day you can use kind of these crypto economic analyses of the world where you can think of the game dynamics and the game theory and so on. You can think of all these kind of incentive structures and you can think of the different surfaces to optimize and you can think of many different systems of sort of stacking together and superimposing. And so you end up with highly complex landscapes where sometimes it's not even clear or obvious what an agent should be doing. But often you can sort of warp the incentive structure so much in one direction you can make it super clear that that's the action that everybody should take. So think of all particular interactions around modern systems as being just this highly nested environment where there's just so many different incentive structures all stacked at any one moment in time.
00:33:21.802 - 00:34:29.162, Speaker B: And if you want to kind of cause significant action syndromes have to have very very powerful mechanisms that just cause action despite the presence of games that you don't even know are there in some cases. Cool, I'm going to move forward from here. 1 second, switch over to a different structure. Cool. So there was a lot of introduction but I think it's valuable because often things like game theory and things like crypto economics and things like mechanism design can feel very intractable or unapproachable or difficult and so on. And so I hope that that introduction helped many of you who have maybe never heard about game theory, never heard about crypt economics or maybe have heard about it but don't know what it is. Hopefully that was kind of like a smooth introduction and can maybe inspire you to learn more about it and so on.
00:34:29.162 - 00:35:39.214, Speaker B: Now I want to kind of describe one concept that I think is really crucial to think about and it relates to this positive sum dynamic that I just described which is bright ATOPIA. Think of an environment. You can think of the broad world as kind of in general getting dramatically better over time. Like the past few centuries have seen this just tremendous broad global improvement on almost any every single measure that we can think of in terms of the human condition. So things like mortality or child mortality or the prevalence of disease or literacy or access to shelter or food and so on, like basically living out of poverty along almost every metric that we can think of, humanity has been broadly improving over the last few centuries. At the same time in this century we have extremely difficult challenges to solve. So there are now existential risks of which human cost existential risks are perhaps like the most pressing where we really have to coordinate extremely well at massive scales to be able to survive.
00:35:39.214 - 00:36:42.230, Speaker B: So the species is now at a point where what we know how to do and our capabilities plus the things that we now know were there all along but we just weren't aware of. So things like supervolcanoes and asteroids and so on, which could cause extinction events too, we now have the knowledge to be able to survive events like that. So it might be surprising to many of you to hear, but the planet has gone through about seven massive extinction events that wiped out most of the species on the planet. Or maybe we're the 7th actually. I think like humanity human cost disasters or like the human cost extinction event for most of the species in the planet is I think going to become the 7th biggest case. Now, it'd be great if we don't cause our own extinction and it would be great to kind of avert that disaster and stop causing the extinction of so much other life. And it'd be great to get to a spot where we and so many other living systems can survive and thrive.
00:36:42.230 - 00:37:56.890, Speaker B: Now, in order to do that, we're going to have to coordinate extremely well. We're going to have to make it through by continuing to avoid nuclear war, we're going to have to solve climate change, we're going to have to make sure that humanity doesn't end up engineering a bunch of pandemics that wipe us out and we're going to have to do things like align AGI and so on. And these are all extremely difficult problems. However, you can use coordination systems to solve these things. At the end of the day, all of these problems come down to coordination failures. And this entry is made even trickier because we have this kind of computing phase transition problem in the picture where ever since we kind of invented computers very early on, they've been in this kind of compounding set of technological revolutions and kind of every decade, there's just this greater and greater set of capabilities afforded by computing to the point where we all work around with supercomputers in our pockets and we have the Internet and so on. And we're now going to be able to make things like large scale robotic systems and we will have things like virtual worlds and we'll have things like brain computer interfaces and eventually things like AGI systems and whatnot.
00:37:56.890 - 00:38:59.860, Speaker B: And all of those things represent a huge transition for the species and for other living systems. And this kind of phase transition that we're hitting as a species is one of the hardest things to make sure it goes right. And so we're going to have to coordinate very well against this. Now, one broader picture here is that the macroeconomic systems that we have in the world are not very well set up to solve these kinds of problems in general. Kind of the broader macro coordination structures are breaking down in a bunch of ways and they're not coordinating well against these kinds of problems. So we are left with the requirement that we have to use other solutions to solve these kinds of problems. Now there's this really useful concept called paradotopia that is due to Eric Drexler and Mark Miller who are kind of some of the first people that talked about also tangentially smart contracts and things like that.
00:38:59.860 - 00:39:59.990, Speaker B: And the concept that I kind of want to describe is that normally we talk about CRSM games as games and structures where you have that this line of resource expenditure between the two agents. So here's a simplified model of a game where there's two agents and they can either take resource from each other or potentially grow the pie. And so this transition from one line to the next is the idea of growing the pie for other parties. And so the Paradotopia concept comes from the realization that the technology that we create, the inventions that we make and so on. Grow the pie for everybody. Like, grow the amount of value and grow the utility for everybody so much that in reality, it's kind of creating orders of magnitude more value. And so at that point, it is totally obvious for all parties that we should all really be doing is stop fighting about anything and just coordinate as much as possible to get to that amazing spot where we are creating just tremendous levels of value.
00:39:59.990 - 00:41:36.318, Speaker B: For everybody involved and so forth is kind of the idea of how do you coordinate people to land on that spot, how do you coordinate people to using things like mechanisms and so on to end up in that area where we are just creating an enormous amount of value for everyone involved. Now I think that we can use crypto economics and we can use mechanism design to vault ourselves from where we are now over there. Now I think that everybody here is kind of familiar with things like bitcoin and ethereum and so on where just a few simple rules and few simple structures ended up causing this massive impact in the world so you think about bitcoin as the result of just a single impact evaluator. I'm going to define what that is in a moment. But think of a single mechanism that has a reward structure that causes an enormous amount of machines to be dedicated to just the problem of maintaining the bitcoin blockchain. So all of the bitcoin miners that are out there processing all the transactions and devoting an enormous amount of hash power just to maintain the blockchain are all coordinated primarily by a single mechanism which is the block reward. The block reward of bitcoin creates this auction that allows parties to introduce whatever hash rate they want into the system and out of that in a given period, the block reward is going to measure the hash rate and then it's going to reward all the participants proportionally based on the hash rate that they provided.
00:41:36.318 - 00:42:34.870, Speaker B: Now, the actual way that this is implemented in bitcoin is using probabilities and it's using a single reward for a single miner in a given block. But that ends up creating this larger mechanism that over time miners are proportionally rewarded for the hash rate that they provide. And that single mechanism caused this crazy runoff equilibrium where suddenly you have more and more and more people contributing hash power to maintain the bitcoin blockchain and everyone is rewarded for doing so. And it's creating one of the largest energy consuming processes that the species has ever built and it's kind of this runoff process that we don't quite know what to do with. And the problem is all of that energy is basically being wasted because it's adding security to the network. But there are way better ways to do this with things like proof of stake or using work that is actually useful. So in Fatbon we have this concept of actually using that work to do some other useful work as opposed to it just being wasted.
00:42:34.870 - 00:44:11.960, Speaker B: So in Falcon we use the exact same structure, we use the exact same block reward concept, the exact same impact evaluator to amass an enormous amount of storage around the world and all of this is yielded out of a single mechanism. Now, in our the in the Bitcoin case, that's a Djen mechanism that is well, I don't know if it's super fair to call it entirely Djen, because it is providing the useful thing of maintaining a blockchain. But in general, it's just causing and destroying tons of value relative to a much more region mechanism that is creating some positive externality out of that mechanism, which is the useful storage which you can then provide to other parties for extremely low cost or for free. So think of paradisopian mechanism design as the idea of using mechanism design and economics to solve planetary scale problems by thinking about the incentive structures of some problems and breaking those down and thinking about the equilibrium states that various different participants are in and trying to warp the incentive structure to get from one spot to another. So if you sort of think of being stuck in one valley and you want to get to the other spot where everything is better for everybody, and you can think of using mechanism design and crypto economics to coordinate their way from one spot to the other. And so think, here I have a tunnel boring machine as the example of the crypto economics being used to kind of bore a hole through that barrier in between. And so you can keep using the same kind of idea and keep getting to better and better and better states of value over time.
00:44:11.960 - 00:45:37.950, Speaker B: So it's kind of like how I think we should use mechanism design to arrive into this kind of paradisopian outcome, use crypto economics to go from where we are today to this amazing place of creating drastically more and more and more value for everybody involved. And so that's kind of like why you tend to think about this in terms of If, Regen, Wagme, LS and GMI because we're faced with in this critical century, we're faced with such ridiculously powerful problems in terms of the extential, risk that we're facing. And we can either all make it or not make it, but if we're going to make it, we're going to require extremely sophisticated coordination systems that can help us all get there, that can coordinate our action both at an individual level and at a civilizational scale level to be able to tackle these macro scale problems. Now, that sounds like a lot. Let me give you some super concrete examples and in the interest of time I'll kind of wrap it up very closely because I think we're going to get to the panel. I want to just kind of ground this in very concrete examples that you can then think about in terms of the hacks that you're going to work on for the next few weeks. So first off, think of climate change as this problem where you want to kind of coordinate all actions from all participants to arrive at kind of like a green planet.
00:45:37.950 - 00:46:58.406, Speaker B: And you can think of breaking that down to first. You just need one super green industry that is solving some massive scale problem that is maybe like handling 5% to 10% of the activity in the world to be able to point to and then kind of convince the world that it's totally possible to decarbonize completely and not only decarbonize completely but really become climate positive or carbon negative. Get to a point where that industry is decarbonizing much more than every other industry and it's not just zero, it's not just carbon neutral, it is carbon negative and actually fixing carbon from the planet, sorry, from the atmosphere into the planet. And if we can do that in one industry, we can then convince all other industries and show that it is definitely achievable and kind of take that solution to that problem and scale it to cover all industries. And likewise, we can go from kind of solving kind of one industry to kind of maybe thinking of even a subset of so think of like cryptocomputing platforms or something like that, and say, just in this smaller industry, it's not as big as one large fraction of all the industry on the planet. But in this smaller industry, we can maybe completely greenify that industry. We can make it decarbonize relative to everybody else in that industry.
00:46:58.406 - 00:47:54.538, Speaker B: And so we can then cause that by greenifying one single system or one single blockchain. So sort of the goal of Falcon green as a project is specifically to just show that this can be done with one system. Like take one system and make it not just carbon neutral but carbon negative. Get it to a point where it is like actively fixing carbon from the atmosphere into the ground much more than it emits, and then show that you can do it in one full system. And if you do that and then you can sort of sort all blockchains by how green they are and you can show that it can be done, that can become an incentive structure that causes and if people start choosing those systems that are greener over those that are not, then that on its own will become an incentive structure that will cause many other blockchains to become fully green. It's really exciting now that there are many blockchain systems that are taking this very seriously and that are all kind of competing with each other to try and become more green. And that's a fantastic move.
00:47:54.538 - 00:48:40.874, Speaker B: If we keep doing this kind of like at the stage that we're at, if we keep doing this, then we can get to a full green crypto and then from green industry and from there a green planet. But hey, how do you do this at the scale of a system that seems pretty hard? Well, it turns out you can break that problem down into something even simpler. So within Falcon you can think of just taking the activity of all the storage providers in FalcoIn and making sure that that activity is fully green. And then from that you can then scale up to other parts. I'll describe a mechanism in detail here. So what you can do is look at all the computers that are working around providing the storage on filecoin. You can estimate their energy use.
00:48:40.874 - 00:49:44.510, Speaker B: And so this is kind of done through a set of by looking at the power directly on the chain, by looking at all of the common hardware that people use. And you can create a set of estimates that describe how much power they're actually using. And then you can offset all of that power use by buying renewable energy pumped into those grids, the specific grids that they're drawing it out of at precisely the exact times that people are using the power. So think of directly associating the energy that somebody is drawing out of the grid to help maintain the blockchain with energy that at the very same time is being pumped into the grid from renewable energy plants. And you can do this entirely with crypto primitives. You can think of the information that people are, think of the plants and the outputs that they're producing, like all the energy that they're pumping in and the reports about that, and put that into information that you can track and associate with a smart contract on the blockchain. And then think of the energy that is being drawn out as also being trackable from within a blockchain.
00:49:44.510 - 00:50:44.366, Speaker B: And you can link these two things together and create a renewable energy purchase around for that energy at precisely the relevant moment in time. Now, you can do this at not just the scale of a single computer or single provider, but you can do this at the scale of the entire protocol. You can do this at the scale of all providers in the network. Motivating that kind of protocol choice, you can get started by breaking the problem down into something even simpler at the very beginning. You can just estimate things outside of the blockchain, you can run some rigorous analysis and estimate things out, create some dashboards that show the community what's going on, and then manually at the beginning start doing some renewal purchases to get python to be net neutral. And eventually later, not just net neutral, but carbon negative and so climate positive. And once you show that this is working, you can show that this is working at large scale, then you can propose to the protocol to actually change the entire structure of the system to do this automatically.
00:50:44.366 - 00:51:52.374, Speaker B: So this is kind of where the 500 Green Project is at now. It's measured the energy consumption, it's done those estimates, it's put all of that information on IPFS and make it accessible for everybody to look at. It's also proved out that renewable energy credit purchases through blockchain primitives. And now what sort of remains is to scale this into a whole protocol level activity where ideally you can have this happening automatically from the protocol. So you can create smart contracts and structures that would have the protocol itself measuring the use in the particular relevant grids in the specific countries involved and buying renewable energy directly from renewable energy plants by creating these economic structures. So this is an example of a region set of mechanisms that together arrive at a regen system where the whole system as a whole is not just offsetting its own energy use, but eventually it's going to start pulling out more carbon from the atmosphere by a multiple. And that's sort of like the goal.
00:51:52.374 - 00:52:37.754, Speaker B: And you can break out that entire large problem into a problem where you're measuring the activity of participants in the network. You're then associating some kind of transaction with a contract, ideally something you can do directly in the smart contract, but you can usually take a regular human PDF oriented contract and wrap that into a Smart contract. And then you want an ongoing system that will continue doing this over long periods of time. And that way you can coordinate massive scale action in a very large scale system out of those individual mechanisms and individual primitives. So cool. I'm going to here, let me look at chat. Cool.
00:52:37.754 - 00:53:46.430, Speaker B: I think we're getting close to the end. So I will say, hopefully this was a useful example on how we can use information gathering and associate, put all that information into a system where you can start using smart contracts to cause interactions, to cause coordination and become positive and become regenerative. And yeah, if you're interested in this particular project, I recommend following them on Twitter and participating and so on. I think there's a set of events that are happening. There's a sustainable blockchain summit, I think happening next week which you can check out. And yeah, beyond that, I would say take this example as a case where you can go from solving a specific concrete problem in the small scale and then scaling that into a whole system and going from there to all of crypto, then going from that to scale it, to compare it against all industry and eventually solve a planetary scale problem. Great.
00:53:46.430 - 00:53:52.826, Speaker B: I'm going to stop here and welcome Kartik. Thank you so much.
00:53:52.868 - 00:55:06.914, Speaker A: I think that was a lot in terms of like, you set up a base for a handful of interesting things. I was moderating or monitoring the chat here. The one common thing is I think a lot of people want to see what the presentation is. So if you can send us that link after I'll just share this thing with all the attendees and also on the live stream. But the kind of theme here that's happening, at least on the live stream, is that a lot of people are of course they understand the goal here, they understand kind of the purpose of what this can do if we kind of achieve the ultimate sort of outcome. But how do you actually get people excited? How do they essentially coordinate themselves at scale? How do they kind of associate themselves with these larger problems that I guess Eleanor From collectively can agree on the value or the value prop or the actual outcome, those are obviously pretty hard challenges on their own. Like how do you motivate people to actually be part of this movement? How do you actually make sure that what they're doing is actually the best outcome that you can achieve? And that kind of goes into coordination, goes into kind of how do we think about incentivization of public goods? Or just in general, should something be public or a private good, which you all touched on? And that's kind of the base which instead of answering those specific questions from the chat, I think we can make this the actual discussion for the panel.
00:55:06.914 - 00:55:36.000, Speaker A: And what I'm going to do is I'm going to obviously invite Kevin from Dao to kind of be on stage and turn the video on and Jacob from the global team to also help kind of moderate a lot of this discussion. Both of you have enough or all three of you, in this case have enough context on these common themes that we're obviously in the mix of. But maybe let's start off with how do we actually start incentivizing this coordination? And I'll let Jacob take it from here.
