00:00:03.840 - 00:00:43.058, Speaker A: To be a pioneer means to boldly go where no man has gone before and to explore new lands and certainly also new opportunities. When I think of a pioneer, I think of somebody that does something for the first time, because he's definitely convinced that he's doing the right thing. He also might be a little bit crazy because doing something that nobody has done before is associated with risks. But if you are convinced that you are on the right path, then you are also going that way. No matter what. A pioneer does new stuff, and sometimes with the new things, they fail. So it's a lot of trial and error to find really the good product market fit.
00:00:43.058 - 00:01:16.214, Speaker A: To me, being a pioneer means being courageous, not just to do what is easy or convenient. You really have to push for the limits where you go into the uncharted territories and you explore it. Basically, you enable things that were not possible before. When you are in uncharted land, you don't have any maps or any past point of reference that you can navigate after. It means to go first, right? Go further and everybody else is looking at you and maybe not getting it until they recognize that you are the pioneer. Crypto is so new. We have so many new things.
00:01:16.214 - 00:01:56.664, Speaker A: So no matter what we do, basically, we are always part of the first ones to do it. Crypto, and especially the blockchain technology, will change the financial system from its deep core. It will completely change. We can accept the status quo if we want, of course. But is this really good enough for us? Is this good enough for the world? Is this good enough for other people? And should we just sit back and relax and allow it to be that way? We at bitcoin Swiss, obviously are not satisfied with the status quo. We are all, from deep in our heart, looking for something new and something better. And to change something.
00:01:56.664 - 00:02:46.618, Speaker A: And to do that, we need to be pioneers, and we need pioneers. So it needs a lot of convincing, and it needs a lot of courage to start working in that industry, and it needs a strong belief why you do it. The future of finance will be more inclusive and more fair. Bitcoin twist is a great place to be because it's the place where this change will happen and is happening. Actually being in crypto and being in sort of a traditional finance at the same time, we have to think beyond in order to combine the two worlds and make them accessible for our clients. You always have to question what is and ask yourself if it can be improved and if it can be improved, maybe you're the guy to execute on that. You just have to keep asking questions.
00:02:46.618 - 00:03:36.340, Speaker A: So, for me, thinking beyond is doing your work, but also understanding how it fits into the bigger picture. You let yourself to be dynamic, and you let yourself to be open minded, to see possibilities and to explore more. You need the ability to think quite strategically, to be very close to markets, to trends. Always question your role in the next 3510 years. So what will be your role in the future? How do you do this every single day? That's a very, very difficult question. When doing new stuff, there is a lot of trial and error, and some of the trials become a big success, like our staking product. If it's not right, if it's not the right idea, do the homework, get the details done, and then come back to a more senior level and try again.
00:03:36.340 - 00:04:15.854, Speaker A: I think persistence is definitely an important element of our culture. Now, if you are just sitting at your desk doing your ordinary job day after day, you might not think of yourself as a pioneer, but actually you are. And every single thing that you do, when you do it with excellence, you are actually leaving a trail for somebody to come behind you. So you have to rely on your gut feeling and think also beyond your own limitations. And then we work towards it. Step for step, project after project, mini task after minitask. It takes confidence, endurance, and a lot of hard work, and then you will, in the words of the doors, break on through to the other side.
00:04:15.854 - 00:04:20.674, Speaker A: And that's what I'm excited about. Bring crypto forward.
