00:00:00.250 - 00:01:18.134, Speaker A: Hey everyone, I'm Rory, director of community at Chainlink Labs, and I'm here to talk to you about Chainlink staking and how to migrate your link from v zero one to v zero two. Chainlink Staking is a core initiative of Chainlink economics 20 that brings a new layer of crypto economic security to the Chainlink network. Staking enables ecosystem participants, such as node operators and community members to back the performance of Oracle services with staked link and earn rewards for helping secure the network. Chainlink Staking V Zero two takes learnings from the V Zero one release in December 2022 and builds upon its foundation. Staking V Zero two features greater flexibility for stakers via a new unbonding mechanism, improved security guarantees for oracle services via the slashing of node operator stake, a more modular architecture to support future platform improvements, and a dynamic rewards mechanism to support external sources of rewards in the future. Priority migration is a nine day period starting on November 28, 2023, where existing v zero one stakers can migrate their staked link and accrued rewards to v zero two with guaranteed access. Once a priority migration period ends on December 7, v zero one stakers can still migrate or withdraw during early access and general access.
00:01:18.134 - 00:02:11.320, Speaker A: However, entry to v zero two will not be guaranteed due to cap pool size. After priority migration on December 7, those eligible for early access will have a four day opportunity to stake their link before general access. Upon the launch of general access on December 11, anyone will be able to stake their link, provided the staking pool hasn't yet been filled. Note the staking pool is capped, so once the pool fills, you will only be able to stake once there's space available to follow. Along with this tutorial, you will need to be able to connect the wallet you use to stake your link in v zero one back in December 2022 and have some e tokens to pay for ethereum network fees. Okay, I'm going to share my screen now to show you how to migrate your link using a pre production build of the interface with placeholder values on the Ethereum, sepulia, Testnet, and Metamask. It might look slightly different from what you see on your screen, but don't worry, the process is the same.
00:02:11.320 - 00:02:48.274, Speaker A: The first step is to navigate to staking chain link, which will lead you to this web page. Next, you'll have to connect your wallet. In this tutorial we'll be using Metamask, but staking v zero two also supports coinbase wallet and wallets that support wallet connect. Great, now we're connected for priority migration make sure you're on version zero one on the top right of the staking interface. On the left, you can see how much you have currently staked in v zero one, as well as the unclaimed rewards. Next, click migrate to v zero two or withdraw. On this page you'll see three options.
00:02:48.274 - 00:03:26.240, Speaker A: You can migrate all of your link, migrate a portion of your link, or withdraw all of your link. If you want to migrate only a portion of your stake link, the rest will be automatically withdrawn back to your wallet. In this tutorial, we'll be migrating all of our link, so we'll check the top option and press continue. A wallet pop up should then show up for you to confirm the transaction. After signing the transaction on your web3 wallet, you'll need to wait until the transaction is confirmed. The transaction fee, amount and time it takes to process depends on the ethereum network at the time you're migrating. Once you see transaction confirmed like you do on the screen, you're good to press close.
00:03:26.240 - 00:03:59.606, Speaker A: Congratulations, you've successfully migrated to staking v zero two. You can see the staked amount right on the screen. You can press share on x to share your staking status on X, also known as Twitter, or press finish. To see your confirmed details. We'll go ahead and press finish now. You should see the variable reward rate you'll be earning in staking v zero two, how much link you've staked, and the remaining leak allotment you have for later phases. Now, the variable reward rate depends on how full the community pool is, so you may see a different value than what is shown here.
00:03:59.606 - 00:04:16.880, Speaker A: All v zero one stakers are automatically eligible for early access, where they can stake more. Link up to the remaining leak allotment as seen on the screen here, given that the pool has not already been filled up. That's all for now. Congratulations on successfully migrating your link from v zero one to v zero two.
