00:00:00.160 - 00:00:20.910, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the deli Grey refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host and there's a sino today, 5 July 2023. Right everyone, let's get into it. So apologies for missing yesterday's episode. Everyone just couldn't find the time to get it done. But I'm back today with hopefully a longer episode to make up for it. So let's jump right into the latest news.
00:00:20.910 - 00:01:42.758, Speaker A: So I'm sure you guys all saw over the last few days, I guess like into late last week, into the weekend, that the SEC basically rejected, well, didn't reject, but basically went back to these different companies that filed bitcoin ETF's and said to them, hey, you need to refile and tell us which company is going to be part of your kind of share share agreement. Or I can't remember the exact terminology here, but basically what ended up happening was that these companies refiled and they just named Coinbase as the partner there. And it's pretty obvious that they were going to name Coinbase considering that Coinbase is the biggest us based crypto exchange, by far the most legit and definitely the most trusted. But what I find hilarious is that imagine a world where these ETF's get approved by the SEC, even though they list Coinbase as, you know, a pretty important part of the actual ETF, even though Coinbase is currently being sued by the SEC. There is a lot of silliness going on here and it shows exactly why people are upset about the SEC and how they're just not giving proper guidance here and how they're basically have a double standard here. And I think that the general consensus is that at least one, if not all of these bitcoin ETF's are going to get approved this time because of. The fact of the matter is that we have entities like Blackrock submitting, right? And it seems like things have changed.
00:01:42.758 - 00:02:14.822, Speaker A: The market seems to be pricing, pricing this in. So definitely a kind of wind change there. And you know, it's funny, I was talking to some real life friends yesterday about this and they're not in crypto. I would say they hold crypto. They know I'm into it, obviously, but they're not like in crypto. And I was telling them like, hey, you know what? What's funny? Because we're talking about like the next bull market and I'm like, you know what, I reckon in twelve months we're going to look back and we're going to basically say that the bitcoin ETF's being filed again was the start of the new bull market. It just took a while for the market to actually be convinced of that.
00:02:14.822 - 00:02:33.894, Speaker A: And then one of my friends made a little bit of a comment. He's like, oh, ETF stuff, is that happening again? Like, you know that we've been hearing about that for years now. And I'm like, Tim, yeah, we have. Right? Like, that's, that's fair. But this time actually does feel very different. It feels very different because there is, you know, entities like Blackrock submitting it. The SEC hasn't outright rejected this.
00:02:33.894 - 00:03:12.016, Speaker A: The fact that the SEC went back to these companies and basically said, hey, you need to refile because you missed such and such. Right. You missed out naming this company as, as a partner here. And they did that. It's kind of a wind change because if the SEC was just going to reject these ETF's, they probably wouldn't have done that, right? Like, when you think about it, why would they do that? Why would they go back to these companies and say, hey, you just need to refile with this, right? I don't think they would have done that if they thought that, if they were going to reject these. So in my mind, I wouldn't say it's like a certainty that these ETF's are going to get approved, but I think it's more likely than not. And I think a lot of people kind of have come to consensus on that.
00:03:12.016 - 00:03:31.856, Speaker A: There is still definitely a bunch of disbelief out there from people who say, no, we've seen this game before. The SEC is so hostile towards crypto. Why would they approve it right now? It's like, okay, but if they were that hostile, then, I mean, they wouldn't go back to these companies and say, you have to refile. They would basically just wait the deadline and reject the ETF. Right. They wouldn't waste their time doing that. In saying that.
00:03:31.856 - 00:03:55.020, Speaker A: I mean, maybe they are doing that because it's the SEC and Gary Gensler likes to, likes to screw with crypto. But I don't know, I kind of feel like, at least personally, that it's, it's a higher chance than not. So, yeah, I mean, we'll have to see. I don't remember what the exact date is for the first ETF deadline to get approved. It's not Blackrock's, it's someone else's. I think it might be fidelity's. I'm not sure, but I think it's sometime in August.
00:03:55.020 - 00:04:51.244, Speaker A: So we've still got a little while away here, maybe four or five weeks or so until we get to that first deadline. But if that gets approved, that means that the rest of them are probably going to get approved because the SEC doesn't want to be seen as playing favorites. I think with these sorts of things, it definitely brings more attention to them than they would like. So yeah, if one of them gets approved, then I would assume that all of them are going to get approved and it's going to be obviously a very big deal because as I said, like for most of the last few years or I guess like for a long time now, not even the, just last few years, for a very long time now, all the ATFs have gotten rejected for various different reasons. So that would signal a pretty big win change. But why it's a big deal as well is because it basically marks, in my opinion, the true institutional institutionalization of the crypto asset class. It basically signals that these big tradfi institutions think that crypto is here to stay, starting with bitcoin.
00:04:51.244 - 00:05:40.204, Speaker A: You know, obviously the ETH ETF's coming after that. I mean, if the bitcoin one gets approved, you bet your ass that all the 8th ones are going to also, all the, these companies are going to file for an ETH ETF. And then if the SEC approved that one, that's going to be funny because the SEC has gone on record and saying they think it's a security. But if they approve the ETH ETF without, I guess like going after ETH or trying to get it classified as a security, I mean, it's pretty much like guarantee that they're never going to go after ETH or try to label it as a security and it just gets grandfathered in as a, as a commodity there. So, yeah, I mean, I'll be keeping a close eye on this sorts of stuff because obviously it has a big, it's going to have a big effect on the markets generally. It could be a sell the news event, like we could pump up before then and just sell down and then not go back up until sometime next year. As I've said to you guys before, I kind of feel like the rest of this year is still just going to be crab market action.
00:05:40.204 - 00:06:07.956, Speaker A: Even though it's been a bit positive lately. I still think we're going to be stuck in that range of 1000 to 2500 for ETH. Um, you know, we, we might not even go as high as 2500, but usually the way these things work is that what happens is that the price will go to a point that it hasn't been for like the whole year. So let's just say ETH goes to 2500, right. It breaks the, the last local high it had for the year, which was, or I guess like, uh, uh, last year. I think it was last year. I haven't the time, time's just going so fast lately.
00:06:07.956 - 00:06:35.616, Speaker A: It's kind of hard for me to, to keep track of it. I'm just looking at the chart here. No, it went to like 21, I guess. Yeah, 21 30 or 2100 ish in April of 2023. That was obviously after the Chappelle hard fork went live, and before that it went over two k in August before the merge. So other than those points, ETH has not been above two k except, except very briefly in May, but not really. And I'm just looking at the chart seeing this.
00:06:35.616 - 00:07:06.316, Speaker A: So if ETH was to go above two k and then go above that 2200 mark or that 21 50 mark, it could run to like 2500, but then it could get sold down again and maybe it goes back to 1700 or something like that. So there's no guarantee that just because it goes that high, it's just going to keep going and going. But that's actually very healthy from a market point of view. But that's what could happen. It could go up to that and then the ETF could get, you know, rejected or, sorry, it could get accepted and it becomes a sell the news events and then we go back down and then we start the bull market in earnest next year. So. Yeah, but we'll see, we'll see.
00:07:06.316 - 00:07:46.892, Speaker A: Anyway, enough on the markets going to move on to a bunch of tech related news now. So Everstake put out an update that they've updated their overview of Ethereum's upcoming Holski Testnet to reflect all the changes discussed during the second coordination call with devs validators and ecosystem players. So if you are interested in keeping up to date with this new testnet and how it's coming along, Everstake seems to be the place to keep an eye on in order to keep updated with everything. They have pretty much this whole breakdown here, as long as. Well as the timeline. As you can see the timeline, they're still scheduling mid September for chain Genesis here. Obviously trying to target that September 15 date for, for one year since the merge.
00:07:46.892 - 00:08:10.826, Speaker A: And then there's a bunch of, bunch of key takeaways from coordination call two at the bottom here. So just wanted to put that on your radar. You can go check that out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so rocker pool has crossed 3000 node operators. So a big milestone for the rocker pool community here. They also cost crossed 3% of the active validator market share according to rated.net
00:08:10.826 - 00:08:47.066, Speaker A: work, which is great to see. You can actually see that here rated on network. You can see rocket pool is at 3%, which is awesome. And yeah, I guess like the way this is kind of measured, 3000 nodes, it's kind of 3000 rocker pool mini pools. Right. So essentially what it is is that rocker pool operators spin up these mini pools, obviously, and then each of them will go live as a validator on Ethereum using um, some ETH, using it from the deposit pool, which people obviously put it in there to get, to get reh or rocker pool ETH and to get exposure there. So very, very cool to see this from Rockerpool.
00:08:47.066 - 00:09:49.930, Speaker A: Very cool to see their growth here. You know, it's funny because often I'll have conversations with people and they'll be like, you know, Lido is so big, these other LSD's are smaller. And I'll explain to them, like, yeah, okay, but there's a bunch of reasons for that. As I've explained, the refill before Lido came first had very, you know, had a first mover advantage. Other solutions, especially decentralized ones, aren't as capitally efficient as Lido. But at the same time, given all the limitations that Rockerpool has and how late it came to the game compared to, compared to Lido, I think I'm very impressed by its market share because Rockerpool, because it has so many different node operators and, you know, and because it's trying to be decentralized, because it's trying to make it so that people can actually have confidence that they're not going to get like rugged by some centralized party, or that they're not contributing to, uh, the centralization of the beacon chain, it's going to be a slower growth. Uh, now, if Rocketpool only had like 30 node operators and acted the same way as Lido did, I'm sure it would have grown, grown a lot more than it has, just because it doesn't have to deal with the capital inefficiency that, that it generally has to deal with.
00:09:49.930 - 00:11:02.996, Speaker A: And just to put the tangible, I guess, kind of numbers to this, or not numbers, but like tangible examples to this. Um, before Rocketpool upgraded from 16 ethics Leb's to eight ETH leds, they kept hitting the ceiling because it was very capital inefficient to mint Areth and then it would trade at a premium and they wouldn't, weren't able to onboard node operators in order to get more reth minted. And there was that premium there that you could actually arbitrage and make ETH on because there was actually a demand, a lot of demand for our ETH, but just not enough demand to, to start up mini pools because it was too expensive. But then they brought it back down and they, they increased the efficiency there and they increased the 8th efficiency and with the eight ETH leds, and that has led to more and more growth for rocker pool, and they're thinking about reducing that to four ETH, or in one day, maybe two ETH. But that's not the only way to increase efficiency of Rockerpool. There is a bunch of things that I've highlighted, Jasper's talked about before, you know, in Twitter threads, like the five big upgrades coming to Rocket Pool, the odour awards being redirected to the PDA in order to incentivize more liquidity and stuff like that. And obviously, Rockerpool isn't the only decentralized player, decentralized staking or LSD player in town.
00:11:02.996 - 00:11:47.088, Speaker A: We have a bunch of others that are live and going live soon. Swell, as I've mentioned before, is doing a lot of great work there, but they are definitely all less efficient than centralized staking platforms. But that's just the way it is. At the end of the day, centralization is always going to be more efficient. But what I'm most impressed by is the fact that even though Rocketpool has been, you know, rather inefficient for most of its life, just because of the way it's architected. Um, and you know, obviously it gets better and better over time, but still, just for most of its life, that existed with, with that 16 e mini pool, um, it still managed to capture, and it came later than Lido, it still managed to capture 3% market share and growing like it hasn't slowed down. It's been one of the, the biggest growths, um, growing LSD's, uh, since withdrawals went live and for, for a little while now.
00:11:47.088 - 00:12:18.934, Speaker A: So I'm, I'm expecting to continue to see that continue. And I think as I've said before, as more of these services come online, it's going to chip into the market share of, of not only lido, but centralized exchanges too. You can see Coinbase has actually gone down here. Coinbase's market share overall, not just of LSD's, but just overall is 10.22%. That's gone down. I mean that was at like, that was much higher than that. And I think that's a combination of it going down because people are withdrawing and it going down because other services are going up.
00:12:18.934 - 00:12:32.668, Speaker A: So generally I think the beacon chain is definitely looking healthier. We want Lido to go down as well. Obviously we don't, you know, we want lighter to be at least under 20%. Right. But that's a long journey to get there. And we will get there, I believe. But it's going to take quite a while to do that.
00:12:32.668 - 00:13:02.888, Speaker A: And it's going to take more competition. It's going to take more kind of like not, not direct vampire attacks on Lido, but just more liquidity incentives for other protocols in order to steal market share or take market share away from Lido and increase their own market share across the board there. But anyway, you can check out Jasper's tweet here. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But great to see that rocketpool continues to grow here. All right, the final round of contributions to the KZG ceremony has been announced. So if you haven't contributed yet, now is the time.
00:13:02.888 - 00:13:33.920, Speaker A: The minimum number of transactions has been lowered to eight. So you only need to have done eight transactions on the Ethereum address that you want to participate with on within the KZG ceremony. The blacklist was just cleared and contributions will close on the 23 July this year, obviously. So yeah, this is the final round for the KZG ceremony. If you haven't gotten included yet and you want to, you should definitely go check this out at ceremony dot ethereum.org. I think we are well over 100,000. Yeah, we're at 112,000 total contributions now, which is amazing.
00:13:33.920 - 00:14:12.314, Speaker A: I mean, I'm so happy to see this. I remember saying that I thought we would get 100,000 and it was kind of a moonshot kind of bet for me there. But we did it. And you know, with 18 days left, I'm sure we're going to keep going higher than this here. But yeah, if you want to be part of history, if you want to be part of Ethereum history, definitely go check this out if you haven't yet and have your submission included in the KZG ceremony here. All right, so something I want to talk about with regards to Mev generally and kind of MEV relayers, and this is something I talked about the other day. I alluded to this about how the ultrasound money relay, how it has gotten such a big market share in a short period of time.
00:14:12.314 - 00:14:58.408, Speaker A: And it is by far the biggest relay now. It's at 47 or 48% of total market share of both unregulated and regulated relayers. And flashbots is second at 23.6%. And it's kind of amazing how quickly and how brutally the change has been, because flashbots used to be 90%, and that was, what, ten months ago or something like that, when. When the merge happened, and then that has fallen to 23.6%. And ultrasound money, which only came out a few months ago, has upped, has gone up to 48%. Now, while it's awesome to say that a non censoring relayer has such a large market share, I don't like seeing any centralization or any kind of, like, big market share for any service, even if it's one that you would consider to be healthy for the beacon chain, and I'll explain why.
00:14:58.408 - 00:15:24.916, Speaker A: So, for example, within the staking ecosystem, if rocket pool was 50% of the network, I would hate that, right? That would be really, really bad, right? That that wouldn't be a good thing at all. If rocket pool was. Was 30%, it still wouldn't be great. Even though rocket pool is decentralized service, I don't think it would be a good outcome. Right? So. And I'm not trying to pick on rocket pool here, but I'm using them as a decentralized kind of pool that has a large market share here. I wouldn't like that.
00:15:24.916 - 00:15:44.386, Speaker A: And honestly, I probably wouldn't like there being 50% solo stakers on. On the chain either. I mean, it'd be very hard to measure that and actually get an accurate, accurate measurement on that. But I don't think that would be healthy either, because I think that that would mean that only the richest people could. Could be staking or would be staking, and it would price out a lot of the. The smaller. The smaller fish.
00:15:44.386 - 00:16:22.064, Speaker A: And it means that the smaller fish aren't staking, which isn't great either. And there's a bunch of other reasons, too, like giving too much power to one group and stuff like that, but, yeah, and the same is true for mev boost relayers, because right now, I'll just say our money is non censoring, has 48% market share. You know, we think it's healthy, right? Because they're not censoring, but at any time, literally any time, they could just start censoring. Right? And no, no one could stop them. So that would not be healthy at all, because that would mean that. That the OFAC compliance or the censorship would go up immediately by 48%. So you add on flashbots, which is at 23.6%.
00:16:22.064 - 00:16:37.192, Speaker A: I mean, like, you just add them all together, right? Add this. This. I'm just doing quick math in my head. That's 28%. So it's 30% there. So we would go back up to almost 80% instantly. If the ultrasound money relay, if the people operating that decided to start censoring.
00:16:37.192 - 00:17:06.260, Speaker A: That's not healthy, right? That's not healthy for the beacon chain. That wouldn't help anyone. So I want to see more diversity on the relayer side of things. I want to see more of these relays, be more competitive. But the problem is, is that none of these other relays, from my understanding, do what ultrasound money does, which is the optimistic relaying, which is basically assuming that the block is valid and requiring a bond to be put up. And if the block is not valid, then essentially the bond is forfeited there. So I don't know why the other relay is.
00:17:06.260 - 00:17:33.264, Speaker A: Aren't doing this. It might be a regulatory thing where they don't want to be. They don't want to be responsible for any kind of bond, and it might mean that they have fiduciary duty or stuff like that. I'm not sure why that's the case. Maybe it's something that they think is too risky to implement for themselves. But the. But the thing is, that's, like, the number one reason that the ultrasound money relay is so big, is that optimistic relaying, because they're just much better at the latency game than the other relayers are at this point in time.
00:17:33.264 - 00:17:52.768, Speaker A: So I'm hoping that the other relays do integrate that. But honestly, long term, we want to eliminate the relay infrastructure anyway, because, as I said, like, having a party get this big is not healthy for the network. And there actually isn't even that many relayers anyway, right? There's only, like, ten of them. Not even, I think. There's not nine. Yeah, there's nine of them. That's not good.
00:17:52.768 - 00:18:40.884, Speaker A: That means that nine relayers essentially have control over the censorship resistance of Ethereum, right? Because if everyone's using mev boost and everyone's using these relayers, and there's only nine of them, well, those nine could just all decide to censor, and then we're at near 100% censorship on the beacon chain. Now, obviously, that's not the case, and there's a very low chance of that happening, but it's still a risk that's why I have been encouraging people to spin up relays if they can, or use the ones that aren't censoring, using non censoring ones. But at this point, I would be saying that if you care about censorship resistance, you shouldn't be using ultrasound money because it's. It's too big, right? It's too big. And it could be. It could, um. It could obviously, uh, turn on censorship at some point, and it wouldn't be good for the health of the network, obviously.
00:18:40.884 - 00:19:02.152, Speaker A: If you don't use ultrasound money relay, uh, here, you would be losing a lot of profits because you'll be losing almost 50% of all mev boost blocks. You wouldn't be. You wouldn't be getting because, uh, you aren't. You aren't talking to the biggest relayer. So it is a complex multidimensional issue here. It is definitely not something that's going to be solved overnight. There are lots of solutions in, in place.
00:19:02.152 - 00:19:21.048, Speaker A: Stuff like PBS, obviously, I've spoken about before, but, yeah, I just figured that was worth bringing up there. And on Raider.net work, you can actually see the block space distribution of each of the entities here. So every single one of them pretty much, or at least almost all of them, have ultrasound. The ultrasound money relay as the dominant relay. And that only make. That definitely just makes sense.
00:19:21.048 - 00:19:47.968, Speaker A: Right. But I think coinbase is the only one that doesn't have ultrasound money is the biggest one. Block route seems to be the biggest one for Coinbase right now, but all the other services. Oh, and Kraken, sorry, Kraken still has flashbots as the biggest, but other than that, the rest of them, all the ones talking to ultrasound money, yeah, it seems to be the biggest there, which is of all the big entities. So that definitely makes sense in terms of the biggest. I think it's bitcoin Swiss. They have 41%.
00:19:47.968 - 00:20:41.494, Speaker A: But it seems bitcoin sways is not talking to flashbots because flashbots isn't. Isn't here. They are talking to censoring relayers because they are still talking to block native, but they're not talking to flashbots, which is. Which is weird, I guess, but yeah, and then you have like, celsius here, who is talking to only flashbots and has some vanilla blocks, which is, I guess, even weirder, but it is what it is, right? So, yeah, I just figured that was worth bringing up and chatting a little bit about, because as I've said before, censorship resistance on Ethereum is a critical issue. We don't want to have any vectors that can lead to more centralization of that. And I think that ultrasound money, being as big as it is, has become one of those vectors, even though they are a good actor right now, there's no guarantee that they will be in the future. And if we want to improve that, we definitely have to put, you know, bring more relays online, maybe stop talking to the ultrasound relay or get these other relays to integrate optimistic relaying so that they can be more competitive with the ultrasound money relay.
00:20:41.494 - 00:21:07.700, Speaker A: All right, another tweet from Jasper here with regards to rocket pool. So he says here, huge shout out to Kane Wallman for releasing his research for on chain rocket pool voting. So you can check this out at GitHub. And then Jasper continues saying there is no doubt like rocker pools, to participate you must have staked RPL against the validator. The unique implementation does not work with our, does not work with any service. A thread. So there is a thread here from Jasper that explains all of this.
00:21:07.700 - 00:21:48.754, Speaker A: You can check this out for yourself. I'm not going to go through the whole thread here, but there's also the GitHub repository that goes into the research around this and how rocker pool has a unique governance ecosystem here. But I think it's, it's, it's critically important for Rocketpool to have a very robust, decentralized governance system because of the fact that it's such a key player in such an important, I guess, like thing in the Ethereum ecosystem. And that is staking on the beacon chain. There was a little bit of, I guess, fud recently around the PDA and the things that it can control. So there are, from my understanding, two Daos in rocker pool. There is the odao, which is the oracle Dao, which is the dao that I'm a part of.
00:21:48.754 - 00:22:25.782, Speaker A: I run software as part of my rocker pool node or rock a pool smart node stack, and that software basically does things like Oracle price updates, it does things like the tree generation once a month for rewards, stuff like that. And that all runs automatically in the background as part of the smart node stack. And then there is the PDAO, which is more on the decentralization or decentralized governance side of rocker pool itself. The development of rocker pool as a protocol, funding of rocker pool, the, the treasury gets handled by the PDA, I believe. So all of that sorts of stuff. And obviously that stuff is critically important. That stuff, you know, dictates the direction of the protocol.
00:22:25.782 - 00:23:11.954, Speaker A: Whereas I mean, I think, I think actually this is, this is a good way to frame it. Oracle dow the OdAo is, is more of a passive dow. There are things that the OdAo do vote on, but most of the time they are a passive dao, right? Whereas with the, the PDAO they're much more active because they're developing the rocket pool protocol. They're funding different things within rocker pool out of the treasury. They're doing decentralized governance and research and stuff like that. So yeah, there's active and kind of passive daos there. And the goal actually for the ODAO is to get rid of it eventually, to make make it so that's actually not necessary at all for Rockerpool to operate, whereas the PDAO is probably always going to be necessary because it is the way the rocket pool protocol funds itself and keeps maintainers on and keeps the protocol being built out and researched and ways for Rocketpool to improve over time.
00:23:11.954 - 00:23:38.754, Speaker A: But maybe one day the PDA is also phased out. Maybe one day the rocker pool protocol ossifies. I'm not saying it's anytime soon, but maybe one day it does, because it is in its final state. There are not really any improvements left for it. Maybe there's incremental improvements that aren't worth having, you know, a big dow around for, and it kind of gets ossified there, but it's too early to tell on that front. There's still a lot of stuff on the rocker pool roadmap, a lot of, a lot of stuff for Rockerpool to do. So that's what the PDAo is for there.
00:23:38.754 - 00:24:11.632, Speaker A: But you can read Jasper's thread for a full breakdown on that in case I got anything wrong there. I'm definitely not an expert here, that's just from my reading. So I'll link Jasper's thread in the YouTube description below for you to check out. All right, so Cismo has introduced the Cismo App Store. It is provided for all builders to leverage the power of zero knowledge proofs for their communities. You can create your own Cismo connect apps from Cismo's templates, no coding skills required. So there is a blog post with examples and more that you can check out here for the Sismo App Store if it actually loads.
00:24:11.632 - 00:24:28.456, Speaker A: I just got an error there for some reason, even though it loaded. Yeah, this is giving me an error. Great. I'm not sure why it's giving me an error. Let me see if I can just hard refresh, see if that fixes anything. No, it's unfortunately giving me a client side error for some reason on on this front here and there is no Twitter thread. So yeah, I.
00:24:28.456 - 00:25:24.168, Speaker A: Fortunately, I can't show that to you guys right now, but just a refresher on what Cismo is, it's basically a protocol for a protocol to enable the efficient and proactive use of zero knowledge proofs. Now, obviously, you hear about zero knowledge proofs in the context of scaling a lot, but they have a lot of implications and a lot of use cases with privacy. So if you want to build privacy apps and you want to get them and you want to have them in like an App Store, this is what is most trying to do here. They launched an App Store where you can build these apps, you can put, put these apps live on the App Store, and people can go there and use them and get value out of them by using the different tools that Cismo has provided here. And that's what they're basically focusing a lot of their attention on. Now, it's obviously like just other App Stores that you may see, like the iOS App Store and the Google Play App Store and stuff like that, but this is focused on zero knowledge proofs and how they can be applied for all sorts of privacy preserving apps and things like that. So you can check out the blog post for yourself.
00:25:24.168 - 00:26:19.160, Speaker A: Hopefully you don't get the same error I did here. But yeah, I'll link that in the YouTube description below. All right, I've left a few minutes here because I wanted to continue the conversation I was having earlier at the start of the episode about the kind of like, market conditions, the ETF's, stuff like that, and how things can kind of seem obvious in hindsight, but generally on a longer term timeframe, they become more concrete. So what I mean by this and what I said before, earlier, I said, like, the market needs to be convinced that it's turned from like a bull to a bear. Mark, sorry for a bear to a bull market. And I discussed this with Eric on our podcast over the weekend as well. But the reason why I say it needs to be convinced is because you, you saw what happened in 2021 where Ethan, I guess, like crypto generally topped out in May 2021, right? And ETH went from 4900 to 1700, but then it went back up again.
00:26:19.160 - 00:26:59.434, Speaker A: Now, usually when it goes back up again like that, it's called a dead cap bounce. But what ended up happening was that actually went higher than the previous all time high. So technically it wasn't a dead cap bounce because it went to a new all time high, but it later came out that the reason that this happened was because of the leverage, right. The leverage of three AC, the Ponzi nomics of Terra, the leverage of other players like FTX and stuff like that. So the real top, the top that all the metrics actually line up with was May 2021. So that's where the bull market really ended. It's just that we had that second kind of swing, that second leg, because everyone was just using leverage and everyone was borrowing from Tom to pay Harry.
00:26:59.434 - 00:27:27.194, Speaker A: And it wasn't, it obviously wasn't great and wasn't going to last because all that debt needed to be paid back. And as we saw, most of that debt isn't getting paid back because it doesn't exist. Right. That it blew up in terms of the money was put into assets that went down a lot, and now that those assets are worth a fraction of what they were when they were bought, and the money's just not there. Right. So the market needed to be convinced. After that kind of dead cap bounce, in a normal condition, in a normal dead cap bounce, it wouldn't have gone to all time high.
00:27:27.194 - 00:27:51.462, Speaker A: But that was the market being convinced that the bull market was over and the bear market had begun. And that's why. And sorry, not. That's why the. The reverse is what we're seeing now. What we're seeing now is the market needing to be convinced that we've gone from the bear market to the bull market, because it for so long has sat at these depressed prices and has been a really. It has been a very painful period for.
00:27:51.462 - 00:28:07.914, Speaker A: For the whole market for a long time now. You know, every time that you bought, it would go down for a long time. And now, as a trader, if you buy, you get chopped up. Right? And a lot of people lost money, kept blowing themselves up. So there was a lot of pain. There's a lot, a lot of pain. But I don't think there's much pain left, really.
00:28:07.914 - 00:28:19.850, Speaker A: I think all the pain has subsided now. But what needs to happen is that people need to. Need to forget the pain. The market needs to forget the pain. And it just takes time. And I've talked about this time based capitulation before. And over time, it starts getting more and more convinced.
00:28:19.850 - 00:28:42.860, Speaker A: It starts. It starts starting to believe. Right? And there is that kind of Wall street chart that I don't really like. It's like that Wall street cheat sheet chart that shows, like, the stages of a bubble. But I think that what the thing I like most about it is the end state of it, where it basically says that people for a long time say, you know, these are in disbelief. They say, oh, this is a suckers rally. You know, this isn't the new bull market.
00:28:42.860 - 00:29:06.428, Speaker A: This is just going to get sold back down. That's where it basically changes from a bear to bull market. Because when you still have people in disbelief and the market just keeps proving them wrong and just keeps saying, no, this is actually a bull market, then those people hop on board. The bull market has already begun. Right, but, but they've been convinced that it's already begun. And that's why we see the crazy happens so quickly. And that's why the bull market can get going so quickly.
00:29:06.428 - 00:29:20.036, Speaker A: Because once the market is convinced, everyone starts changing into a bull market mindset. People aren't selling. They're like, you know, we're going higher. There's no point selling now. There's no point trying to scalp this. I'm just going to keep, you know, buying. And then all these new narratives keep coming in.
00:29:20.036 - 00:30:03.794, Speaker A: Money gets recycled through all the different coins. Everything pumps up together. And then eventually we hit another top and the market repeats the same bear market and crab market that it always has. So the cycles are actually the same in, in pretty much like any market, I think any, any market that has, um, isn't influenced too much by, I guess, like external, centralized factors. Like there are, excuse me, there are some factors, like, for example, housing in certain countries that are deeply influenced by external factors. You can take two extremes here. You can take the extreme of Australia, where housing is influenced by a lot of different government policies that, that are put in place in order to make sure that housing can't actually go down.
00:30:03.794 - 00:30:31.210, Speaker A: It's just like up only. So it's basically a ponzi. Some of those include, like, tax breaks and bringing in a lot of, a lot of immigrants. You know, I've got nothing against immigrants, but Australia brings in a lot of them. We don't have the infrastructure to support it and we don't have the housing to support it. So obviously prices go up for housing because there's more demand. Right? And then you have the opposite end of the spectrum, which is something like Japan, which doesn't really have any immigration for one reason or another, and their real estate.
00:30:31.210 - 00:30:56.920, Speaker A: And there are other policies in place as well, but their real estate isn't very valuable. It hasn't really been going up. Then you look at Singapore as well. Most of it is state owned, the real estate. So when, look, and because of that, real estate is not a speculative thing people speculate on in Singapore now because of that. Right? And when you think about that. That's the external factors basically coming in and influencing very heavily the price of real estate.
00:30:56.920 - 00:31:34.728, Speaker A: Now, don't get me wrong, crypto has external factors, too, but crypto is mostly a kind of like, unregulated, kind of like, inhibited global market that gets ahead of itself a lot of the time because it is still nascent, it's still early. There aren't really valuation models that people can use. And it gets ahead of itself in bull markets and bear markets. And that's why you see things happen so quickly, especially in a bull market, because greed is more powerful than fear in a bull market, right? Like no one. I mean, there's no fear in a bull market. There's. This is going up forever, and there's all these new narratives that come out, and people start telling themselves all these new things, and they start buying bags, and maybe they buy this thing and it goes up like ten x, and they're like, oh, I'm gonna hold for 100 x because of such, such and such.
00:31:34.728 - 00:31:56.326, Speaker A: And then it doesn't do that, right. And then they kind of like, hold it down, down to the bottom. It's the same thing every time. And if you can master these cycles, I think, and I believe that that is the key to becoming a. A very good and successful investor. Mastering the long term cycles. I think most traders, 99% of them, will probably end up blowing themselves up or giving all the money back that they make.
00:31:56.326 - 00:32:53.526, Speaker A: I think that first time investors, especially first time crypto investors, are nine times out of ten going to blow themselves up or just lose their money because they just don't know what they're doing. But if you're on your second or third cycle, you definitely have a lot and you've stuck around and you've kind of absorbed the knowledge, you definitely should have the knowledge and wisdom to understand these longer term market cycles now and understand how they play out and understand how to position yourself for the best success from that. Right. And that's something that I've learned through a lot of pain and through holding things down, through losing money in the early days. But I've definitely learned that, and I try to impart that wisdom onto people, not as investment advice or financial advice, of which none of that was, but just general kind of like advice to pay attention to, to make sure that you know what, what you're getting yourself into, you know, how to manage your risk, stuff like that. Managing risk is like most of the game anyway, but understanding the long term cycles, managing your risk around that and placing the right long term bets. You're going to win, in my opinion.
00:32:53.526 - 00:33:11.156, Speaker A: You're going to win. There's, there's no guarantee of it happening, but I think you have a better chance than someone who doesn't do any of that. Right. So, yeah. Anyway, as I said, none of that is investment or financial advice, but something that I figured was worth talking about on the episode today. But on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching.
00:33:11.156 - 00:33:18.824, Speaker A: Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone. Bye.
