00:00:00.490 - 00:00:08.238, Speaker A: How have you been, man? I feel like every time I try to catch up with you, you're so busy, which is great to hear. Yeah, but how you been?
00:00:08.404 - 00:00:42.178, Speaker B: From a business development side, it's always nice to be busy for sure, but no, it's been hectic, man. It's that time of the bear market where there's just a lot going on, a lot of building, not a lot of extra noise, which is a good thing, but it also just means that everyone's working hard, looking for answers to questions, looking for places to build. So from my perspective, it's great. But, man, like you said, been busy for about feels like six months straight, especially coming out of conference season. There was like that renewed hype afterwards. So it's been fun, but taxing for sure.
00:00:42.364 - 00:00:57.200, Speaker A: Yeah. And speaking of conferences, I know you've been traveling a bit. I think you went to, was it ECC? I think you went to, and I think there was like a few other conferences that you ended up going to. How was your experience in those?
00:00:58.370 - 00:01:32.546, Speaker B: It was good. And actually it was my first time ever going to a conference outside of the US. So we went to Berlin to was it awesome? I believe was the event, participated in hackwasm and then went from there directly over to Paris for ECC. I think there's Osmocon modular summit and Nebula summit as well, so attended most of those while I was there. And yeah, it was amazing. Not only just for the actual conference, but just being in Berlin and Paris, my first time, not a bad gig, getting to travel places like that for work. So no complaints.
00:01:32.578 - 00:01:39.660, Speaker A: Were there any kind of culture shock when you went to these conferences where you're like, oh crap, this is completely different from what I experienced in the states.
00:01:40.910 - 00:02:16.790, Speaker B: Not really, to be honest. They're very similar, at least from my experience, going to ETH, Denver, and even consensus, very similar. But there's definitely a different feel to the conference overall. I guess it felt less corporate organized. I guess over at the one in Paris, it seemed a little more grassroots. But at the same time, there was equally times where I felt it was more of the corporate setup, but ultimately I'd say it's a lot more developer focused and just more about the actual tech and products coming out. More than just like the overall, I guess, industry.
00:02:17.130 - 00:03:00.306, Speaker A: Yeah, that's one thing I notice a lot about many of the conferences. They're all very specific. Some are more institutional based, some are more dev focused. So there's definitely like each conference has its own DNA, so to speak. But what I remember when I went to Nearcon and this was Portugal, so much food for that reason, that was, like, one of my favorite conferences, because they just keep feeding you and you go up to these tables and you're standing next to other people and you're both sharing the same plate, and you end up just having a conversation. So there's something amazing about food bringing people together, even from a business perspective, it was kind of interesting.
00:03:00.408 - 00:03:37.714, Speaker B: Oh, yeah. Well, and it's even more interesting because the ones that have the best food and the most food I've noticed are the Cosmos conferences. The organizers of the Cosmos conferences definitely understand that that is a big piece of those is like, you're there all day networking, doing stuff, and there's almost never, like, food. So people just don't eat or have leave the conference to go find food or pay out of pocket, which is like, you already paid enough typically, to be at the conference or to travel. So it's nice when they accommodate that. And all the Cosmos conferences have had really high quality food, too. It's not just like some random cheap bulk meal they brought in for everybody.
00:03:37.714 - 00:03:45.942, Speaker B: It's like legitimate meals, like coming out on or d'oeuvre plates. I'm just like, wow, they're really doing it well for a bear market, which I can certainly. Right.
00:03:45.996 - 00:04:14.080, Speaker A: Must be doing really well for sure. I never been to a cosmos focused conference, but I hear a lot about different feuds happening, like different chains within the cosmos ecosystem that don't necessarily get along or feel like one is better than the other. So I'm curious to know, when you go to these conferences that are cosmos focused, do you feel that type of energy? Is there a lot of butting heads when you go there?
00:04:14.530 - 00:04:51.286, Speaker B: No. You don't feel like the budding heads part of it. It seems like everyone's super cordial and just happy to be networking with people who are at the conference. But you certainly feel like there is, like a standoffishness between certain protocols where certain protocols, you don't see them going up to each other and just talking shop or about what's coming up next or what we can collaborate on type thing. It's more like you're in the same circles. You're cordial, you're including them in the conversation amongst others. But there's certainly not this friendliness of like, oh, that's one of my good buddies that I see all the time.
00:04:51.286 - 00:05:33.640, Speaker B: I want to go say what's up? To him. It's more like a business style of, yes, we will discuss and be cordial with each other, but we also know that we're competing for a lot of the same users. Mindshare, TVL what have you. So it's an interesting dynamic because you realize that the cosmos is like a small subset of this entire space, so we should be really working together as much as possible. But at the same time, you're fighting for a really small piece of the pie. So you also want to make sure that you're establishing your portion so that you can survive and build up an ecosystem. So finding that balance is kind of tough of where it makes sense to just team up on things versus, hey, they're directly competing with what we're trying to do.
00:05:35.210 - 00:05:45.340, Speaker A: Do you think that is healthy, where it forces everybody to step up their game? Or do you feel like people need to embrace the interoperability a little bit more?
00:05:46.110 - 00:06:25.110, Speaker B: I think it's both. I think we all need to embrace the overall community a bit more and just kind of expand out of the core few, I guess, protocols that get most of the attention. But at the same time, I think it's good and healthy. There should be competition amongst products. Not every product built was meant to last forever, and some of them don't have product market fit or they had it, but just made decisions along the way that made it not as enticing as a place to build or invest in. So I think it's healthy to have other competitors coming in to reset the expectations and also just innovate on things we've already seen. The first mover isn't always the best option, that's for certain.
00:06:25.110 - 00:06:47.726, Speaker B: So we need to see more people coming into the actual cosmos and building, but we don't need, I guess, a lot of the same things over and over. So that's where you kind of draw the line. Right? Healthy competition is good if it's driving innovation. What we don't need is competition of forks of similar products, just trying to run back the same strategy as someone else already has. Yeah.
00:06:47.748 - 00:07:32.110, Speaker A: And I was actually looking at the development activity happening in cosmos. It's a pretty healthy ratio between the sub ecosystems and Cosmos core, which is something that I typically like to look at just to see how much development activity is happening. And in my humble opinion, I see cosmos. The tech is always really good. It's never overhyped, there's never so much buz but at the same time, people continue to build and people really enjoy working with the Cosmos SDK, which is very user friendly, from what I gather. And just talking to a lot of the engineers.
00:07:32.450 - 00:08:40.770, Speaker B: We work together on certain things, but ultimately, we're not working together on things like promoting how good the technology is or really talking about what we're doing with the stack itself. To think about these things down the line that the cosmos already has, like, horizontal scalability and just scaling in general, things like IBC that we've been on the brink of developing for years, and now we're seeing it come to fruition on, like, the L two s and Ethereum, starting to think about, like, well, how do we continue to scale, like, what's next? Right? And now they're going down that kind of path that the Cosmos SDK was going down years ago. So I feel like they're always ahead of the game in the development and what the needs are going to be. It's just we've done a really, I shouldn't say poor job. We just haven't done as good a job as we should at banding together to really promote the quality and good things coming out of the cosmos. And we've just amplified the drama and kind of like the bad parts of it, even though I think those are not as significant as the good things that you get with the SDK.
00:08:41.110 - 00:09:26.530, Speaker A: I think it's also a little bit of market conditions. Of course, I think everyone's kind of feeling that. Everyone's feeling a little grumpy over that lack of liquidity. But one of the things that really caught my attention when I was at consensus was there was a whole conversation around scaling IBC and how do we get the ethereum liquidity over to Cosmos and up to this point, and correct me if I'm wrong, but up to this point, it seems like axilar seems to be the best solution for that. And there are other up and coming projects that are trying to argue that point. But what are your thoughts on that being one of the biggest drawbacks to Cosmos?
00:09:27.190 - 00:10:13.294, Speaker B: I mean, it's certainly a huge drawback. It's just like there's not a lot of interest in bringing liquidity over here, and even if there was, there's not really a ton of options to do. So to your point, it seems like Axilar has kind of dominated that market in terms of being that bridge that brings over a lot of the ethereum, TVL to the cosmos. But I do think there's a lot of teams building out similar kind of solutions. I think Catalyst is one I've talked to quite a bit, who's trying to build something out to have that intermediary liquidity. There's like a lot of different protocols who are trying to tap into that because it is a huge problem. But I think beyond just having options of how to bridge it in is just giving them a reason to bridge it in.
00:10:13.294 - 00:10:57.594, Speaker B: We need killer applications that will draw people over or use cases that will draw people over from Ethereum, which is going to be difficult because there's not a lot of funding here, there's not a lot of TVL. So it makes it even more difficult to build those things. But we have the technology stack and the developer talent to do it. So I think we just have to find ways to create bridges between the two in terms of actually bridges, in terms of working together. I think Somalia is a great example of that. They're basically utilizing this idea of vaults and strategies for ethereum based products or assets on the Cosmos SDK. And to me, that's a great way of spurring that TVL and users to come over to the cosmos.
00:10:57.594 - 00:11:52.458, Speaker B: But then another big initiative is the snaps. I don't know how familiar you are with snaps and metamask, but I think that will be ultimately one of the biggest factors for bringing TVL and users from Ethereum or the L two s over to the cosmos. Because right now, the experience of going from metamask to then wanting to come to cosmos is not very user friendly. You're going to have to be required to go spin up a wallet in the cosmos that is supported. So a leap or a Kepler, what have you, and then you're going to have to go bridge over your assets, pay fees, get it into the cosmos, and then start your journey. And that is not necessarily the best way to get a new user, especially when you're not offering something super exclusive to them. So by getting snaps where they don't even have to download a wallet and they can access it just by doing a drop down on their current metamask, and that's enough for them to start interacting.
00:11:52.458 - 00:12:18.230, Speaker B: That now becomes an onboarding experience that at least some users will be willing to try. But, yeah, until we get that kind of integration with the major wallets for the Ethereums, the Salana and the L two s, if we don't have that type of integration, where it's easy for them to come over, they're not trying to jump over more barriers or hurdles than they need to. So it's a difficult problem, unfortunately.
00:12:19.370 - 00:12:46.298, Speaker A: Yeah, clearly there's a lot of challenges, but there's also a lot of great things that are happening within cosmos. And one of those things is something that you personally are involved with, which is archway. Can you give us a little background? What exactly is archway? And you made a point earlier about how there's so many chains that are doing the same things. So I have to ask, how is archway different from the other chains in cosmos?
00:12:46.474 - 00:13:25.840, Speaker B: Yeah, no, that's fair. And yeah, I appreciate you bringing up Archway because obviously, yes, I do contribute to them, as you can tell by the many different logos across the way. But, yeah, we're a general purpose layer one. So smart contract platform for building out applications in cosmosm. So there's a couple other general purpose smart contract platforms in the cosmos. But I think where we differentiate ourselves is kind of in two different ways. One, we've really focused on building a sustainable economic model from the layer one, like the protocol level, so that when you do build an application, you're not fighting against the tokenomics of the actual chain you're building on.
00:13:25.840 - 00:14:08.390, Speaker B: So that's one piece of it is just building a framework with low inflation, with counterinflationary pressures based on block demand, things like that, that are similar to what we've seen on Ethereum, mixed with the way that we're trying to allocate the value from the layer one to the application layer, we take the stance that the application layers where all the value is, and I would find it hard to argue it's not. That's where the users are, that's TVL. Everything that occurs on chain is happening because of the application layer. That's where value is created. So the people who are bringing that value on chain should be able to participate in some of those earnings. And ultimately, to us, that's what drives value to the layer one itself. The layer one is the network you need to access to get to these apps.
00:14:08.390 - 00:15:01.738, Speaker B: You need the arch token to access the network. So to us, the layer one should indirectly benefit from the application layer, not vice versa. So we're kind of doing the opposite of the FET protocol thesis, and we're saying we'll actually subsidize the application layer so that you can actually earn enough to build and maintain your product post gramp phase. So I'd say that's like one of the key differentiators, just how we're allocating the chain's earnings and actually distributing them back to the people who earned it and brought that value to the chain. And we think that'll align incentives a lot better for the developers. A lot of developers have kind of given that feedback that you can build stuff, but if you don't issue a token or consistently go back for grant funding. There's typically not a way to actually cash out, if you will, or even just pay for operational costs or pay for the salaries of the people that actually built it out.
00:15:01.738 - 00:16:17.240, Speaker B: So we just wanted to give a layer one platform that could kind of provide that infrastructure to build on, but then also give them a way to actually earn from what they've built directly without having to go through the process of issuing a token or even building an app chain. So I would say that's where we differ. And honestly, where we see this space going is we have way too many kind of, like I mentioned, app chains or even layer ones that were built, but don't do enough specialized, I guess, functions to really be an app chain or to really support the cost of maintaining an app chain. So we think over time, a lot of these app chains will realize the costs aren't worth it for what they're trying to do and will eventually consolidate down into actually applications that will be built on these general purpose smart contract platforms like Archway. So for now, we're trying to build as many unique applications as we can and utilize the framework to show that this model can work. But in the long term, we'd also like to make sure that any app chain that's running out of funding or can no longer support the cost of maintaining an L1 will consider coming and building it on Archway and earning directly from its use there. So we're providing a solution for builders now, but also for down the road, ideally a place for some of these app chains to land if it doesn't work out, running it as an L1 versus just an app.
00:16:18.090 - 00:16:40.066, Speaker A: So I have a few questions. Main one, around the token, and we've seen base enter the market and they're a little unique. One for the first part is they're L2, and secondly, they are, I guess, somewhat associated with Coinbase.
00:16:40.118 - 00:16:40.430, Speaker B: Right?
00:16:40.500 - 00:16:58.402, Speaker A: Legally different entity, I'm sure. But I'm curious to know in their particular case, they're making it work without a token. Is this opening up a different world where chains are saying, well, maybe we don't need a token in order for this to work? What are your thoughts on that?
00:16:58.536 - 00:18:07.266, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, I think it is definitely getting to the point where people are realizing that a token is not always necessary either for the function of the product or even to earn from it. If you can earn Ethereum from people using your blockchain or application like bases, that's probably worth it to them because they know Ethereum has a large base of users, they know that there's a lot of holders. It's very decentralized in terms of how many people hold it. You can maybe argue that the validator set isn't as decentralized, but the point is that, you know that Ethereum has value. It's got brand recognition, it's got product market fit. So why recreate the wheel if you can just earn that token that already exists? And to me that makes a lot of sense, especially when you can tap into their existing user base, because that's and liquidity, which are two of the hardest things to attract when you launch a new chain or have a new token. And yeah, so I do think people will start to see that L2s have kind of shown that you can earn a lot from being an app, basically because I look at L2s like arbitram and optimism, almost like apps on Ethereum.
00:18:07.266 - 00:19:09.002, Speaker B: I mean, they're single sequencers, so it's not like these are decentralized chains, right? These are basically a centralized party determining the order and what gets on chain, and just like an application could. So I see them just like that, and they're earning a lot from these sequencer fees. And from the cosmos perspective, you can earn from the actual, like for example, Archway, you're going to earn from the gas consumed on your app. So it's going to directly tie how much your app is getting used to, how much you're earning. And again, that takes out all of the extra headaches of one building a layer one, maintaining a layer one, the costs of building and maintaining a layer one, and just the regulatory hoops you have to jump through to make sure that you're doing it correctly. There's a lot of costs and just unnecessary burdens that come with launching an L1 or a token in general. And so some teams might see that as a detriment to what they're trying to do, so they can just launch their application and start earning whatever the native token is on the generalized smart contract platform they're building on top of.
00:19:09.002 - 00:19:46.600, Speaker B: And that'll be up to them to determine which tech stack best suits their app. And a lot of times I think Ethereum may not be the best tech stack to build the applications on, but it certainly is probably the best place to build if you're looking for users and liquidity. So that's the major hurdle I'd say, for Cosmos right now is like we have the tech stack and we're now coming up with ways for people to earn directly from the tech stack without having to be the ones building it. But now we need to bring in the users and the TVL so that it's more attractive for the larger investors and then more importantly, the larger applications to start porting over.
00:19:47.370 - 00:20:28.070, Speaker A: Yeah, I hear a lot from builders that are familiar with solidity, that are familiar with rust and different languages, that a lot of times people that choose to build on Ethereum or just in any of these EVM compatible chains, it's more of a business decision rather than one from a technical mean. I certainly hear a lot of great things about the tech of Cosmos sticking to archway. What kind of applications do you see thriving the most on archway?
00:20:29.370 - 00:22:06.530, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, it's hard to narrow it down to a specific type of application or even a specific vertical, because where I see archway kind of providing the most benefit to teams is either if you have an application that has high transaction volumes, therefore a lot of gas is being spent, even if it's in small amounts, or if you have a really unique or high end product that people are willing to pay to use. Because I think that is where you can really start to take advantage of this developer model because it's based on gas consumed, and you can add like a premium to your contract in terms of gas that would go back to the actual developer. So if you think you have a super unique product that no one else can really make, and you want to charge more for people to use it because of that, you can actually set that up in the smart contract so that the gas itself to use it is higher, and therefore you'll earn more from every transaction. Even if you have, let's say, 1000 transactions a month, you might earn more than someone who had 10,000 because you just charged more to use your product. But to do that, you have to have a product one, people will pay for, and two, it offers something that someone else couldn't, or it offers it in a way that's more convenient or better than someone else can do it. Therefore they're willing to pay a little extra. But otherwise, I'd say it's high use apps, things that are going to be having their contracts called often, because you're going to earn every single time that contract is called, not only from the actual gas being consumed to submit the transaction, but you're also going to get a share of the actual inflationary rewards that are being emitted each block.
00:22:06.530 - 00:23:07.062, Speaker B: So there's ways to actually earn quite a bit from even providing something like a public good. So things like oracles can start to be self funded. There's ways to now monetize the basic infrastructure that people utilize or users utilize or apps utilize by adding premiums or just by collecting the gas that's being spent on these things. And so that's really a unique use case. I think that will drive a lot of people to archway, is that you can either build something as simple as a single smart contract in earn. You can build something as complicated as a full suite of defi tools and applications in earn, or you could provide a public good and potentially earn. So it just gives a lot of flexibility to developers in terms of how much effort, how much time they want to spend on their contracts, if they want to maintain a product long term, or if they just want to make a really useful tool via smart contract and make it immutable so they don't have to really maintain it, and they can just kind of let it into the open.
00:23:07.062 - 00:23:30.586, Speaker B: And if people want to use it, they can. And now you have a passive income stream. But yeah, I think that's where a lot of the innovative use case will come from, is someone who just has a basic idea or a basic use case. They make that one thing and they basically give it to the public and then as people use it, they'll earn. I think it's really cool way too, to see if there is product market fit with a lot of projects.
00:23:30.778 - 00:24:14.960, Speaker A: When you mentioned a lot of transactions, the very first vertical that comes to mind, for whatever reason, is gaming. But I've also noticed that within Cosmos, gaming hasn't really been. I don't know if it's just not a good fit for Cosmos based on the way that technology is set up. It's not really a fit because a lot of the L2 scaling solutions, they're attracting a lot of games because it's cheaper transactions, higher throughput. When you think about Cosmos and archway in particular, do you feel like there's a lot of attraction for gaming to be part of it?
00:24:15.730 - 00:25:08.574, Speaker B: There doesn't seem to be a lot of traction for gaming, but I don't really see why it wouldn't be able to work on the cosmos. I guess you could argue we have longer block times than some other chains, so that could have some impact. Because if you're playing a game that's not being done off chain, then you can only do things every 6 seconds. Let's say you have to wait for each block to settle before you can know what the other opponent did or what occurred in the game, right? But once you take some of the actual computations off chain and you just basically batch in the results of, let's say like a match. It becomes a lot easier to build out actual AAA style games that you would see in a traditional web two gaming system because it's all being done on a private server. And just really the results and things that should be on chain are brought on chain. And I think there's a few teams trying to do that.
00:25:08.574 - 00:25:44.618, Speaker B: But where I think the cosmos is lacking is a true SDK to build on. Like a true gaming SDK, I should say. So everyone who builds a game has to basically build all these different tools from scratch, from APIs to match for matchmaking, for all these sorts of things. There's no real easy way for them to go find these things, so they build them. And that takes time, effort, money, and those are hard things to come by in this market. So I think a little bit of it is just not having the basic tooling or a basic gaming SDK to build on top of. And then secondarily, most games are very expensive to build.
00:25:44.618 - 00:26:17.320, Speaker B: And since Cosmos just doesn't have the funding as some of these L two s and ethereum, I just don't think they've gotten support to the level that they can afford to go build out a real high quality game that we're seeing in some of these other ecosystems. But in terms of term base and just smaller games, I really think that is a great use case for not only archway, but just the cosmos. We have cheap gas, we have high throughput, so we have everything you need to play those games. It's just whether or not we have enough interest from the user base and funding to create them.
00:26:18.490 - 00:26:57.220, Speaker A: Yeah, gaming as a whole, I feel like in web3 is definitely behind and a lot more work needs to happen in order for it to catch up to the traditional gaming that we have, like the first person shooter games like Fortnite or Call of Duties of the world. We're definitely far from that world, and it's going to require a lot of money to get there. But I think one step at a time, I think eventually we'll be able to and create that experience where people are playing a game, not necessarily because of those incentives. It's just more about the icing on the cake and it's more about the actual experience.
00:26:57.750 - 00:27:32.370, Speaker B: Exactly. I've thought about that. It's not so much like a play to earn, it's like a play and earn, but even beyond that, it's just like being able to do cool things with the protocol or the game itself could use those rewards to do cool things. You could fund a tournament prize pool with them. Right. You could incentivize people to try new games or to reward them for participating in beta events. There's so many different things you can do with these developer incentives beyond just reinvesting them into your operational costs.
00:27:32.370 - 00:28:16.762, Speaker B: You can actually use them for things like external incentives or to build up prize pools, subsidize gas fees for new users, things like that. So there's certainly a lot of use cases, I think, where Archway could be a great spot for someone to build a game. It's just we haven't had a ton of people interested in building them. I think we've had two or three apply for grants, and we're having serious discussions with those teams on what it would take to get them on chain, because we do think it's a missing piece, like a missing vertical in the cosmos. And we'd like to provide that to people, at least have the ability to try some of these games and see what they're capable of doing, and then maybe they will take that idea and expand on it and build their own application. To your point, it's pretty early on in the gaming side of things for Cosmos. Yeah.
00:28:16.816 - 00:28:26.640, Speaker A: And I think in general, it's still fairly early for Archway as a whole. I mean, you guys just recently launched like 90. I mean, was it a month ago?
00:28:27.010 - 00:28:51.320, Speaker B: We just hit like the eight week mark, like probably this week we launched on. I think it was July 5. Okay, so, yeah, it was July 5 or July 5. One was the airdrop. So I think fifth was the airdrop. July 3, I think was the TG, brought the chain up to consensus, started producing blocks. So, yeah, we're just heading into really month three.
00:28:51.320 - 00:29:05.100, Speaker B: So it seems like it's been a year, honestly. But no, it's been about two months. And, yeah, we're just getting started over here. It was two years of work leading into two months of being live, so maybe that's why it seems so long.
00:29:05.710 - 00:29:10.380, Speaker A: So what are you excited about the most in terms of the builders and what they're building?
00:29:11.570 - 00:30:31.574, Speaker B: Honestly, what's the most exciting is how many apps have already been built or are being built. Given the current environment in general, it's encouraging to see people still here building, still buying into the vision. But what I'm probably most excited about is the influx of new developers that we're getting and we're seeing interest from. We've just had a lot of developers from outside, like the core cosmos starting to show interest in building on Archway, which I think is really exciting because that means we are starting to expand outside of just this group of people that kind of seems like this little community that everyone kind of talks to each other, but we very rarely get that voice outside of the cosmos. It seems like we're starting to be able to do that because more people are kind of reaching out organically, looking to get more information and just really establishing pipelines with some of these other layer one ecosystems that are kind of starting to fade from previous runs, the ones like the avalanches, the Tazos, these other rust based protocols that just, they've had their time in the sun and they've kind of just been on more of same old, not a whole lot of action or activity happening, and they're looking for new places to land. And Archway is starting to become one of the more popular ones, it seems. So that's probably what I'm most excited about.
00:30:31.574 - 00:30:37.986, Speaker B: It's just getting fresh developers into the ecosystem with fresh ideas and bringing it to archway.
00:30:38.178 - 00:30:43.740, Speaker A: Can you touch on some of the development that's happening? What are they focused on?
00:30:44.430 - 00:31:44.026, Speaker B: I mean, they're mainly just building applications, things that we don't really have in the cosmos or to, I guess, add to our ecosystem. So adding things like additional styles of Dexes, things like that can incorporate concentrated liquidity with order book flows. Working on things like trying to think what else, some NFT kind of related games or even giveaway type raffles. So they were just working on more unique use cases that leverage the archway incentives, but are also bringing apps that we just haven't really had much, I guess, much of in the cosmos. Things like, I don't know if you're familiar with Rovit or Metawin, things like that, that are really engaging and really sticky type products that we just haven't really prioritized much in this space. And we want to bring those to the ecosystem so users have a place to try them out. And ideally, we'll keep bringing in those kind of unique ideas.
00:31:44.026 - 00:32:11.590, Speaker B: We see things like Friendtech, things like Unibot, these different primitives we're watching happen in the ETH side that are getting a ton of traction, and then they just never really make it to us. We're trying to make sure that those ideas do make it to the cosmos so that our user base and community can decide if they're worth pursuing or supporting for the long term, but at least give them a chance to participate in those types of protocols.
00:32:11.930 - 00:32:17.640, Speaker A: So if I'm a builder and I'm looking for a new home, so to speak. How can I get in touch?
00:32:19.550 - 00:33:20.140, Speaker B: Well, there's a few ways. So you can do what most people do, which is DM me on Twitter, or telegram, or discord, or insert medium here. Or you can actually go to the archway IO website and we have a bunch of different drop downs that will get you where you need to be. Whether you're a developer looking for resources, whether you're trying to reach out to someone on the team, whether you're a user looking to learn more about the protocol. If you're an application looking to get listed on our ecosystem, apply for a grant, apply for the ambassador program, everything you can imagine is going to be on that website. We put a ton of time and effort into making sure that we built a high quality website. So from a UX and UI standpoint, but also from just an informational standpoint, we wanted to make sure that we had everything a user, builder, investor, anyone really, any stakeholder could need so that they don't have to really leave the platform to get any answers or learn more.
00:33:20.140 - 00:33:21.194, Speaker B: Cool.
00:33:21.232 - 00:33:40.414, Speaker A: And I'll make sure to include the links in the description. Max, this was very educational for me, and I'm sure a lot of the listeners feel the same. I really appreciate you taking the time to chat about Cosmos and Archway. And you and Dan, you guys are some of the hardest working guys that I know in the industry. So appreciate you taking the time.
00:33:40.612 - 00:33:45.060, Speaker B: Hey, I appreciate you saying that and having me on. And of course, I'd love to join you again sometime. Um.
