00:00:00.090 - 00:00:38.290, Speaker A: And I'm super psyched to hopefully get the slides working and talk to you all for a couple of minutes about how we can demystify. Oh, we got slides. Thank you so much to the team. You guys are awesome. Okay, so this is my face. And again, what we're going to do today, we're going to make decentralization less scary. So again, whether you've been deep in dows for a couple of years like me, or you just wandered over to the community stage and you're like, what the heck is a dow anyway? Decentralization sounds weird.
00:00:38.290 - 00:01:08.850, Speaker A: We're going to come away with something that's practical and actionable for you and whatever stage your organization is at. All right? And so first things first, elephant in the room. Dows have gotten a little crazy over the last couple of years. I was in a dao event on Tuesday. Someone stood up on a panel and said, guys, dows have been really bad for the last six months. And we all looked at each other and we're like, yeah. And so despite this, yeah, we're super early.
00:01:08.850 - 00:01:43.134, Speaker A: We're trying to do something really crazy and it's a little bit messy. And some of this mess has led people to say, ooh, maybe this decentralization thing can't work. It's too chaotic, it's too inefficient. What we really need is a return to centralized systems. But centralization is not the answer. There's no system that's been proven to be less creative, less resilient, more prone to corruption and abuses of power than centralized systems. And really the job we've got in front of us is to make decentralization work better.
00:01:43.134 - 00:02:22.918, Speaker A: And we know it can work. There are examples all around us, as far out as science and nature, jellyfish and bee colonies, politics, the 1970s, women's movement and businesses. Mondragon, Spain's 7th largest business that has been operating as a worker owned cooperative for the last 70 years. And household names, Patagonia, Bob's Red Mill, taking major strides towards decentralization in their organization and management practices. And so we know two things from this. We know one, decentralization is a spectrum. You're the person who picks the right part on that spectrum for your organization.
00:02:22.918 - 00:03:14.074, Speaker A: And two, decentralization can work. And so what is decentralization? What does it look like when it's effective? In the examples we just looked at, effective decentralization separates ownership and control. So in centralized systems, you've got a small group or even one individual who both owns and controls the majority of the organization, even if it's a public company where theoretically anybody can buy stock. In practice, there's a small group of people who reap the profits and the benefits of that organization's success and control the direction and the decision making. When we effectively decentralize, we share collective ownership, not just financially, but of the strategy and the vision of this organization. Dows have probably gotten about 50% there on this. We'll talk about that in a little bit.
00:03:14.074 - 00:03:43.940, Speaker A: And on control, we hand off control to the builders who are building. Dowels have probably gone 150% in on this, and maybe we've gotten a little bit too crazy. So we're going to talk about the right structure to enable amazing outcomes for the individual builders who are in control of their outcomes. All right, so chaos. Reason number one. Talk about two main reasons that we see chaos in decentralized organizations. And the first one is that we've only gone 50% in on this ownership piece.
00:03:43.940 - 00:04:20.090, Speaker A: We see this show up in dows. For example, I worked in a DFI dow where half of the contributors thought that we were building products for whales. Half of them thought we were building for retail. And then there were a couple people who were like, oh, no, we're building for institutions. And so you can see how this creates a little bit of dissonance, a little bit of misalignment, and actually a whole lot of chaos and bad decisions. And so the way that we lead forward with this is we build a collective vision for our decentralized organization. The bar for a vision in a decentralized organization is actually a lot higher than we see in centralized organizations.
00:04:20.090 - 00:04:57.100, Speaker A: We're used to a leader kind of coming down from on high, and they say something like super inspirational and a little bit vague, like, we're going to give the world a coke. Amazing. Great. How do I use that to make decisions? When we're in decentralized organizations, we create visions that have three parts. First is a future state. What's the world going to look like if we're successful? What are our motivations for changing the world? The second is our target community. Again, who are we building for? Is it the whales? The retail? The institutions? We've all got to agree, we've got to name them, we've got to know them, and we've got to integrate them into all of our practices and decision making.
00:04:57.100 - 00:05:36.438, Speaker A: Third, and finally, is how we win. What are our competitive advantages? What are the values, the behaviors, and the opportunities that we continue to invest in in order to succeed? Want to give you guys a quick example of how we brought this to life in Metricsdao. So metrics, Dow again, on demand analytics, servicedao. And we are going to change the world by providing the framework that any data insights can be delivered and verified on demand. We know that data is the lifeblood of web3. And when we do this, well, web3 succeeds and grows, and we all know that's going to change the world. Second is our target community.
00:05:36.438 - 00:06:22.806, Speaker A: We're for analysts of all skill levels. And what we're also saying there is we're not for not analysts, not for engineers, we're not for data scientists, we're not for marketers. We're for the analysts. And on the other side of the marketplace, in order to achieve our vision, we've got to make it super simple for literally anybody to show up and ask a question. And we win again by investing in educating in those analysts and making it possible, through game changing technology, for anybody to show up with any level of context or education, ask a data question and get it answered. Building the vision in decentralized organizations is also a little bit different than in centralized organizations. There's no anointed figure who goes into a dark room on high.
00:06:22.806 - 00:07:04.654, Speaker A: It's a build and public process. The first thing you'll want to do is appoint a facilitator, a small group of facilitators who should be representative of all of the different populations in your organization. So not just your contributors or your community, but your contributors, your community, your investors. Anybody who's interested and touches your dow should have a place in this process. You'll want to understand their motivations, build in public with them, constantly surface your research, integrate their feedback, and most importantly, socialize and repeat this vision again and again. Celebrate when people accomplish it. All right, so we talked about the first reason for chaos.
00:07:04.654 - 00:07:30.282, Speaker A: Now we're on to the second reason. Talked about individual control being something that dows have gone 150% in on. It's actually really admirable. It's really hard to give up control. And some of the ways that this gets chaotic are, let's say we've got a dow who says, hey, I need a new website. And we've got a super talented website builder in the community who shows up, raises their hand and says, hey, I'll build you a website. And it's like, amazing.
00:07:30.282 - 00:08:20.410, Speaker A: We've got access to the best talent, who's able to work in this super flexible way, who's excited about the project. Where this can get a little chaotic is, say the Dow had in mind like a home page, a two week turnaround time, a five k budget, and the contributor was like, oh, this is going to be a ten page website. We're going to have token gated pages, eight weeks, 50k. Whoa, we're headed for some chaos. The way to solve this is actually let's back away from the project itself and focus on the problems that we're solving together. So it's not necessarily a home page or ten token gated pages. So what are we trying to do? Are we creating content for contributors and community members to access, or are we repositioning our brand for the broader ecosystem? Answering and framing these problems and giving builders the right structure enables them to succeed.
00:08:20.410 - 00:09:12.154, Speaker A: The first step in giving them some structure is to name a project or product manager or facilitator. My most unpopular opinion in web3 is we need a lot more product managers because good product managers help other people build well. They own problems and they connect builders with the context and resources they need to succeed. And so here we name a problem owner who's got a product mindset. Even if they're not working on product, they're giving others feedback and context sharing proposals, commenting on forums, bringing people into the conversation, and they're engaging the community with the right structure. And so it's not just, hey, we need to reposition our brand on the homepage, blah, blah, blah, budget timeline, here's the context you need to be successful. These are the people you need to talk to.
00:09:12.154 - 00:10:00.166, Speaker A: These are the skills you're going to need to bring to the table in order to be successful. Another real life example of how we brought this into metric style. We have a ton of talented analysts who were showing up and we noticed that they were actually only working on a few things. If they started working on polygon challenges, for example, they only worked on polygon challenges. We're like, hey, we have so many cool data challenges across so many different blockchains and protocols. What's going on here? So the first thing we did is we asked two facilitators, amazing people, Aaron and Vida, up on the screen and said, can you go figure out what's going on here? They came back and said, hey, there's actually a huge learning curve for these analysts. When they jump in between different protocols, let alone different blockchains, let alone different data platforms, they're facing a new learning curve every time and they're totally siloed.
00:10:00.166 - 00:10:56.142, Speaker A: They're doing it all by themselves. And actually what we need to do is provide some group mentorship and education. And so they leveraged experts from within the community on these different topics to create peer driven mentorship groups. And it's really actually doubled participation and created a ton of great learning and enthusiasm in the Dow. Which I say not to tell you that we've solved the problem and we've gotten it all right for us and every other organization, regularly reevaluating everything from the facilitator role. The priority of the problem, your budget, your KPIs, and being open to every kind of regular feedback is super important. All right, so we've gone through a lot this morning, and I hope that we've kind of demystified decentralization for a few of you or brought a new lens into a problem that you've been deep in for a long time.
00:10:56.142 - 00:11:27.640, Speaker A: So first things first. If you walk away with nothing else, whether you've been deep in dows for two years or you just heard the word yesterday, I want us to understand decentralization can work. There's a right recipe and a right formula for decentralization for your organization, wherever you're at. And there are two important things for us to keep in mind when we're solving for this. One is that collective vision all on the same page. We've got to build it, say it, live it, reward it. Two is setting the right structure of expectations for setting up the right forms of individual control.
00:11:27.640 - 00:11:46.460, Speaker A: And with that, let's go forth and decentralize. We've got a ton of amazing talks up today, and I think we're out of time. We are out of time. But if, if you want to talk any more about this or chat, you can find me on my incredibly creative social handles or around. Thanks.
