00:00:00.200 - 00:00:13.870, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Deli Gwei refuel, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host in the news, Asana. It has the 13 December 2023. Alright, everyone, let's get into it. So apologies for missing yesterday's episode, everyone. Another rug fuel.
00:00:13.870 - 00:00:41.680, Speaker A: No po op this time. I gotta get around to finishing that up. I do have the design finalized. A few community members had that done, but I just need to sit down and get it done. You know, I know it seems like it should be a straightforward thing, but I have like a long list of things that I need to do and it's just on that list. And you know how sometimes you have like a long to do list and you get to the point where you're just like, oh my God, like, how am I ever going to get through this? And then you leave it for a few days and then it just keeps piling up. Yeah, that kind of classic old thing has been happening here.
00:00:41.680 - 00:01:13.646, Speaker A: But I will prioritize this and hopefully have it live soon. But I'm not going to bore you with the details on that. There is plenty of stuff to get through today, so let's jump right into it. So the first thing I wanted to talk about was this new kind of digital asset anti money laundering act, or bill that has been proposed in the US by our favorite person and a bunch of other, I guess, like anti crypto politicians. But I guess the headline is Elizabeth Warren. Like, obviously we know that Elizabeth Warren is not a fan of crypto at all. I mean, to the point where she wants to effectively ban it in the US.
00:01:13.646 - 00:02:24.264, Speaker A: Now, I saw a lot of chatter about this bill, and Niraj here from Coin center posted on Twitter that quinter is going to be doing everything in its power to defeat this, this bill, or at least to, I guess, substantially change the wording in it because it is effectively a ban on crypto. I mean, it doesn't outright say that crypto is banned, banned, but it basically puts so much restrictions on everything you can do within crypto that it wouldn't even be worth doing it. And essentially what happens is that I think that you'd be able to maybe just buy and sell on a centralized exchange and maybe only a few centralized exchanges, but other than that, you wouldn't be able to do anything. Or, I mean, you would still be able to do it technically, but it would be illegal to do it and it would be very, very hard to do it. Now, of course, when bills like this come out I always like to kind of say to you guys that when you're proposing a bill, whether it's in the US or somewhere else, proposing your legislation, it's a negotiation kind of tactic, right, where you basically go to the extreme end of the spectrum and say, we want all of this stuff, and you start there so that you can just keep walking things back. And then eventually you'll get to get to a place where you basically wanted to be in the first place. But if you started from that place, you would have been watered down even more.
00:02:24.264 - 00:02:59.364, Speaker A: So, essentially, by starting at the most extreme end of the spectrum by, by working through this with various people and by taking, you know, more of the extreme things off of this bill, you start to look, you know, I guess, like to the outside and start to look to people like you're compromising. Right? When in reality, you never actually thought that this bill as it stands would go through, would have any chance. But because you started at the extreme and now it looks like you're compromising and now looks like you're the good guy, it's a classic negotiation tactic. It is not anything new. It's been used for thousands of years by humans. Right? This is nothing, nothing new. And on top of this as well, like, I know people have said that this bill has a lot of co sponsors.
00:02:59.364 - 00:03:28.388, Speaker A: It's not just Warren, it's a bunch of other politicians. There is a. It's still very hard to get legislation through, like by design. Right? It's very hard to get legislation through, especially when it's this divisive as well, because obviously not everyone in Congress is going to be in favor of this. And I'm hoping a large majority of them are not in favor of this. Or at least they want to make sure that this is discussed and talked about a lot more than what it has been. Because as I said, this is an effective ban on crypto, the language that's in here, basically.
00:03:28.388 - 00:04:02.768, Speaker A: And essentially it puts like a huge burden on basically everyone. It bans, like from, from, from my reading, it bans the ability to, to basically, self custody. It makes that so that anyone running like a node or, or a, I guess, or a validator would have to register as a money services business, stuff like that. At least that's from what I saw in the comments. But you can obviously go read this for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But I do want to just kind of calm people down by saying that the chances of the bill going through like this is basically 0% from my understanding, obviously, I'm not a lawyer, and I'm not, you know, I'm not up to speed with the politics of it all.
00:04:02.768 - 00:04:38.568, Speaker A: But from what I've read from the people that are up to speed on this sorts of stuff and from, I guess, like just past history and past bills that we've seen, seen kind of be proposed here, uh, that's how it usually works where they start on the extreme end of the spectrum. They walk back a lot of things that they say or they change a lot of things that they say, and they arrive at a compromise. And that's kind of where it eventually sits. And even in that state, it may not get passed, it may not be, you know, not go through. The bill just might die. I mean, bills die for all sorts of reasons. I mean, I think, like one of the, the biggest reasons bills die is that it just doesn't get enough support, right? So it doesn't even make it to the point where it could actually be enacted into law.
00:04:38.568 - 00:05:13.678, Speaker A: There's just not enough support for it. And it kind of works similarly to how we do aips or Ethereum upgrades generally, where if you have an EIp that you propose and you want to get that into an ethereum network upgrade, if there's not enough support for it and if there's not enough people who want it, it's not going to go into the network, right? It's just going to die. And maybe it comes back later in some other form. Maybe you, you know, take the ideas from that AIP, mix it with another one, and then you get it into the network. And that's a similar thing that happens with these bills. You know, if this bill dies, then they'll come back again, they'll try again with some other language and some other wording. And always it's the kind of like anti money laundering wording and the anti terrorism financing wording and protecting the children.
00:05:13.678 - 00:06:01.714, Speaker A: They use this charge language on purpose. You know, it's actually very transparent what they do. Like, they're not necessarily trying to hide anything here because, I mean, it's kind of impossible for them to hide anything. These bills have to be public. You know, they can't just be enacted into law without anyone knowing what's in them. But their hope is that they can jump up enough support that the people that want this to go through, their hope is that they can jump up enough support based on not just the fact that they're saying that it's anti money laundering, anti terrorism financing, but essentially going after the people that don't have the time to essentially pay attention to this and aren't up to speed and everything. And obviously, crypto has become like public enemy number one for, for a lot of politicians in the US, which is quite sad, but at the same time, it is very hard to pass legislation and, and the bill as it exists, has practically 0% chance of becoming law here.
00:06:01.714 - 00:06:36.122, Speaker A: And there are a lot of people within the crypto ecosystem now fighting back against this. You know, as much as we, you know, flack we give to the VC's out there, a lot of them are putting their weight behind, basically players like Coinbase that are fighting the regulatory front. They're talking to politicians, they're talking to regulators, and they're educating them because that's number one thing here. I think that anyone can be educated. I really don't think that age should be a factor here at all. At all. It is a factor in that if you, you have age related diseases like you have early onset dementia or you have cognitive dysfunction because of your age, and obviously it can affect that.
00:06:36.122 - 00:07:14.964, Speaker A: But if you're just like, you know, an elderly person, but you seem relatively healthy and relatively fine, then you should be able to at least learn the basics of what you're legislating on now. And at the same time, there are a lot of people out there who just don't want to learn, you know, they don't want to learn new things. They have this preconceived idea and preconceived notion of things and they just want to ban and they just want to control people. And unfortunately, that's the world we live in. But at the same time, at least how it works in the US, you have to have, you know, pretty big support for a bill before it becomes, becomes law. And I guess, like, I'll monitor this bill and kind of keep you guys updated on it, but really, you should just follow coin center. They, they do a lot of good work around this.
00:07:14.964 - 00:08:12.972, Speaker A: There's a few lawyers out there as well on crypto Twitter that I'm sure, I'm sure, I'm sure you, you've all seen before. But, yeah, I just wanted to kind of like put to bed some of the concerns that I've seen people saying that, oh my God, this is going to ban crypto in the US and these bills, 100% guaranteed to go through, and it's all dead, you know, get out now while you can. That's not how it works. The amount of doomerism in that statement just annoys me to be honest, because you guys know I hate doomerism generally. I'm more of a perpetual optimist, and I'm definitely optimistic about the fact that there's a 0% chance this bill goes through as is, and we'll have to see after revisions and how it goes through, but I'll keep you guys updated on that one there. All right, Tim Baiko has posted his first all core devs update blog post in quite a while. I remember I used to cover these a lot on the refill because Tim was doing them more regularly, but I mean, he does the tweet threads anyway, right? And there are other people that summarize the all core devs call, so there's no, there's not really a kind of requirement for him to do these, but it is nice to have this in a blog post.
00:08:12.972 - 00:08:57.234, Speaker A: So I guess the TLDR of this update is that we are currently in the phase of doing Den kun test nets. So obviously, as I mentioned to you guys before, girly should be the first testnet that gets forked in early January. There's also going to be a bunch of shadow forks happening in parallel as well, of course, because of the fact that we can do shadow forks alongside Testnet forks and we can just keep doing it right up until Mainnet, and it helps us test things a lot more thoroughly. We did this, obviously for Schapella and the merge, and it helped us a lot there. And there's a few things here about about what AI peers are included in Denku, not just 48 44. There's actually many other eips that are included in in Den kun here that you can check out. And there's a little explanation of what each of these eips are.
00:08:57.234 - 00:09:26.448, Speaker A: This is probably the best place to get the information about each EIP. Like if you're interested in learning about what what each one does, this, this has all the information for you. You know, I'm sure you all already know what EIP 4844 does, and I think that's the most anticipated upgrade. But there's also a related EIP called EIP 7516, which is related to blobs and introduces a new opcode opcode called blade. Blame blob base fee here. But yeah, you can go give this a read. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so.
00:09:26.448 - 00:10:09.160, Speaker A: And there's also a bit of, a bit of kind of talk about next steps as well, and how the core devs have begun work on the Prague Electra or Petra updates there's a discussion on the ETH Magicians forum which I've highlighted before on the refuel. You can go check that out there. But yeah, guys, we're getting really close now. Obviously it's the holiday period pretty much like I guess with in the next week a lot of people are going to be going on holidays and taking time off. But the core devs, I mean they, they tend to work through these periods, guys, like not all of them, but a lot of them do tend to work through these periods. But when it comes to testnet forks, that definitely requires like all hands on deck sort of thing to make sure that everyone's kind of monitoring it and paying attention to it and it goes through smoothly. But shadow, I'm sure shadow forks can begin like pretty much immediately.
00:10:09.160 - 00:10:42.112, Speaker A: I mean I'm sure we're going to see some shadow forks in the, in the near future, maybe before the, the first testnet forks happen. But Denkun for all intents and purposes is finished at this point in terms of like the clients, clients doing their thing. The spec obviously is done. The Eips are all included in there and it's really just fixing any bugs that come up, doing performance improvements, you know, client optimizations. But really we're just running through the motions now. We're doing the old shadow forks and testnets and then we'll get Mainnet. So barring any major issues or critical bugs or anything like that, we should expect Denkun mainnet by March latest April.
00:10:42.112 - 00:11:19.846, Speaker A: You know, I'm still pretty, pretty comfortable saying March, but I think it's going to depend on when they do girly. Like if they don't do girlies testnet fork until mid January for some reason, then it could push us into April because I think that they want to give at least a month's notice before they do the main net upgrade. So if they give a month's notice, they would have to give it in like I don't know, the latest of late Feb for it to happen in March. So it might get pushed out to April. Just depending on timelines there. We'll have a clearer picture as the test nets get forked. But yeah, at this point in time, I'm pretty confident in saying that it's a 99% chance that it's going to be March or April and, and, and in January.
00:11:19.846 - 00:11:55.784, Speaker A: I think we're going to have a pretty much 100% certainty on, on one of those months once we see all the testing going through. All right, speaking of den kun, you can see here, Terrence shared that he's sinking dneb, which is the consensus layer version of Denkun on Devnet Twelve with Prism and Geth, which is, seems to be sinking all well and fine here. As I said, guys, like we're just running through the motions now. Everything seems to be chugging along just fine. There is no more changes happening to the ips, especially to things like 48, 44. And the clients are just running through all of this testing now. So yeah, I just wanted to highlight that one as well for you guys.
00:11:55.784 - 00:12:37.328, Speaker A: And the last thing on 4844 was an update on that blob sharing protocol that I talked about, I think a few weeks ago. So this is basically a service that allows the pricing of blobs to be split up, because as you guys know, blobs can, can currently be purchased. If you scroll up the top here, you see what it looks like. Blobs are kind of like just one thing, so you have to buy a whole blob. So if you don't, if you want to share the blob or share the kind of like fee and the load of buying that blob, there has to be a protocol that is made to allow that. And that's what this blob sharing protocol is doing, where essentially you can trustlessly be able to bid on a, you know, on a part of a blob instead of the whole blob. And that obviously creates a more efficient market for blobs.
00:12:37.328 - 00:13:09.896, Speaker A: Now, the latest update was basically that lion here, who's a core dev at Chainsafe, iterated on this with Dancrad on a primitive that unlocks building a trustless variant with features such as payments conditional on inclusion and censorship resistance. Obviously this definitely needs to be trustless and also needs to be a public good. This should not be something that is monetizable at all, to be honest. This should be a public good that exists within the Ethereum network. And all the details can be found in this hack MD document, which is a breathing document or a living document. They keep updating it over, over time. So yeah, definitely go check this out if you haven't yet.
00:13:09.896 - 00:13:51.844, Speaker A: But this is definitely a big unlock as well for being able to let the smaller l, two s or the smaller roll ups play in blob space. Because if you get priced out of blobs because the bigger players are pricing you out, well then that's, that's obviously not a great outcome or ideal outcome. So let's split up the blobs and make it so that there's a market place for them and people can just bid on them and do it in a trustless and censorship resistant way. So yeah, you can go check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so diva has reached the 20,000 ETH staked milestone in their early staker vaults. And they said here this accomplishment marks a significant step towards a more decentralized ethereum staking ecosystem.
00:13:51.844 - 00:14:19.534, Speaker A: And you can obviously join them on their journey here. I'll link this in the YouTube description below. Diva is not live yet, though, guys. Like the current TVL that's in there is either vanilla ETH or Steve, but their vaults and they're kind of like staking infrastructure is not live yet. It's just on the testnet right now. So you can see here that, you know, you can try the Testnet app here, which is, which is live. And then you can also run a node as a diva operator here as well.
00:14:19.534 - 00:14:40.030, Speaker A: You can go check that out. That out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But the reason I'm highlighting this is not necessarily just, you know, just to highlight diva, but just more so to highlight the fact that we have all these protocols that alive. Yes, they're very, these are these new staking protocols that are live. Yes, they're still relatively small, but they're cutting into other, bigger players market share. That's the whole point.
00:14:40.030 - 00:15:04.684, Speaker A: We want to keep growing these things. We want to keep opening up staking and making it more accessible to more people. Because I think that, you know, people have been going on about Lido for months, if not years at this point, and about Lido's market share. But it's not, it's not just about Lido. Guys, as I mentioned last time, Coinbase also has a large market share. So we need to target both of those markets, the ones that use lido and the ones that use Coinbase. I think Coinbase definitely caters to the ultra noobs.
00:15:04.684 - 00:15:43.060, Speaker A: Like lido caters to a various different people. It's not just noobs. But if you're staking with Coinbase, like I would, I mean, and besides the institutional stakers, and I would even consider them to be noobs, right? Like when I say noobs here, I mean people that have absolutely no idea when it comes, what, what choices they have when it comes to ethaking. They buy their ethn Coinbase and then they say a staking button on there and they just click the button right that's what I'm talking about here. And it doesn't matter if you're a regular retail user or an institutional user, like, you're still considered a noob in that regard. If you don't know any better, if you don't have any knowledge about other solutions, you're just going to go with Coinbase because they manage it all for you. They make it super easy to do, and then you don't have to worry about anything.
00:15:43.060 - 00:16:50.334, Speaker A: Yes, you pay a higher fee, but that's the fee for convenience, right? Whereas with something like lido, it caters to more than just that audience. Obviously, there's a lot of new noobs that love using Lido because it's easy as well, and it's integrated with things like leisure live and other applications out there. But at the same time, I know plenty of experienced people in crypto that use lido as well, because St ETH has deep liquidity, right? It has deeper integrations. People like using it because of that. And to compete on that front, you have to compete in the on chain ecosystem, the, you know, the kind of like more advanced ecosystem, because at the end of the day, the noobs are definitely going to go with the path of least resistance. So if we can tap into people that are just a little bit better at knowing what to, knowing how to stake their ETH bit better than noobs, then that will chip into that market share for Lido and Coinbase. I think that when it comes to competing with them, the bigger players need to be competing with them on the institutional front, to be honest, and targeting those users there, which I think they have been doing, but at the same time, I wish the ones that act as the front door, like for example, the liquid collective, or, or they called, I've forgotten the name right now.
00:16:50.334 - 00:17:12.218, Speaker A: The liquid collective is a group of people, a group of, I guess, like staking providers, but one of them is pretty big. I've forgotten the name right now, but they target institutional clients. But the problem with what they're doing is that they're just staking with Coinbase. So they need to be staking with more than just coinbase, at least from, from my knowledge. They're just taking with Coinbase right now. And I think figment as well. But they need to be staking with other providers too.
00:17:12.218 - 00:17:29.354, Speaker A: And I think the only way they do that is if the other providers actually target these. Oh, it's called alluvial. That's right. And they target these kind of services and say, hey, stake with us, you know, we've got lower fees, we've got better, you know, we got, we've got an LST as well, so on and so forth. Right. But anyway, won't continue on with that one there. You can just go check out diva if you haven't yet.
00:17:29.354 - 00:18:22.484, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below. And another thing on estaking was something that I came across from, from estaker today, which I thought was a really good acknowledgement of the issue and a really good way to solve this issue, or at least attempt to solve it. So they said here in a tweet, DBT or distributed validator technology enables lower bond validators, but it doesn't address the fact that hardware is still too expensive to justify buying a computer to earn rewards on a one ETH. DVT validator. And I've talked about this on the refuel plenty of times. And I actually spoke about this recently in depth where I basically said that if you have one ETH, right today it's like, what, $2100, you buy some hardware, say you spend like five, $600 on hardware, and then you've only got that one ETH and you're running the hardware, you're not going to make anywhere near enough money to cover the hardware costs from just staking one ETH. This is just simple economics, right? So what estaker has done, they've teamed up with Diva and, and Stakersaurus here.
00:18:22.484 - 00:19:17.406, Speaker A: They're running a ten week pilot program to subsidize hardware for 20 brand new node operators. And you can apply for the program beginning this Friday, the 15 December. This blog post has all the details and the goal is obviously to create new node operators around the world. Now this of course addresses that big kind of upfront cost of hardware, but the ongoing costs also need to be addressed here because it varies wildly because like the ongoing costs obviously include electricity and Internet. I think electricity is not really that much of a concern because it just gets baked into your entire electricity bill and it depends where you are in the world and if, you know, if you have solar power, stuff like that. But when it comes to bandwidth and Internet usage, like, I guess, like it's a bit different because you pretty much need to have unlimited bandwidth because of the fact that running a node takes up a lot of bandwidth. It uses a lot of data.
00:19:17.406 - 00:19:53.298, Speaker A: So I don't know what that cost is everywhere in the world. I know what I pay for it in and I pay for, you know, the fastest speed I can get at my address. I pay 100 and what is it, $150 australian dollars a month right. Now, I know that Australia has some of the most expensive Internet out there, out of the developed countries, I believe, or even the developing countries. So that's probably on the higher end of stuff. But it just depends, like where you are. And this is the thing, this is why it's hard to design around this, because the hardware is pretty much like the same for everywhere, right? Like everyone can use the same hardware, you just plug it in and away you go with it, right? There's no difference in hardware depending where you are in the world.
00:19:53.298 - 00:20:55.206, Speaker A: But when it comes to costs around electricity and costs around Internet and also reliability of those two things, it's very different. And that's something that I don't think can be solved by programs like this. But, and at the same time, you know, you have to kind of factor in, okay, if you're earning, let's say 4% on that one ETH, right? Let's say 4% of 2100 is dollar 84 a year. That's probably not going to be enough to cover the Internet and electricity costs. Right? So this is why I go back to, I mean, at the same time, like, I think that subsidizing the hardware is a great initiative. And obviously if ETH goes up in dollar terms, it's going to be better rewards for people, right? If he goes five x from here becomes, you know, dollar 500 a year. But this is why I always kind of go on about the fact that, yes, it's expensive to be a validator, but the thing is, is that even if the cost to be a, even if the cost to be a validator was, was, was, was, was basically $0, right? And you get the hardware for free electricity and ongoing costs are still going to cost you.
00:20:55.206 - 00:21:37.000, Speaker A: And it's more like, is it worth your while as well? And that's why people go with these easier staking solutions, right? And that's why I think that running a validator for any network and running a full node for any network, there needs to be a cost, a benefit analysis done on this. And it needs to be a justification for that as well, because I typically see people from other camps saying, oh, you can run a, you know, such and such validator for as low as basically one of the native token. I think gnosis lets you on gnosis chain lets you run a validator for one gno, which I'm currently looking up, the price is $217, right. I don't know what the yield is on there, but it's $217. Okay, cool. But you're gonna need the similar hardware to, to a theorem to run that. Right.
00:21:37.000 - 00:22:20.904, Speaker A: And it's not expensive hardware, but you've already spent more on hardware running the, the gnosis validate. Okay, so. So why does it matter that you only need one gno to do it if that's not even gonna let you break even for a long time? So I'm not trying to say here that we shouldn't break the barriers down for, for staking and for solo validating and to get people to run more nodes, but there is definitely a cost there that is borne by the node operators that, and it needs to be worth their while. That's why there will never be as many solo stakers, no matter what the, I guess, like the ETH requirement is dropped to, there will never be as many solo stakers as there will be people staking with lsts. It just does not make economic sense for that to be a thing. And we've seen that. I mean, there's already, what, five, 6% of the network is solo stake, as the rest is lsts or big staking providers.
00:22:20.904 - 00:22:44.784, Speaker A: It's just pure economics, guys. And I think that that's what people, a lot of people miss when they say, when they see, oh, wow, cost 32 ETH to spin up a validator. That's a huge amount of money. Yes, it is a huge amount of money. But then, as I just explained, we can lower it. Right, but, but the point is that you lower it. I don't think that's necessarily going to increase the amount of people, the amount of people staking past a certain point, because, you know, Rocketpool has lowered it a lot.
00:22:44.784 - 00:23:25.848, Speaker A: Right. And they've done a lot of great work there. Obviously with DVT, we're lowering it even more, and other protocols are lowering it even more. But then there is a kind of flaw on that, because as I said, it has to be worth both the hardware cost and the ongoing costs. And if it's not, then people aren't going to do it, because it's also not a monetary cost, it's a time cost as well, getting it all set up and monitoring it and stuff like that. So, yeah, anyway, I'm rambling a little bit here, but it's something that I get frustrated with seeing, because people think that there's a magic solution here. People think there's a silver bullet to this, and people don't think about the economics, which is freaking insane to me, because this whole ecosystem is about money and economics, and you know, and profitability and stuff like that.
00:23:25.848 - 00:23:51.830, Speaker A: But people don't think about that. They just remove their brains when it comes to that, for some reason. And this is the stuff that I think about all the time. Like, honestly, guys, I think about this stuff every single day because I think that not enough people talk about it, not enough people think about it. And it frustrates me when people say, oh, who cares if ETH is deflationary? We should, you know, it doesn't mean anything for the network. What do you mean, it doesn't mean anything for the network? Of course it means everything for the network. It means Ethereum is a profitable network.
00:23:51.830 - 00:24:18.164, Speaker A: Like, how is that not something that should be celebrated? Right? We celebrate profitable companies. Why wouldn't we celebrate a profitable network, a network that is self sustaining? You know, even if it was at zero fear revenue, it would still be self sustaining because it has the perpetual issuance. But because we have the fee burn, and because Ethereum is a widely used network, we can offset that issuance. And now we're net deflationary. And we're not just saying we're net deflationary to pump bags. Like, that's not the main thing here. The main thing is that a theorem is a profitable network.
00:24:18.164 - 00:24:37.024, Speaker A: It returns the value back to its holders as well, through the burn. So. And not just its holders, but it's the people who are staking their ETH as well. Because if you're staking your ETH, you're obviously a holder of ETH, too. So it just, it puzzles me that people don't make this connection and they just fud ETH about it. Like, oh, ETH high gas fees, blah, blah, blah. It's like, but, but it.
00:24:37.024 - 00:25:18.766, Speaker A: You guys are going to get me into another rant if I keep going. I say, you guys, like, you're forcing me to do this, but I'm going to go into another rant if I keep going on about this. But my main point here is that, like, you can't get around the reality of the economics when it comes to this stuff. You just can't, right? And people who try to meme that you can and say that it's self sustaining, these are the people that bought into the terraponse, right? These are the people who thought that you could create an unbacked, un collateralized algorithmic stablecoin that, and it wouldn't go to zero in a death spiral. And it did go to zero in a death spiral. All the people that read the white paper and understood it deeply knew that was going to happen and had called it out for years, but everyone was ignoring it because, oh, look, it seems to be working and the price is going up. Who cares, right? We've new paradigm.
00:25:18.766 - 00:25:48.968, Speaker A: We've invented the, you know, revolutionary technology here. No, you haven't. All you've done is masked a lot of this stuff. And because it was a bull market, the demand masked the weakness of the model. And then as soon as the bear market really got going, right, the thing fell apart fucking completely. I mean, it only took a few months and it fell apart in three days, right? So when people gaslight you about economics not mattering and, you know, and the kind of financials of this stuff not mattering, you can just basically ignore them because they don't know what they're talking about. Reality sets in one way or another.
00:25:48.968 - 00:26:13.700, Speaker A: You cannot escape reality, right? It is inevitable and it will come for everything in this ecosystem that has over years. And the narratives can only get you so far, right? But anyway, as I said, I'm going to go into a rant if I keep going. So I'm going to leave that one at that for now. All right. Speaking of DVT, just wanted to quickly shout out that oblabs have continued that how DVT helps educational series here. So you can read this one. It's.
00:26:13.700 - 00:26:32.828, Speaker A: It's titled staking as a service provider. So it basically goes over how DVT can help staking as a service providers. You can go give this a read. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But yeah, I just wanted to put it on you, your radar for you to do that. All right. Polygon has announced a new kind of refresh of their polycom polygon wallet suite called the polygon portal.
00:26:32.828 - 00:26:58.526, Speaker A: So this is their improved gateway to the polygon chain. So you can go to portal dot polygon dot technology to check this out. There are a lot of upgrades here, guys. A unified ux for bridging, you know, access to third party bridges, refueling your gas developer tools and much more. So if I go here and I'm on. I'm currently logged in on Cecil Zero X, but I'm on optimism right now. So if I go to Polygon, it'll kind of refresh and show me.
00:26:58.526 - 00:27:42.602, Speaker A: And show me my. Or if I click here, it'll show you my assets, right? So you can see sassle ETH my assets across all chains listed here. You got the bridge kind of interface here for you to easily bridge, easily swap, right? And you can, you know, swap your network to either Polygon ZK EVM or the Polygon Pos chain. As you can see here, transactions ecosystem and much more. The reason I'm bringing this up today, guys, is because this again, is just speaking to a lot of what I've been saying for a little while now about how the abstraction of everything crypto is going to continue. We're going to continue abstracting away all of the complexities. We're going to continue making better portals, better interfaces, people to interact with, and we're going to abstract away the bridging.
00:27:42.602 - 00:28:14.734, Speaker A: It's just going to be two clicks. Like this is obviously the start. You know, this is not the end game of Polygon portal, but this is how we get to that end state of basically no one having to worry about what chain they're on, what network they're on, the, you know, people complaining about the fragmentation of liquidity and fragmentation of different apps and stuff like that. None of that is going to matter. None of that is going to be a thing for the everyday user. And I'm glad to see Polygon doing this with their polygon portal because it just helps a lot of people to be able to easily use this stuff and it increases adoption. So you can go check this out for yourself.
00:28:14.734 - 00:28:51.808, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so Coinbase has announced that they're looking to bring tradfi assets on chain using something they've called, I think, project diamond. So what this project is, is it's going to basically be them bringing, I guess, like assets from the real world to real world assets onto base. And they're doing it in Abu Dhabi right now. So they're working with financial services regulated, sorry, they're working with Abu Dhabi Global Market to do this. And we'll enter the agency's regulatory lab sandbox and do this on base here. This is really cool.
00:28:51.808 - 00:29:53.318, Speaker A: I think that obviously bringing real world assets on chain is going to be the big trend over the next few years. Coinbase is well positioned for this because they're a trusted brand. They know how to do the custody. You know, they know how to do the custody already and they have a really great security background there. It's funny because like, they're doing this outside of the US right now because you can say, see here, the platform is available to registered institutional users outside the US, which is just insane to me because this is the US fumbling the ball again on this, like bringing this real world assets on chain, like, and I'm talking of things like, you know, all types of financial instruments, such as they're starting off with debt, but doing like stocks and bonds and other forms of financial products in the traditional world, bringing that stuff on chain is going to increase liquidity, it's going to increase interoperability, it's going to increase the efficiency and the effectiveness of the market, and it's how crypto replaces the traditional financial rails. And the fact that the US is dropping the ball here on this just makes me angry, if I'm being honest, guys. But still, great to see that Coinbase is doing this outside of the US.
00:29:53.318 - 00:30:35.746, Speaker A: They're not waiting for the US to give them the green light. They're basically saying, well, we're going to do this overseas. Now, if you want to lose, you lose, which is, yeah, I guess, sad, sad outcome, but it is what it is. All right, so stocknet or starkware, and Stocknet has announced today that they've introduced something called devonomics, which is a new program specifically for Starknet devs. So devonomics gives Starknet devs over 1600 ETH, which is $3.5 million, which is 10% of all stark net fees from launch until November 30. So the three goals of this program is to reward devs for building stocknet as a public good, facilitate devs influence in Starknet's evolution through governance and voting, and empower devs for future stark token based proof of stake protocol.
00:30:35.746 - 00:31:14.250, Speaker A: So I, lately I've seen Starknet and Stockware become a lot more talked about on crypto, Twitter. I know a lot of it's probably got to do with people trying to farm an airdrop and because they've been teasing the stark token, things like that. But I'm really loving just the activity that's happening around Starknet right now. I'm really loving the excitement that's happening, even if it is excitement around the token. I mean, that's usually how you get the attention on these projects, right? But the reason I'm loving it is because Stocknet is not an EVM, right? It is not something that is built like a ZKVM. It is something distinctly different. It is their own technology that they've built from the ground up, their own tech stack using a different programming language to solidity called Cairo.
00:31:14.250 - 00:31:55.476, Speaker A: And they've been building it for quite a while now, and they've been building it from first principles, basically using stocks, using these really awesome technology. And it's been live for a while. It works. People are building on it and it just seems to be gaining more and more momentum here. And I think they've actually played it pretty well strategically in not launching their token too soon. I think they're launching their token probably at the perfect time here because they're, they're basically ready to open this up to, to everyone and get people building on it and get the kind of flywheel going with this. And I really like how that they're, they're rewarding the devs here that build on here with the, the stocknet fees that have been accrued, or at least 10% of all the stocknet fees that have been accrued from launch until November 30 here.
00:31:55.476 - 00:32:42.416, Speaker A: And, you know, that November 30 date is funny because that might be the snapshot date for the airdrop, because people have been speculating about when they're going to do their airdrop. Obviously it's coming soon, but then you kind of have to ask the question of, okay, well, when did they do this snapshot? Am I eligible for the airdrop if I've done activity over the last couple of days, for example, and they're never going to say when they did the airdrop until this token is actually live. Right? Because people obviously still trying to farm it. But I did mention the other day that I think, I thought that the snapshot had already been taken, and if it was taken on November 30, I guess, like this is the alpha here that they've kind of teased this out here. So we'll have to see. I expect the token to launch over the next few months or the next couple of months even maybe, you know, January, February or something like that. But it's definitely going to be a big launch, and one of the biggest token launches, I think, of 2024, that's for sure.
00:32:42.416 - 00:33:02.942, Speaker A: I mean, I said in the delegate Discord channel the other day that there were a few tokens that, that I thought we're going to be big launches. It was going to be Eigen layer, Starknet scroll. And I think there was one other in that list. I think there was another layer, two in that list, I believe. What was it? Zksync, I think. Yeah. And then a wild card that is metamask.
00:33:02.942 - 00:33:37.618, Speaker A: I have no idea if metamask is going to do a token, to be honest. I don't even know if they really need to do a token. It doesn't seem like they do, but that's always a wild card because I think that would be an absolutely massive token launch, obviously, because, like, everyone knows metamask. Everyone's used metamask. Right, but that's a wild card, as I said. But yeah, we have an airdrop hunting channel in the daily Discord channel if you want to go check that out. There's a lot of great information in there if you are into airdrop hunting because I mean, really, if you want to be making a lot of money for the least amount of effort to put in, airdrops are probably the way to do that because, and it's not just on a theorem, it's obvious on other chains as well.
00:33:37.618 - 00:34:08.390, Speaker A: But usually the airdrops are pretty, pretty good, especially in a bull market. So, and you don't have to do much to qualify for them. So if you want to kind of share alpha with people and kind of farm airdrops together, there's an airdrop hunting channel in the Delaware Discord channel. You can find a link to that in the YouTube description below, but that's it on that one. So Lyra continues to tease their v two here. So starting on December 15, which is this week, they have something they're calling the BTC ETF PvP. And you can join the waitlist at Lyra Finance V two here.
00:34:08.390 - 00:34:35.496, Speaker A: Cool little website that you can kind of click through. It looks like the Matrix a little bit, but you can get early access by signing up here. So just wanted to highlight this for you guys and go check it out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. And I'll of course, talk about what this is once it's revealed in a couple of days. All right, some big news out of the rainbow wallet ecosystem today. So they've introduced something called rainbow Points, which they're calling the first step towards including our community in the future success of Rainbow.
00:34:35.496 - 00:35:02.416, Speaker A: Every Ethereum user has been airdropped points. You can claim your points and start earning more by doing things you already do on chain within the rainbow wallet. Now, Rainbow is definitely one of my favorite Ethereum wallets out there and I've loved using it. And you know, it's just a really nice, friendly user interface. It works really well. It's got a really great bridging bridging interface. Obviously, if you're going to be spending a lot of time doing stuff on various Altoos and airdrop fund, airdrop farming and stuff like that.
00:35:02.416 - 00:35:43.508, Speaker A: But the thing that I want to talk about in particular around this was that this recent trend of projects doing points instead of doing tokens right now, Friendtech did this, and there's a few other projects that have done this, and obviously Rainbow is the latest one to do this. And I think people don't realize that there are a few reasons why teams are doing this. And I think that the number one reason is regulatory. Like if you say points and you don't say tokens or you don't say crypto asset, it seems less likely that the SEC or Gary Ganzler would come after you. Whether that's true or not, it remains to be seen, but that seems to be like the main reason they're doing this. But there are other reasons as well. I mean, another reason is that it can jump a lot of hype around your product.
00:35:43.508 - 00:36:21.724, Speaker A: People can farm points with the assumption that these points are going to be converted into a token at a later date, right. Whether that happens or not is up to the project, of course, but it is a pretty fair assumption to make. So it obviously kicks off that flywheel without having to actually do a token. Yet you've got people farming the token using these points, using your product, right? And if your product's good enough, they're going to stay there and use it anyway, regardless of farming points or farming an airdrop, right? And I do think Rainbow is one of those products. As I said, it is my, probably my favorite mobile wallet, if I'm being honest, and they have a desktop extension as well. But Rainbow so far is my favorite favorite mobile wallet app for, for Ethereum. But, and I think there's one other reason on top of that as well.
00:36:21.724 - 00:36:57.700, Speaker A: It also allows people to delay their peoples teams to delay their token launch as much as possible. And by delaying the token launch, if they are going to do a token, what they get to do is in the background, they get to raise more money as well because they're teasing out a token, but they haven't launched it yet. And then they can show better user metrics because of the air drop farming via points. Right. Now, I don't necessarily think this is nefarious. This is just like a growth hack. And at the same time, when they do the actual token, they can reward the people who have actually brought users onto the app because there's a referral program as well.
00:36:57.700 - 00:37:33.144, Speaker A: And they can reward people based on various different actions, not just on points as well. Because I think the points can act as a misdirection because you could basically let people assume that the more points they have, the more tokens they're going to get. But then in reality, maybe you do it differently where you don't do it based on points, you do it based on other things like organic traction, referrals, stuff like that. Right. So it remains to be seen how teams handle this, but I expect this points thing to be something that continues. I even expect some teams to just do points and not tokens at all. And maybe the points get wrapped up and people can trade them on chain and stuff like that.
00:37:33.144 - 00:38:14.030, Speaker A: But it reminds me of like, things like credit card points, right, and stuff like that where you can actually use these points for benefits. And it's not necessarily an asset that you, that you trade on chain or anything like that. And it takes the regulatory pressure off, but I'm sure someone will find a way to wrap these things up and people can trade them and then really it becomes a game of, well, we didn't actually create a token. The users just created the market themselves. And then really the SEC or any securities regulator has absolutely no leg to stand on in that regard because the token, the points aren't, weren't sold right, and the points were just points. And if someone's trading these things on a secondary market but the team didn't create themselves, then I don't see how you could argue that points are securities. I mean, I mean, okay, fair enough.
00:38:14.030 - 00:38:28.334, Speaker A: You could argue it, but I don't see how you could win that argument. Right. But yeah, anyway, if you haven't tried out rainbow yet, you can. I don't have a referral link. I don't want to be that guy who shows a referral link. I mean, I don't really care about that. But there are some in the daily way Discord channel if you want to support people there.
00:38:28.334 - 00:38:53.550, Speaker A: But yeah, you don't need a referral link. You can just go download rainbow from the App Store if you haven't yet. All right, speaking of mobile wallets, my second favorite wallet is Coinbase wallet on mobile right now. I've been using Rainbow and Coinbase Wallet a little bit, just testing them out. I mean, I don't do anything serious on there because I'm more of a desktop user in that regard. And I obviously have my hardware wallets and stuff like that. But in terms of mobile wallets, I've been using Coinbase wallet a lot.
00:38:53.550 - 00:39:25.780, Speaker A: And over the weekend, or over the weekend, I should say yesterday, it feels like the weekend because I skipped yesterday's episode. Brian Armstrong shared on Twitter that Coinbase Wallet now has a simple mode that focuses on payments and lets you send USDC on base for free instantly and globally. This is the path to mass adoption, guys. Like, as I said to you guys a few months ago, I figured that they would do this. They would allow free USDC transfers on base for mobile wallet users. And that's exactly what they've done here. And this is what they should do.
00:39:25.780 - 00:40:15.952, Speaker A: Because for them, the cost is basically eaten by the whatever it cost them to run the sequencer and whatever it cost them to post data down to ethereum l one right as a roll up. And that cost is going to come down with 48, 44, of course, but they just bake it into, it's just a line item for them as part of their company, because obviously Coinbase is, is behind base and Coinbase is behind Coinbase wallet and stuff like that, that as well. And the simple mode is just simplifying things down for the end user. I tried this out, it's still pretty complex and I think that Mike in the early grade discord channel gave feedback to them on Twitter and they were actually going to take that feedback on board and change things around. But yeah, this is great. I really do love the fact that you can now send us DC on base free instantly and globally on the mobile wallet. This should take payments, I guess, like usage away from things like Tron and bring it back into the Ethereum family, back into the L2 family.
00:40:15.952 - 00:40:31.424, Speaker A: So kudos to Coinbase for doing this, but I think on that note, that's going to be it for today's extra long episode. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet. Give it a thumbs up. Give that video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
