00:00:04.890 - 00:00:58.506, Speaker A: Thanks for tuning in to this week's news. Recap first headline MicroStrategy doubles down on bitcoin MicroStrategy, the business intelligence firm that made waves in crypto a few weeks ago after it added $250,000,000 worth of bitcoin to its investment strategy, has now converted an additional $175,000,000 of its cash reserves to bitcoin. To date, the firm has purchased over 38,000 bitcoins and has committed the majority of its holdings for what CEO Michael Saylor has said will be the long term. He said, quote I want something that I could put $425,000,000 into for 100 years. If my successor is staring at this thing, it's still working. Sailor's confidence in bitcoin is a decisive turn from comments he made in the past, including an infamous tweet from 2013 where he declared bitcoin's days numbered. Sailor said that he'd taken advantage of the COVID-19 lockdown to go down the rabbit hole.
00:00:58.506 - 00:01:34.598, Speaker A: He's come out the other side a true believer as he sees the dollar's inflationary risks only increasing. Now. MicroStrategy has adopted bitcoin as the alternative to a bank account where inflation might slowly whittle its cash reserves. Sailor has said, quote we just had the awful realization that we were sitting on top of a 500 million dollar ice cube that's melting. Next headline uniswap Governance Token uni released. Uniswap has launched its long awaited governance token. Dubbed the Uni, 1 billion tokens have been minted, which will become available over four years with 15% airdropped to all users.
00:01:34.598 - 00:02:15.734, Speaker A: Prior to September 1, anyone who interacted with Uniswap before then received 400 tokens, which immediately became worth more than $1,000. Uni's market cap immediately ballooned to almost $600 million as of press time, with the coin itself trading at $3.50 and volume exceeding $1.6 billion. The community went wild with the news, with pending transactions on the Ethereum network jumping 30% after the token claim began. Coinbase listed the token on Coinbase Pro less than 4 hours after it was launched. The fastest listing for any coin on Coinbase Finance also listed it in mere hours.
00:02:15.734 - 00:03:25.818, Speaker A: For a while, Uniswap was responsible for 50% of all gas use on the Ethereum network. In a Twitter thread, Fabric Ventures cofounder Max Merch wrote, quote with a Uni distribution, Uniswap protocol has consolidated an army of missionaries that were early users and are now stakeholders incentivized in the protocol's success. And in his Danley GWe newsletter, Anthony Cesano wrote quote this is a clear example of what people are calling the ownership economy. Next Headline Bitcoin Roundup key indicators for bitcoin are bullish cryptocurrencies are the best performing assets of the year, according to Pantera CEO Dan Morehead, who posted a chart on Twitter of the year's best performing assets so far. Although gold is at a 5000 year high and close to the top of the list, the top five performing assets this year have all been cryptocurrencies, Zero, X, Ethereum, Auger, Bitcoin and Maker. Also in his September newsletter, Morehead describes how for periods in which inflation has been running below 2%. The Fed has promised to keep printing money until inflation averages to a 2% target.
00:03:25.818 - 00:04:36.834, Speaker A: Morehead wrote wow, that's wild. And then notes that Bitcoin appears to be at the beginning of its next large bull market. Next in the Roundup the current measure of Bitcoin's decentralization shows that it continues to rise across variables such as the network hash rate and the number of active addresses, which currently are near 1 million, according to Coin metrics. Research also suggests that Bitcoin supply is becoming even more evenly dispersed, with more than half of addresses controlling less than $100 worth of Bitcoin. Next Headline Sushi Swap's Chef Nomi Returns funds Shortly after we published our interview on Unconfirmed last week with cofounder Zero X Maki, the sushi swap saga took another unexpected turn when cofounder Chef Nomi returned the money he had originally cashed out of the developer fund, a surprise move that had generated controversy and criticism. The reproach he received from the community prompted him to return 38,000 ETH to the project's treasury fund. Nomi wrote in a post I would like to apologize to everyone who I have caused troubles to, he said.
00:04:36.834 - 00:05:27.218, Speaker A: I was emotional, I was greedy, I was afraid, I made bad controversial decisions under pressure and it hurt everyone. I failed your expectation and I am sorry. Nomi went on to say that whatever reward he deserves for creating the project should be decided by the community. As you may recall from last week, Nomi transferred control of the admin keys to Sam Bankman Fried of FTX, who had been one of its harshest critics. Bankman Fried has since earned praise for ultimately turning control of the project over to the community. The future of Sushi swap remains uncertain, with Bankman Fried admitting to decrypt that he is concerned about the damage done to the young Dex's reputation due to Chef Nomi's actions. He said, quote Given its weird narrative that it crashed almost all the way down and then came back up somewhat, it's still not totally clear which Arc is going to win out in the public narrative around it.
00:05:27.218 - 00:06:30.466, Speaker A: And now, after the launch of Uni, liquidity on Uniswap is at $850,000,000, while liquidity on Sushi Swap is at $630,000,000. We will see what future twists and turns this saga takes. Next Headline Unicorn Settles with SEC Unicorn, an esports gaming and gambling company, has agreed to pay $6.1 million to the SEC. In a settlement announced this week, the SEC had accused Unicorn of raising $31 million through its Unicoin gold token sale, in violation of securities laws. In a press release, the SEC said that while the firm promised to use the funds to add more features to the platform, it failed to register the sale of the tokens, which the SEC alleges were offered as investment contracts. SEC Commissioner Hester Purse, who has long been an advocate for cryptocurrencies, dissented the resolution pointing out that Unicorn was not accused of committing fraud, but rather a registration violation, and that its punishment will effectively force the company to cease operations due to this registration violation.
00:06:30.466 - 00:07:45.794, Speaker A: As she has in the past, she advocated for a three year safe harbor for token issuers, saying that in Unicorn's case, it would have been able to use the time to identify new uses for the token and expand its user base. Next Headline Why Bitcoin Cash may fork into Two Again a contentious disagreement within the Bitcoin cash community threatens to split the network at the time of the upcoming semiannual upgrade. One side, called Bitcoin ABC, created a funding plan that would redirect 8% of the block reward to an address controlled by Bitcoin ABC for infrastructure development, but only as long as the miner was using the ABC client. Any block not redirecting funds to the ABC address would be orphaned, meaning it would not be added to the chain by the ABC miners. A new forked node called BCH node instead follows the chain with the most proof of work and does not redirect 8% of the block reward to the ABC wallet. That, of course, means that blocks mined by the BCH node client will be considered invalid by the ABC miners, hence the risk of a split. More than 50% of BCH blocks are currently being mined using the BCHN client, giving the BCHN miners confidence that they will have the chain with the most proof of work.
00:07:45.794 - 00:08:35.318, Speaker A: However, the question remains of how the BCH network might continue to fund itself without this infrastructure funding. Bitcoin ABC is essentially responsible for creating Bitcoin cash and has tried to rely on donations for funding over the past three years with little success. The faction that created BCHN is protesting that Bitcoin ABC hasn't proven enough value to the community to warrant what they argue is a tax. Furthermore, they say this infrastructure funding proposal will give too much power to a single developer team. We will see if Bitcoin cash splinters yet again. Time for Fundits crypto normies are coming. Be nice CoinDesk's Lee Quinn gives us glimpses of the noobs rushing into farm Yam, sushi uni, etc.
00:08:35.318 - 00:09:17.162, Speaker A: For instance, Joe, a math student at a Canadian university, is now one of the top users of a certain DFI protocol. He claims he's made hundreds of thousands of dollars yield farming in 2020. Another anonymous yield farmer made 15,000 from Yam alone, despite the fact that Yam was over in three days and imploded due to a bug. It is, however, relaunching. But since there are so many new people, a number of crypto stalwarts have taken to educating them. Tony Shang laid out the risks inherent to new users rushing into DeFi in a Tweet storm. While he did say, quote, Unlike the ICO era, this cohort of profit seekers are becoming quite sophisticated.
00:09:17.162 - 00:09:47.638, Speaker A: He cautioned them to not let their FOMO rush them into following influencers. He wrote, quote It takes time to get sophisticated, but people don't think they can afford to take that time. They're afraid of missing out. People are constantly losing money. Kinshao Shah of Blockchain Capital posted a Twitter thread that summed up all the goings on in DeFi so far this summer. With definitions of terms like liquidity mining and composability, it serves as a great explainer for people just entering the space. Thanks for tuning in.
00:09:47.638 - 00:10:11.450, Speaker A: To learn more about David and Kraken Financial, be sure to check out the links in the show notes of this episode. Don't forget, you can now watch video recordings of the show on the Unchained YouTube channel. Go to youtube.com slash c slash Unchained podcast and subscribe. Today unconfirmed is produced by Me Laura Shin, with help from Anthony Yoon, Daniel Nuss and the team at CLK Transcription. Thanks for listening.
