00:00:00.650 - 00:00:32.722, Speaker A: Currently have in mind ascending English auctions. And a key observation about how those work is that the winner generally winds up paying less than their valuation. They get it at a bargain, they get it at a price which is less than the maximum price they would have been willing to pay. And, in fact, that price actually is determined by other bidders valuations. It's determined by the competition. In our example, we had a bidder who was willing to pay $250 others. But because once the price reached 175, everyone else had dropped out, that was the first price that exceeded all the other bidders valuations.
00:00:32.722 - 00:01:30.070, Speaker A: In fact, the winning bidder only had to pay 175, not 250. So what I want to do now is tell you a bit about a sealed bid auction, which is in some sense equivalent to the English auction, which leads to the same outcome. And by a sealed bid auction, I mean an auction that happens in one shot rather than iteratively over rounds. So we're just thinking about each of the bidders, kind of, in effect, writing down a single bid, a single number in an envelope that gets passed to an auctioneer, who then decides who wins and what the sale price is. And the format we're going to wind up in is a very famous one and one that's been important also in technology. It's called a second price auction, or alternatively, a Vickery auction, after its inventor, William Vickery, who wrote about it back in 1961 and won the Nobel Prize in Economics in 1996, in effect, for founding the field of auction theory. Very simple to describe how it works.
00:01:30.070 - 00:01:56.190, Speaker A: So step one is just you collect bids from all the bidders. So each of the end bidders, they submit a real number, a bid, B, sub I. And I want to emphasize, bidders are autonomous. They can bid whatever they want. And indeed, we're assuming they're going to a bid in a way that maximizes their utility, the utility we defined on the previous slide. In particular, a bidder does not need to bid their valuation. Nobody knows their valuation, only they do.
00:01:56.190 - 00:02:32.662, Speaker A: So they can just make up any number they want. So they could bid more than the valuation that would be overbidding, they can bid less than the valuation they'll be under bidding, or they could set their bid equal to their maximum willingness to pay. That would be a truthful bid. So step number two is the auctioneer collects all of these bids, all of these envelopes from all of the end bidders, and it decides who's the winner. And the choice of the winner is kind of the obvious one. It's whoever bid the highest. This makes sense, both sort of just on an intuitive level, but also thinking back to the ascending auctions, the winner of an ascending auction is the one who stays in the longest.
00:02:32.662 - 00:03:17.254, Speaker A: So, in effect, the highest bidder. If we think of the bid as being how long participant stays in the auction. In the third and final step, we have to decide on the selling price. So what is it that this winning bidder is going to have to pay for the item? And if I hadn't primed you with this discussion of the ascending auction and I just jumped into sealed bid auctions, probably the most natural suggestion of what the winner should pay is they should pay what they said they would pay. They should pay the bid the number that they wrote down in the envelope. And that's a very reasonable auction format known as a first price auction, which is also common in practice. But remember at the moment we're trying to simulate in a sealed bid fashion what happens in that ascending English auction.
00:03:17.254 - 00:04:03.126, Speaker A: And remember that if we think of a bid as being sort of how long you would be willing to stay in the English auction, it is just not true in an ascending auction that the winner is going to pay their bid. They're only going to have to pay just enough to outcompete everybody else. So it's determined not by their bid, but by the highest bid, by somebody else, which, given that they're the highest bidder, that's going to be the second highest bid overall. So with that inspiration in mind, we will now simply define the operation of a vicary auction or a second price auction. It will be defined as charging to the winner as a price the highest bid by some other bidder. That is the second highest bid overall. So that's why these auctions are called second price auctions.
00:04:03.126 - 00:05:10.318, Speaker A: It refers to the fact that the selling price is the second highest bid. Now, I think it's natural enough to think about what would be sort of a slick sealed bid version of an ascending auction. I think that's a reasonably natural question. But a big reason for the focus on second price auctions, a big reason for why they're important, is the following key property which says they are strategically very simple for the bidders. It's actually trivial if you're a bidder in a second price auction, it is trivial to figure out how you should bid specifically bid truthfully, that's going to be a dominant strategy, a strategy which always maximizes your utility no matter what the other bidders do. This is not the first time we've encountered the concept from game theory of a dominant strategy. A strategy which is always the optimal strategy for a player to play no matter what all of the other players are doing.
00:05:10.318 - 00:05:33.142, Speaker A: The other time we saw dominant strategies is when we were talking about the prisoner's dilemma back in module number two. And there we observed that at least in the single shot version of the prisoner's dilemma, game, defection is a dominant strategy. It doesn't matter if the other player is cooperating or defecting. Either way, your payoff will be higher if you defect yourself. So here. It's exactly the same mathematical property. It's a different game.
00:05:33.142 - 00:06:07.870, Speaker A: Back then, we had two players here, all of the bidders are players. We have some number N players. Back then, we only had two actions defect or cooperate. Here we have all kinds of actions, all the different possible bids that you could submit, but the property is exactly the same. It says there's this one sort of no brainer action that you should take as a player in this game, as a participant in the Vic re auction. And that no brainer strategy is to set your bid equal to your maximum willingness to pay, to bid truthfully. That will always be in your own best interest, in the sense that it will maximize the utility we saw on the previous slide.
00:06:07.870 - 00:06:32.314, Speaker A: Remember, that was value minus price if you win, and then zero if you lose. So a truthful bid will always maximize your utility, no matter what anyone else is doing. So you do not care what the other bidder's valuations are. You do not care if the other bidders are being truthful or not. They can be arbitrarily crazy. You actually don't even care how many bidders there are in the auction, how much competition there is. You could care less.
00:06:32.314 - 00:06:58.330, Speaker A: This property guarantees that it's always in your best interest to bid truthfully, to set your bid equal to your maximum willingness to pay. So that is the magical and famous property of second price or vicary auctions. They are truthful auctions. In this sense. Truthful biding is a dominant strategy. The result is extreme strategic simplicity for the bidder. So as a bidder, really, all you have to do is figure out your valuation.
00:06:58.330 - 00:07:33.722, Speaker A: You just have to sit down, be honest with yourself about what really is the maximum price you'd be willing to pay. And once you've figured out your valuation, there's no hard problems left to solve. You should just bid that valuation. So strategic simplicity for the bidder is absolutely trivial to participate in. Now, as we said when we were discussing the Prisoner's Dilemma games that you encounter in the wild, they usually don't have dominant strategies. Usually the best thing for a player to do is going to depend on what the other players are doing. And so back then, we gave the example of if you're playing chess against somebody, probably the strategy you want to use is going to depend on the strategy that you're using.
00:07:33.722 - 00:08:26.038, Speaker A: It's not like there's some always optimal way of playing chess independent of your player's strategy. So that was kind of remarkable in the prisoner's Dilemma that you had these dominant strategies. It's also remarkable here in the Vicre auction, you might say, well, the prisoner's dilemma there, we were just modeling stuff we see out there in real life that really was a game in the wild. Whereas here we kind of made up the rules of this game, ourself of the vicary auction. So given that you might say, well, should I really be that surprised that we got this strong property of having dominant strategies, given that we constructed the game from scratch? So that's a good question. So let's actually think about how special is this truthfulness property. So what if we implemented the auction in a different way? Would we also have this truthfulness property, for example? So we're trying to encourage the bidders to be nice and to bid truthfully.
00:08:26.038 - 00:09:07.910, Speaker A: So maybe what if we tried to be nice? What if we said, you know what, you're not even going to have to pay, we're just going to give the item to the highest bidder. Nobody has to pay anything, just bid your true value. So would that be a truthful auction? Well, if you think about it, no, actually, like if I'm bidding at an auction where there's no selling price, you just give it to the highest bidder and then charge nothing. I'm going to overbid, I'm going to write down the largest number that I can possibly think of. I'm going to write down a Google or whatever as my bid. This is really just devolving into a game of who can name the highest number. So it's certainly not truthful.
00:09:07.910 - 00:09:39.140, Speaker A: You want to bid something which is bigger than everybody else because there's no price to penalize you for a high bid. That's what you want to do. Okay, so that's an epic fail. You definitely have to charge something if you want to have this truthfulness property, which is kind of funny, actually, right, because probably you normally think of sort of the revenue. You think of auctions as generating revenue and they do, and that is why people run them for the most part. But really, when it comes down to it, you need that price to be nonzero. You need revenue just to encourage truthful biding, just to get this strategic simplicity property.
00:09:39.140 - 00:10:04.702, Speaker A: Okay, so that's one sort of straw man argument. Let's look at another very reasonable auction you might want to use, which is a first price auction. So remember, this is the same as a second price auction, except the third step is different. So again, you collect a bid from everybody. The winner is the same as before, the winner is the highest bidder. But in a first price auction, the winner is going to actually pay the number that they wrote down in the envelope. So the bid is really sort of a commitment to pay.
00:10:04.702 - 00:10:33.286, Speaker A: You charge the winner their bid. So is this a truthful auction? Well, definitely not. Right, so with zero price, you were encouraged to overbid, and with a first price auction, there's an incentive to underbid. Actually, it would be silly to bid your actual maximum liens to pay in a first price auction because that's rendered you indifferent to whether you win or lose the auction. You're going to have utility zero either way. You have zero if you lose. If you win, and you bid your value, you have to pay your value.
00:10:33.286 - 00:11:08.654, Speaker A: So that just sort of cancels out all of the value you would have gotten from the item. So you definitely don't want to bid your value in a first price auction. You want to bid less than your value. How much less? Hard to say. Kind of depends on how much competition you think there is, how many of the bidders there are, what their valuations are and what their bidding strategies are. So first price auctions, while practically relevant, they're highly nontrivial from a strategic perspective, very different than a second price auction. So all of this discussion is just to hopefully convince you that this truthfulness property of second price auctions is pretty special.
00:11:08.654 - 00:11:49.610, Speaker A: And actually, we will prove this key property, but we're not going to prove the following fact. But the following fact is true, that the Victory auction is actually the unique one that has this truthfulness property, for which truthful biding is a dominant strategy. So if you want an auction which always awards the item to the highest bidder, and that's normalized, so that bidders pay zero. In fact, the Vicre auction is literally the only sealed bid auction format that accomplishes that. So it's a very, very special property of the Vic re auction and very cool. So important, in fact, that this will be one of the few statements that we really give a mathematical proof of in this short course. But don't worry, the mathematical proof is extremely short and extremely easy.
00:11:49.610 - 00:11:58.640, Speaker A: That doesn't mean it's not a super important result. It is. It just also happens that it's a very short argument. That justifies it. Which I want to take you through on the next slot. Thank.
