00:00:00.170 - 00:00:11.200, Speaker A: Final question, I'd like to get your thoughts on DFI, as our audience would love your thoughts on that. What are your current thoughts on the DFI space generally and within DFI, what sort of innovations would you like to see?
00:00:11.810 - 00:01:28.034, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, I think my view on DFI in general is like the same that it's been for a while, which is like I'm, I don't care so much about whether or not whether people are getting 4% APR or 6% APR. I want people to not get -100% apr. And so I want to see just like simple and dumb and robust stuff that just serves some pretty basic needs and doesn't try to go too crazy. So what things do we need? Right? You need a stable coin. And I actually think there's an opening for stablecoins, especially in the current financial environments where interest rates are pretty high, because there's a lot of different centralized services that are just kind of constraints to only being able to offer zero. And it's possible for decentralized things to potentially go higher than that. There's value in trying to give people access to other kinds of real world assets or indices, right? So could be stock indices, could be real estate, could also be precious metals, I suppose.
00:01:28.034 - 00:02:18.314, Speaker B: But for me personally, I think stocks and real estate are the really interesting ones. And on the real estate side, including things like fractional ownership. Yeah, I think in general, the way that our modern society interacts with real estate is pretty pathological, right? Because it's like either you own a house and you're insanely over leveraged on one asset, or you do not own a house, and in that case you have to pay rent. And so you're implicitly shorting the community that you're living in. And both of those seem unhealthy. Right? If we can make fractional ownership, be it a middle ground that gets actually adopted, I think it could be super cool. But that's all pretty simple stuff and a limited number of things.
00:02:18.314 - 00:03:08.900, Speaker B: And just making sure work on making the oracles as robust as possible and make the systems for doing liquidations and all of those things just kind of be as standard and as robust and as unlikely to break as possible. Just focusing on user and wallet security and all of those things, and just get to the point where you have some number of components that just do the thing that people expect of them and work and create at least just globally accessible, like access to basic functions that people really need. And that probably just is already a really good and honorable thing for DeFi to be doing.
