00:00:00.200 - 00:00:19.526, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Allegri refuel, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Ian. This is the 10 November 2023. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So first of all, I want to say good day to all my little ultrasound money maxis out there, because today is a very, very nice day. Or I guess yesterday, today, whatever day.
00:00:19.526 - 00:01:11.088, Speaker A: The last 24 hours has been very, very nice for everyone amongst us who holds ETH, which I'm assuming is 100% of the audience. I would find it very odd if you listened to the refuel and didn't own any ETH. But the reason to be excited, of course, is the obvious reason that Blackrock filed for an ETH spot ETF. Now, we all knew this was coming. I mean, I said this months ago that this was going to happen at some point, but I think the timing of it happened a lot faster than I otherwise thought. So initially, the news drop was dropped by this account called Summers Things on Twitter, where she highlighted that the ishares, which is BlackRock some, which is, which is associated with Blackrock Ethereum Trust, has just been registered in Delaware. The then Eric Balkanis, one of the senior ETF analysts at Bloomberg, said that this is the first, this is a first step towards filing for a spot ETH ETF.
00:01:11.088 - 00:01:58.464, Speaker A: And then James Seifert here, who I've talked about a bunch on the refill before, of course, confirmed that the Blackrock ETF has been filed the spot ETF here. Now, obviously, this is amazing for a number of different reasons that I probably don't have to repeat, but I will anyway. First off, it's amazing. I think, at least for me, the main reason is not so much that ETH is getting an ETF, but it's giving ETH the most regulatory clarity it's ever had. I think, and I think that when the 8th futures were approved, I said the same thing, right, where I basically said that the futures getting futures products getting approved means that the SEC has pretty much given up in their pursuit of ETH. They're not going to go after ETH. And I also highlighted how Gary Gensler's language changed and the SEC's language changed around crypto.
00:01:58.464 - 00:02:29.538, Speaker A: Where they went from everything except bitcoin is a security to saying the vast majority of crypto assets are securities, which means that, you know, they haven't explicitly said it, but you know, that I very much think that they're not going to be pursuing ETH at all. And I thought that when they approved the futures. Now, of course, the spot ETF's are not approved yet. Blackrock isn't the only one who's filed for one, by the way. Van Eck, Ark Hash decks, Invesco and Grayscale have also filed for one. But we all know that really, Blackrock's the only one that kind of matters, I think. And that's the signal, basically.
00:02:29.538 - 00:03:20.242, Speaker A: And Blackrock would not have filed for this if they didn't think that they'd be able to get it approved. Now, in terms of timing here, look, the BTC one still unapproved, right? And as I said yesterday, they could get approved within the next couple of weeks. And if they do, I mean, we could probably see a spot ETF Q two next year, maybe as early as that, maybe even Q one. Like, that's how crazy this is, that this happened so, so quickly here, but we'll have to see there. But I mean, I think it's a pretty high chance that these things are just going to get approved, which is great because it means it puts ETH on equal footing as BTC and the spot ETF front. And I think that Ethan BTC are going to be the only two with spot ETF's for quite a while, to be honest, I think probably for this cycle, at the very least, there'll be the only two there. I'm sure there'll be other applications for other assets, but I'm not sure Blackrock will be applying for any of the other assets.
00:03:20.242 - 00:04:04.084, Speaker A: We'll have to see how that shakes out. But I guess it does it regardless, it doesn't really matter because I think that the more that get ETF's, the less of an effect that's going to have overall. But when it comes to ETH, there's the added, like an ETH ETF, there's also the added effect of the fact that an ETH ETF can be staked. Can it be a staked ETF and can offer a real yield? And that's what I put a tweet out today where I said all the trad five people are going to absolutely salivate over the real yield that a staked spot ETH ETF can offer. And you don't own enough ethnic. And the funny thing about this is that I remember I said, like a few months ago, enjoy the low gas prices while they last. Because as soon as the, you know, I guess, like bull market kicks back in or, or activity starts picking up again, the gas prices are going right back up and they have.
00:04:04.084 - 00:04:44.628, Speaker A: I mean we saw when this announcement was made, obviously the price of eat spiked and everything went crazy. Gas prices went, I think, as high as 200 guys or something like that. So yeah, I mean, an l one gas prices, as I've basically said to you guys for a long time now, are not going to be going down like l two s are where we're scaling. L1 is just going to be super expensive. But the thing is, is that the validators on ETH l one gets the, I guess, like tips and they also get the MEV. Now because of that, the yield of staking ETH is going to go up like, and if we go to the rated.net work website, we can actually see what the yield is over different periods of time, as I've shown before.
00:04:44.628 - 00:05:22.374, Speaker A: But I'll show it again here. So, you know, I've said that it's over 4% now and that's going to keep creeping up as, as you know, if the gas fees stay high, we could be seeing five, six, 7% again. With, with staking yields here. Now, obviously by the time the ETF gets approved, it may be a lot less than that and there may be a lot of ETH staked, which obviously dilutes everyone else because more e stake the less there is for everyone else. But just generally, I think that a staked spot ETH ETF is just going to attract so much inflows because people love passive income, people love things that pay them, like dividends. Right. And you're basically going to be getting that from a staked ETH ETF.
00:05:22.374 - 00:05:52.396, Speaker A: And I think that the rules to allow this to happen in the tradfi space have to be changed. But I don't think it's a big change then. I think there are ways around that if they want, if they wanted to offer this. But obviously, it'll probably just go live first as a spot ETH ETF, a normal one instead of a staked one. But that is coming. You know, that's coming. I mean, imagine selling that product to your customers, especially your older customers who are in wealth preservation mode and they want to grow their wealth, but you know, you know, a very kind of like safe way.
00:05:52.396 - 00:06:25.092, Speaker A: And imagine them getting shield essentially by these issuers on a staked ETF product, right. Basically saying, hey, you can earn a yield on this thing. You know, it's part of this crypto thing. Like, I'm just kind of like thinking about just the amount of marketing that's going to be going on with these, with these products. And how much fresh money is going to come in, because as I've described before, the most exciting thing about the ETF products is that they bring in actual real fresh money that hasn't touched crypto before. Like a lot of this money will have never touched crypto before. That's the bull case for the ETF's.
00:06:25.092 - 00:07:05.210, Speaker A: And that's what I think a lot of people miss, is that there's a lot of money that has come into crypto and then gone out of crypto during the cycles. Right. But in terms of fresh money that has never touched crypto, a lot of it in the ETF space, a lot of it from the older generations, hasn't not, has not touched crypto yet. So this is fresh new money coming in, which is obviously overall good for the prices of assets, especially the assets that are offered here with the ETF's. But I also want to note that obviously the narrative of the ETF's is very strong right now. And the narrative basically makes the markets forward looking, which means that the prices can skyrocket and go up before these things are even approved. And that's what's happened with BTC.
00:07:05.210 - 00:07:30.706, Speaker A: That's what's happening with ethanol. You know, I wouldn't be surprised to see ETH go to three k, you know, four k, new all time highs before, even before the, the ETF's were approved. Right. Just on that hype alone. But also the fact that I think it's pretty safe to say at this point, we're, we're, we're basically in a crypto bull market now. Like the very early stages, of course, but BTC is above its crab range or it's kind of long bear crab market range. ETH is about to break out of that.
00:07:30.706 - 00:07:54.738, Speaker A: I actually look at the chart just before ETH is about to break out of a 540 day range. Right. Since the May 2022. So it's basically almost back to there, but obviously on the upside instead of the downside. So, yeah, I think it's safe to say that a new bull market has officially started, which is super exciting. Right? I mean, it's super exciting because one, it basically signifies that the cycles are still kind of playing out. Right.
00:07:54.738 - 00:08:15.286, Speaker A: It's probably an earlier cycle, though. Like, it's. The thing is, I think I mentioned this yesterday where I basically said the cycle seems to have been brought forward by at least three months, potentially even six months. So it's good to keep that in mind. But generally, I think that the. We still got a while to go of this bull market. Obviously, BTC and ETH are relatively close to all time highs at this point.
00:08:15.286 - 00:08:41.274, Speaker A: I mean, BTC only has to double from here to get to all time high. But I did mention yesterday that's going to be a journey because of the fact that BTC's market cap is huge. It's $700 billion. So for it to double, you don't need $700 billion worth of inflows, but you need much more inflows into BTC than you would into ETH, than you would into all the other assets for us to get there. But it's going to happen. There's going to be, you know, a lot of volatility along the way. But I mean, I do think it's definitely going to happen.
00:08:41.274 - 00:09:14.742, Speaker A: And the second thing also is that, like, if you think back on the last, it's almost 18 months, I guess, since ETH bottom in June of 2022. If you think back over that entire period and all of the stuff that's happened and all the comments that have been made around, you know, the global economy is about to collapse, inflation, super high recessions coming, you know, don't buy assets because everything's going to zero. Some people calling for ETH going to $400, which is ridiculous. People calling for BTC to go to twelve k, right. People saying this is a scam pump. You know, we're going straight back down. People saying the ETF's are going to get denied.
00:09:14.742 - 00:09:35.514, Speaker A: You know, just all of that, all the bearish talk, we have literally not gone back to the price that ETH was in June 2022. So almost 18 months now. ETH bottomed, right. And then BTC bottomed in November of I saw a year ago now. Right? So you can take all that rhetoric and basically throw it in the bin. It was completely useless. If you listen to that, you're out of position now.
00:09:35.514 - 00:09:56.826, Speaker A: And as I've said before, if you're at a position, you're chasing the market up now. And that's actually what fuels a lot of this recovery, ironically enough. But imagine if you bought into all of that and you basically said, okay, well, I'm going to wait. I'm not going to buy. Right? Let imagine that you were sitting there and you saw BTC at, you're like, you know what, it sat here for a while. I'm just going to wait. I'm going to wait till it goes back to now.
00:09:56.826 - 00:10:38.094, Speaker A: BTC is at 36k. Like you look at that and you fomo because you're like, oh my God, is it actually going to go down? Like am I going to get an opportunity to buy? And this is what fuels the fomo and this is what creates kind of like this self fulfilling prophecy where these people are now waiting for it to go down before they buy, but then it's going to go down a bit and then they're going to be like, oh, I better buy now because if I wait too long it's going to go up without me. And then ironically, and it's a self fulfilling prophecy. Right. So that applies to every asset. But just generally, yeah, I mean I just, I have never been this bullish, to be honest, on, on, on things just because of the fact that as I said, like the ETF stuff is a huge deal. It brings in fresh new money, it integrates these products into the tradfi world.
00:10:38.094 - 00:11:18.966, Speaker A: It brings more people into the ecosystem. And honestly, I mean I still don't think we're obviously anywhere near ready to onboard a lot of people on chain. But the l two s obviously there now. And I, and I kind of find it funny that people are still complaining about l one gas fees. It's like, okay, don't use l one, use l two for starters, because the, we like the ethereum ecosystem has never promised that l one gas fees are going to go down. So I don't know why people are still complaining about it. It's, it's just, it really is insane to me because it's like if you're, if you're told something, right, and you're told it repeatedly over and over and over again and then you're still complaining about it to me, you're either stupid or you have an alternative ulterior motive.
00:11:18.966 - 00:12:00.536, Speaker A: And the ulterior motive is usually pumping your own favorite chain that has cheaper fees or whatever else you want to call it there, right? And honestly, if you hate ethereum because it, because it has high fees at layer one, then just don't use it, right? And then just don't talk about it. Go use your favorite thing. Because at the end of the day, as I've been saying for years now, and as the whole entire ethereum ecosystem has been saying for years now, l two is where we scale. Is l two as cheap as it can be? No, it's not, but it's improving all the time. We have 48 44 going live early next year, which is going to improve it even more. You know, ideally we would have liked 48 44 to be live this month, right? Originally I said that it could go live in November, would have liked for that to happen. But l two, the l two phase is still significantly cheaper than the l one face.
00:12:00.536 - 00:12:32.536, Speaker A: So you can go use that, right? Or you can go use another layer one blockchain if you want to, but, and this is where it kind of becomes even funnier for me. When you look at the other chains, there's not much to do there. There's not much money there. So if you're in this to degen and speculate and you're trying to do something to make money, well, the thing is, is that if you want to do that, all the money's into the ethereum ecosystem. So you have to do that on a theorem you're forced to into to doing that on ethereum. And if you want that to happen on your favorite chain, well, make it happen. You know, you have to kind of will that into existence.
00:12:32.536 - 00:12:57.188, Speaker A: It's just, it's not just going to happen on its own. So, yeah, taking that holistically, I just, I can't believe people are still complaining about l one gas phase. I mean, I knew they would, to be honest. I'm not naive, right? I knew people would. But it's just insane to me that you can complain about something that you've been told repeatedly for many years now that is not going to go down. Like, the fee is not going to go down on layer one and on top of that as well. A lot of these people tend to ignore L2s altogether.
00:12:57.188 - 00:13:15.412, Speaker A: You know, they'll complain about l one, but they won't say anything about l two s. And then as soon as you say to them, why aren't you using an l two? They'll be like, oh, there's not enough liquidity there for me. It's like, what do you mean there's not enough liquidity there for you? Like, unless you're a whale, there is plenty of liquidity on the l two s. Like, I. You can go look at that right now. There's heaps of liquidity on the l two s. I mean, I just looked at it before.
00:13:15.412 - 00:13:57.632, Speaker A: Arbitrum one alone did a billion dollars of volume on their, on, on their dexes over the last 24 hours. Right? And if you are a whale, well, then you aren't caring about layer one fees. This is what annoys me about people's rhetorically if you are a whale, if you have millions of dollars, then you are not going to be complaining about ETH l one gas fees. And if you are, it means you're just being an idiot about it, because, like, a $100. Even if you're paying a $100 in fees to do whatever you want to do on l one or a $1,000, that is a minuscule amount compared to the money that you have. And then if you're, if you're fee sensitive, you're on l two s, they have plenty of liquidity for you because you're not a whale, right? You don't, you're not going to be moving any prices around with your size. And that's just the way things are.
00:13:57.632 - 00:14:23.484, Speaker A: And, you know, some people will say and have the belief that, oh, well, you know, everyone should be able to use the same layer, you know, whales or otherwise. It's like, okay, if you believe that, go use a chain that offers that. That's totally fine. But the thing is, is that the whales aren't using that chain, right. The people who have the money and provide the liquidity aren't using that chain. So there's not much opportunity there. That's why you typically see that the richest places in the world offer the most opportunities, right? Offer the.
00:14:23.484 - 00:14:50.620, Speaker A: Offer a lot of the most benefits, because that's where the money's concentrated. And I'm not saying that if you, if you don't have money, you shouldn't be able to use the chain, but you're not going to be able to use l one ethereum. Because l one ethereum is not being scaled for end users. It's not even being scaled for whales, just that whales can afford to pay these fees. Of course, l one ethereum is being scaled for l two s. I'm preaching to the choir here, but I feel like it's worth reiterating this point. So anytime people complain about it, it just annoys me.
00:14:50.620 - 00:15:28.776, Speaker A: Anyway, I'm ranting now about that, but, yeah, I just, I just. It was just an annoying thing to see today. But regardless of that, guys, spot Blackrock doing this, the filing for a spot eat ETF basically guarantees that it's going to happen. As I said, ETH is not going to be pursued as a security at all. I mean, I didn't think you ever would. But this basically puts that to bed, and it puts ETH on equal footing with BTC now, in terms of the ETF kind of footing there, which is really, really exciting to see. But, I mean, I guess maybe I'll revisit this video in 1218 months when we're back in another bear market and kind of reminisce on the good old times of the start of the bull market, right? Maybe it.
00:15:28.776 - 00:15:52.784, Speaker A: Maybe it plays out longer than that. I don't know. Every cycle is different, right? It may play out similarly, but it can be very different. But I'm just glad that we're back here. I know a lot of you have, a lot of you. That's your first cycle, right? You've been putting up with the bear market, the crab market. It can feel like it goes on forever, but the light is there at the end of the tunnel, as I said, where ETH is about to break out of its long ass range that I've talked about, you know, the one to two k range.
00:15:52.784 - 00:16:13.248, Speaker A: BTC already broke out of it. It could meander around, stick around there for a little while, like a few months or whatever. But yeah, I mean, I would. I'm, I feel pretty comfortable today in saying that. I feel like that. Not today, but like the last few weeks, I guess, has been the official start of the bull market. And yeah, we can strap ourselves in to see where things go from here.
00:16:13.248 - 00:16:38.476, Speaker A: But anyway, I spent half today's episode on that. Moving on to a bunch of other things. There's actually so many things that got announced over the last 24 hours. So the first thing is just a quick recap here from Tim Bico of the latest all core devs call not too many things here that are major announcements, but you can go give this thread a read. I'll link in the YouTube description below. But they basically covered the first girly shadow fork and discussed how they're going to be doing more shadow forks around that. And then they briefly discussed main net shadow forks.
00:16:38.476 - 00:17:10.228, Speaker A: There are a few technical things that they discussed as well. I mean, as I said, not many major upgrades here, but I just figured it was worth highlighting this thread. You can go check this out, I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right. An interesting tweet that I came across from ETH profit today was just highlighting this website, actually, that I've highlighted on the refill before called money movers Dot in fo, I think it is. Yeah, money dash movers. So on this website it'll show you how much value is being settled on Ethereum and bitcoin every day.
00:17:10.228 - 00:17:43.832, Speaker A: Now, you can see here that when ETH profits took the screenshot, there was $24.5 billion of value being settled on Ethereum and $3.3 billion on bitcoin. Now, if you go to the actual site, you can see what's included. So in the Ethereum calculation, it actually includes not just ETH, but stable coins as well. Whereas with BTC, it really just includes BTC, but you can actually remove the stable coins from it. So I think if you actually select the stable coins, you can basically remove them from the calculation.
00:17:43.832 - 00:18:09.812, Speaker A: And you can see that Ethereum just processing ETH and wrapped ETH transfers is still doing more than two x what bitcoin is doing here. So just really speaks to the fact that Ethereum is that settlement layer, guys. It is that settlement layer for the world. We are processing trillions a year in, in settlement value on the network. We're not, Ethereum is not a small network, right? And this is in the face, and this is on layer one. This is not on L2. Right? This doesn't include L2.
00:18:09.812 - 00:18:34.390, Speaker A: This is in the face of all those fees. And I think, you know, the fees are high, but we're still processing all of this value that's being settled here. So obviously someone is paying the fees. And then you can show some other chains here. I mean, the site's a bit dated. You can see it includes like bitcoin, cash and ripple, which is, I guess kind of funny. But I hope this site maybe gets updated at some point to include L2s because I'm sure it would obviously increase Ethereum's sentiment value here a lot higher than what it is.
00:18:34.390 - 00:19:00.360, Speaker A: But yeah, I just figured it was worth highlighting. Thanks to ETH profit for sharing this screenshot on Twitter today. All right, big announcement out of Oval today. So o mainnet open beta will be officially live on December 1. So the details are here in this blog post. But they say here this will give everyone the opportunity to run distributed validator technology and participate in squad staking on Ethereum mainnet. So yeah, not too far away now.
00:19:00.360 - 00:19:34.198, Speaker A: I mean, this is around three weeks away before the mainnet open beta starts. After years of development, actually, I remember funding or, sorry, participating in the oval seed round long ago now. It's actually been quite a while and they've just been quietly building for a while now. As you guys know, I'm also part of the, one of the, um, the first main net DVT clusters as part of the Alpha program that they ran. But yeah, on December 1, this is going to be open to everyone in a main net beta capacity. So you can start running your own distributed validator stack with Oval. You can start doing things like squad staking.
00:19:34.198 - 00:20:03.970, Speaker A: You can also start kind of not just doing squad staking, but not know you personally, but like the protocols can start interacting with this. Like the liquid staking protocols can start integrating this, which I believe lighter has been looking at for a little while now. I think Rocketpool has been looking into it as well. Diva too. Diva is trying to be a straight DVT, a kind of LST as well. I don't know if they're using Opal's tech or if they're using their own. I can't remember right now, but yeah, kudos to herbal for getting to this milestone.
00:20:03.970 - 00:20:39.942, Speaker A: Looking forward to their launch in three weeks, but you can go check out their blog post for full details on this. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. Alright, a massive announcement out of Coinbase today, which is a little bit controversial, but I want to give my kind of take on this. So they've introduced something called Coinbase verification. So users can now attest to account and country credentials on chain. All verified on Coinbase now live for their 100 million users. Now, this is actually using the Ethereum attestation service in the background, so they're using a free public, open source public goods service in the background, which is really cool.
00:20:39.942 - 00:21:14.530, Speaker A: Great to see a big company like Coinbase using that technology there. But if you actually go to the kind of website here, it explains exactly what this is. So essentially what you do is you connect your wallet while you're logged into your Coinbase account. You click on get verified and then you will sign a free transaction. So you're just signing a trans, a transaction here to verify your wallet on chain, and then you unlock a host of benefits. Now, some of these benefits include not yet, it's coming soon. But this one is that you'll get free transactions on base and special access to apps.
00:21:14.530 - 00:21:39.594, Speaker A: So free transactions on base. So all you have to do is sign up for Coinbase KYC, obviously, and then they'll give you free transactions on base. Now, remember I discussed that I thought the Coinbase was going to do this with base just off of free transactions, especially for USDC transfers. But then I did discuss with you guys how, where I said how they do this in a civil, resistant way. Well, they've found how to do it. They have already KYC their users. Right? Because if you're using the Coinbase centralized exchange, you're already KYC.
00:21:39.594 - 00:22:20.706, Speaker A: So all you have to do is tie one of your addresses to your Coinbase account, and then Coinbase knows that you're not trying to sibel the system and they can offer you free transactions on the base network. This is such an elegant solution, and it may, it's made even better by the fact that it's using the Ethereum attestation service in the background and not just some proprietary service that Coinbase has kind of made for themselves here. So I just love it. And it's also privacy preserving. You can see here that the personal info is never shared with without your consent. It's just kept by Coinbase and it only shows that you have a verified Coinbase trading account here. Now, of course, there are other concerns here about if your address is actually tied to Coinbase.
00:22:20.706 - 00:22:57.446, Speaker A: That means that it's very easy for projects to, say, exclude you from airdrops because it knows that you're a Coinbase user and then you're most likely in the US. So then they can exclude your address from an airdrop. I think the way around that would be to have like just separate addresses, if that is a concern to you, where you basically have an address that, that you use just for this, and then you have an address that. Another address that you would use for airdrop farming or something like that, or ones that you want to get airdrops on. I know that that's kind of frustrating, but I don't think it's, it's, it's an issue of Coinbase. I think it's an issue of the US and the regulatory regime there. So I don't think I'd blame Coinbase here for this.
00:22:57.446 - 00:23:52.038, Speaker A: But yeah, I do get the kind of concerns here around tying your address to, to, to Coinbase, essentially. And. But as I said, the way around that is just to use a fresh address, you still get the benefits, while also not kind of giving up on the other things that you may want to do on chain here. But another benefit here of being able to, to tie your address to Coinbase account is that essentially a lot of the smaller projects who can't afford to do kind of ky, not KyC, but like, can't afford to do things that the regulators want them to do, such as essentially screen their counterparties and monitor all their counterparts and monitor all their users for their on chain products. Now they can basically say, well, I know who this user is because it's a, it's a verified Coinbase account, right? So it's basically, it's, it's a way to export KYC on chain, essentially. Now, I don't think KYC on chain is a good thing. And I don't think that apps that ever do KYC to use on chain products is ever going to work.
00:23:52.038 - 00:24:31.970, Speaker A: I mean, I don't think an app that basically says, well, you can't use our app, unless you have a Coinbase verified address, I don't think that's actually going to work. I think that that app would very quickly get forked and that restriction would get removed and then the fork would probably win. But for the limited stuff that it is good for, such as unlocking these experiences that Coinbase can offer, such as free transactions on base, I think that that's what you should be using it for. Everything else. Yeah, there are concerns here and there, I think. I definitely think so. But generally, as I said, those concerns, for me at least point more to the US regulatory regime, more so than Coinbase, because Coinbase is not putting in these, is not putting in these restrictions themselves.
00:24:31.970 - 00:25:11.678, Speaker A: And they would, I mean, Coinbase would love for these restrictions not to exist at all. And they're fighting on our behalf, actually in the US, to get a lot of these things, to get clarity on a lot of these things. But you have to kind of have a middle ground here where Coinbase wants to offer people free transactions on the base network, especially for things like payments and especially to grow USDC, of course. But to do that in a civil, resistant way, they can't just do it based on a per address basis, on an, on an address that's anonymous basis. What they need to do is have some way to know the address is a real human, and this is a very elegant way to do that, in my opinion there. But I'd love to get your thoughts on this, guys. As I said, there are reasons to be excited, there are reasons to be cautious.
00:25:11.678 - 00:25:47.182, Speaker A: But let me know your thoughts in the datagrade Discord channel or in the YouTube comments there. I'd love to, I'd love to hear about them there. So I spoke yesterday about the Rockerpool roadmap for the next twelve to 18 months and how they published a blog post here. If you hadn't, haven't read that blog post yet, Jasper has come in hot with a thread about it. So there's 19 part tweet thread here, which is shorter than the blog post and highlights the most bullish and most exciting things happening in the Rockapool roadmap over the next twelve to 18 months. So yeah, as I said, if you haven't read this yet, then you can go give read the blog post yet. You can go give Jasper's thread a read.
00:25:47.182 - 00:26:21.424, Speaker A: It'll give you a quick rundown of everything that's happening there. So I'll link this thread in the YouTube description below for you to check out. All right, the Eigen layer community contest for the next lsts has ended, so I think it's no surprise which ones won the voting kind of here. So there's six that won. So you've got stakewise, you've got swell origin, stata, binance and anchor, which are pretty much all the biggest lsts right now. Really, really great to see especially swell and stakewise get included here because they're the, definitely the bigger ones right now. But yeah, they will go.
00:26:21.424 - 00:26:59.762, Speaker A: I don't know if they're going live yet. I think they'll be live soon because obviously Eigen layer still has a cap on the TVL that they're taking in right now. But once that cap gets lifted, I wonder if they lift that cap only for the new LST. So they basically, um, don't let anyone else deposit steth, Cbeth or Reth and only deposit these new lsts maybe for a period of time, and then the other people can develop, can deposit whatever else they want there. But yeah, kudos and congrats to all the teams for getting their LST supported by Eigen layer here. All right, a big announcement out of polygon today. So the Polygon village is now back better than ever.
00:26:59.762 - 00:27:48.262, Speaker A: So this is a grants program of more than 110 million in Matic, which is about $90 million at current prices for deep mentoring and ecosystem support. And village is aiming to be the home for web3 founders. So basically it's an incubator I guess, for people building within the Polygon ecosystem here. And there are three main components to Polygon Village, village grants village build ideas and village startup support. So basically, I guess you could say this is the Y combinator for the Polygon ecosystem here, where there are grants grants up for grabs, and then there are build ideas and also startup support for you. And of course, Polygon has all the technology to make this a real reality as well with things like the Polygon chain development kit or CDK, along with a bunch of other tools and things for you to play around with there. So if you want the full details on this, you can check it out.
00:27:48.262 - 00:28:14.650, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But that is a huge grant program, guys. Like $90 million us dollars is absolutely massive. Obviously paid out in Matic here, but great to see Matic or Polygon continue to reinvest there into their ecosystem. Because as you guys know, I'm extremely bullish on polygon. Not just because I'm an advisor to them, I'm an advisor to them because I am bullish on them. But I think that they are going to be one of the leading L2 ecosystems for many years to come.
00:28:14.650 - 00:28:45.982, Speaker A: So you can go check this out. We'll link it in the description below for you to do so. All right. Speaking of Layer two news, immutable announced a strategic innovation lab that in partnership with Ubisoft. So those of you who don't know, Ubisoft is one of the biggest gaming publishers in the world, and now they've teamed up with immutable to build blockchain games, essentially, or to build web3 related gaming experiences here. Now, for those of you who don't know, immutable X is actually built over. So immutable has their ZKVM, which is actually built using polygons technology.
00:28:45.982 - 00:29:21.746, Speaker A: And they also have Immutable X, which is built using star Quest technology. So they have multiple l two solutions here. And it's a huge vote of confidence that Ubisoft has decided to partner with them because they see them as the leading developers or the leading ecosystem in the gaming kind of space in the web3 gaming space within crypto here. So if you want to read more about this partnership and about this innovation lab, you can. I'll link this YouTube, link this blog post in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, last up here, just a quick announcement out of cowswap. So Cowswap has launched an entire new class of orders.
00:29:21.746 - 00:29:53.094, Speaker A: So they call them programmatic orders. So what programmatic orders do is they execute automatically in perpetuity according to the conditional parameters you set. So you can basically dive into how this works on Amy's thread, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. But developers can use this to create any kind of order type that they want. And I think this is similar to what Uniswap is doing with their kind of hooks thing in uniswap v. Four. But essentially what this allows you to do is do it like an if this then that for orders, essentially.
00:29:53.094 - 00:30:30.932, Speaker A: So you can do like stop losses, automated DCA, all those kind of things that you can do on kind of centralized exchanges and stuff like that, but do it on cow swap. And also, I mean, the sky is the limit here really, because you can basically program these orders in any way that you want with any amount of arbitrary logic that you want, as long as obviously you follow the rules of cow swap here and then the users can take advantage of that there, which is pretty exciting to me, I think. But yeah, you can go check out this thread of this announcement. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But I am out of time here today, but just wanted to end this episode, episode with a couple of minutes. Just going back to the spot. Eat ETF stuff, guys.
00:30:30.932 - 00:31:31.058, Speaker A: Like, what I forgot to say before and what I want to say now is basically that we made it, you know, we made it to this point where essentially, I guess, like, this is more of a long, taking, a longer term look here, but we made it to the point where ETH is now accepted, or is going to be accepted into the wider tradfi world as an asset, and then Ethereum as a network will continue to be integrated into that world. I have been talking about this with, you know, as far back as 2018 with Eric Connor on the into the Ether podcast, and it's been what, five years since then, and we're finally seeing it come to fruition. We're finally seeing it play out in a very real way. For me, it's extremely humbling to see that a lot of the things that I've talked about have come true. I really, really just love that I haven't, you know, wasted the last five years talking about all this stuff for it to eventuate into nothing. You know, I took a big, big personal risk getting into a theorem and getting into it as much as I did. You know, I put my entire life into Ethereum from the early days.
00:31:31.058 - 00:32:01.278, Speaker A: I put all of my money into ETH, all of my spare money into Ethan, to the early days, and I stuck through, you know, thick and thin, as I'm sure a lot of you have over time. And the fact that we're here is just an amazing testament to the Ethereum community, to the ethereum ecosystem, and to everything in between there. So just wanted to say that I just wanted to finish today's episode with that. I'm extremely bullish. I'm probably going to go buy some more ETH after I finish editing this episode today. But yeah, on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching.
00:32:01.278 - 00:32:07.734, Speaker A: Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter, join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all next week. Thanks everyone.
