00:00:00.170 - 00:00:42.540, Speaker A: Think about the fact that in recent months and in the past year, we've spent billions of dollars, taxpayer dollars, to try to lure and incent the return of semiconductors to the United States for national security reasons. I'd hate to see us make that same mistake. With respect to crypto, I'd hate to see innovations that were either originally or largely developed here in the United States pushed offshore and for the country in 30 years to be spending even more money to try to lure that industry back after it's had a tremendous record of success in other markets. That's one way in which I think about the national security implications of what we're seeing coming from the SEC and elsewhere today.
00:00:46.590 - 00:00:47.338, Speaker B: Hi, everyone.
00:00:47.424 - 00:01:05.710, Speaker C: Welcome to unchained your no Hype resource for all things crypto. I'm your host, Laura Shin, author of The Cryptopians. I started covering crypto seven years ago, and as the senior editor at Forbes, was the first mainstream media reporter to cover cryptocurrency full time. This is the February 21, 2023 episode of Unchanged.
00:01:06.290 - 00:01:50.186, Speaker B: Footsie Russell, a leading global index provider, has applied its trademark expertise, governance, and structure to digital assets, offering institutional quality data to build, manage, and measure investment portfolios. The Exchange Vetted flagship index series measures the investable digital asset market from large cap to microcap. Get your index data from a market leader. Find out more@footsyrustell.com. Slash Digitalasset become a disruptor in the emerging fintech space through NYU Stern's new Master of Science in Fintech program. This one year part time program is designed with full time working professionals in mind. Visit stern NYU.edu
00:01:50.186 - 00:02:11.798, Speaker B: msftained web. Three projects lost nearly $4 billion of crypto assets in 2022, but nothing is more expensive than losing trust. Secure your company with Hallborne's best in class security advisory solutions. Visit hallborne.com for more. Buy, earn and spend crypto on the crypto.com app.
00:02:11.798 - 00:02:23.210, Speaker B: New users can enjoy zero credit card fees on crypto purchases in the first seven days. Download the crypto.com app and get $25 with the code Laura link in the description.
00:02:23.630 - 00:02:35.994, Speaker C: Today's topic is the government crackdown on crypto. Here to discuss are Paul Greatwall, chief legal officer at Coinbase, and Rebecca Reddick, chief Policy Officer at Polygon Labs. Welcome, Rebecca and Paul.
00:02:36.122 - 00:02:37.630, Speaker D: Hi, Laura. Thanks for having us.
00:02:37.700 - 00:02:39.326, Speaker A: Hey, Laura. Thank you.
00:02:39.508 - 00:03:05.240, Speaker C: There's been a flurry of regulatory activity targeting crypto over the last few weeks. Before we get into all the details around the many different developments, let's just talk high level. Give an overview of what you think is happening here. Is there coordination? Is there some kind of strategy you see going on? Is there, like, one end target that they're all aiming at? What do you think is happening?
00:03:05.770 - 00:04:06.282, Speaker D: I'll jump in to start. I think there are two things happening. One, I think there has been a long discussion about additional regulatory crackdown on crypto. Some of it probably was taking a while to wind its way through the various agencies and regulators in DC. But I do think the end of 2022, with the implosion of FTX, really cleared the path for a lot of these regulatory actions to move much more quickly. Especially because Congress, while there are a number of great policymakers working on various pieces of legislation relating to different aspects of the crypto markets and the crypto ecosystem, will not be able to take those actions as quickly as the regulators will be. But I do think the other piece of it is nobody sort of expected crypto to have this clean entry path into sort of changing all of our paradigms and decentralizing and things like that.
00:04:06.282 - 00:04:18.720, Speaker D: So I think some of this was inevitable. But I do think that, as I said, FTX really sped things up in terms of the speed and the validity with which some of these regulatory actions could come through.
00:04:19.570 - 00:05:03.238, Speaker A: Yeah, if you look back over the course of 2022, if three Arrows and Celsius and Voyager and all the rest left kindling on the forest floor, there's no question FTX was the bolt of lightning that set things on fire. The other thing I think that we're seeing happening now is that you've got a number of regulators under tremendous pressure to do something and to show that they are reacting and responding to the events of the past year. And if you combine that at the same time with a long painful downturn in the crypto market, you just have a perfect storm or combination of events, which in many ways makes the actions we've seen over the last week or two entirely predictable.
00:05:03.334 - 00:05:46.278, Speaker D: Sorry. One other point I'll put on it is I think what we saw through 2022 was this idea. There were all at every conference you'd see panels like institutional adoption of crypto, the institutions are coming. And international regulators like the Financial Stability Board and the bank of International Settlements had put out a lot of different pieces of research. That said things like once crypto starts touching the traditional markets, we really have to start being careful know, this is an unregulated asset class as of now and the volatility in the markets may really tip things on the traditional side. And so I think to Paul's point, when we really saw FTX and sort of watched it and heard about how it had fanned out into some more institutional players, there was even more impetus to really crack down, as Paul said, through some of these other regulators.
00:05:46.374 - 00:06:35.994, Speaker C: So one thing I noticed neither of you said, and I'm seeing a lot of this on Twitter, so I have to ask about this. Is that on Twitter, it seems like a lot of the crypto community finds that a lot of these regulatory actions are either kind of overreaching. They're not like the regulators feel like they have to do something, but it wasn't really the right thing. I see people mocking the regulator, saying, oh, you didn't save me from FTX stealing my money, but now you're going to prevent me from making money via crack and staking or whatever. That may not be an exact quote, but those kinds of sentiments and basically saying the regulators are just doing whatever, but it doesn't make sense. And the stuff that they should have been paying attention to, they didn't. So do you think that that's a valid kind of criticism that we're seeing from the community?
00:06:36.192 - 00:07:41.760, Speaker A: I think it's valid to ask why so much activity seems to be focused on one off enforcement actions that look by definition backwards and retrospectively on events that have long since happened and have already hurt people in real ways. I think what a lot of people are asking in that same spirit is where are the rules that could and should inform how we all ought to be keeping customers and investors safe? We for example, Coinbase have been calling for rulemaking now for months and months. We filed a petition with the SEC back in July. We heard nothing. We filed comments to our own petition raising additional questions that we think could and should be answered to keep consumers, customers, investors safe. Still haven't received any answer. And in the meantime, we're seeing the enforcement actions continue again in a sort of ad hoc and one off way that doesn't really do much to keep people safe, which is I think, what most people actually want to see happen.
00:07:42.130 - 00:08:25.866, Speaker D: I tend to agree with Paul on that and I think what people are reacting to is what Paul was saying. So I think the overreach question here is, okay, we had a singular enforcement action against the way Kraken had set up their staking as a service. And then we have a subsequent statement by Chair Gensler where he says this should be an admonishment to anyone who does Staking as a service. Right. And Coinbase did put out a statement afterwards and I don't want to steal your thunder, Paul, so I know you'll talk about it. But instead the way we do staking as a service is fundamentally different. And there are other parts to the complaint which distinguish either the types of disclosures that may have been enough, but certainly distinguish staking as a user or in a more crypto native way just on a blockchain network.
00:08:25.866 - 00:09:03.594, Speaker D: And so I think the statements that really do cause fear in the crypto ecosystem and again with retail users, because the statements may happen. And then Chair Gensler's on SquawkBox the next morning, talking about it and really speaking to maybe not even retail users, but what we'd call normies, just traditional people who are in the financial markets. And the message they're getting is crypto is bad. Crypto is for criminals. And so I think that there is this massive chilling effect even through these one off enforcement actions. I think the other piece of it is enforcement actions are not precedential law. They don't set the law.
00:09:03.594 - 00:09:48.022, Speaker D: What they do is they say this set of facts and circumstances the SEC thought was illegal. And the important part to take away is Kraken did not admit or deny liability. They settled to have some finality and some certainty around it. So they can go around conducting whatever other parts of their business they believe are important without going in for a long haul fight with the SEC. I think the other piece of it that we need to take away is a lot of companies have just settled because what they've seen is these long protracted litigations. So the Ripple litigation is a great one, right, that's been winding its way through the district court only for years about whether XRP is a security or not. And people don't want to there are some great people who do want to fight and believe that they are in the right.
00:09:48.022 - 00:10:11.070, Speaker D: And I support doing that 100%. But a lot of people don't want to do that just for business reasons. And so these types of enforcement actions, even if the industry players believe they are right, will just settle and move forward to call it a day. And so then you use those settlements as some sort of chilling effect when they don't have real legal precedential value. And I think that may also be what people are reacting to as well.
00:10:11.220 - 00:10:28.966, Speaker C: So what you're saying is sort of like any program that's set up exactly like Kraken's kind of knows, okay, we need to change it. But then the question is, for any other program that has any different features, then it's a question of, okay, well now are we in the clear? Now are we in the clear? And there's no clarity around that.
00:10:28.988 - 00:11:04.194, Speaker D: Is that okay? That's exactly right. And the complaint against Kraken does give some nuances and some details of like, it's different here and this is different, but what can you take away from that? If you go get a Wells notice or a subpoena or something from the SEC and they say, well, you should have taken this away from the Kraken complaint, you don't know if that is true or not. Or you say, well I took this away from the Kraken complaint and this SEC can say, well that was wrong. That's not the right interpretation. So it doesn't give any true regulatory clarity unless, as you said, Laura, it's set up exactly to a T. The way Krakens was even there.
00:11:04.232 - 00:11:42.362, Speaker A: Of course, we're still talking about allegations, a complaint, nothing that's been proven in a court of law, nothing that has any binding precedential effect. So even the presidential value of the complaint against Kraken is really only to give some limited insight into how the SEC views that particular staking product or program. It doesn't give any insight whatsoever as to what the law actually is. And that's the problem when you rely upon a regulation by enforcement regime, instead of noticing common rulemaking that's required by Congress well.
00:11:42.496 - 00:12:12.770, Speaker C: So I don't know if you guys want to have a moment where you kind of try to analyze the settlement. Because my next question for you was going to be whether or not you think that there's any broader implications you can take from the settlement. For either direct staking mean just like a solo staker for centralized exchanges offering staking as a service or for decentralized liquid staking providers such as Lido or Rocket Pole. Did either of you feel like you kind of could come away with any rules for any of those based on the settlement?
00:12:12.930 - 00:13:19.686, Speaker A: Well, when we looked at the settlement and did our level best to look at how the Kraken products were characterized in the complaint, it became very clear to us that Kraken's products operated in a particular way and in ways that were very different from other staking products like Coinbase's, for example. With Coinbase's staking products there's no question about who owns the assets as part of the service title always remains with the customer. It never passes to Coinbase, it never passes to anybody else. And so a primary motivation, as we surmise from the complaint simply doesn't apply in a host of other situations. There are other important differences. For example, with the Kraken staking product there seemed to be a particular concern with the ability of customers to get exactly what they had expected in terms of rewards, in terms of commissions and fees and so forth. That's not an issue with other staking products like Coinbase's for the simple fact that the rewards, to the extent they're earned, are set by the network.
00:13:19.686 - 00:14:06.582, Speaker A: There's no discretion there. That's just basic network math. And the commissions that Coinbase sets are fully disclosed in our help center. So at all points in time customers understand what to expect. So there are important differences that distinguish other products like Coinbases from what was at issue in the Kraken complaint. But we do think that beyond that there is a broader question of just how far is the SEC willing to go and eager to go to cast a paw over all staking, to raise questions and cast aspersions about staking in general. And obviously staking is a very important part of the proliferation growth of many different projects and networks.
00:14:06.582 - 00:14:30.530, Speaker A: And so even where as in this case, we think we stand clearly separate and apart from what was at issue in the Kraken case, it's very important to Coinbase and many others in the industry to speak out about what we're seeing. Because that cloud that's being cast, those questions and aspersions are being thrown about can often be as damaging as a complaint or a verdict in district court.
00:14:30.950 - 00:15:10.478, Speaker D: Yeah, and to sort of build on what Paul was saying, again, this is all we can take away from allegations in a complaint that have not been admitted. I do think the complaint does make distinctions with user staking on its own. Paragraph 39 of the complaint says, the Kraken Staking program has several features that differentiate it from staking and earning rewards on your own. So they do think about it from an individual perspective. And paragraph 44 does the same thing. It says, the returns that investors receive from the Kraken Staking program differ from the returns that an investor could expect if the investor staked directly. And then it goes on to say some other things.
00:15:10.478 - 00:15:45.366, Speaker D: So I do think the SEC's complaint here against Kraken and let's keep it narrow is focused on a centralized actor providing a service, taking custody, not making disclosures that the SEC thinks are appropriate. But I do think that the SEC, at least in this complaint alone and Paul's right, we've heard rumblings about how far regulators are going to go against individual staking. But in this complaint alone, it at least shows some willingness to distinguish a custodial staking as a service program from user staking on their own. And I think that's a really important distinction.
00:15:45.558 - 00:16:24.210, Speaker C: Okay, well, one other thing that I saw people kind of laughing about was when announcing the settlement, SEC Chair Gary Gensler urged crypto companies to come in and register. And in response, Jesse Powell, the former CEO of Kraken and the founder and disclosure kraken is a former sponsor of the show. He tweeted, oh, man, all I had to do was fill out a form on a website and tell people that staking rewards come from staking. Wish I'd seen this video before. Paying a $30 million fine and agreeing to permanently shut down the service in the US. How dumb do I look? Gosh. And then he put a little gas emoji and then a little light emoji.
00:16:24.210 - 00:16:53.010, Speaker C: So who's right? Like, is gensler right? Should Kraken have registered? And if, like, register as what? Or is it kind of what? Jesse then later tweeted, which was he wrote and this was about the custody rule that was being proposed he wrote, Step one, require registration a custody crypto. Step two, don't let anyone which which actually, I think Collins Belton made that point on my show a couple of years ago. But anyway, so what's going on here?
00:16:53.080 - 00:17:58.946, Speaker A: Well, Laura, look, whether or not Kraken should have registered or anyone else should register for their products is an entirely separate question from whether anyone actually can register. And the suggestion somehow that registration is simply a matter of going to a website, downloading a form, and completing a few fields is, to put it gently, laughable. These are complicated products. There are real challenges in terms of fitting these very new technologies into some very old structures. And the reality is that for most new projects, in particular, putting the central exchanges to the side for a moment, registration isn't a practical option. Given the burden, the expense, the number of lawyers and accountants that are required in order to complete even a basic filing, it's important to not lose sight of just how impossible it is for most to comply with the rules, even where they're interested in complying with the rules. Now, central exchanges like Coinbase and others, we are extremely interested in complying with the rules.
00:17:58.946 - 00:18:35.566, Speaker A: That's why we do we have very recent experience registering with the SEC, of course, because when we went public in April of 2021, we had to complete an S one and go through that entire registration process. So I think there's a fair and reasonable conversation to be had about where registration ought to be required and what rules ought to be established. Again, ideally through a public process that's transparent for registration. But let's not minimize and dismiss serious work and serious burdens on ordinary people by suggesting that all they have to do is click on a few links on a web page and be done.
00:18:35.588 - 00:19:17.086, Speaker D: With, you know, even that aside, I think the word we have to focus on and what Paul said is impossible. And it's not impossible just from a burden perspective. Lots of companies and a lot of them are large and have very large revenue models, can pay lawyers and pay the fees and spend the time. The burden itself isn't what we should be focused on right now. And as you mentioned, Colin said this on your show a long time ago I was in private practice for a long time representing crypto companies. Lawyers have been tweeting about it recently. If you take a client as outside counsel into the SEC or if a client goes into a company goes into the SEC and goes to Corpfin and says I would like to register the typical refrain and Paul may.
00:19:17.086 - 00:20:14.110, Speaker D: Have a different experience. But the typical refrain is we're not sure what to register you as, or we're not sure how to register this product. And so the impossibility point that Paul made is not just about the cost, it's about the fitting new paradigms into these old rules. And then you may get a Wells notice or a subpoena later from the enforcement arm of the SEC and you say, well, I tried to go and register with Corp Front and they told me I couldn't do. I think, you know, that is more the disingenuous point. And it goes back to what I was saying before about this PR tour to go tell in a video. The American people registering with the SEC is just like filling out a Google form is disingenuous because it is a much more complex product and it is a much more complex process and it is especially for products like new, innovative, technologically based products like crypto that were not contemplated back when the securities laws are written in 1933 and 1934.
00:20:14.260 - 00:20:34.790, Speaker C: So if you guys were to come up with a wish list of what you'd like to see from the SEC, to kind of fill in some of those pieces that you say are just sort of being left blank, at the moment in terms of, like, a framework for operating within the bounds of what is legal to them. What would that look like?
00:20:34.940 - 00:21:29.750, Speaker A: Well, Laura, the good news for me and for Coinbase is that we don't have to come up with a wish list. We've actually published our wish list when we petitioned for rulemaking last July and raised something like 50 or more separate questions that we think need to be answered again in a public, transparent, open process in order to strike. The right balance between yes, of course, protecting consumers. Protecting investors on the one hand and at the same time, nurturing innovation in an important emerging industry. To give you an example or two of questions I'd like to see answered as part of a public rulemaking process. I want to start with where Rebecca pointed us just a minute ago for crypto projects and for issuers the disclosure requirements that would apply in any registration scheme. Need to account for some of the very unique features of crypto, both positive and negative.
00:21:29.750 - 00:22:47.618, Speaker A: On the positive side, so much of the activity and actions of the projects when it comes to crypto are publicly available on the blockchain, don't require any particular new set of disclosures and schemes beyond what people can observe for themselves. And we think that's a real positive on the negative side because the registrations that have been pointed to involve the same level of accounting and other disclosures that you would expect of a company looking to go public. We think there needs to be some recognition or accommodation for the fact that most, or at least many of these projects are self funded at the time that they would have to register or are receiving their first rounds of funding. And so there just needs to be an accommodation, I think, for the burdens on issuers because an exchange could register as a national securities exchange tomorrow, but if they don't have assets to list because none of the asset issuers are able to comply, there's nothing achieved there. We think it would be a hollow and empty victory. So those are at least a few of the ideas or issues I'd like to see confronted in a rulemaking process. There are many, many others as well.
00:22:47.784 - 00:23:47.010, Speaker D: I'm going to give a somewhat contrarian answer, which is I do want to see rulemaking from the SEC on some things, but what I want to see more than anything and people should remember rules promulgated from the SEC can change administration to administration. That's true of a lot of regulatory bodies we've seen know with the OCC and rules that were put into place that were then rolled back when the administration changed. I really want to see a robust market infrastructure bill that lays out a good system for how centralized crypto actors should go forward and thinking about this technology for sure and then rules can be made within the bounds of that bill. But I think the legislative process is really where we should start. And I am hopeful because there are a lot of very motivated policymakers on the Hill who are working on different bills on different aspects. Stablecoin bill we saw come out, the market infrastructure bill I think people are really thinking about. But that's where I want to see people put their efforts right now, and then we can see rulemaking within the bounds of those bills afterwards.
00:23:47.350 - 00:24:29.220, Speaker C: All right, we're going to tackle another big topic here, and this kind of starts with a sort of confusing set of actions, at least to me, being a non legal person. So we had the SEC, I guess, issue a Wells notice against Paxos at the same time that the New York Department of Financial Services asked Paxos to stop issuing BUSD. So do you think that those actions were coordinated? And what was the intention here? Is it something that has to do with stablecoins themselves, or is it really, as I saw, a lot of speculation about a way to kind of get it financed and cut it off from, like, US. Dollars or the know, what do you think was kind of going on there?
00:24:29.590 - 00:26:01.438, Speaker A: It's pretty hard to imagine or to believe that actions announced nearly simultaneously weren't coordinated in some way. But even if that weren't true, I think the fact that you have multiple agencies at the state level and at the federal level all interested in the same issue certainly suggests that the stablecoins that were issued by Paxos, the BUSD, were attracting a unique amount of attention for important reasons. Now, I will say that NYDFS, the Department of Financial Services, at least based on what's been publicly reported, which is of course, all that any of us know, focused on some very specific issues that were separate apart from the securities law questions that we've been debating. When it comes to stablecoins across crypto, the issue appears to have focused from DFS perspective on diligence. Was Paxos and is Paxos properly examining who's on their platform, who's gaining access to the coins, and so on and so forth. And separately, Paxos'diligence on binance? And so those topics, of course, stand separate and apart from whether or not these were actually securities. What we've seen, I think, though, in this instance, is another example where state regulators have an important role to play and are demonstrating their ability to properly supervise these markets, regardless of whether or not there's merit to this particular case or not.
00:26:01.438 - 00:26:13.730, Speaker A: I think the fact that you've got state regulators stepping in is something that people in crypto should be paying very careful attention to, even as we're all being drawn to the fireworks coming out of the SEC on a daily basis.
00:26:14.390 - 00:26:50.090, Speaker D: But I do want to back up and explain why the New York Department of Financial Services looking at paxos at all, which is the New York Department of Financial Services regulates paxos. I believe, as a trust company, and I think Coinbase is also a regulated trust company, which I assume will come up later in this discussion under the New York State regime. And being a trust company, the easiest way is to liken it a bit to being a bank. It's certainly not a bank, and I don't want people to be confused by that. But I do think it's an important distinction. And once you are under the DFS regime, you are subject to regular examinations by a state regulator. They are very onerous.
00:26:50.090 - 00:27:41.886, Speaker D: You have a very high bar of requirements, both on the financial side and on the cyber requirements side. It's a very strict regime. So what happened recently that may have brought questions about binance even more to the fore may be what has motivated DFS, because it's not that DFS woke up one day and said, oh, we don't like Binance because they have clearly been regulating Paxos for many years. Paxos has been going through clearly successfully examinations and frequent contact with DFS. So I do believe that there's probably something more binance related that has potentially come to light and agree with Paul that regulators within the United States, both at the state and the federal level, do coordinate amongst themselves frequently. And so there may have been some real coordination here, we'll never know, but we can only speculate on that. But I think it's important to understand where DFS was coming from.
00:27:41.886 - 00:27:51.166, Speaker D: It's not like they had always been regulating them, unlike the SEC, who doesn't regulate Paxos, at least today from a regular standpoint.
00:27:51.358 - 00:28:42.420, Speaker A: Yeah, I think that's exactly right, Rebecca. If I can just add one other quick point, laura, I think if you take a step back and look at this particular example, it's reasonable to ask, why are we all guessing as to whether or not there's coordination here? Why isn't that a matter of public record? It seems to me that if there are legitimate and Appropriate concerns that are shared by state and federal regulators, they should be perfectly willing to share them in a transparent, open forum so that we all can understand what those concerns are and there won't be any mystery about whether there's any kind of shadow coordination campaign going on. I think the fact that we're all guessing and speculating and trying to read tea leaves speaks to a failure in the system that relies upon one off enforcement actions rather than a public rulemaking process.
00:28:43.190 - 00:28:56.360, Speaker C: And so it sounds like both of you feel that kind of the main purpose of this had to do more with binance than stablecoins generally, or do you see any broader implications for stablecoins in general?
00:28:56.890 - 00:29:31.310, Speaker D: I'll give the lawyer answer, which is, it depends. Not all stablecoins are created equal. A lot of them look very different. And I think that's why there was a big push last year to build out a stablecoin build, to bring some uniformity and some certainty around it. Both. From what backs these stablecoins, the amount of reserves, the necessary disclosures, and the like. I think that Chair Gensler has made some comments to say, yeah, I think that some of these stablecoins will be regulated as some form of security, or at least under the securities laws.
00:29:31.310 - 00:29:55.900, Speaker D: But I don't think he has made the same type of sweeping statements he's made about all tokens. All tokens are securities, or almost all tokens are securities. The same way about stablecoins, I think that there are nuanced distinctions, and hopefully those will apply as we go forward more than anything. And I'll just sort of keep hammering this home. I hope there's legislation that distinguishes what is and is not a security and how stablecoins should be regulated going forward.
00:29:56.430 - 00:30:59.566, Speaker A: Yeah, I think the differences do matter when it comes to stablecoins. The fact of the matter is, if you're talking about USD backed stablecoins, the argument that they somehow qualify as securities under the current case law and the statutes that constrain the SEC's jurisdiction are pretty weak, and lawyers will happily debate those until the cows come home. I think, though, that there very well could be other types of products, other types of algorithmic stable coins, for example, that raise more interesting questions around whether or not they qualify as securities. But again, it's important that even if the complaints are narrowly drawn and the cases are specifically focused, that the rhetoric around this Laura, doesn't expand into a sweeping condemnation of an entire asset class in a way that chills innovation. And unfortunately, that's exactly what we're seeing. And that's the concern that I have, that even if the cases themselves may have merit in certain instances or others, that the rhetoric itself does lasting damage to an asset class and an area of innovation that's just getting started.
00:30:59.748 - 00:31:05.780, Speaker C: In a moment, we're going to wrap up this conversation around stablecoins, but first, a quick word from the sponsors who make this show possible.
00:31:06.790 - 00:31:56.254, Speaker B: $3.8 billion of value was stolen from crypto projects last year due to compromised private keys, exit scams, loan exploits, and other preventable causes. Hallborne offers preventative security solutions for every stage of your software development lifecycle, from smart contracts layer one and DevOps audits to advanced penetration tests, risk assessments, and incident response. With over 150 industry partners, including Animoca Brands, Salana Foundation, and Ava Labs, hallborne's Bestinclass security advisory solutions ensure the safety of company assets and user trust. Visit hallborn.com for more. Futsie Russell, a leading global index provider, recently announced the launch of its market cap Digital Asset Index Series.
00:31:56.254 - 00:32:57.482, Speaker B: The newly launched Footsie Global Digital Asset Index Series, built in association with the experts at Digital Asset Research, measures the investable digital asset market from large cap to microcap leveraging a transparent asset and exchange vetting process. Footsie Russell has applied its trademark expertise, governance, and structure to digital assets, offering institutional quality data to build, manage, and measure investment portfolios. Get your index data from a market leader. Find out more@footsyrustell.com. Slash digitalassets become a disruptor in the emerging fintech space through NYU Stern's new Master of Science in Fintech program. This is a one year, part time program divided into one online and six on site modules that take place in New York and in rotating global locations. The new program is designed for experienced working professionals who want to strengthen their fintech skills or transition to fintech leadership positions.
00:32:57.482 - 00:33:33.470, Speaker B: The next application deadline for the inaugural MSFT class of 2024, beginning May 2023, is March 15. To learn more about the program, visit stern NYU.edu msftained. Join over 50 million people using crypto.com, one of the easiest places to buy, earn and spend over 250 cryptocurrencies. New users enjoy zero credit card fees on crypto purchases in their first seven days with crypto.com, earn get industryleading interest rates of up to 14.5%
00:33:33.470 - 00:33:57.666, Speaker B: on over 30 coins, including Bitcoin. Earn up to 8.5% on stablecoins. With the Crypto.com Visa card, you can spend your crypto anywhere, enjoy up to 5% cash back instantly, plus 100% rebates for your Netflix and Spotify subscriptions and zero annual fees. Download the Crypto.com app and get $25 with the code Laura link in the description.
00:33:57.858 - 00:34:30.770, Speaker C: Back to my conversation with Rebecca and Paul. So one question I do want to pose to you is that Chair gensler did make references to how stablecoins could, depending on how they're structured, have some resemblance to, for instance, money market funds, which I think are regulated as securities. So do you see his point there? And because Paula just sort of seemed like you were saying it sort of stretches the imagination to imagine they could be regulated that way, but I wanted to hear your take on if there's any certain types that you feel might be securities.
00:34:31.110 - 00:34:48.890, Speaker A: Yeah, well, as I said, I think the arguments for USD backed stablecoins are particularly weak. At the same time, there are certainly other types of stablecoins that are in market and are being developed every day that may raise more interesting concerns.
00:34:49.470 - 00:34:52.700, Speaker C: What features would make you think that they might?
00:34:53.230 - 00:36:00.350, Speaker A: I think that to the extent that you have expectations of profit, for example, being driven by decisions made by providers or issuers that are entirely in the control of those providers and issuers that aren't disclosed, that are subject to whim and change and that ultimately reflect an asymmetry or disparity in information, I think it's appropriate to ask questions. But the sweeping suggestion that I believe the Chair has made in other contexts rebecca is right. In this particular case, the issues I think have been more narrowly addressed aren't helpful. They aren't helpful at a time and a point in our industry's evolution where these products are still being built, tested and evolved. So there's just, I think, a lot of opportunity here to be more thoughtful in addressing legitimate concerns. Analogies are always helpful. Money market funds and other things I think are useful as ways of understanding and framing these new products and services.
00:36:00.350 - 00:36:14.340, Speaker A: But we shouldn't suggest to American innovators that this entire asset class may be off limits, because what those American innovators are going to do is take their innovations elsewhere. And that's not something anyone, I think, in this country wants to see happen.
00:36:14.970 - 00:36:52.318, Speaker D: Yeah, and I think when you're talking about this money market issue, Laura, I think he was referring to potential investment companies. But there are really strict percentages of how these investment companies worked. The securities act, that Investment Company Act that regulates investment companies, lays out a very prescriptive set of rules. So you'd have to look at each stablecoin on a case by case basis to see if what these stablecoins are backed by, if they're not fully USD or USD equivalent backed, meet those thresholds in the investment company act. Which I can't remember them off the top of my head, but there are.
00:36:52.324 - 00:37:46.240, Speaker C: Very specific percentages jumping off from some point that Paul made, which I'm not going to be able to phrase it the way he did because I don't remember exactly what he said. But it just reminded me of this lawsuit against TerraForm Labs in Doe Kwan. So I don't remember Paul's phrasing, but basically it was something about the value of that stablecoin being dependent on these other people or something. It wasn't exactly that. But the point is that obviously in the complaint, we can see that the SEC is asserting that UST, which whether or not you call it a stablecoin is up to you, but has long been called a stablecoin. And their argument was that basically because it was connected to luna, which they said was a security, and the price of that depended on the price of luna, that that was why. And if know butchered that explanation, then please feel free to correct.
00:37:46.240 - 00:38:05.830, Speaker C: So is that kind of where you were, Paul? Like, I didn't know if that's kind of what you were thinking about, like any kind of algorithmic stablecoin. And frankly, my kind of mini question within that question is then would FRAX fall under that? Because Fracs is not quite exactly like Terra, it's more collateralized.
00:38:06.970 - 00:39:19.262, Speaker A: I think you got the basic chain of logic right, Laura. From my perspective, as I said, and as I think Rebecca alluded to as well, the details of each coin and project matter. And so it very well may be that one could construct an algorithmic stablecoin under certain circumstances that really do implicate the federal securities laws and the fundamental concerns that lie behind those laws, which is, again, to take a situation where an investor is at a fundamental disadvantage in terms of understanding the operation of the project and the discretion retained by the people running the project in those circumstances. There may be a reason to apply the federal securities laws in the way that the SEC has suggested in these cases, but that's not a reason to suggest even casually that somehow all stablecoins now may be subject to the federal securities laws because the implications of that are significant. Stablecoins are not a corner case use case when it comes to crypto. They are an important part of the crypto economy. They are in many ways I think the most successful and certainly most prolific example of product market fit.
00:39:19.262 - 00:39:40.070, Speaker A: Right? So I think that language matters and I think that precision matters. We'll see if as we move forward, certain stable coins in fact are deemed not by a regulator alone, but by a court or by legislators as securities. But we're not at that point yet. We're still very much early in the process.
00:39:40.220 - 00:41:19.986, Speaker D: Let's jump to your Tara point, Laura, because when Paul was know if there are stablecoins that somehow give you an expectation of profit and you think well, that is antithetical to the title stablecoins because you're just expecting to know one to one. But what the SEC complaint against Doequan and TerraForm Labs alleges with respect to UST is that they marketed it as a yield bearing stablecoin and the reason it was yield bearing is because they created the anchor protocol for deposits of UST and then marketed the 19% to 20% yield, all of which was generated by centralized actors. And that's what the complaint goes on to say that the yield really came from the same types of this lending activity that the SEC took issue with BlockFi right, for example, in that where they were taking user assets and finding different ways to deploy it to be able to give the users the promised yield. And I think Chair Gensler even said somewhat recently, like if you're using the term yield you should really think about where it's coming from because you're probably creating a security something along those lines. And I am sure I'm paraphrasing, but it was a really sweeping statement and so that's where this comes from. I don't think all algorithmic stablecoins necessarily would be categorized as securities. Again, like it goes through it, but Fracs or other algorithmic stablecoins which hold its peg theoretically through some software or smart contract based system wouldn't necessarily be a security under the same theory as UST because UST really was much more part of this scheme, right? It's not that it was UST alone.
00:41:19.986 - 00:41:37.862, Speaker D: There is this language under the securities laws and in the case law that if you create a scheme where there's an investment, where there's an expectation of profit, then you've created the investment contract. So it's that whole thing together that is what really created the scheme here that the SEC believes violated the securities laws.
00:41:38.006 - 00:41:59.874, Speaker C: So right now if a client came to you and said we have this idea for a stablecoin, what would you advise them in terms of either how they should structure it or how they should not structure it? Based on what you read in the complaint against TerraForm Labs in Dokwon and beyond structure, market as well. Structure and market, I should add, even.
00:41:59.912 - 00:43:11.926, Speaker A: Before you get to the complaint, we have at Coinbase, of course, been a reseller of USDC for some time now. And our experience with USDC, I think offers some important lessons on what we think any responsible stablecoin issuer ought to do in order to make sure that people have confidence. For example, reserves a huge topic with respect to stablecoins and disclosure requirements around reserves. We think that's a basic requirement that not only is something that consumers and investors ought to expect, but that helps to foster confidence more generally. That when someone, for example, is putting a dollar in and getting a stable coin in return, that that dollar is going to be there when they want to turn that stablecoin back in and get the dollar back. So disclosures super important. We also think it's very important for stablecoin issuers to be extremely clear about title and the way in which title operates and ownership operates, because that also seems to be something that has quite reasonably on this point, I'll give the SEC credit been an object of interest and concern.
00:43:11.926 - 00:43:49.110, Speaker A: The last thing I would say is that, and this breaks my heart to say this as an American, I think any stablecoin issuer ought to first ask whether or not the United States in this current climate is necessarily the best place in which to develop the project. In the first instance, even a short while ago, I might have not even paused on that point. But I think in this particular climate, with rhetoric coming out that seemingly sweeps in all sorts of stablecoins, regardless of all the careful work that people put in to be fair and transparent, it certainly suggests that perhaps other jurisdictions are worth at least looking at.
00:43:49.180 - 00:43:54.066, Speaker C: And are there any particular ones that you think are getting it right and are good for entrepreneurs?
00:43:54.258 - 00:44:44.662, Speaker D: Well, whether they're getting it right or not, Mika, the Markets and Crypto Asset Regulation, which is the very comprehensive set of regulations in the EU which have already passed the European Parliament, they haven't been enacted yet. They are expected to be enacted and finalized in April, have a very large set of robust rules for stablecoin issuers. Very clear, clear on disclosure requirements, clear on reserve requirements. The reserve requirements are very, you know, that's something to keep in mind, but you at least will have certainty and finality. And there is a rulemaking process through the EBA, the European Banking Association or administration that will allow stablecoin issuers to go and say, here's how we think we can implement the rules that are in. Mika so there is a process by which there's a clear set of laws and regs. You know what they're going to be.
00:44:44.662 - 00:45:35.110, Speaker D: They won't even be enacted, by the way, like effective until 2024. So you have a lot of time for compliance under Mika, if you're setting up your stablecoin now or your stablecoin project now. So there is that. And then the UK just put out its consultation on crypto assets on February 1, which also has a very set of robust recommendations for stablecoins. Stablecoins already constitute a financial instrument under UK laws and they are continuing to promulgate laws and regs under their current regime in the UK. There's no certainty or finality yet in the UK the way there is under Mika. But the way this crypto asset consultation looks like from the Treasury Department, very, very similar to Mika, where they're focusing on centralized actors first and they are pushing decentralized actors and DeFi and things like that down the line and taking.
00:45:35.180 - 00:46:42.778, Speaker A: Feedback on all of know it's interesting, right? The UK and EU are not the only examples, but they're, I think, excellent examples of how to get the rules right. Look at the process that they followed. Look at the promulgation of proposed standards, the opportunity for public input, the rigor. I mean the raucous debate in some cases, right, Rebecca, around some of these topics, companies like Coinbase agreed with a lot of what we've seen in Mika. We didn't agree with everything, but there was a rational process that involved lots of public input and that was transparent. You don't see when it comes to the UK or the EU, a lot of scrutiny by lawyers of individual complaints or allegations or speeches by particular commissioners in order to glean what the rules are going to be on a going forward basis. The contrast between that and what we're seeing in the United States, I think is pretty damning in terms of how our country, how this country has been going about setting standards.
00:46:42.954 - 00:47:15.634, Speaker C: Well now let's talk about the SEC's proposed rule around registered investment advisors that want to store digital assets or to use a company to do that. This proposed rule would require those RIAs to use so called qualified custodians. And there's only one crypto company I think that fits that bill at this moment. So the way CoinDesk put it was that the bill would largely push Ras to use non crypto companies. And I was know what your thoughts were about this proposed rule.
00:47:15.762 - 00:47:33.434, Speaker A: Well, I'm not sure which one company you're referring to because Coinbase certainly has been a qualified custodian. We were a qualified custodian the day before the proposal was made. We were a qualified custodian on that day and we're going to be a qualified custodian going forward. And so in some ways, okay, maybe.
00:47:33.552 - 00:47:38.138, Speaker C: I saw Ram Alawalia tweeted that only Anchorage fit the bill, but maybe I misinterpreted his tweet.
00:47:38.154 - 00:49:00.690, Speaker A: But anyway, he may have been referring to there being only one company, Anchorage, that is OCC or federally registered. But the rule specifically recognized that state chartered trust companies like Coinbases can in fact qualify as a custodian, which we think is actually an important vindication. And again, credit where credit is due, applaud the SEC for that recognition. But the fact of the matter is that the RIAs are going to be subject to new standards in how they interact with qualified custodians. And at least as we are reading the proposal, it seems pretty clear that there is an extension or expansion by the SEC of its jurisdiction over not just securities assets, but non securities assets as well. And this raises, I think, some important questions about, again, the rule of law, whether or not jurisdiction is properly constrained, whether the agency is recognizing that it doesn't just have free rein to sweep in whole chunks of the crypto or digital economy because it can. So even though we thought that parts of the proposal were productive and positive, this is a big deal for crypto, and it's something we're all going to have to pay very careful attention to.
00:49:00.860 - 00:49:49.474, Speaker D: Yeah, so put a gloss on that. DoddFrank with which Chair Gensler is, I think, intimately familiar because he was Chair of the CFTC when DoD Frank was enacted, did give the SEC power to regulate investment advisors and the custody of their client assets over all custody of any assets. So this new proposed rule alone is not what expands the SEC's jurisdiction over being able to regulate investment advisors. DoD Frank definitely did that. And we can say that the QC and the RIA rule hasn't been examined. I think I could be wrong, but at least for ten years, something like that. And there's been a lot of talk about changing these types of custodial rules, especially because there are a lot of new types of assets and not just something like crypto.
00:49:49.474 - 00:50:27.282, Speaker D: But there are lots of different type of types of assets that registered investment advisors hold or invest in. Now, so some of those things we have to say are positive, right? That's consumer protection. That's within the SEC's jurisdiction. I do think this is not retail users, right? The investors in most registered investment advisors are large, sophisticated investors, right? It's what we call LPs. So the idea of investor protection here does relate to much more sophisticated investors. I love Coinbase's very positive spin on qualified custodians. And because they are a trust company under NYDFS, that is a very reasonable interpretation.
00:50:27.282 - 00:51:51.198, Speaker D: I think there has been another interpretation, and I think this is where ROM's Tweet comes from about Anchorage, which is, well, only if you're a federally chartered bank can you be a qualified custodian. Now, based on the way the rule has been written, and I think there has been speeches and commentary by a number of the commissioners saying, and including by the Chair saying the state banks should not be allowed to bqcs because they're not meeting the same standards as the OCC chartered banks and the like. And by the way, banks can do it, and we're totally happy for them to be qualified custodians. And then Chair Gensler referred to the fact of this joint statement between the Fed the FDIC and the OCC which said nationally chartered banks should not be allowed or should be very circumspect about engaging in any type of their business with crypto assets. So while it does in theory look like there's a path forward under this rule that you could still have qualified custodians who hold crypto assets under the Prudential regulators who they have said oh well, banks shouldn't really be touching crypto. So it's sort of this backdoor way to maybe cut off the ability for Registered Investment Advisors to have qualified custodians who hold crypto. I hope Coinbase is right because I think that would be a way that you'd really cut off funding to the entire I think, you know, we have to really think about whether that was intentional or not.
00:51:51.364 - 00:52:20.214, Speaker A: There's another important actor in all this of course, which goes beyond just the federal regulators and the RIAs and the Coinbases of the world, it's the states themselves. And I think one of the interesting things to really focus on as this rule, and again it's a proposed rule at this point we are at the very beginning of a very long and I suspect difficult road ahead. I think we should all pay a lot of attention to what New York and other states are going to have to say about the quality of their supervision.
00:52:20.342 - 00:52:20.586, Speaker D: Right?
00:52:20.608 - 00:52:49.554, Speaker A: Because I think Rebecca is exactly right. There was either an explicit or at least an implicit, I think, editorial in the SEC's proposal about how effective or frankly how competent states were to protect these assets or make sure that these assets were properly protected in general. That usually doesn't go unresponded to when it comes to one jurisdiction and its authority versus another. So very eager to see that debate take shape as well.
00:52:49.672 - 00:53:41.730, Speaker D: I do think on the expansion of jurisdiction, the one place that is interesting to think about is that the SEC actually doesn't regulate qualified custodians directly, they regulate registered Investment Advisors and all assets that they hold. But this almost seems like a way to regulate qualified custodians because they lay out a certain set of requirements that any qualified custodian has to meet for the registered investment advisor to use that qualified custodian. So that's really the expansion of jurisdiction that comes into play. It also regulates what contracts should look like between Registered Investment Advisors and qualified custodians. So it's now putting new requirements on contractual arrangements for qualified custodians which they didn't have before. So that is an expansion or a way of sort of backdoor regulating qualified custodians that didn't exist before.
00:53:41.880 - 00:54:29.298, Speaker C: So one thing that Rebecca alluded to earlier was that some of these different actions kind of cut crypto off from the banking system or at least kind of shrink the avenues in which they're connected. And there have been a couple of articles making this exact point, one in Bloomberg and one in the Wall Street Journal about how banks basically are getting the notice know they need to tighten up on their activities with crypto companies. And I was know, I'm sure you've heard there's some people who equate what's going on here to operation Chokepoint, which happened earlier in the Obama administration and was an effort to basically kind of shrivel up certain industries that it did not approve of. So do you think that that's what's going on here?
00:54:29.464 - 00:55:51.518, Speaker A: Well, I think that at some point these actions line up in a way that you have to wonder, is it all just a coincidence? And I think beyond that, you have to ask, why are we confronting restrictions, withdrawals, debanking of legal recognized, highly regulated companies in this country? There are all sorts of fair questions to ask about the operations of different firms in crypto. And I would point out outside of crypto, but the notion that somehow the right way to constrain activities that give rise to concerns is to cut off their oxygen or slowly deplete them of oxygen, which of course, in the financial world, there's no more important source of oxygen than banking services. I think that's something that is as much as anything explaining the strong reaction we're seeing not just inside of the crypto community, but in the broader financial services community as well. That's a dangerous precedent, and it may be that crypto is currently the object of that particular approach. But if the government gets away with that, with crypto, what's to say and what's to stop them from getting away with it? As to a whole host of other legal, safe, regulated industries in this country that happen to be out of favor.
00:55:51.604 - 00:56:48.654, Speaker D: With policymakers, I think that I'll take a little bit of a soapbox on this and say the US. Has been a leader in innovation for decades, right? There have been, and I'm talking way, way back when we're thinking about electricity or trains or things like that, and there was always resistance to those new innovations too, and there were always grifters and frauds. All those things happened along the way. Honestly, there's been a lot of talk in the EU that Mika came to pass the way it did because a lot of the European member states felt like they were left behind for web two. If you really look where the large tech giants are today, I think the biggest, like spotify is maybe the biggest when you're looking at the EU. And there are no other real large tech giants out there in the EU now. And so what I'll say from just a broader perspective, and I know I've sort of been saying this throughout this episode, but the best thing we can do is get some legislation into place.
00:56:48.654 - 00:58:11.706, Speaker D: So as Paul was saying, we don't have to speculate about what's everyone trying to do, what's going to happen next, and I don't want crypto to all go overseas. A lot of it has electric capital, has put out a great report and I know you did an episode about this Laura, but it showed that there has been continued innovation and developer activity that's being pushed offshore from the United States. I don't want to see that happen. I want the US to keep its place as a great place for innovation and a place where people can come and really meet out their dreams and things like that. So I'm hoping that that's not the intention that there is a very sort of understandable fear post FTX especially given Sam's proximity in DC to people and know questions that have legitimate questions that have been raised. You know, I am hopeful that there is a big turnaround here and that the industry stays vibrant enough and stays strong enough throughout what is going on now, which is literally a day to day because we saw another SEC enforcement order come out today against a basketball player who had done some promotion of crypto assets. So it's really a day to day thing right now that's going on here but I do hope the industry can stay strong enough to meet this out and to be able to continue to grow in the United States as well.
00:58:11.888 - 00:58:39.246, Speaker C: Yeah, hilariously. It was the same ethereum Max token that they had gone after Kim Kardashian for one thing. In the kind of run up to this episode when we were just sort of emailing about what we were going to discuss. Paul, you said something about how you were concerned about the national security implications of sending crypto innovation offshore. And I didn't know what that meant. And maybe Rebecca started to allude to that, but what does that mean? National security? I'm not sure how they're related.
00:58:39.358 - 00:59:34.222, Speaker A: Well, I'll share what I mean by that and I suspect in fact, I think I know Rebecca has views on this as well. Based on our comment, I would say that look, the fact of the matter is that in the last 25 or 30 years, the United States has had an unfortunate history of pushing innovation that was originally developed here in the United States or substantially enhanced here in the United States to other countries and jurisdictions. And seeing those industries not only survive, but thrive overseas, never to return. What's a good example of that. Think about semiconductors. Think about what this country contributed to development of semiconductors. Think about how much of that industry moved overseas and also think about the fact that in recent months and in the past year we've spent billions of dollars, taxpayer dollars to try to lure and incent the return of semiconductors to the United States for national security reasons.
00:59:34.222 - 01:00:27.110, Speaker A: I'd hate to see us make that same mistake with respect to crypto. I'd hate to see innovations that were either originally or largely developed here in the United States pushed offshore and for the country in 30 years to be spending even more money to try to lure that industry back after. It's had a tremendous record of success in other markets. That's one way in which I think about the national security implications of what we're seeing coming from the SEC and elsewhere today. The other way I think about this too is that and I think we all need to think about it in these terms. If I can suggest that the innovation, the talent, rebecca alluded to the fact that we're seeing so much developer and engineer activity taking place outside the United States, that talent is part of our national infrastructure in an important way. And so to the extent we want to continue to attract and develop that talent here in the US.
01:00:27.110 - 01:00:51.646, Speaker A: Not just for purposes of building great products in crypto and web3, but more generally, we need to create, at the very least, a hospitable climate, to say nothing of a welcoming climate for these types of projects and networks. And right now I don't think we're doing that. And I think if we continue down this road, we're going to see ourselves repeating the same mistakes as we've repeated over and over again over the last three mean.
01:00:51.668 - 01:02:18.614, Speaker D: I think there are legitimate national security concerns, most of which are there are other jurisdictions that are building. So first of all, the US has been systematically debanking itself in other developing countries right now. So where we might have had a banking presence or somehow push the US dollar we've been taking ourselves out of developing countries. The country that comes in to take our place is China and in most of these countries and one thing we know, although we may not know details about where they are but they have been developing a CBDC and they are far ahead on it certainly than where we are now. There are certainly lots of legitimate concerns about CBDCs especially on the privacy side and so it is understandable that we are not there. So I am in no way saying that we need to be building out our CBDC program right now and there's a lot of work going in both at the fed level and with a number of members of Congress who are seriously examining CBDCs. But I think the national security concerns really come with if we are pushing this offshore and if we are debanking from other places then the question is who steps into either our shoes or who steps into a place of power that we may have been in before? And yes, the US dollar does have sort of a worldwide hegemony is too strong of a word but it is a very strong currency internationally and I don't think we want to lose that.
01:02:18.614 - 01:02:55.780, Speaker D: And crypto is so global, it is borderless. And I think if we think that some ban or otherwise true squeeze on it in the United States is going to long term protect consumers, I think we do have to take into account concerns that Paul and others have raised about what that will mean for the primacy of other countries that may not be as favorable and may be national security threats to the so I know it's a little bit grim from the national security side, but I think that's a real issue that we need to be grappling with and both policymakers and regulators need to be thinking about that as well as they're making policy for crypto in the US.
01:02:56.470 - 01:03:24.090, Speaker C: Yeah, the one thing I would have to say about that is that I do think that in terms of the more permissionless innovation, obviously those people aren't going to go to China. And I would imagine if people had a choice, they wouldn't choose. I mean, maybe some of them might be forced for economic reasons to choose like a CBDC coming out of China or whatever. But I think most people would choose something where they're not going to have to deal with all the things that you have to deal with when you're dealing with the Chinese government.
01:03:24.240 - 01:04:01.740, Speaker D: Those are two separate issues where software developers go I agree, it's not China, right. Where you're going to go, you can go to the EU, you can go to the UK. There are lots of great crypto companies in both places, including and especially in the UK. That's more like permissionless development. I'm saying what do we need to be thinking about in terms of really squeezing on crypto in the US from a national security perspective? And it is that if we don't take this technology seriously from an innovation perspective, it may compromise us from a national security perspective. But I agree, those two issues are very separate and no, I do not think software developers are running.
01:04:04.350 - 01:04:51.370, Speaker C: And one other thing that I wanted to follow up know is something I think it was maybe Rebecca who made this point earlier just about how the SEC has kind of already changed its stance between the different administrations. Obviously under Jay Clayton we had Bill Hinman, who is the director of Finance, make a speech saying that Ether at that moment was sufficiently decentralized. And then now chair Gensler keeps hinting that he believes ether is a security. So I was just wondering if you could talk a little bit more about the differences between the two secs and then where you think things could go if somebody else comes in to head up the you know, I keep reading these news stories that chair Gensler maybe is angling for a different job. So what's your take on how all that might affect crypto?
01:04:51.870 - 01:05:36.658, Speaker D: It depends who's in that and it depends on who the next administration is in theory. Chair Gensler has I think he's served for two years and he would have three years left. But if the administration changes two years in most chairs don't stay under a president who didn't appoint them. And I suspect Chair Gensler would leave if the president changes. And then the question is who would a Republican appoint to come in. But if Chair Gensler leaves and President Biden is still in office, or a Democrat is still in office, I think we have really no idea what could happen next. You could have someone even more aggressive, as we saw from Chair Clayton to Chair Gensler.
01:05:36.834 - 01:06:51.310, Speaker A: And anytime there's change in leadership, of course there are changes in priorities that's understandable, that's reasonable. I think markets generally adapt to that. But when it comes to crypto, there are so many basic core issues that are being managed seemingly at the whim of a single person or a particular group of leadership. And to Rebecca's point, that's why we have legislation in so many areas of the law to settle these questions so that there isn't such a dependence on one particular leader or administration or another on fundamental basic topics like what is an agency's jurisdiction, what is the appropriate market structure for a huge and growing asset class? We can manage change just fine, but it points once again to the need for legislation or at the very least, rulemaking that is informed and that is sustainable and is durable, so that we're not having to reverse course and change investment decision priorities simply because somebody's elected to move on in their career.
01:06:51.650 - 01:07:26.460, Speaker C: All right, well, last note that I want to end on is just hester purse keeps making these dissents and they're quite pointed. And I wanted to just quote from one of her mic drop moments here. This was her dissent to the Kraken settlement. She wrote, a paternalistic and lazy regulator settles on a solution like the one in this settlement. Do not initiate a public process to develop a workable registration process that provides valuable information to investors. Just shut it down. And so know the SEC isn't fully aligned internally on all these.
01:07:26.460 - 01:07:47.234, Speaker C: The Know has the final say here, but I imagine we're going to keep seeing a lot of discussion and perhaps some zigzagging from the regulators and the government when it comes to how crypto is going to be regulated. But this has been such a great discussion. Where can people learn more about each of you and your work?
01:07:47.432 - 01:07:54.466, Speaker D: I'm on Twitter. I'm Rebecca Reddig One, and you can hear some of my thoughts and ideas there.
01:07:54.648 - 01:08:18.650, Speaker A: And I'm at I am Paul Greywall on Twitter. And if you go there, I hope you'll be inspired to join this debate. These issues we've been talking about, Laura, are not just things that the Coinbases and Polygon Labs of the world should care about. Anyone who cares about consumer protection, innovation, the future of Web Three needs to be paying attention and needs to be getting involved.
01:08:20.030 - 01:08:23.658, Speaker C: All right, well, it has been a pleasure having you both on Unchained.
01:08:23.834 - 01:08:24.800, Speaker A: Thank you.
01:08:25.890 - 01:08:46.370, Speaker C: Thanks so much for joining us today. To learn more about Rebecca, Paul, and the crackdown on crypto, check out the show notes for this episode. Unchained is produced by me, Laura Shin with up from Anthony Yoon, Mark Murdoch, Matt Pilchard, Zach Seward, Juana Ranovich, Sam Sriram, Jenny Hogan, Ben Munster, Jeff Benson, Pama Jimdar Shashank and CLK Trent. Description thanks for listening.
