00:00:00.200 - 00:00:44.294, Speaker A: Do you not think it's quite a damning indictment for the industry if someone, I think you've been in since 2012, 2013, I think I heard on an interview, but someone who's been in, you know, an OG to get hacked twice, you know, how can we move forward? How can we actually bring normal people into this industry? Or is it forever going to be sort of, you know, rife with people getting scammed and losing their money? It's all I. Before I asked this question, I was thinking, is it? I feel like the best games are the ones where it's like 90% skill, but there's just 10% of luck, and maybe that's the 10% of luck in crypto is you're losing all your money. But, yeah, how do you see it all playing out? How are we actually going to get this to the normies?
00:00:44.754 - 00:01:07.450, Speaker B: I mean, I think it's part of the game, if I'm being honest with you. And it's really just about being more diligent and more skillful. I wasn't diligent and I wasn't skillful. I didn't have my money on a fucking ledger like I should have. I had it in a hot wallet. Even my first hack, where they took 250k from me, I still don't know how it happened. Like, I don't have my seed phrases anywhere on any digital device anywhere.
00:01:07.450 - 00:01:46.428, Speaker B: And all of them were, like, securely, like, safe in the current or in the location that it was, you know what I mean? Physically written down on pieces of paper. I thought it was like, maybe a remote access hack for my computer or something. I still don't know, but I wasn't taking the necessary security measures. And, like, I think I bought bitcoin or my buddy bought bitcoin in 2013 for us, but it was just off of Silk Road shit. We weren't actually into crypto. And so this was, like, from 2017 when I first started. This was, like, really the first major come up that I had on a financial scale.
00:01:46.428 - 00:02:31.070, Speaker B: And so I wasn't diligent enough with it. The second hack was literally just me being a dumbass and using my main hot wallet as I started, I was trying to make a game on Solana, and so I was working with a dev, and as soon as I typed my name in as function, which was stupid, and then I connected my hot wallet, which is double stupid, he saw my nfts. He probably knew that I, like, this was back when I was, like, number ten on NFT inspect or something. So I was like, really popping on Twitter. So if he even had a Twitter profile, he knew that, like, yo, I should probably hack this guy, you know? And so I think it's just like being diligent. I think it's being more aware. I think there's a right of passage for everyone.
00:02:31.070 - 00:03:08.950, Speaker B: Doesn't mean you have to get hacked and lose all your money, but I think there's always a right of passage, especially in the crypto realm. And I also don't think it's like. Like, it might be more savage than traditional industries, but other industries aren't, like, aren't lacking scams either, man. You know, like, you, you can get a call from your bank and you can tell them your pin code to verify your account, and all of a sudden it was a scammer. Who steals your thousands of dollars out of your bank account. Now, banks might have a little bit more security. Cause they can refund you the money, but that's honestly not good for you in the long term, in my opinion.
00:03:08.950 - 00:04:03.182, Speaker B: Like, in the long term, like, I'm actually grateful for all the hacks that I had, even though it was a lot of money and all this other stuff, but I'm grateful because now I know to be more diligent. Now I know to be more aware. Now I know to be more strategic with how I'm, like, utilizing my funds, what I actually share publicly, because a lot of the times, I think I made myself a target. If I'm on Twitter bragging about how I just swept 55 d gods, and then all of a sudden, d gods go to fucking ten grand each, then I'm a target. I'm a fucking target. People want my shit. I think it's all part of the game for an individual to learn how to become more financially responsible where they don't have, like, the traditional banking system or the traditional monetary system always, like, playing mommy and daddy for them and being like, oh, you got hacked.
00:04:03.182 - 00:04:32.074, Speaker B: Oh, it's okay, we'll just refund your money. You know? And it's really what I've always said since the. Since the beginning. I got into crypto and started to really learn about it is what it's doing is it's telling. Taking me, like, humanity from a fiat paradigm, this paradigm where they think they're always protected, they're always safe in a bank. They're always going to earn x amount of dollars an hour and all of this stuff. And for those that choose to really participate at a high level like I have, you're going to go through trials and tribulations.
00:04:32.074 - 00:05:06.862, Speaker B: But those trials and tribulations are literally meant to, like, break you out of this fiat paradigm and open you up into the way that money really works. And money is just constantly flowing. It's a river. It doesn't stop moving. It doesn't stop circulating. And if you allow yourself to get stuck or you allow the money circulation to get stuck, then you're going to lose it all or you're going to have things that affect you in order to get you out of that. And that's kind of what I've noticed in general, is I think it just teaches people that process at a much higher level than any other industry will.
00:05:06.862 - 00:05:20.564, Speaker B: But I also recognize that I'm the one that chose to be here, and I'm the one that's choosing to play that game. And I wanted to play that game. And if you can take personal responsibility for it, then you can move through all the hardship pretty quickly.
