00:00:00.890 - 00:00:57.710, Speaker A: Hi everyone, my name is Jorge Arse. I am a mathematician by training and a blockchain and cryptography researcher at Nettermind. In our research team, we're always looking into the latest and most cutting edge protocols and tools in the blockchain space, so we're a pretty good place to learn what is new. Working with us, you'll learn about cryptography concepts such as consensus protocols, signatures, key sharing schemes, and zk snarks and starks, which you may have noticed are insanely popular these days due to their potential for privacy and scalability. We also work with blockchain solutions such as roll ups, liquid staking, decentralized identity distributed validators, and many, many, many more. You will likely recognize some of the projects that we have had the pleasure to work with. Take Lido, for example, the largest liquid staking protocol on Ethereum, and we help them discover and explore decentralized identity and verifiable credentials.
00:00:57.710 - 00:01:50.080, Speaker A: These days we are researching decentralized dispute resolution mechanisms on Ethereum. These will boost the Lido protocol and will help them bring on board permissionless validators. Then there's oball, a leader in the field of distributed validator technology, or DVT for short. Our collaboration with Oball is pushing the boundaries of consensus protocols and cryptographic elements like threshold signatures and verifiable delay functions. A DVT tech is an incredibly cool piece of technology and will likely have a very large impact in Ethereum as well. So are you up for it? We're always on the hunt for talented and curious minds. If you've got an academic background in cryptography, computer science, or related fields, or if you're programming with with a deep understanding of the Ethereum protocol, then you might just be the person that we're looking for.
00:01:50.080 - 00:02:06.020, Speaker A: But above all, curiosity is key. So if you're on the fence, just take it from a former nettermind intern who gave it his all and now works in this industry full time, you never know what doors this program can open for you. Hope to see you inside.
