00:00:00.240 - 00:00:39.066, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the delegate refuel, where we cap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Sono, and today's the 9 August 2023. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So apologies for missing yesterday's episode, everyone. I'm sure you saw on Twitter, it was my 13 year anniversary with my fiance, so obviously spent time with her and just didn't have enough time to do a refuel. But I'm back today with a longer than usual episode because a lot has happened actually in the last couple of days and there's a lot to get through. But firstly here, I just wanted to give a shout out to upside down, which is a co working space slash kind of, I guess you could call it funding initiative for early stage projects that is based right here in Melbourne where I live.
00:00:39.066 - 00:01:14.198, Speaker A: I actually went there today. You can see here in this photo. I was given a warm welcome by having these memes of me up on the screens here, but I just wanted to give a shout out to them because if you are in Melbourne and you're looking for and you're in crypto, obviously, and you're looking for a new co working space or a new kind of like office space to work out of, you know, not all the time, obviously. You could do a couple of days in there and a few days at home and things like that, then definitely reach out to upside down. They've got a great little space there. It's like it's in Cremorne. It's a suburb in Melbourne, of course, kind of not too far from the city, if you kind of.
00:01:14.198 - 00:01:35.878, Speaker A: If you know the area here. So just a shout out for my fellow Melbourne crypto people there. But yeah, go check it out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But it was really fun being there today and thank you to the guys there for making me feel welcome. All right, the biggest news from the last 48 hours was that PayPal is doing a stable coin. And not only are they doing a stable coin, but they're doing it on Ethereum.
00:01:35.878 - 00:01:49.094, Speaker A: Of course. Now their stable coin is called py USD or PI USD, I guess. I don't know how you're supposed to say that all in one word. I guess you're not, right? Py USD. I don't know. The name's not important. What is important is PayPal doing a stable coin.
00:01:49.094 - 00:02:28.656, Speaker A: Right? Like, how cool is that? Now, I want to get something out of the way here. Some misconceptions people seem to have, every time that there's a new one, these stable coins that comes out, everyone was complaining about how it's centralized. It's like, yeah, okay, like, did you expect PayPal to do a decentralized stablecoin? I don't think so. Right? So yes, it is centralized. Yes, it, it does have controls in place to like freeze the assets on chain and things like that. But it's the same as USDC and USDT have had those functions since day one of their existence. And every time that this kind of news comes out, news like this comes out, people just seems to not be aware of this fact, which is just insane to me because, guys, it's, it's a centralized, stable coin.
00:02:28.656 - 00:03:02.954, Speaker A: They're not trying to be decentralized stable coin. So of course they're going to have these controls in place for various different reasons. I mean, at the end of the day, it's, it probably just comes down to the legal and regulatory stuff, obviously. Right? So, just wanted to get that out of the way. But, but yeah, it's, it's a pretty, pretty big deal, I think, for a number of different reasons. I think I want to go over the top three reasons why I think this is a big deal. One, it's a big deal for a theorem, obviously, because as I've talked about a lot in the past on the refuel, I have this thesis and this theory that Ethereum's most valuable trait is that it is a global settlement layer, right? It is censorship resistant.
00:03:02.954 - 00:03:57.630, Speaker A: It is incredibly neutral. It allows anyone to settle any kind of value that they want onto the chain, whether that be tokens or L2s or anything of the sort, right? Nft stuff like that, that gets settled onto the chain. So, you know, PayPal settling their stable coin and building their stable coin on Ethereum layer one and then obviously being able to bridge that to other layers like Ethereum L2 and stuff like that is a huge signal boost for that thesis. And it really does reinforce the thesis that, you know, that I've been talking about a lot on the refill, which is very cool. Secondly, it's cool from like a, I guess, regulatory perspective in the US, where essentially, uh, the US has obviously been trying to push through legislation with regards to stablecoin specifically. Uh, and there's been a bunch of kind of movement there. But what this does for the regulatory stuff is basically send a strong signal to these regulators and politicians saying that homegrown big american businesses want to issue stable coins.
00:03:57.630 - 00:04:25.842, Speaker A: They want to get involved with Ethereum and building stuff on Ethereum. They want to get involved with DeFi. So let's not kill it, obviously. Let's not shut it down or let's not attempt to shut it down or stifle it. Let's embrace it. Let's embrace the innovation here and make sure that these things can be given a chance to blossom on these networks. So that's the second thing, the third thing, and I think this is obvious, but still, I want to mention it, is, is that it is a potential vector for bringing in a lot of new people into crypto.
00:04:25.842 - 00:05:08.396, Speaker A: Right now, of course, you may not consider people using centralized stable coins through the PayPal app to be crypto or to be using crypto or to be using on chain products. And I mean, I think that if you're only on the PayPal app, just sending this PayPal, I guess like USD stablecoin with other PayPal users, it's not going to change the balance on chain. It's not going to invoke an on chain transaction. It's just going to be like updating a row in a spreadsheet or a database on PayPal's back end. So that's the same as using a centralized exchange and just trading on there. So yes, that's not on chain, but the thing is, is that this is a token that is issued on chain. I should have mentioned that Paxos is actually the builder of this.
00:05:08.396 - 00:05:32.748, Speaker A: They use their existing contracts to issue this and they're working with PayPal on this. And you'll know Paxos from their stable coin they did with binance BusD before that was obviously shut down for various different reasons. They also have their Paxos USD, so they're not new to this game. They've been around for a while now and they're doing it with PayPal. And it's all on chain as. As an ERC 20 token. So you could use it within the PayPal app or you can use it on chain.
00:05:32.748 - 00:06:14.656, Speaker A: You know, imagine how cool is it going to be having PayPal's stablecoin be in unisop liquidity pools or be accepted on money markets as collateral and stuff like that? Like that. That sort of stuff is just, I don't know. Even though it's a centralized kind of asset, I still think it's very cool because as I said, it's going to bring a lot of more people, a lot of new people on chain as well as obviously base as well as I've talked about before, as something that is going to be a big driver of people coming on chain, which launches today, by the way. I mean, launches officially. It has been kind of live for a week and a bit now, but. But yeah, so the PayPal news is obviously, obviously massive here in their video that they've got these 32nd video that they posted. What I found really cool is that they actually specifically called out that it was built on Ethereum.
00:06:14.656 - 00:06:36.738, Speaker A: Sometimes these things are buried for one reason or another. But no, the video specifically calls out that it's built on Ethereum. And the ETH logo, or the Ethereum logo is right there now, in app. In the PayPal app, you'll be able to redeem PayPal USD for us dollars right in the app. You don't need to be some institution. You can just be a normal retail investor or just a normal user and you'll be able to do it. You can.
00:06:36.738 - 00:07:10.514, Speaker A: You'll be able to convert PY USD into other crypto assets or directly in the app. So that's going to be very cool. So it definitely seems like PayPal is moving right into being a kind of. Sort of like a crypto exchange, right, but with their own stable coins instead of using existing ones out there. And PayPal has a massive user base. And it's not just the user base that's concentrated in one, I guess, like maybe one geography, it's rather concentrated because it's got a big us presence, but demographic because everyone uses PayPal from. From young people to old people.
00:07:10.514 - 00:07:28.454, Speaker A: Everyone uses. Uses PayPal because. Because it was. Sorry, it is one of the de facto payment methods online and people love using it. Yes, as I said, it's centralized. And yes, it comes with the same pitfalls as all the centralized financial institutions do. But this is the kind of stuff that brings in a lot of new users.
00:07:28.454 - 00:07:51.526, Speaker A: So kudos to PayPal for doing this. Super excited to see how this rolls out and how it evolves and what the traction looks like as time goes on. All right, moving on. So the EF next billion account has tweeted out an update on the next billions fellows cohort. So this is the cohort number three. And you can read all about this. I'll link it in the, in the YouTube description below.
00:07:51.526 - 00:08:30.804, Speaker A: But just a recap of what this fellowship is. It's trying to reach folks that are based in, I guess, like places around the world that they aren't the usual places that crypto has a presence in, obviously, like us and Europe and Asia, crypto dominates there, but other places are like, around the world that may be kind of like poorer countries or may have people that are in obviously dire need of crypto technology because they don't have good banking systems. Places like Indonesia is called out here and others. You can read the list, I'll link it in the YouTube description below. That's what they're trying to do here with these initiatives. So, yeah, I just wanted to shout this out. You can go check this out for yourself.
00:08:30.804 - 00:08:41.676, Speaker A: There's full details here for you to do so. All right. An interesting tweet from the protocol guild here. Now, I'm not only highlighting this because it's. It's shouting me out. I'm not. I'm not that vain.
00:08:41.676 - 00:09:21.218, Speaker A: But the tweet says, you know, with. With my RPL donation that I made a few days ago of 1238 Rpl, I joined the leaderboard in the top ten leaderboard of people that had been or people or entities that have donated to the protocol guild. So the reason why I wanted to just highlight this quickly is because this is a dune analytics dashboard that you can go check out. I think I've. I've showcased it on the refill before, but you can go check this out. But what I really like about this is that it shows the initial value and then it shows the current value of the donation, because a lot of these donations are actually made in the token. So, for example, the arbitram community, the donation was made in the arb token.
00:09:21.218 - 00:09:36.002, Speaker A: It was done when the arb token was issued. I remember covering that on the refuel. Lido dao is ldo, uniswapdao is uni, ensdao is ens. You know, you get what I'm saying. Most of the time, it's done in the native token here. And of course, those tokens fluctuate in value. It's not a stable coin.
00:09:36.002 - 00:09:55.086, Speaker A: It fluctuates in value against. Against USD. So you can see here on the actual. On the actual kind of dashboard, an up to date view of this. So essentially, it makes me look pretty bad here, because all of the. Everything I've donated to the protocol guild has been RPL. And the RPL token has gone down a fair bit recently.
00:09:55.086 - 00:10:14.950, Speaker A: So the initial value was $132,000. Now it's only $91,000. But it works both ways. You know, if RPL goes back up again, then obviously that will. That will look better, and that will get better over time and look a lot healthier here. But I was just humbled to be in the top ten here. I like this leaderboard.
00:10:14.950 - 00:10:39.264, Speaker A: I like this dashboard as well, because it encourages people to kind of compete with each other, I guess. But, yeah, it's crazy the amount of money that some of these kind of daos have given, though. And it makes sense that a DAO would give a lot of money, obviously, if it's their own token that they've just kind of like issued, you know, arbitrary is leading here. They have given $3.5 million worth of ARB to, to the protocol guild lighter in second place at 2.8 million. Uniswap Dow 2.7
00:10:39.264 - 00:11:01.408, Speaker A: million, ENS Dow almost 2 million, and then so on and so forth there. So, yeah, I'm in good company, I think, in this list here. But you can go check out that dashboard for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right. Now, I talked about this new consensus client that's being built called the Ethereum lambda consensus client. Well, they've got their first kind of public report out today.
00:11:01.408 - 00:11:45.072, Speaker A: You can see here, Fetty's intern put together a report on Twitter all about why, what they're working on right now. So they've kind of gone through what each, which each member of the team is working on, on the client itself, some information about that as well as links to learn more here. And they've also said that if they get more money, they will be doing an execution client next year as well. So, yeah, just more clients coming online for the Ethereum network. You know, sometimes I think that is there are like a diminishing returns here to, to client diversity. Obviously, we have a lot of clients right now, but like, does adding another client adds, you know, more? I guess, like diverse does obviously adds more diversity. But does it add more security to the network? It doesn't make the network better overall.
00:11:45.072 - 00:12:20.854, Speaker A: And I actually think it does, because what, what it does on a number of different fronts is that by creating another client, it gets more people familiar with the code base of Ethereum generally. Right. So it makes it so that it's not just like a small hand group, small group of people that know how, how it all works under the hood, but a lot more people understand how it works under the hood. It decentralizes out the development of the protocol a lot more. And especially if people are doing it as a kind of initiative that they've just started organically. It's, it's obviously very important from that, from that perspective. So I don't think that there's, there's probably a little bit of diminishing returns, but it's not great.
00:12:20.854 - 00:13:21.124, Speaker A: It's not great enough to not continue doing stuff like this. So I am definitely paying close attention to what the Ethereum Lambda consensus client is doing here and also looking forward to details on their potential or possible execution clients sometime next year. All right, speaking of running clients and staking and all that good stuff there, the Ethereum on Arm Twitter account tweeted out that there is a new kit on the block. So the nano PCT six, which is a new device very similar to the rock five B and orange PI five plus this is, they've said here this is a very well manufactured device and you can get one with everything already assembled. And they'll have new image images this week for all devices. So basically you'll be able to run the Ethereum on Arm images for running an Ethereum full node and validator using this Nano PC t six. Now Brutabak commented here saying that it's dollar 140 for the 16 gig version plus the power supply, and you can probably run a node for around dollar 250.
00:13:21.124 - 00:13:51.776, Speaker A: This just continues to amaze me, right, that it's so cheap to run a node. And the amazing thing is it doesn't cost any ETH to run a node. It's obviously only requires ETH to run a validator. So you can run a node and do your part for the network. It's obviously an altruistic endeavor. It's definitely not something that I think a lot of people are going to, are going to do, and it doesn't reward you monetarily. But the cool thing is you can use your own full node as your own RPC, so you don't actually have to use a third party RPC and risk them going down or risk them censoring you.
00:13:51.776 - 00:14:15.344, Speaker A: Even though the risk may be low, you get to just use your own RPC. You can protect your privacy as well, which is obviously very important to some people. So, so there's all of that going on too there. So running the validators doesn't take much more now, kind of like hardware requirements here. You could run validators on this box just fine, but obviously then you need the 32 ETH or I guess less. It depends. If you're running the rocket pool smart node stack, you need less.
00:14:15.344 - 00:15:11.140, Speaker A: And obviously with future protocols it's going to get with other protocols. There are, there are, there are others out there that will allow you to do this. But yeah, the capital requirement is a lot more than for the ETH is a lot more than the hardware requirements. And in saying that as well, if we don't cap the, I guess like validators on the network, or kind of like bring down the number of validators on the network through those upgrades that I've discussed before on the refuel, such as increasing the max effective balance or capping the churn, so that we can have a more steady kind of stream of people coming into staking. It may eventually get to a point where there's too many validators on the network and it kicks off these lower power devices, because what ends up happening is that it overloads these lower power devices because they can't keep up with the chain. So yeah, that's an orthogonal thing there, but I don't think that's happening anytime soon. It seems that the amount of people staking has slowed down as well, which is, which is kind of, I guess like relieving for people who are concerned that we'd have too many validators on the network.
00:15:11.140 - 00:15:47.154, Speaker A: But really it's not a huge issue in my eyes. As I've mentioned before, with Den Kun hopefully going live in November, I think, I don't know if it's been included yet. I think it's still being discussed. But limiting that churn limit so that I think they want to cap it at only twelve validators per epoch. Being able to get into the network and then having the more longer term solution be increasing that max effective balance per validator so that people can consolidate their stake. So for example, you know, if you're running 1020 validators right now, if there is a. Or even more than that, right, whatever number it is, I'm just picking a number off the top of my head.
00:15:47.154 - 00:16:45.654, Speaker A: But if you're running multiple validators, by increasing the max effective balance to say 2028 ETH, which was on the original proposal, you can collapse all those validators into one, and that takes load off the network. And I think the math was done that essentially, if everyone did this, you could basically cut the amount of validators on the network by at least by down to basically at least a quarter of what it is now. So instead of having 700,000 validators, you would have like less than 200,000, which would take loads off the network. It would be a lot better for bandwidth usage as well, because validators use a lot of bandwidth and it would still give the same security. It wouldn't compromise on security at all. But the concerns around that are of course, people consolidating validators, meaning that they have less redundancy, or maybe they don't, you know, that they don't have enough security for their own validators, not for the network, but for their own validators. And it could potentially lead to a slight increase in the risk of things being compromised at mass and slashing and stuff like that.
00:16:45.654 - 00:17:06.758, Speaker A: I don't know. I've discussed it before. I don't think that's a huge kind of deal. I think that with technology like distributed validator technology or DVT, that alleviates a lot of those issues and with the players getting more sophisticated with how they secure their setups, alleviates a lot of issues as well. So. So, yeah, really, I'm not too concerned there. But yeah, you can go check out the nano pc t six.
00:17:06.758 - 00:17:33.974, Speaker A: You can just google it, I guess, and maybe you want to buy it and run an ethereum full node on that. As I said, very, very cheap. Seems to be around $250 right now to run a full node on this device. All right, so puffer Finance has announced that they've raised a $5.5 million seed round today with a bunch of investors that you may kind of like, know here. You can see them such as bankless ventures and lemniscap and a bunch of other people. Sriram from Eigen layer, an angel.
00:17:33.974 - 00:18:25.986, Speaker A: I'm not going to name them all, but they're all in this list here. But what puffer finance is, is an anti slashing liquid staking protocol. So essentially what they're trying to focus on is creating a technology to make it so that you can't get slashed no matter what. And this probably goes back into what I was saying just earlier about the concerns around validators being consolidated and how that may increase slashing risks and stuff like that for a number of different reasons, incomes puffer to potentially alleviate those sorts of things with what? With what they're building here. So they say here how they're going to be building their protocol based on three core pillars. They're integrating cutting edge anti slashing technology to protect Ethereum validators, safely lowering the bonding threshold to two ETH, allowing for more node operators that can collectively improve upon decentralization. That's a liquid staking part of it.
00:18:25.986 - 00:19:03.242, Speaker A: I don't know if they've updated their docs yet because I haven't checked it in a while, but I didn't see a concrete plan from them on how they actually plan to allow people to stake with just two ETH and run the validators themselves and stuff like that. It probably is enabled by things like DVT, right? Distributed valid technology, validate technology. But I haven't checked it recently, so I can't comment accurately on that just yet. And the third pillar is that they want to increase reward opportunities through unique rest taking services built on Eigen layer. So obviously working with, with Eigen layer there in order to, in order. In order to kind of like increase those reward opportunities. So yeah, very cool new protocol in the staking space here.
00:19:03.242 - 00:19:52.098, Speaker A: Great to see that they've been able to raise a pretty healthy seed round, honestly, $5.5 million seed round valuations probably at what, 25, 30 mil or something like that. And that's pretty healthy for this market right now because, you know, the market's quiet and not just on the public market side, but the private funding side, the VC market side valuations have come down, but I think we're at the bottom of that too now. And it seems that good projects, projects that make a lot of sense are definitely still commanding relatively strong valuations here, which is great to see. So congrats once again to puffer finance on this. If you want to learn, learn more about this, I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, octants, the app, or I guess like the staking kind of initiative that I've been talking about recently on the refuel that was built, that has been built by the Gollum foundation, is ready for takeoff.
00:19:52.098 - 00:20:47.144, Speaker A: So they've launched their app today, a platform for experiments in decentralized governance that reward active participation with ETH. So just to recap here, Octant has been funded with 100,000 ETH from the Gollum foundation and is operating 3125 validators on the ethereum network. And a specific portion of the staking rewards will flow into the reward pool for a steady budget for, for experimentation. So if you want to take part in octant and want to take part in this experiment, you need a minimum of 100 GLM tokens. So they golem network tokens here with Octant for a 90 day epoch period. And the more GLM you lock, the greater your rewards and voting power will be. And the whole point is basically to reward people for participating in this new initiative, to vote and to kind of have a say in where the, the staking rewards get redirected, you know, what public goods they get redirected to and things like that.
00:20:47.144 - 00:21:25.578, Speaker A: This is one of my favorite initiatives in the, in the space right now because of that kind of public goods funding out of a huge treasury, you know, Gollum, for those of you who don't know, Gollum was one of the earliest Ethereum projects to do an ICO. I believe they did it in 2016 when ETH was worth a lot less than what it is now. I think they managed to raise 800,000 ETH or something. Now, obviously today that's a huge number, but back then it wasn't relative to, I guess, like what it is now. I think back then it might have been worth $8 million or something. So obviously a lot less than what it is, what it is today. Right? And they still have a lot of that ETH, you know, under their belts.
00:21:25.578 - 00:21:59.456, Speaker A: And so instead of sitting on it like a dragon, they figured, okay, well, let's stake this ETH. Let's get use a portion of the rewards for a new initiative that Octon is running here. Let's have the community hold out, hold our tokens and have a say in things like where this, where they staking rewards get distributed to and other, and other things like that. So yeah, you can go read this thread for a full kind of description of all of that. I'll link it in the YouTube description below, but I'll be monitoring this fairly closely as time goes on. All right, well, there's a lot of staking news that I've kind of got queued up here. This one's about Diva.
00:21:59.456 - 00:23:26.120, Speaker A: So they've said here, welcome to Diva staking, ethereum's first liquid staking solution powered by DBT. Now, I've talked about Diva before and how they're basically trying to be a new liquid staking protocol on Ethereum, and they are using DVT, DVT technology to, to achieve this. But they basically got this thread out today where they is, they're talking about all the innovations that they're, that they're doing as part of the protocol here. So you can check out this thread, I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But this is the kind of stuff that I've been talking about for quite a while now where I said that to beat Lido's dominance or to reduce lighter's dominance, to create a healthier and more diverse staking ecosystem, we not only need the existing protocols to, I guess, like upgrade themselves, keep evolving, keep innovating, keep doing stuff like BD and marketing, but we need, and also the social pressure on the community to not stake with the big providers and to stake with the small providers, but we also need more of these staking solutions coming online with more innovative ideas in order to grow the pie and make sure that ETH goes into these solutions rather than the dominant solution. And obviously everyone picks on Lido because they're the dominant solution. But the best thing that can happen, and it has actually been happening recently, I think, as well, is that we redirect the ETH inflows from Lido to the other providers and it can be anyone.
00:23:26.120 - 00:23:51.252, Speaker A: It doesn't even have to be a decentralized one. It can be anyone. Ideally, we want it to be decentralized ones like rocket pool and others out there, but it can still be decentralized exchanges like binance and Coinbase. Yes, they already have a large market share, and it's not ideal for ETH to go there, but it's better than it going to Lido because Lido is in the, you know, if there was a. If there was kind of like a red zone, a critical red zone, Lido is right there. Right. Whereas binance and Coinbase are in the yellow zone, I would say.
00:23:51.252 - 00:24:50.898, Speaker A: And then something like rocket pool is in the green zone. But we would, we want to kind of divert the stake away from, from lighter, uh, now, in terms of getting the stake out of Lido, the existing stake out of Lido, and into other protocols, that's a taller ask, and that's a much harder task for reasons that I've outlined before. I've talked about, I think I've talked about this on the, on the refuel, this overhang that we kind of have from withdrawals not being enabled for a while, where essentially a lot of stake went into Lido. And then anytime the ste price was not at fair value, there was no arbitrage opportunity between the beacon chain and the secondary market. So what ended up happening was that by the time withdrawals were enabled, Steve was at fair value. So there was no ETH withdrawn from Lido in order to complete that arbitrage loop. I'm going to be interested to see how that plays out in a bull market and what differences we see in a bull market, because obviously volatility leads to the fair value of things kind of changing and going down or up or whatever it is, trading at a discount, trading at a premium.
00:24:50.898 - 00:25:16.834, Speaker A: So that's going to be interesting. But I think for now, the best thing for the Ethereum staking ecosystem to focus on is promoting these other solutions, building them, innovating them, and getting people to stake with those instead of with the dominant solutions out there, which I think has been happening, which has been very positive to see. And I'm liking that, seeing that. And Diva is definitely one of the protocols doing that. So you can go check out this Twitter thread from them. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so yeah, I talked about this before.
00:25:16.834 - 00:25:45.632, Speaker A: I must have forgot to put this tweet over near PayPal. But yeah, I put out a tweet saying, you know, PayPal stable coin being centralized doesn't make it any less cool. Ethereum being is a sentiment layer for all types of value and it means that different types of assets are going to be settled there. And I'm not going to expand on that again, I talked about that before. But yeah, that tweet was got to do with the PayPal stuff. All right, so Turnkey is now live. You can see here today they've got a blog post out saying turnkey is now open for everyone.
00:25:45.632 - 00:26:19.960, Speaker A: And for those of you who don't know what Turnkey is, they're basically offering new private key infrastructure. So new ways of securing private keys and securing assets in crypto. I should disclose here that I am an investor in Turnkey. You can go check out what they've built at wallet TX XYZ. But basically the TLDR here is turnkey offers truly flexible private key infrastructure. There are no widgets, no pre built generic user experiences, no limits on what you can create. Um, you can create a non custodial embedded consumer wallet that uses pass keys for transaction signing.
00:26:19.960 - 00:27:08.530, Speaker A: Now, passkeys are a turnkey solution, I believe, or innovation, I believe that, that they've integrated into, into their stack here and they've actually got a demo out with Goldfinch today. So if you go to deforetheworld.com and you can find the link to that in the, in the YouTube description below, you can see here that they're actually using turnkeys, passkey technology in the background to enable this. And they described this here by saying for all the authentication and signing, they're using passkeys, which is a growing web standard. Passkeys let you effectively create a hardware wallet inside nearly every device on the market today. Under the hood they use secure enclaves built into your phone or laptop. So that's what the, that's the innovation that Turnkey is, is kind of leveraging with their, with their wallet software here.
00:27:08.530 - 00:27:46.156, Speaker A: And the private key is stored in the secure enclave on the cloud with custom, with a custom OS developed by Turnkey that ensures absolutely no one can access the private key except the user with their passkey. So Goldfinch can't access it, Turnkey can't access it, AWS can't. No one. And if you go to the site here, Defi, for the world I actually created one of my wallets here already on base using my Windows PC. So it pops up with the Windows kind of security prompt. It says to enter your password or use your security key. I've used my security key to do this and you can actually see that the address lives on base.
00:27:46.156 - 00:28:17.006, Speaker A: I haven't sent any funds to it, but it's on base scan here. This is the address that I was able to generate and it was done without anything other than me just creating the wallet using that. Using that I've got a two fade device, like a hardware, two fa device that I use. And it was, it was done using that and that's my wallet. And now I can sign transactions just using that. There's no need for seed phrases, nothing. It's all stored securely on my, on my device and no one has access to that private key except for me.
00:28:17.006 - 00:29:13.474, Speaker A: This is the kind of stuff that enables mass adoption, guys, because if you have a wallet like this where essentially someone can get their phone, they go to their app or the wallet they create say, say it's an iPhone, they create a new wallet using the secure enclave on the iPhone using the technology that turnkey has created, the wallet technology, then there's no need for seed phrases. None of this stuff that's needed, there's no need for the complicated UX or the complicated UIs. It's all done seamlessly, using the same user experience that mobile users, especially iPhone users, are used to with things like Face ID. So very, very cool innovation here, guys. This is the sort of stuff, this is the sort of infrastructure that enables mass adoption. I know that obviously there's different types of infrastructure, like L2s and stuff like that as well. But this is the infrastructure that may seem boring to the everyday person because it's not something that they can particularly speculate on.
00:29:13.474 - 00:30:00.484, Speaker A: It's not something that, that is flashy, but it is something that's critically important to achieving mass adoption and to getting more people into this ecosystem. So you can go check both of these things out, turnkeys, announcements, and also Goldfinch's little demo here. I'll link them in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so Gitcoin grants round 18 is just, I think it's like a week away now. So the TLDR is that there's a million dollar matching funds for the core rounds. There's going to be four core rounds, community led featured rounds and applications are open until the 15th with the early bird deadline of the 11th here as well. So if you're interested in, I guess, like applying and having a grant on gitcoin grants around 18, you can visit this link, which I'll link in the YouTube description below, of course, for you to do, so there.
00:30:00.484 - 00:30:30.534, Speaker A: But yeah, not long now. So get your, I guess, like wallets ready. I know a lot of us probably don't have much spare fiat lying around because we've bought ETH with it. You know, we're trying to buy the by the dips and stack some guy, but you can obviously donate with Ethan other tokens as well. You don't have to just donate with stable coins there. So, yeah, I mean, these grants rounds are always really awesome to get involved with because you're funding public goods, you're funding things that indirectly benefit, I guess, like the, the value of ETH. They benefit the Ethereum network, they benefit everything building on top of the Ethereum network.
00:30:30.534 - 00:31:22.354, Speaker A: And these are the kind of things that I was talking about the other day when I said everything else as the value accrual driver for ETH, this falls right into it. Public goods funding is a huge thing, I think, but it's an indirect thing. It's not really one to one mapped here, but still very important. So yeah, get ready for Gitcoin grants around 18, going live in about a week here. All right, so Samsung here, who you'll know from, I guess, like he works at research at Paradigm, but he's very popular on Twitter, very famous on Twitter for usually catching a lot of bugs in different unchained protocols. There is a new initiative from him and a group of white hats called Seal 911, which is a telegram bot which anyone can use during emergencies to get in touch with trusted members of the security, security community and their extensive network of contacts. So essentially it's, I guess, 911.
00:31:22.354 - 00:32:02.454, Speaker A: 911 emergency contact for anyone who comes across anything that may look dodgy or may look exploitable, may look like it's being exploited, instead of people just reacting to a random tweet from usually peck shield on Twitter saying, hey, you want to, you may want to take a look at this and adding the protocol that's being exploited, which I think is disgusting, by the way. I really hate when they do those tweets. It doesn't help anyone. It's just, it's just engagement farming. Um, but, uh, this is a better way to do it because you get direct contact, in contact with trusted security researchers, trusted white hats, um, and people that can obviously help in these situations. So just wanted to shout out that there so that you are aware of that. And as I said, it is a telegram bot.
00:32:02.454 - 00:32:28.404, Speaker A: You can find a link to it in the YouTube description below. I'll link it there for you. All right, to round out today's episode, uh, it's a bit of a longer episode today, but to round it out, I put out a tweet a couple of days ago now, or was it yesterday? Yesterday, where I said, people keep crying about the fact that prices do nothing, even though there's plenty of positive crypto news lately. This is not bearish. This is an opportunity that doesn't last forever. Do not waste it. Stack Gwei instead.
00:32:28.404 - 00:32:43.084, Speaker A: So the most obvious recent example of this is PayPal. Stablecoin. PayPal announced their stable coin. The price of ETH did nothing. It actually went down a little bit. I mean, it went down by like $10, which is nothing, right? But still, it did nothing. And people were complaining.
00:32:43.084 - 00:33:17.166, Speaker A: I saw it on Twitter, I saw it elsewhere. People were saying, oh, even PayPal, you know, launching a stable coin on Ethereum doesn't moon ETH. How dead is this market? Well, it is dead. I've said it before, there's no new, no new money coming in. Still, it really is a PvP environment where it's just the same money sloshing around. And in that environment, it's not going to lend itself to things just pumping off of news like this, unless it's news like the Ripple case, the SEC ripple case, which is obviously something that is a lot more speculative than something like this. But the thing is, is that this exact same thing happened last bear market.
00:33:17.166 - 00:33:42.544, Speaker A: I remember there was heaps of positive news on the last bear market, and the price of ETH was doing nothing. It was doing nothing good. And it took at least twelve months for the price of ETH to actually react to all of these sorts of things. But when it did react, it reacted in a really big way. So the way I see it is that you basically have right now, things being held underwater. So it's like holding a balloon underwater. And you all know how hard it is to hold the balloon underwater.
00:33:42.544 - 00:34:22.990, Speaker A: It just wants to come up, right? It wants to come up, it wants to go. And that's what I think is happening to the price of ETH right now. And every time that there is a positive news event you think should impact ETH, you're not seeing it because it's happening underwater. Maybe the balloon is, is kind of, you know, going in strength and it's, it's, and the person is losing their strength because they've been holding it down for so long and they're getting tired, right. And then eventually what happens is that the balloon just pops up, right? Or the ball, I should say the ball, I guess, like just pops up out of the water and shoots up. Because the, the, I guess, like, the person in this scenario is the bear market. It's, and it's kind of like the people participating in the market, they've become exhausted and they're like, you know, I can't, I can't be bearish anymore.
00:34:22.990 - 00:34:49.792, Speaker A: You know, it's exhausting. And then it just pops up. So it's just a rather crude analogy, but I think it works, because, as I said in the tweet, these things are not bearish. Just because the price does nothing doesn't mean they're bearish. What it means is that it's an opportunity. It's an opportunity to front run everyone else. And again, this is not investment advice, but if you believe in, obviously, the ethesis and the value of ethereum and the value of ETH as an asset, then obviously it is an opportunity to you.
00:34:49.792 - 00:35:14.675, Speaker A: And you know, in twelve to 18 months, you're gonna, people are gonna be looking back on this and saying, wow, okay, you know, it's my belief that in twelve to 18 months, the price of ETH is gonna be much higher than where it is today. And people are gonna be looking back on this, and I'm gonna be pointing it out to people. I'm gonna be saying, I told you so, right? I told you it was an opportunity. I told you that. This is the way these things work. Because I've been around for a few cycles now, it does tend to repeat itself. It does tend to play out the same way.
00:35:14.675 - 00:35:40.014, Speaker A: Because at the end of the day, human psychology is the same, whether it's in crypto, whether it's in the stock market, wherever. And I think that this news is going to play out very positively and going to on flow, but it's going to take longer than people would like there. But yeah, on that more bullish note, I think that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow.
00:35:40.014 - 00:35:40.534, Speaker A: Thanks everyone.
