00:00:00.120 - 00:00:15.622, Speaker A: Where Bitsky really comes to the table here is the, you know, the infrastructure for that next billion users. To the extent that we can improve the onboarding in the UX experience in Phantom for Dapps, for the entire Solana ecosystem, is something that we're really quite excited about.
00:00:15.718 - 00:00:47.644, Speaker B: I think we're actually finally, at this time, where the underlying infrastructure is ready for some of these later stage use cases. The timing is now right to start bringing in these more mainstream elements, as well as a faster and cheaper blockchain like Solana being more conducive to platforms like mobile and use cases like gaming and things like that. Right now is a great time to be able to shift the wallets more into that mainstream form factor because the sort of underlying infrastructure has had time to catch up.
00:00:47.724 - 00:01:17.094, Speaker C: This episode is brought to you by helium Mobile. They've created a crypto native phone plan for unlimited talk, text and data for just $20 a month. We'll chat more about them later in the show. Before we get moving on today's episode, just a quick disclaimer. The views expressed on this podcast by either myself, my co host, or any guests are their personal views and do not represent the views of any associated organization. Nothing in the episode should be construed or relied upon as financial, technical, tax, legal, or any other advice. Okay, let's jump into the episode.
00:01:17.094 - 00:01:48.476, Speaker C: All right, everyone, welcome back to another episode of Lightspeed. We are joined today by Brandon, the CEO of Phantom, and Donnie, the newly appointed head of special projects at Fantom after a recent acquisition of Bitsky. So, Brandon, maybe I'll kick it right over to you to jump us off here. Talk to us a bit about what this acquisition was and of course, why it was exciting for you guys, for both of you to kind of undergo this acquisition and help grow the Phantom brand and technology behind it.
00:01:48.540 - 00:03:33.538, Speaker B: First of all, thanks so much, Dan, for having us on Lightspeed, obviously longtime fans and listeners, but first time guests and, yeah, just really excited to talk about Phantom and, you know, specifically what we have going on and cooking with Bitsky, but also just, you know, broadly in general, with, with the wallet space and with everything going on in Solana, it's super exciting. So, yeah, just glad to be here and there's a lot to talk about. There's a couple different reasons why you might want to go and do an acquisition as a company, but for us, it was really about taking our existing product map, roadmap and things that we wanted to get done and really accelerating them, getting them out the door as fast as possible. And just in general, keeping up the momentum of the crypto ecosystem, Solana ecosystem, especially in this critical juncture for the entire industry, there's a lot of eyes on us, a lot of momentum. And so, yeah, it was two things for us. So having that product roadmap that we want to accelerate and bringing on the amazing technology which Bitsky had spent the last number of years developing, as well as their team and expertise, all the lessons that they've learned with implementation and all of that, and bringing them on to just help us multiply everything here. So happy to go into exactly what that means, but, yeah, it's really about the technology and the people and what that means for the Fanta product.
00:03:33.626 - 00:04:36.778, Speaker A: But both companies have shared a very, very similar mission in understanding that wallets are the effective, like, primary interface for people interacting with blockchains. And in order to hit the scale that we expect blockchain to reach, you got to have great wallets, and you're going to have a variety of people that come into the space. And so far, I think that the current construct that is a wallet, has done really well, and Phantom has probably done the best at it. I think that be hard pressed to find another consumer crypto company with better product and better brand reputation. And I think where Bitsky really comes to the table here is the infrastructure for that next billion users. And so to the extent that we can improve the onboarding and the UX experience in Phantom, for Dapps, for the entire Solana ecosystem, is something that we're really quite excited about. And so, yeah, it's been a conversation for a while, and I think we're both really happy that we got this across the line.
00:04:36.866 - 00:04:57.774, Speaker C: And Donna, you were the CEO at Biskey prior to this. And so maybe I'd kick it to you to talk to us a bit about what that technology looks like that we're alluding to here. I think in some of the chatter I saw was really related to these embedded wallets. So if you can just jam on why those are so exciting and what feature set that really unlocks for the end user and ultimately the space as a whole.
00:04:58.274 - 00:06:13.356, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, the big thing is, you know, we've thought about this wallet infrastructure. We don't really call it embedded wallets, but we started building this in 2018. And funny enough, while the Phantom founders were at Matcha, they were the first paying customers of our embedded wallet, which is full circle here. But we've always had this idea that understanding and being like a crypto expert shouldn't be a prerequisite for participating in these new products and these new use cases that, you know, a blockchain or crypto affords. And so for us, that comes with, you know, building what effectively is a bridge between the existing Internet and what a new variant of the Internet looks like with ownership. And so doubling down and leveraging, you know, existing auth mechanisms, existing sort of like just mechanisms in which we connect accounts to different products, but at the same time trying to abstract away key management from the users in a variety of different ways. And I think that when we look at, there's a difference between a user who has two or three nfts and maybe like a half a soul in their wallet and someone who has 23,000 soul.
00:06:13.356 - 00:07:02.530, Speaker A: And we shouldn't expect them to have to have the same, I would say, level of security and anxiety potentially around managing their wallets. Our infrastructure and the products that we've built are really tailored to support that spectrum of users. And so without getting into too many specifics, that's really like the way that we've thought about it, very much like a first principles approach to, if all of this is going to be a thing, people are going to need to own their stuff, they're going to need a place to put their stuff, but they shouldn't have to be experts in that. But anything that we build shouldn't preclude them from getting to that expert level. And so really, you think about acquisitions in a lot of ways, and very rarely do I think you see one that has sort of the congruency of this deal here, because they really do plug in quite well.
00:07:02.642 - 00:07:47.578, Speaker C: I love to hear the vision there, because one of the things I've been recently talking with some app developers about, I think on one of the recent episodes with Vibhu from Drip, it was like, he's having these problems. Where, to your point, their users are just holding a couple nfts that are often worth under a penny or a fraction of a penny or just a few pennies, and they don't need to. All right, here's this 24 word or twelve word seed phrase. You have to keep this. If you lose this, there's no one to call for a recovery password. Like when you're going through that onboarding phase for the first time with somebody who's never touched the crypto landscape before, there's like, very, very clear and obvious hurdles there. Do you think there's some sort of, like, light mode toggle where maybe you have something that's like, a little more custodial maybe has that like email login feature.
00:07:47.578 - 00:08:04.776, Speaker C: Or like how do you cross that chasm of like the optionality of self custody is extremely important and I think it's a massive unlock for crypto. But how do you cross that chasm for maybe people that think that's cool but don't necessarily want that for their $100 portfolio?
00:08:04.880 - 00:09:24.274, Speaker B: It's not actually a far leap from what we have in the product now because actually the situation you're describing, Phantom does address to some extent by virtue of actually having a number of different key management models that within the app that exists today. So for example, you can't have a raw seed phrase that you decide to manage yourself. Or if you have want something to go for something more secure, you can use Phantom as a tool to interact with your ledger as another team management system. So as I think about Phantom evolving to serve a number of different types of users and types of portfolios and their needs, you could imagine phantom evolving to add other types of key management services that you opt for, whether that is something that's email based or some other options that we haven't even thought of yet. So that's kind of how I would think about the product extending. It's the phantom you know and love as a user and has proven itself to be a great tool for consumers, but with a myriad of different types of key management solutions to choose from. Perhaps if you're a newer user, you can just opt for something that's more familiar to you.
00:09:24.274 - 00:09:25.334, Speaker B: Email based.
00:09:27.194 - 00:10:15.894, Speaker A: Yeah, I certainly echo that. I think that email is, I think one of many auth mechanisms. If you look over the past 1015 years, just certainly before that, social but mobile apps, and you have phone number, you have Pascu, you have iCloud, you have Apple, you have all these different, I think, options I think people are comfortable with. I think what's probably most important is as we expand the funnel, the top of the funnel of who can use this stuff, that we meet them where they are. So without getting overly prescriptive on what exactly auth mechanism makes the most sense, I'd say the one that people are most comfortable with, I think building a platform that supports the broadest variety of options is something that we're excited about.
00:10:17.634 - 00:10:53.844, Speaker C: How do you think about the challenges of communicating the difference in risk profiles of that auth mechanism to a user? The bitcoin or ogs would say the only acceptable way is to etch your seed phrase into a variety of metal bolts and then scatter those across the world. But that's not without risk either. Of course, if you lose one of these things, it's over. So how do you think about the communication side of this, where when you're onboarding new users, you kind of have to explain to them, hey, if you're using, like, google Auth, if that account gets exploited now, they have access to your funds, like, how do you think about the message delivery there?
00:10:55.624 - 00:11:50.104, Speaker A: I'll jump in. Because this is something that we've kind of thought about a bit, just because we've gone down this path. It's really funny because the early users, you can't really. You don't really tell them anything because they don't really know what the hell you're talking about. Like, you know, like, if you go to tell someone, like, hey, you don't have to worry about managing your seed phrase, and they don't know anything already, they're like, what are you, like, you're like, telling me about a problem I didn't even know I might have. And so I think that, like, the way that you kind of, you progressively communicate this stuff based on different heuristics, based on asset value, maybe based on activity, but I think that the right way to go about it is to just be more respondent to the user and how they're using the wallet outside of telling them preemptively which auth mechanism is more secure versus the other. Because I think that that almost, in some way, can negate the value of offering the simple solution in a lot of cases.
00:11:52.164 - 00:13:12.216, Speaker B: Yeah, sorry, just to address something that you said, Dan, about the email based solutions potentially shifting the risk from losing your seed phrase to losing access to your email. Key management is actually a very broad design space in which there's a number of different ways that we can tackle this, but there's actually ways that you construct systems where even if you lose email, that's actually not enough for you to lose access to your funds. You can make it a two out of three system where it actually, if your email is compromised, that's fine, as long as you still have your device. An attacker would need to both steal your device, coerce you to open it up with your passcode, plus gain access to your email. And so there's a lot of different ways we can slice and dice it. Yeah, just wanted to just address that. But yeah, just to echo what Donnie said, like, I think, yeah, it's going to be still a lot of stuff to figure out, but I think it's both going to be a combination of in product hints, and education, as well as a lot of work to be done outside the walls of the product as well, which a lot of folks don't really think about.
00:13:12.216 - 00:13:30.992, Speaker B: It's a lot of we spent a lot of time building really professional and strong marketing, communications, arms and education with blogs, et cetera. And a lot of the work to be done to educate folks happens in those areas as well.
00:13:31.088 - 00:13:56.876, Speaker C: All right, let's take a quick break to talk about helium mobile. Every month I'm reminded of the pain of a phone bill. For someone who is terminally online, those tainted charges are no joke. Well, helium mobile is bringing a crypto native solution to this. It's powered by a combination of a decentralized wireless network and the nation's largest 5G network to bring reliable coverage to its users. The coolest part for me are definitely the mobile token rewards. They're earned by sharing a location which allows more people to build coverage where it's needed most.
00:13:56.876 - 00:14:28.422, Speaker C: So effectively, the token rewards end up bringing a better product to the customer. But even cooler, you can take these rewards and pay for your phone bill directly within the app. This is a beautiful showcase of arguably cryptos, two strongest use cases, incentivized user action and crypto payment rails. The phone plan is unlimited talk, text and data, plus it's affordable at just $20 a month. If this sounds interesting to you, go to hellohelium.com to get three free months of service with the code LightSpeEdmobile. Again, that's Lightspeed mobile, all caps, no spaces.
00:14:28.422 - 00:14:58.974, Speaker C: Be sure to check out the link in the show notes for easy access. All right, guys, let's get back to the show. That's a great flag there. I do personally like the idea of like a two of three with a couple different security systems or setups to kind of be that judge. And the idea of losing a device plus something else seems a little bit more appealing to like, me personally, who I'm not. I personally don't like keeping a ton of money in hot wallets, but I also like refuse to pull out the ledger. It's just, if I want to transact, it's just too frustrating for me.
00:14:58.974 - 00:15:43.776, Speaker C: I want something in the middle, and that seems like that hybrid solution. And so today I custody my risk mostly on a centralized exchange, but it seems like we're finally getting the pushing towards more of the innovation side. I largely view Phantom as the canonical wallet infrastructure for Solana, but if we look at Zoom out and go to Ethereum here for a second, I think that's metamask and if you look at the Metamask app, in my opinion, you haven't seen a ton of progress, or maybe change is a better word over the last couple of years. And I think they take a very secure approach to things and like refuse to break anything, which as a very piece, importantly the infrastructure stack there. I think that's a reasonable stance to take. But from a UX side, I do. It does feel like they're lacking.
00:15:43.776 - 00:16:09.132, Speaker C: And you've seen some other operators like Rabi, for example. Phantom has also expanded into the Ethereum ecosystem and it feels a little more friendly on the UX side. When you zoom out and look at the wallet landscape as a whole, how do you think things have really shifted over the last couple of years? What major changes have you seen, whether that be in focus or in different styles becoming popular? I'm just curious how you think about the broader wallet landscape.
00:16:09.228 - 00:18:35.646, Speaker B: When we started in crypto, personally, and Chris Francesco, co founders, and Donnie as well, around the 2017 era, Metamask had come out and it really was very much a developer tool and a lot of folks were thinking like, hey, this is not it. Let's automatically jump right to the end state that we think is going to be the future that we want, which is very mobile first, email first, etcetera. I think the issue there is that those folks are just a little bit too ahead of their time, and the timing wasn't quite there, because the types of folks that were primarily using this crypto stuff as it was developing were the developers were the highly technical first movers who were just really Internet natives who were messing around with this stuff. When we started Fantom, we took an approach that was somewhat contrarian, where we said, hey, we're actually going to build Metama, build phantom, very similar to what folks are familiar with now, which was Metamask and extension. So we went this sort of extension wallet first. Now that the technology underlying technology has had some time to progress, and we have seen breakthroughs like L two s, obviously Solana, and alternate approaches to the EVM, I think we're actually finally, at this time where the underlying infrastructure is ready for some of these later stage use cases and exposure to a broader audience where the timing is now right to start bringing in these more mainstream, mainstream elements, as well as the use cases being a faster and cheaper blockchain like Solana being more conducive to platforms like mobile, and use cases like gaming and things like that. And so, yeah, I think overall, right now is a great time to be able to shift the wallets more into that mainstream form factor because the sort of underlying infrastructure has had time to catch up.
00:18:35.710 - 00:19:00.216, Speaker C: And when you think about, like, the business model of a wallet, you have a direct relationship with the user, which I think is incredibly valuable. But their core, like, intention when using a wallet, I suppose, is executing a transaction, which is a. There's no fee on that from the wallet side, right? They're just, you're just like serving their transaction for them. So I'm curious, like, when you think about the business model, like, how do wallets make money, a few different types.
00:19:00.240 - 00:20:17.484, Speaker B: Of jobs to be done that phantom provides, or intents that a person has when they go and use phantom for the first time, one might be to access an external dapp. And before a transaction, one might be just to just buy some soul and have some exposure, maybe stake it and do something simple. So, yeah, it's important to kind of consider all those folks, I guess, when you're thinking about kind of like the main ways that we're helping out customers. But yeah, right now, the major business model that most wallets follow is monetization. On the in wallet swapper, we follow a very similar model where we're thinking about potentially other avenues of monetization as well. But really, one of our core jobs to be done is helping users execute transactions on dapps and things like that. And that's not something that we monetize or really plan on monetizing and something that we basically want to remain as frictionless as possible, such that we can help grow the nascent Solana ecosystem as much as possible.
00:20:17.484 - 00:20:39.754, Speaker B: And so, yeah, really we're thinking about where our headspace at is now, is thinking about how we can really blow it out of the water in terms of user growth and getting more exposure for dapps and things like that, and creating value that way, and sort of evolving the business model later down the line.
00:20:42.214 - 00:21:20.124, Speaker C: So another thing that could be interesting in that avenue there is if you're being able to monetize on the swap feature, and given that you do support Solana Ethereum and the polygon proof of stake chain today, dBridge, for example, is like this Solana native. I guess they're beyond Solana native now at this point, but intent based bridging, where you can actually get from chain a to chain b quite simply and quickly and quite cheaply as well. I'm curious, when you think about service offerings for users, that seems like a pretty interesting in app feature would be to have some sort of integration with an intent based bridging model. Is that ever something you've come across or thought of?
00:21:21.344 - 00:22:19.358, Speaker B: So we do have an integration like in wallet bridging solution currently and it lives alongside sort of like the normal swap feature. And you can think of it as if you're swapping between x asset on this chain to y asset on another chain. And so, but that being said, it could potentially evolve. I'm not exactly sure what you mean, but when you say intent based and whether you mean it's, you want to bridge and perform an action at the same time on another chain or whether. Yeah, it's more of like an implementation detail or not. But I think yeah, we definitely have bridging. We definitely are all in on helping folks bridge back and forth from Solana and yeah, that's an area we're definitely going to be investing in.
00:22:19.446 - 00:22:19.694, Speaker A: Nice.
00:22:19.734 - 00:22:25.074, Speaker C: I didn't actually realize that the in app swapper was cross chain. That's super, super cool. What are you guys doing on the backend for that?
00:22:25.454 - 00:22:30.214, Speaker B: Yeah, so we, so we work with an aggregator service called Li Fi.
00:22:30.374 - 00:22:31.074, Speaker C: Nice.
00:22:31.494 - 00:23:13.134, Speaker B: And so yeah, they basically quite similar to the, you know, the way that the DeX space evolved into aggregators. There's a number of different bridging solutions out there with a number of different characteristics and profiles, et cetera. And then the aggregator helps us choose what the best option is at that moment depending on a number of different factors. That's currently what we have in place for now. And folks love it and it really helps, uh, you know, folks on board to Solana especially um, nowadays. Um, but yeah, hopefully we can evolve that in the future.
00:23:13.514 - 00:23:52.758, Speaker C: Speaking of this cross chain idea, how do you think about chain coverage and kind of like where it makes sense to integrate given I have to imagine there's a pretty, a decently heavy lift to integrate a new chain, or at least a new um, like uh, wallet curve. And like um. And yeah, maybe talk to us a bit about the integration process of a new chain. Right. If it's just another evm fork that's fully compatible, that seems like it'd be an easier thing to do rather than adding Solana and then Ethereum and then like, I don't know, maybe one of these move based chains for example like where there's three different infrastructures. I'm just curious what that looks like. Maybe if you can just talk to us about the chain integration process.
00:23:52.886 - 00:25:10.804, Speaker B: Yeah, that's a good question. I'd say there's a number of things that go into it. I'd say just taking a step back, we our vision for multi chain in the future is not that there are a hundred plus chains out there, and that we have to add everyone. Everyone's going to want to use everyone. That's not my personal belief. My personal belief is that there's going to be three, four, maybe five max ecosystems that people that end up creating the network effects where people and developers want to use those ecosystems. And so walking back from that future, it's our job to figure out basically a, what ecosystems and technologies do we think have the actual groundwork and foundation to, like, come out on top? And which one of those folks can we actually work with quite deeply to, like, help ensure that that happens versus, and so it's very, it's a very kind of like, depth first approach versus just kind of spreading the bets out.
00:25:10.804 - 00:26:16.346, Speaker B: And part of reason why is not only that kind of like, vision of the future, which I think is going to happen, but also, like you alluded to from a technical perspective, it's actually quite difficult to maintain, like a chain in a way that really makes that chain shine. And a lot of the stuff that we did with Solana that really helped the ecosystem shine was a lot of just focusing in on a lot of the cutting edge stuff, whether that's salon of pay or whether that's priority fees or things like that. Like, we always have the time to be able to prioritize those things and push them forward and actually help design them, whereas just kind of having 100 different chains. Yeah, we wouldn't really be able to give each individual ecosystem that much attention. So that's kind of my personal philosophy on it.
00:26:16.490 - 00:26:53.722, Speaker A: The real challenges, I think, to Brandon's point, is to really create the level of usability and experience that you want. It's obviously just going to be difficult to do that across tens of 20 or 30 chains. You get some freebies when it's an l, two or something on EVM, but even still just simple stuff like data. As a wallet platform, wallet service provider, all of these chains have different data models. You need to have a way to sanitize that internally. You need that to be very quick. Brandon and I, we haven't gone deep on this yet.
00:26:53.722 - 00:27:44.454, Speaker A: So if I say anything that you disagree with or whatever, this is my thoughts. But for example, if you want to have a really strong activity feed in your wallet, and it's a cross chain activity feed, and you want everything to show up in a similar looking way, um, that's not trivial work. Like, that's like a pain in the ass. Now, a lot of that can be done by investing in a very strong data infrastructure. That's something that we've done a lot of at Bitsky and, you know, a lot of expertise that we're excited to, you know, add to what the work already been done at Phantom. But, you know, to Brandon's point, it gets really tricky when you have these sort of, I wouldn't say like, I guess maybe like novel features or these very like, chain specific features where there is no sort of representative of that feature on other chains, like a Solana Bay, like, there's not Ethereum Bay or something like that. That's where it starts to become a lot of overhead.
00:27:44.454 - 00:28:52.364, Speaker A: And I think the decision on which chains of support really comes at the cost of creating great user experience anytime. It also just creates more, like, over time, it compounds in speed reduction. You have to look at a lot more different service areas, unique service areas, in order to make any sort of productive, large scale change and the product that you're building. And so I think that, you know, as far as, like a more technical, like, as far as a more technical, you know, explanation of it, I think that, you know, there's other people that could go deeper in me, but they're deeper than me. But I think that the real challenge is around the, just like, getting all the data aligned, the speed in which things process just having like a, like a confirmation screen that you can have, like a very tuned, like, ux for, like, you can't do that really well across many chains. I'll give one random example that's like one of my favorite pieces of software, sleight of hand. So in like 2000, was it seven or eight? Whenever Instagram was being built and launched, there's probably five or six other, like, photo sharing apps that were coming out around the same time.
00:28:52.364 - 00:29:31.294, Speaker A: We were dealing with, you know, like iPhone 3G speeds. We didn't have LTE or anything. And so speed, like, uploading was like a big, like, whoever could do that the best really made the app feel very good. And so on Instagram, when you would take your picture and you would get advance to the next screen where you're typing in the description or adding tags or whatever it would be, uploading the photo in the background, for example, that's something that you could maybe do on Solana hypothetically, but couldn't do on some other chain that's slower. You really lose the ability to tailor a great user experience when you support this sort of multitude of, I would say, opinionated chains.
00:29:31.594 - 00:30:14.972, Speaker C: My friends, big, big news Blockworks is hosting permissionless three in Salt Lake City this year, so we're heading west for three days starting October 9. Permissionless is our industry's premier defi event that brings together crypto natives from all over the globe. I've personally been the last two years and can honestly say that the attendees are incredible. It's people who actually care about crypto. We also have more than 200 industry titans speaking at the event, and this includes builders like Lucas Breuder from Gito Labs and Brian Pellegrino from Layer Zero, or investors like Kyle Simone and Joe McCann, and even elected officials like Representative Tom Emmer, who is fighting the good fight in Washington. And it's narrative season, so we're gonna be covering the seven hottest themes in crypto. This includes things like modularity and restaking, or bitcoin and l two s, and even AI and crypto.
00:30:14.972 - 00:30:36.782, Speaker C: The goal is to keep you up to speed on major developments in the industry. Ticket prices will be structurally increasing over time, so get your ticket today from my lightspeed family. I got you. We're going to use code lightspeed ten in all caps. No space for 10% off your ticket. All right, everyone, I look forward to seeing you at permissionless three, and let's get back to the show. That's a really interesting analogy there.
00:30:36.782 - 00:31:08.468, Speaker C: I love that example. And when we, if I had, like, two takeaways, there be one. It's all about ux. And achieving that is, is very hard, period, let alone very hard, when you're kind of spreading your service area to be much larger. And then two, it gives you the narrowing in, kind of gives you the ability to go all in on an ecosystem and kind of be like a steward and a patron and help push it forward. And that's a very, very interesting perspective. And candidly, I think something like a different approach that you're taking than a lot of other wallet providers out there, which is pretty refreshing, in my opinion.
00:31:08.468 - 00:31:18.344, Speaker C: And I guess this kind of bleeds into my next question here, which is like, what's the. What do you think the moat of a good wallet provider is like? How do you keep a sticky user?
00:31:20.694 - 00:31:56.424, Speaker A: I'll throw an answer out there. I think you have to do two things really well. I think you have to serve the existing market and monetize that well. And I think simultaneously, you need to be laying the foundation for the next billion people. I think that's a very difficult thing to do in a market that is changing weekly, monthly, where there's new features, there's new metas there's all, all this shit happening all the time. To be doing that while kind of heads down building deep infra is, you know, that's a. The great companies, I think, are the ones that will win or the ones that can do that well.
00:31:56.424 - 00:32:05.528, Speaker A: And I think that, quite honestly, that's why this deal makes so much sense, because I think we get to really tackle both of those simultaneously. That's how I think about it.
00:32:05.616 - 00:33:21.248, Speaker B: A lot of wallets, or a lot of products in general, end up turning into feature factories, which is one feature after another. Every meta, every weekly meta change that happens, like adding something to support that, etcetera. And what people forget is that, like I was talking about earlier, there's a number of very specific core jobs to be done for a wallet, and you just need to do those extremely well. Performance, reliability, trust, safety, and like, all of those things compound into a very strong and trusted brand over time. And so, and that actually is one of the modes I believe, that we have that is going to be very difficult to overcome for other overproducts, is that we have really made the investments in those in a really strong underlying, you know, foundation, and we have been able to come out on top in terms when it really matters. When folks need to get a transaction in, when folks need to do XYZ, they always rely on Phantom. Phantom is sort of like old and trusty tool.
00:33:21.248 - 00:33:37.636, Speaker B: And yeah, I think that's why you see metamask so difficult to unseat on the EVM size, because they, they, for better or for worse, they were able to build some of that compounding advantage very early on, and now they're reaping the benefit.
00:33:37.660 - 00:34:30.766, Speaker C: Now, how does the security part of it work from key generation to. My understanding is wallet providers don't have a view into a user's private key from a security standpoint. Is there any, I guess, to back up here why? I was originally a metamask user on Ethereum and took me forever to change. I did not like the product. I thought the UX stunk, and I knew that there were other things worth trying, but I was petrified of moving any value to another wallet because I was like, okay, I don't really understand how the key side of this works from like generation to, you know, how do they ensure that it's never been seen before? How do you think about the security aspect of, like, you know, you're effectively creating someone's like, bank account password for them? And I know that's not fully how it works because there is like a couple degrees of separation there. But can you just highlight how that.
00:34:30.790 - 00:35:25.536, Speaker B: Process works in general? I'd say security, when you think about security of a product, there's many different aspects to it. There's the key generation aspect, like your key management aspect, like you're alluding to. There is interaction with Dapps and making sure that people are interacting with trusted and safe websites. And so that's where things like transaction simulation comes in, like block lists, proactively blocking malicious sites and that sort of thing. And then. Yeah, then there's sort of like. There's actually like a sort of like social engineering phishing aspect as well, and having folks educated enough not to give away their seed phrase.
00:35:25.536 - 00:36:28.000, Speaker B: So there's a couple different aspects. And, yeah, one really great thing about biscuits technology and working towards embedded wallets is that we work sort of eliminating that last attack vector almost entirely, where someone can get is not so familiar with the technicals of using a seed phrase and just give it away entirely. So that is that aspect in terms of key generation as it exists in phantom today. So, yeah, it exists. It's pretty much a standard practice for the way that all wallets on the market work pretty much now, is that the key is generated in the device code itself and on the client. It's never done in some back end or it's never done in Phantom. That key never exists in Phantom's control.
00:36:28.000 - 00:36:33.444, Speaker B: It's all just client side in the software. And so that's how it works today in Phantom.
00:36:35.784 - 00:36:41.044, Speaker C: Awesome context there. I think the security side is super important. And, Donnie, I don't know if you want to jump in here and add anything.
00:36:41.394 - 00:37:33.994, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, also. I mean, I think, Brandon, the one thing to point out is that also there's an entire security team at Phantom that just keeps an eye on everything, that makes sure that no malicious things are happening from the external world. I think that supply chain vectors, attack vectors and things of that nature is something that you got to really take seriously. And it's been impressive to see the work that Phantom's done internally just over the past week, getting to know everybody, and certainly over the past few months, I think that. So it's interesting because prior to crypto, there really wasn't a use case where you saw an individual human with like a one to one key mapping, like this sort of like immutable thing. They can't be changed, they can't be reset. And so we're all kind of, you know, trying to figure out new ways to provide this to people.
00:37:33.994 - 00:38:22.344, Speaker A: But at the same time, not let them get, like, irrevocably wrecked, obviously losing or having your private key exposed. One, it can happen without you even knowing about it, and someone could just be monitoring your wallet. And obviously, once you do know about it, there's really nothing you can do except hurry and try to race to transfer all your stuff out from. Who else would have your key? I think that for us, there's a lot of different ways to put a level of security and things. I think relying on existing security patterns around private keys is one that we've sort of explored at Bitsky over the past couple years. There's been devices built with the sole existence to keep private keys safe. Harbor security modules are something we've leveraged heavily at Bitsky.
00:38:22.344 - 00:39:07.104, Speaker A: We've also explored sharding of keys, having to have multiple devices or multiple mechanisms in order to do that. So for us, we kind of like, when it comes to something like security, you kind of want to, like, innovate as a last resort. Like, let's. Let's leverage the best practices, and then when it, you know, when those, you know, don't meet the requirements of what we're looking for, then we can start to do some pretty interesting stuff. And so, yeah, I mean, the advent of passkeys have really cut down on the fishability of a lot of accounts. That's something. There's been a lot of movement in the security space that crypto in general and end users of wallets will benefit from.
00:39:07.104 - 00:39:47.380, Speaker A: So we'll be sure to not take light of all of those best practices and make sure that we're leveraging those. But, yeah, it's funny to hear your point on not wanting to move your key to a different wallet, whereas this goes back to another question that you asked a little while ago. You know, the. The thing about the wallet as well and the future of wallets is that it's kind of like the construct that is a wallet is evolving. Like, there's a lot of different ways that people are interfacing with, like, a wallet, and they have different security mechanism, you know, different security sort of set of values. And I think that that's something that a good wallet platform will have to understand and respect. Like a great example.
00:39:47.380 - 00:40:20.146, Speaker A: You know, BrEnnan and I have talked about this, like, you know, the what, the bots, the trading bots and stuff that generate a wallet for you. The most staunchest of decentralized security people are using these, and it's literally just a private key in a database, but they're okay. With it because they understand what they're getting themselves into. It's like riding a motorcycle without a helmet. You're okay. I'm an expert level enough that I can do this. I think that there will be situations where there's a market to capture, and you need to have that level of flexibility as a wallet provider.
00:40:20.146 - 00:41:00.928, Speaker A: And there'll be other ones where it might be, you know, hundreds of millions of dollars, funds that want to manage assets that need 20 different auth mechanisms in order to have something feel safely, secure. And so that spectrum, I think, is exciting from a security perspective. I think having a progressive security model is one that we're sort of excited to, and I think that they're excited about. And I think that even goes back to the different auth mechanisms as well. Yeah, I mean, that's me thinking about more from, like, a platform side versus, like, the individual self custody model that we generally see in wallets. And so there's a lot to explore. Like, there's a lot to explore.
00:41:00.928 - 00:41:03.552, Speaker A: And that's, you know, we're super excited about it.
00:41:03.688 - 00:41:33.634, Speaker C: Yeah, it's interesting to even hear the framework there of, like, follow the best practices, sort of, like, find the holes, and then, like, okay, like, this is where we can innovate, but being careful, because it's obviously a touchy subject. And, yeah, like, I think, honestly, my least favorite part about bringing a key from one wall to another is just, like, copy pasting it. I'm like, who? Because I know, like, I use windows, it keeps a short history of your recently copied things. I'm like, who can see this? I hate this. It just freaks me out. And I don't even know if that's, like, uber paranoid for no reason, but it just freaks me out every time I have to.
00:41:33.674 - 00:42:18.862, Speaker A: Well, in that example, also, like, in the same way that, like, you can go to a hotel and log into Netflix by taking a picture of a QR code that's infinitely more secure than copy pasting. Like, why don't wallets support that? You know what I mean? And, like, there could be reasons for if or not it. Like, I don't, you know, I'm not prescribing. We do that or anything, but there are these mechanisms that have, like, de risked the. The exposure from, you know, just normal, you know, phishing attacks and things of that nature. So, yeah, I mean, it's, this, I think, is probably the most exciting part of the space is, like, how do you, how do you handle this? How do you navigate all these, you know, interesting experiences? That people want to do, but in a way that's, like, safe and that they understand, you know, the risk, but without over communicating, you know, and exposing them to the shit that they don't need to know about yet. Um.
00:42:18.862 - 00:42:20.114, Speaker A: I don't know. It's fun.
00:42:21.454 - 00:42:45.564, Speaker C: I love it. I love it. Maybe as a closing topic here, then we zoom in on Solana here for a second. And Solana has had, it's definitely had its battles over the first five months of the year, um, mostly of which is the congestion issue. So we've talked a lot about that on, at length on this podcast. Maybe we can skip over why there was congestion and just accept it as truest. There was most certainly congestion that ultimately led to users transactions being dropped.
00:42:45.564 - 00:43:23.430, Speaker C: That is kind of, in my opinion, one of the worst UX features in Solanas history. And when you dont even know where your transaction went, you cant go to a block explorer to at least confirm that it didnt send. You dont really know if you spent money or not. Its terrible. Unfortunately, I think Phantom sat right in the crosshairs of that. Just given thats I pressed send on Phantom, where's my wallet? And of course, when you start peeling back the layers, you realize it's a deeper technological issue with the chain itself. But I'm curious, what was it like at Phantom during the peak of the congestion days, and how did you guys view that problem being like, it's on the base layer and there's not much that you could have really done about it.
00:43:23.502 - 00:44:43.694, Speaker B: There's kind of a interesting dynamic where Phantom is essentially, for all intents and purposes, the front page of Solana, or like the front end of Solana. And when things like this happen, we basically also become the customer support of Solana. And so, thank God, we actually spent a lot of time investing in a very robust and professional customer support arm. And we're able to basically, when these things happen through like a combination of supports from customer signal, sorry, signals from customer support and tickets, and also our, like, back end systems and things like that are able to sort of be able to pinpoint issues and sort of understand where that coming from they're coming from. And that actually puts us in a really great position to help solve these issues as well. And this actually goes back to this point I was talking about, where, hey, our vision for multi is not like going everywhere and adding 100 chains. It's actually about going very deep with Solana and potentially other partners.
00:44:43.694 - 00:46:15.184, Speaker B: So that when these events happen, we are actually right in the middle of it, we're actually helping solve it. We're bringing the user perspectives and we're bringing those data points to help actually figure out where the right places are to apply solutions in the time of crisis. And so I guess I'll say that as an interesting kind of dynamic about the multi approach that we're taking and our position on Solana. But, yeah, it was definitely something unfortunate, but it is something that is sort of a rite of passage for blockchains once they do end up hitting their upper limits because of whatever retail flow they're getting, our customer signups, it's a sign that there are things happening and there's a lot of activity. Yeah, I just applaud the Solana ecosystem for really kind of like, just kind of facing those things head on. And that's actually something that really attracted us to the Solana ecosystem when we first started. Like, back in the end of 2020, early 2021 was sort of that kind of very pragmatic, practical approach and saying like, hey, yeah, there are some issues now and, you know, we're pumping this shit up so that, like, we can actually figure out where the leaks are and, like, continuously iterate and make it better.
00:46:15.184 - 00:46:48.844, Speaker B: And so as long. So, yeah, I view our role as helping, yeah, provide guidance and insight from a UX perspective and customer support perspective, like, during those moments and then, you know, taking one on the chin and just keeping it moving forward. You know, we are like, we are built. We are in the very early days of a nascent technology, there's going to be things like downtime and issues that pop up and just kind of have to kind of accept that and figure out how we navigate around it.
00:46:49.824 - 00:47:15.406, Speaker C: Absolutely. Absolutely. Well, Donnie, Brandon, this has been a fantastic discussion. Really great to have you both on. I loved your point there, Brandon, as calling phantom kind of like the front end of Solana, which, I mean, I candidly agree with again, it's like Phantom is the canonical wallet provider, in my opinion, for Solana today. And it's super exciting to know that such a strong team behind it, who's focused on innovating and not only that, but pushing the chain forward itself. So thanks again for coming on.
00:47:15.406 - 00:47:26.094, Speaker C: It's a fantastic discussion. We'll leave some links to Fantom and the press release for the awesome acquisition in the show notes, but thanks again for coming on. Gentlemen, it's a pleasure getting to meet you both. Cheers.
