00:00:00.360 - 00:01:17.788, Speaker A: Love it or hate it, the blast jackpot is the gift that just keeps on giving, with projects airdropping across different communities, Pacmoon, and trying to start social campaigns to basically get everyone to add that project token to their deck. I'm currently four for seven on the jackpots, but I did spend some time this weekend thinking about strategy, and then I realized something. What if I told you there's a way to add more than eight nfts or tokens to your jackpot deck? Okay, so this seems so obvious now, but all you need to do is split your assets among multiple wallets and then just link those wallets to your dashboard. One of the things that I noticed on my main wallet is that my leaderboard rank is actually calculated based on my cumulative gold across all my linked wallets. That way, if platforms continue to dust us with small amounts of their token, we can actually still use them to get exposure to the blast jackpot without affecting our main jackpot deck. If you do this, you end up maximizing your chances of hitting the jackpot. There's no more like, oh damn, I just pulled that token out and I put a different token in there instead.
00:01:17.788 - 00:02:01.104, Speaker A: Like, the one thing that I would say here from a security front is that sending nfts and tokens from wallet to wallet should only cost you gas. You should be incredibly cautious of interacting with unknown projects and websites that require you to connect your wallet. So to link a wallet, all you have to do is open up your blast dashboard and you're going to go to Airdrop, and then you're going to select multipliers. You can see here there's a nice yellow button that will tell you how many linked wallets that you have. You can see that I have three. You, you're going to click on this and press link wallet again. And then all you have to do is switch whatever wallet you're using in metamask to the wallet that you would like to link.
00:02:01.104 - 00:02:54.436, Speaker A: So you can see here, there it is. I can connect my wallet, and now that wallet's linked, and I can actually go here and see that I have eight new slots that I can add nfts and tokens to. Pretty exciting, right? Plus, you're earning the same multipliers that you're earning on your main wallet, on your linked wallet. So it's a win win situation and a little bit of a workaround, I think, for the limitations of just having eight slots in your blast jackpot deck. If you have significant size in certain token holdings, you could even consider referring yourself twice. So that way you're earning gold across the three different wallets via referrals. It is a little bit more cumbersome to manage, but it could be a massive win when the TGE comes around and be completely worth it.
00:02:54.436 - 00:03:23.594, Speaker A: Now, that's all for this one, guys. It was a quick thought that I thought I'd share because, I don't know, maybe you guys are already doing this, but, like, I kind of just had, like, that aha. Moment when juice hit the jackpot and I actually had just removed it out of my deck and I was like, damn, that could have been some easy, like, 0.5 gold. That would have been like, so chill, right? Anyways, I hope you found this helpful. Bearish or bullish? Keep farming, keep building, and keep learning until the next one, guys.
