00:00:00.200 - 00:00:34.826, Speaker A: Hello, everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Delegate refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host and the news Asana today, 7 August 2023. Right, everyone, let's get into it. So, kicking off today, or kicking off, I guess, like the news recap over the last 24, 48 hours, is that Coinbase? So, Paul Greville shared here that Coinbase has filed a brief asking the court to dismiss the SEC's case against us as being Coinbase here. And they say, or Paul says, our core argument is simple. We do not offer investment contracts, as that term has been construed by decades of Supreme Court and other binding precedent.
00:00:34.826 - 00:01:09.386, Speaker A: And then he continues. By ignoring that precedent, the SEC has violated due process, abused, abused its discretion, and abandoned its own early interpretations of the securities laws. By ignoring that precedent, the SEC has trampled the strict boundaries on its basic authority set by Congress. We appreciate the court's careful consideration. And you can see this kind of, this, this brief here, it's not that long. I think a lot of it is definitely just kind of like going over stuff that you may have seen already. I mean, okay, it is pretty long, right? I actually didn't scroll down there, but if you want to read it, I'll link in the YouTube description below.
00:01:09.386 - 00:02:10.142, Speaker A: But really, as Paul says here, the crux of this is that the SEC, as we know, has seemed to try and assert its authority over basically everything, trying to extend its authority, gain more power for itself for various different reasons. Obviously, I think it has a lot to do with political reasons. And we've seen recently that I think, and this has validated a thesis that I've held for quite a while, is that the SEC, and specifically Gary Gensler, don't care about anything except getting attention. And that was proven by the fact that recently the SEC has pivoted pretty hard into talking about AI and talking about regulating AI and regulating companies in the AI space. Now, why are they doing this? Well, it's because AI is a hot topic right now, and they want to attach themselves to that in order to get attention. They want to bring possible enforcement actions against various AI companies because that will lead to more headlines for people like Gary Gensler and the Democrats generally and Elizabeth Warren and things like that. So it really is just politics at the end of the day.
00:02:10.142 - 00:03:04.704, Speaker A: And I remember saying on the refuel that I believed Gary Ginsla just wanted to use crypto as a punching bag, as a way for him to basically strutted out in front of every. In front of the mainstream, kind of like audience and basically say, hey, we're going after crypto because crypto blew up and crypto this and crypto that and getting the headlines right. And now that AI is the hot topic, they've kind of pivoted to AI here. I don't know if the SEC is going to withdraw this case against Coinbase. It feels like they don't even care if they lose cases because they lost their case against ripple and they kind of tried to frame it as that they won their case against ripple because, I mean, okay, the case is pretty big and they, I think they won on just one or two things, but they lost on like, the main thing, obviously not being able to declare XRP as a security, but it just seems like they don't actually care. And Gary Gensler certainly doesn't seem to care that much. He's just been gaslighting the whole time.
00:03:04.704 - 00:03:27.244, Speaker A: He's just been changing the. Always bending the truth and basically making it out as if they did win. So, yeah, I mean, will they withdraw this case knowing that they are going to lose? Because I do believe that they're going to lose in, in court against Coinbase here. I don't know. I don't know. I hope they do because it saves Coinbase a lot of time and money and energy. It saves this ecosystem a lot of time and money, energy of having to fight this crap.
00:03:27.244 - 00:04:17.342, Speaker A: But at the same time, the SEC, as I said, has just been trying to get more power for itself. Gary Gensler is on a warpath in terms of just going after anything that can get him the most attention. So it's kind of tough to tell here, but yeah, as I said, this brief will be linked in the YouTube description below, and you can go check it out for yourself. All right, so Trent van Ezia from the Ethereum foundation, who has been instrumental in running things like the KZG ceremony, has published a blog post all about the special contributions that were made to the KZG ceremony. Now, I've talked about this before and about how the special contributions was a phase where people could submit kind of these exotic sources of entropy to the KZG ceremony. And this blog post basically goes over all the ones that were submitted here. And you can go give this a read.
00:04:17.342 - 00:04:56.780, Speaker A: I'll link in the YouTube description below, but one in particular, particular that I wanted to highlight was number nine, I believe, here, called exothermic entropy. That was submitted by a team that comprised of a bunch of members here. One of those members, being outsider analytics who is someone you may have seen in the daily Grey Discord channel. And for those of you who don't know, he was the one who organized the meetup in Denver when, with, when it was happening for the deli grey community. And I'm pretty sure I highlighted this video when it was made, but it was a video of him. You can scroll down here and see it basically shooting, you know, a gun off into the distance. And I said it was one of the most american things I had ever seen.
00:04:56.780 - 00:05:35.508, Speaker A: But the point of that, and as you can see here, what they did was at the end, it reads, the Mac 34 team detonated four pounds of a binary explosive called tannerite and used a raspberry shake to record the seismic activity as entropy. So raspberry shake is a piece of hardware, I believe, that allows you to record that stuff. Afterwards, they destroyed the storage media with a rifle. So pretty exotic way of, I guess like, I guess like recording entropy here and submitting it to the KZG ceremony to give a better source of randomness. But, but very, very cool nonetheless. Now, of course, their contribution was not the only one. There was a bunch of others.
00:05:35.508 - 00:06:20.790, Speaker A: I think there was 15 in total or something, or 14 in total, which you can, as I said, go check out, I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But great to see that these contributions were, were made. Great to see that it's going towards obviously a good cause or something that we, that we're going to be using in the ethereum network that with the KZG ceremony and things like that. And just really, just generally random. Sorry, not random, very creative kind of contributions made here. So yeah, I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to go check out. All right, so PBS and PEPC and Eigen layer and suave and, you know, Mev Boost and Mev, all of these terms, they've been the talk of the town over at least the last six to twelve months.
00:06:20.790 - 00:06:55.088, Speaker A: Right? It's been something that you guys have been hearing me talk a lot about on the refuel. It's been something that you've seen talked about a lot on Twitter. And there's just so much information coming out lately that it's hard to keep track of. And, you know, in saying that, there's another blog post out over the weekend called exploring protocol enforced proposer commitments, or PEPC. So I covered PEPC last week and I linked to the, basically the, the FAQ in last week's episode on Friday, I believe. So you can go check that one out. But this is a new blog post from YQ who's building out layer alt layer here, which is a elastic roll up as a service protocol.
00:06:55.088 - 00:07:26.524, Speaker A: But yeah, it's more of, I guess like a high level view of what PEPC is. Or I keep saying PEPC. They say this, they said to say it as PEPC, but it's PepC. It stands for, I mean, I've forgotten what it stands for right now. Protocol, enforce proposal commitments, which is basically an evolution of PBS. Or maybe, maybe, you know, maybe evolution is the wrong word. It's kind of like a sister project to PBS and it's trying to essentially, I believe, enshrine Eigen layer at layer one or enshrine something like Eigen layer at layer one.
00:07:26.524 - 00:08:15.116, Speaker A: But I mean there's a lot of stuff going on here and there's a lot of moving parts to it. So I don't want to butcher the explanation of exactly what this is, but you can go give this a read. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But, but as I've said before, this is going to be the main thing that is going to be focused on, I think, after Den Kun or after ERP 48 44 goes live towards the end of this year because the verge upgrade includes obviously verkle trees. But I think verkle trees generally are less interesting than sayless. Ethereum is generally less interesting to, I guess, the everyday people. Then something like Eigen layer is something like Mev Boost is something like PBS is because it has a more of an immediate impact and more of, I guess like an interesting impact on, on people outside of the core researchers and developers here.
00:08:15.116 - 00:08:55.610, Speaker A: So you'll be hearing me and a lot of people in the ecosystem talk more about this into next year, definitely. And it's going to be exciting to see what kind of, what we eventually decide on. Are we going to put MeV burn into the network? Are we going to do PBS or EPBS or are we going to do a modified version of it? When's that gonna come? Is it gonna be pushed out to 2025? A lot of open questions, a lot of open research happening right now, but stuff happening nonetheless. So you can go check out this blog post. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, speaking of meV, the when merge kind of like initiative here, or I guess, website. You guys know, whenmerge.com
00:08:55.610 - 00:09:16.558, Speaker A: now has an mev boost relay. So this relay is at relay dot wenmerge.com dot. You, you can, can see it up the top here. So if you add this to your validators, you will be registered with the when merge mev boost relay here. Now, of course, goes without saying that this is an uncensored relay. So non censoring relay, it will not censor any transactions.
00:09:16.558 - 00:09:46.206, Speaker A: And the reason why I say it goes without saying is because I probably wouldn't be highlighting a relay if it was censoring, to be honest. You guys know my views on censorship resistance generally, and my views on censoring mev boost relays. Um, but yeah, this is a new one for you to add to your validators if you haven't yet. I believe that it's not supported in, in the smart note stack for rocket pool yet because it's very new. But you can add it to rocket pool if you would like. You have to do it manually. I think there's docs for that with solo validators, depending on how you're running it.
00:09:46.206 - 00:10:02.808, Speaker A: You know, it's relatively easy to, to add this as well. There's not that many validators registered just yet. It's only a 976 validators, so, yeah, very, not very much at all. But I think that generally, you know, it's very new. It just came out. There hasn't been much marketing around it. I think we'll see that tick up.
00:10:02.808 - 00:10:36.634, Speaker A: But, yeah, it's kind of funny looking at the distribution of mev boost relays right now. And generally, the makeup of it hasn't really changed lately. I've highlighted this before, but just to give you guys another look here, the ultrasound money relay is still the biggest. I mean, it's near 40% market share in terms of overall, not just non censoring, but overall. And then blockchain max profit for non censoring is at 12%, agnostic boost at 7.4%. Then, in terms of censoring relays, the makeup has actually changed quite a bit recently. So flashbots is at 16.2%
00:10:36.634 - 00:11:05.372, Speaker A: blocks, route is at 12.2%, and block native is at 8.5%. So actually, a bit of a healthier distribution on the censoring side of things, funny enough. But generally, we have, like, a pretty, pretty healthy distribution here. And this isn't tracking the when merge relay just yet, hasn't been added here, but as I said, there hasn't been that many validators registered yet. So it obviously wouldn't, wouldn't really show up here. But, yeah, it's, it's, it's still generally pretty good in terms of distribution, much better than what it was.
00:11:05.372 - 00:11:31.004, Speaker A: But yeah, I think that on the non censoring side of things, ultrasound money probably still has too much market share at 37.3%, but I think blockchain max profit and agnostic boost will eat into that over time. Yeah, as time goes on there. But yeah, as I said, go to relay dot when merge.com to get the details here. If you want to add this relay to your solo validators or your rocker pool node validators there. All right.
00:11:31.004 - 00:12:19.012, Speaker A: Chainlink God shared some exciting news on Twitter over the weekend or exciting news about activity happening on the Chainlink CCIP testnet. So he's singled out three things here. There is an australian dollar, australian dollar digital coin and a New Zealand Dodger dollar digital coin and a Singapore dollar digital coin being tested on Ethereum, sepolia and the Avalanche Fuji testnet using CC IPS burn and mint functions. And he's attached some screenshots here of this happening. Now, you guys know, and I think I've highlighted it before, that these banks have been trialing their own digital dollars for a little while now. I think this is the first time that they've been using CCIP since. CCIP is a relatively new protocol that went live recently here.
00:12:19.012 - 00:12:44.096, Speaker A: But yeah, this is only on testnet right now. Interesting choice to bridge it between the Ethereum, Sepolia and avalanche Fuji testnet. But I guess it makes sense because CCIP obviously supports these networks when it comes to testnets as well. As far as l two testnets go, I don't think there's many of them. I think there's op's testnet, but I don't know if that's supported by CCP right now. But other than that I'm not actually sure. So it makes sense for them to test these things.
00:12:44.096 - 00:13:15.354, Speaker A: And also CCIP is not just meant to be for l two s, it's meant to be for any kind of arbitrary bridging that you can think of. So yeah, it's pretty bullish that uh, that companies like, uh, uh, that the companies are experimenting with this, with the, uh, with australian digital dollars and New Zealand digital dollars. And these aren't just any companies. These are banks as well. You can see here that ANZ, one of the big four banks in Australia, is, uh, trolling this. Uh, and they're also one of the big banks in New Zealand as well. ANZ actually stands for Australia New Zealand bank, sorry, Australian and New Zealand bank.
00:13:15.354 - 00:14:02.734, Speaker A: It's pretty self explanatory, I think. But just for those of you who don't know and Singapore, I don't know which bank is actually trialing it out of Singapore here. I don't actually know Singapore's banks, but very cool to see these trials continuing here and using crypto native technology like chain links CCIP. Now all of the relevant links are linked here in chain links tweet chainlink, God's tweet, which I'll link in the YouTube description below for you to check out. All right, I spoke about this a few weeks ago, but Espresso's sequencer recently passed its second major milestone and testnets with the Doppio test net. Well, now, as of August 5, the W test net is now open to the public and the ecosystem's first public test. And this is the ecosystem's first public testnet for a shared sequencing layout, which is very exciting.
00:14:02.734 - 00:14:34.006, Speaker A: And I've talked about shared sequencing a bunch of times on the refill before and about how it is definitely a big trend lately. And now this. Doppio testnet is the first public testnet of a shared sequencer. So they say here today, we're thrilled to share that. Doppio is the first decentralized shared sequencer testnet made available to the public. As a part of this public release, we're releasing our benchmarks for the Testnet documentation on how users can submit transactions to a Polygon ZKVM over the espresso sequencer and next steps. So you can go check that out.
00:14:34.006 - 00:15:13.398, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below. There's some benchmarks here as well, which is really cool. And there's also a guide on how to, how to join this yourself. And as I said before, one of the main themes of Ethereum core development is going to be PBS and MeV Burn and stuff like that going into next year. I think one of the main themes of l two s going into next year is going to be sequences. Not just shared sequences, but the decentralization of sequences, how they're going to handle mev, how they're going to handle censorship, resistance, all that sorts of stuff. Because as I've said before, sequences are important for things like mev distribution, censorship, resistance and liveness.
00:15:13.398 - 00:16:09.782, Speaker A: They're not central, the centralization vectors that people think they are, but in terms of what those other things can lead to, they can lead to adverse outcomes that is due to centralization. As I explained last week, if you only have one sequencer on an l two, and if the l two is properly constructed, that sequencer can't prevent you from withdrawing your funds from the l two on because you get to submit that transaction on l one. But what it can do, if there's only a single sequencer, is that it can censor you and censor you completely, because there's only, you know, a single sequencer. There's only one sequencer. It can extract a lot of mev because again, it's only one sequencer. And the liveness of the transaction, inclusion depends on the sequencer. For liveness at the l two, you still get liveness at the l one in that you can still submit your transactions on l one in order to exit from the l two or to interact with the l two.
00:16:09.782 - 00:16:51.686, Speaker A: But if you want to do that in a obviously cheap way and take advantage of an what l two s give you, like cheap fees, faster transactions, then obviously a sequencer matters for liveness here. So it's going to be a big topic of discussion going forward, especially as we move into next year, especially as l two s continue to heat up, and especially as systems like shared sequences come online. So you can go check this out for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, we're all aware of that Viper kind of like bug that happened last week, or Viper vulnerability that led to a bunch of funds being stolen from curve pools. Well, the Viper Twitter account here has put out a vulnerability post mortem report regarding those events over the last week. And the TRDR is the versions affected.
00:16:51.686 - 00:17:21.723, Speaker A: These versions here, the vulnerability was a cross function reentrancy that was possible on contracts compiled with the, with the susceptible version. So obviously very technical. And this post mortem is very detailed and quite lengthy. So unless you're a developer, probably not something that you, that you'll get a lot of value out of. But maybe you're just interested in seeing what went wrong here, how the Viper team is thinking about this and how it can affect other things within the ecosystem. So. So, yeah, definitely go check this out.
00:17:21.723 - 00:18:20.874, Speaker A: If you haven't yet, I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But great to see them come out with such a quick post mortem report and such a detailed report as well, because as I said, this is technical, this is ver, this is quite lengthy, quite detailed here. And all this stuff only happened last week. So not only was the Viper team putting out fires, obviously trying to help teams that were vulnerable to this bug, you know, upgrade their versions, upgrade their contracts, making sure that they don't get any funds stolen, and obviously dealing with the fact that it was already exploited, but they also was, we're able to put together this post mortem report and put this out within a few days of it all happening. So kudos to them on that, kudos to their team for this quick turnaround here. And I think this does definitely set a standard for the rest of the ecosystem because I've seen other teams do this quick turnaround. I think Prism did a really, really quick turnaround with their post mortem report when we had the finality issues on Mainnet and considering what they had to do simultaneously, they had to basically fix their client and test it and make sure everything was working.
00:18:20.874 - 00:19:01.784, Speaker A: Working. They did that and then they put their post mortem report out relatively soon after that. I think Arbitrum did this as well when their sequencer went offline, I believe, or the validator went offline, and then they had that issue of their, their account running out of ETH to pay for fees and they had quick post mortems out. So I always really respect teams who do a really, really quick technical post mortem because it means they really understand what they've built, they really understand what went wrong and they can put something together that explains that to people outside of, I guess, like the regular wheelhouse. Because as I said, while this post is technical, it still does give a bit of a higher level overview of what happened here, which is great to see. So yeah, you can go check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below.
00:19:01.784 - 00:19:31.736, Speaker A: All right. An exciting announcement out of argent over the weekend. They've introduced something called their web wallet, which they're calling the easiest way to access the stocknet ecosystem. There is no app, no download, no friction, no need for a seed phrase. Thanks to account abstraction on Stocknet, you can use adapt with just your email and a password. And then there's this explanation video here of how this all works, as well as a Twitter thread here. Now I've said it before and I'll say it again, the future of wallets is account abstraction.
00:19:31.736 - 00:20:31.894, Speaker A: The future of interacting with the on chain products and services is account abstraction. And the future of this ecosystem is everything being abstracted away from the end user so that there is little, as little as friction as possible for them to get on chain. And I've talked about this in the context of context of web two apps before, about how web two apps basically enable, what is it, a one to two click kind of thing where you begin interacting with what you want to interact with, like for example with Twitter. It's really just one, one click to open the app and then maybe one click to refresh your feed, right? And then you're there, you're on Twitter, you're browsing through your newsfeed and you're getting all the latest updates that, of the accounts that you follow and what the algorithm will serve you. Of course, then if you want to tweet, it's literally the bottom right hand corner there is a tweet icon. You push it, you put you type in what you want to tweet and then you click tweet, right? So there's this kind of, this concept of like the least amount of clicks possible to achieve the main goals of what the app wants you to do. This is the, this should be the same for crypto.
00:20:31.894 - 00:21:04.562, Speaker A: You should be able to do a swap on an amm with one transaction. You shouldn't have to approve a token and then do a swap, right? Or you shouldn't have to worry about the fact that you have enough ETH for gas or anything like that. You should just be able to go there, say you wanna swap the asset, not have to do two different transactions to approve things, not have to make sure that you have the, you know, ETH for fees. Basically what you want is I want to swap USDC for ETH, right? That's, that's the transaction. That's all you wanna do. You wanna be able to do one click. And that all happened in the background.
00:21:04.562 - 00:21:31.560, Speaker A: The approval gets done in the backgrounds. The, the, the gas fees get paid in the background out of the USDC. It gets converted as some meta transactions, whatever, and the swap gets that gets done. And you just do that one click or maybe two clicks to confirm the transaction, of course, as a security measure. And then you get the ETH in your wallet near instantly because it's a L2, and then that's it. You go, you about your business, you go use other things. Anything more than a few clicks I think is going to scare off a lot of people.
00:21:31.560 - 00:22:14.836, Speaker A: It's going to bring engagement down for a lot of people. Obviously there are certain things that require more clicks than others. An Amm swap requires less clicks than, say, interacting with a money market, for example, or say, playing a crypto game or something like that. But it just depends on what your app actually is and what the user wants to achieve. Because everyone knows that anyone who's going to uniswap at the end of the day, there's really only two things that they're going to do on there. They're going to make a swap or they're going to provide liquidity, right? Providing liquidity is more complex than making a swap, and it's inherently going to require more than probably, you know, clicks, then a swap's going to require, but not, but not by that much, not by a large margin. But those things are pretty simple when you think about it, right? You either want to provide liquidity or do a swap.
00:22:14.836 - 00:23:03.432, Speaker A: Whereas if you go to some other apps out there, say you're going to a gaming app, well, there's a lot of different things that go into that. Are you just buying some nfts for the game or are you going to play the game? How long are you playing for? Are you buying some in game items? Are you going to trade those in game items? You know, there's all these things that kind of fall off of it. Are you going to talk to someone in the game using a decentralized chat app? All these sorts of things. So different apps require different levels of abstraction. But I think generally the goal is to abstract away as much as possible and to make it as few clicks as possible while still keeping people safe. Right? While still keeping things secure, while making sure people don't kind of like rug themselves, so to speak, or get themselves exploited or anything like that. Which is why I said that even though you could make it literally a one click thing to swap on, on uniswap, for example, you would still ideally want two clicks because you would want one, you know, clicking the swap button and then you want one.
00:23:03.432 - 00:23:37.036, Speaker A: One to confirm the swap so that people can actually confirm what they're doing and make sure that what they are doing is what they actually want it to do. You could have an option to disable that where people can say, no, I don't want the confirm window, just do it. Right? Eh? I mean, should you have that option there to reduce friction? I actually don't think so. I think there should always be that. I think that that should be the default and that shouldn't be able to be turned off because you should be protecting users from themselves in a way that's low friction. There are certain ways that I guess, like different. I don't know if I call them apps, but like, different entities protect people from themselves.
00:23:37.036 - 00:24:18.328, Speaker A: For example, I don't really like the way banks do it. I'm sure you guys have seen the news recently, and I think I've talked about this on the refill before, about some australian banks limiting payments to crypto exchanges that they deem to be high risk. And there is like a $10,000 a month limit or something on how much it could go to a high risk exchange or whatever. Well, okay, you don't know which exchanges they consider high risk because they're not going to say that because that could open themselves up to liability and any other number of things. But still, it doesn't help you, right? You don't know they can just arbitrarily stop your funds based on security concerns. There is no option for you to waive those kind of protections off. There's no option for you to increase that, that limit.
00:24:18.328 - 00:24:54.482, Speaker A: So it just, that is like overbearing, right? That is just too much kind of unquote, protection. And really it's not trying to protect you as a user trying to protect the bank from exposures of these sorts of things, whereas within crypto with on chain products, because they're non custodial in nature and you don't have to give up custody of your funds to interact with these things. These apps can be a lot, a lot more, I guess, like fluid while still protecting users from themselves. A simple yes, do you want to do this transaction is enough. There's no kind of like approving it on your end, making sure that the person isn't getting scammed or anything like that. At the end of the day, it's their assets. They're the ones controlling it.
00:24:54.482 - 00:25:26.920, Speaker A: It's their self custody. If they don't want to self custody, they can go through a centralized exchange or whatever, and maybe that centralized exchange will have their own policies over things. But I'm talking about like pure on chain stuff that you do on your own through these different, different wallets here. So you can go check out Arjun's solution here. I'll look it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so I put out this tweet in response to a question I got on Twitter here. So someone asked if rollups can do most of what ethereum l one can do at a fraction of the cost with their own token.
00:25:26.920 - 00:26:21.794, Speaker A: Why is this bullish ETH token price? Also adding the fact that ETH is lowering the rent they charge for rollups specifically. So I replied to this and I said, the main value driver of ETH does not come from its use as a fee token does not come from EIP 1559. As bullish as that is, and as bullish as I think it is, and as much as I think it is a value accrual driver, it definitely isn't the, the top, right? It's not even the top three. And I've listed out some of these things here. So the first thing that I guess, like, makes ETH valuable in my mind is it's used as a store of value and it's used as a money. And I think that is true for really any asset that is trying to be the most valuable, right? Outside of companies that are valued based on like earnings and things like that, right? Because Ethereum is not trying to be valued based on just earnings. Yes, it has earnings because of fear revenue and stuff like that.
00:26:21.794 - 00:26:56.956, Speaker A: But if it was only based on that, if it was only valued based on fear revenue and stuff like that, it would be worth a lot less. And I gave an example here where I said BTC is more than double its market cap right now, but normally only has one 10th of the fear revenue. So 10% of the fear revenue that the Ethereum network has. Okay? So if that's the case, then obviously bitcoin isn't valued based on its fee revenue, so it's valued based on something else. Well, we all know that it's valued mostly based on its store of value slash money properties. So the same is true for ETH. And then secondly, this is unique to ETH.
00:26:56.956 - 00:27:40.498, Speaker A: ETH is used as a staking asset, right? People buy it, they stake it to earn a yield. And it's a real yield, um, because you get the, I mean, the whole thing's not technically a real yield because some of it comes from, uh, the consensus layer, which is new ETH issuance, but the real yield comes from fair revenue, whether that be tips or mev. You get that as well, right? So that's a real yield being paid by users of the network to use the network. Then you have the third value accrual driver, which is its use as a collateral asset. It is such a good collateral asset because it's worth so much. It has a lot of network effect, a lot of liquidity, right? Has a lot of economic prop, economic depth to it. You can use it as liquidity for a bunch of, sorry, as collateral for a bunch of different things in the ecosystem.
00:27:40.498 - 00:28:09.602, Speaker A: It is the de facto collateral asset. Whenever a protocol goes live, any new protocol that goes live will always start with ETH, right? Every single time. It doesn't start with any other token, it always starts with ETH. And that's because ETH is, you know, a story value. It's money, it's worth a lot, it has a good distribution, there's a lot of holders, has a network effect, et cetera, et cetera. Then I said the fourth value accrual driver is ETH use as a fee token, right? It's used obviously as a fee token. It's like currently it's like $5 million of fee revenue every day.
00:28:09.602 - 00:28:34.930, Speaker A: Most of that is burned. It's very bullish, right? It's very bullish, but I still don't think it is. As I say in the top three, those three things in my mind are worth more. And then I said the fifth thing is everything else. Now, I did expand on what I meant by everything else here. So I said everything else includes things that are, I guess, non obvious or less obvious value accrual drivers. These things are such things as the general diversity of the ecosystem.
00:28:34.930 - 00:29:07.730, Speaker A: So for Ethereum, we have a lot of diversity. We have scaling diversity because we have different l two teams. We have client diversity, right? We have, and they're all independently funded and they're, and they're different clients around there. We have diversity of opinions, of thoughts. We have diversity of researchers, just general diversity, obviously of the ecosystem, decentralization and all that entails. Obviously, Ethereum is very decentralized for a number of different reasons. Credible neutrality, as I've discussed before, censorship, resistance, confidence in Ethereum's roadmap, execution risk or lack of execution risk, and number of active developers.
00:29:07.730 - 00:29:40.300, Speaker A: And as I said, these are just some of the less obvious things. But this goes into the everything else category. Now, of course, each of these things feeds on each other, right? And they feed up into each other. ETH's use as a staking and collateral asset, or I guess like as a collateral asset, is only possible because of its store of value, money properties. Because to be a good collateral asset, you need to be worth a lot, you need to have a lot of liquidity. And that's exactly what ETH has. But ETH has that because it's a good store of value and money, right? And it's a good money because it's used as a fee token, because it's used to power the Ethereum economy.
00:29:40.300 - 00:30:39.954, Speaker A: So these things all feed into each other. That's why I said in the tweet, I continued, and I said, you know, ETH is a de facto money for everything built within its orbit, whether that be L2s or otherwise, for a wide variety of reasons. As I said, it's valuable, has deep liquidity, network effect, lots of holders accepted everywhere, etcetera. And, and I want to hit, hit home on this kind of like in its orbit kind of thing where it's not just l two s, ETH gets exported to other l one s, right? Because it's, it's because of those properties, because it's deeply liquid, has a lot of holders, has a network effect. These other l one s want ETH as well, which just further reinforces each network effect and its properties of store value and its money properties and its collateral asset properties, and further and so on and so forth. And then I explained how the thesis for l two s is that the aggregate demand will match and exceed the current demand on l one. So, for example, if an l one swap fee is $10, right, you make one swap, it costs you $10.
00:30:39.954 - 00:31:10.402, Speaker A: Then imagine on an l two, a swap cost $0.01, there is 1000 swaps. That is $10, right? So obviously there's going to be more swaps if it's only costing $0.01 because more people can afford to do swaps, the bots are going to be doing more swaps, there's going to be more arbitrage, stuff like that. So we're basically just replacing the l one fee, one l one fee with 1000 l two fees. So the aggregate demand, it matches or exceeds what we have at l one, but also l one is still going to be used. So it's all additive.
00:31:10.402 - 00:31:56.784, Speaker A: Right? So that's what, that was my kind of answer to this question that this person kind of posed here. And I guess I ended the tweet by saying, I don't own enough ETH. And this is because, and this goes to my next tweet where I said, in twelve to 18 months time, when ETH is hitting fresh all time highs, many people will be wishing that they had bought more under two k, but I won't be one of them. I've gone through this before on the refuel about why I believe that in twelve to 18 months, ETH will be hitting fresh all time highs in the second half of next year. So I'm not going to rehash that here, but my tweet that I was just talking about is definitely one of those reasons. But I think that it's funny right now because I'm getting a lot of hate whenever I'm bullish on, on Twitter right now, and that makes me more bullish because I was getting so much hate. More hate in 2019, being bullish on ETH.
00:31:56.784 - 00:32:35.522, Speaker A: You know, it may seem crazy, but being bullish on ETH in 2019 was considered to be something that you were. You, you know, you were crazy if you were bullish on ETH in 2019 for a variety of different reasons. And of course, it was the right thing to be bullish on because ETH was, you know, between 100 and $300, but most of the time it spent between 100 and $200 in 2019 and even 2020. And then ETH did 50 x and went to five k, right? So times are different now. I don't think people are doubting eats value accrual now, but back then they were. But the funny thing is people are still very bearish right now for a bunch of different reasons. I don't know.
00:32:35.522 - 00:32:52.026, Speaker A: They have their own reasons for being bearish. And anytime I bull post I get hate for it and whatever. I mean that hate makes me more bullish. So keep it coming. But I think on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up.
00:32:52.026 - 00:32:55.834, Speaker A: Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
