00:00:06.490 - 00:00:57.934, Speaker A: Welcome everyone. This is my talk on Open Data for Open Finance, and I'm going to try to break down what is special about Web Three data and how you can work with it on Dune and maybe a bit of background around myself. I'm a Business Administration dropout, so I wasn't too technical before working on June. And I think it's a really approachable career to break into Web Three using data science or data analysts since the space is like very nascent. So, yeah, if anybody is looking for a job, web Three analyst is definitely something that is very badly needed and you can become one in no time, I think. So yeah. What I want you to take away from today is that Web Three data is radically open.
00:00:57.934 - 00:01:31.846, Speaker A: It's fairly straightforward since we're just analyzing the outputs of a computer, and Web Three data really levels the playing field. And we're going to go into each of these in a bit more detail now. So who here has traded on a Dex in the last 30 days? Decentralized exchange Dex. Yeah. So yeah, congratulations, you made it into this picture. So yeah, this is pretty cool. This is all the decentralized exchange volume over the last 30 days of all the different decentralized exchanges.
00:01:31.846 - 00:02:04.866, Speaker A: And this is pretty cool already. But we can go a level deeper. So if you look at this chart now, the big pink bars, that's Uniswap. So you can see that Uniswap is really dominating this field. And there's already like one special property is that we can just analyze all the different projects and all the different products of those projects against each other in a very open manner. That's not possible in web two. Try to see the sale volume of PlayStations on Amazon with Ebay, with Best Buy or something.
00:02:04.866 - 00:02:47.538, Speaker A: It's just not possible. But in Web Three, since we're all using the shared back end and it's public, we can just analyze these projects against each other and then we can even go a level deeper. So this is all the decentralized exchange pools for the USDC wrapped Ether trading pair. So what we see here is that Uniswap V Three 0.5% fee tier pool, that one is dominating by far. So that's like this purple color, which are the big bars. And then surprisingly, Uniswap V Three with a zero point 30% fee tier is the second place.
00:02:47.538 - 00:03:45.458, Speaker A: So that shows you how good uniswap's concentrated liquidity mechanism algorithm, however they call it, is working in a decentralized exchange market that they can even like. Even if they switch to a higher P tier, it's still better execution and better experience for the end user that this pool is still better than, let's say, SushiSwap or Balancer or Dodo or whatever. So yeah, that's fairly interesting. So we can go all the way back to project level, then we can break it down into projects, and then we can even go into the different products of those projects. So it's pretty open. And then if we want to go even one level deeper, we can actually just look at the individual trades of those pools and see are whales trading in here. So the others bar here is this blue color.
00:03:45.458 - 00:04:14.106, Speaker A: And yeah, it's fairly interesting that most of the volume that gets made up. So the others bar that's like way more people, but there's just like a few individual players in the market who make up all the volume. Also known as world, I guess. So yeah, web three data is radically open. Everything is super public. There's no hiding. I have no affiliation with Uniswap or Curve or Balancer or whatever dune.
00:04:14.106 - 00:05:19.314, Speaker A: Of course we talk to them, but they can't stop us from analyzing their data. So there's no hiding. If your product is failing, you're failing in public. But there's also this thing where if somebody has tried something before, I can actually analyze what they did. So if I want to start a very similar project to what urine is doing or to what uniswap is doing, I can just go into their actual product metrics, which in web two, that's like unthinkable that I would. Have access to all these metrics in such a granular form, and I can just go in there and actually learn from them or see if I'm SushiSwap. I'm like, which trading pairs am I actually winning? Is there even any what can I do to make my product better? And then also, so if we break it down to this user level, we can actually analyze our users very easily without having to utilize like Google Analytics or, I don't know, like third party trackers, but rather we can just take the wallet and see what the wallet otherwise has done.
00:05:19.314 - 00:06:10.926, Speaker A: So we can see I don't know, is he just using Uniswap out of convenience? Is it because we have the best trade execution? Is it because he's using one inch in the backend so like an aggregator and one inch just rolls over uniswap so you can make all those kinds of analysis. And then one last thing, which I'm going to explain afterwards as well, is like if you don't deal with your onchain data, someone else will. And what I mean by that is if there's a lot of hype around your project and you basically can't back it up with data, then the doom community will come in and be like, guys, what the like, you're not doing so great. Look at your data. So a good example of this is the Luxray project. So for anyone who's not familiar with Looksware, it's a new NFT marketplace. It's a competitor to OpenSea.
00:06:10.926 - 00:07:00.178, Speaker A: They're trying to be like very general open NFT marketplace. And the way Looksware launched is basically they incentivize trading volume by subsidizing the volume traded. So for each given day there was a certain amount of looksware tokens that they were giving out and then it was like however much percentage of volume in ETH on that day of the platform you made up, you just got the amount of luxury tokens corresponding to that. So, yeah, people just used this subsidy to generate free money. So that didn't work out too well. I still don't know if it was a buck or a feature if the luxury team was aware that this was going to happen because it makes for some pretty good charts. So, yeah, this is the formula that they use.
00:07:00.178 - 00:08:07.080, Speaker A: So if you look at this, this is the NFT market volume per day by these are the most important projects in the market pretty much. And if you look at this you'd think like, hey, Looksra is doing great. Like they launched like three months ago and they are already at like, let's say 15, 20% market cap and on some days they're even doing like 200 million of volume or something. That would be a very successful product launch if Looksware was a centralized company and they just publish a quarterly report saying like, hey, look at all our volume, we are doing fucking great. But then if you actually go deeper into the data so in NFTs there's this concept which is called royalties. And royalties basically means that whenever so if I launch an NFT and I want to keep profiting from the upside, I can basically say my royalty fee for my NFT will be 5%. And then on every sale transaction, 5% of the sale price will go to me.
00:08:07.080 - 00:08:55.698, Speaker A: But there's also collections which have zero royalty volume. And of course if you want to wash trade on Looksware, a zero royalty collection actually is that's the only way you're pretty much going to do it. Otherwise on every ether you put in, you're going to lose like 0.5 ether just for the royalty fee. So people used zero royalty collections on Looksware to Australia. So the blue bar is the total sales volume and the orange bar is the zero royalty volume. So if we look at this and then we think for a second, it's like, obviously zero royalty is probably most likely in 99% of the cases it just wash trading.
00:08:55.698 - 00:09:44.950, Speaker A: And then if we look at the remaining volume, which is the gray bar, yeah, there's nothing much left. That's really the whole story of Looksware. And then if we look at the daily users so OpenSea averages like 50K over the last month, I guess. And Looks way is sitting at like one k. If even if we chart the total volume of openc and the Looksware volume which is cleaned for the wash trading data, then we get to this. And this is quite a stark difference to what we were looking at earlier. So this is really the power of web Three and the web three data stack basically, because you can't hide your data.
00:09:44.950 - 00:10:51.206, Speaker A: If luxury was a centralized company, they could have just said yeah, we are doing like a shit ton of volume and it's all going great and meanwhile it is actually just watch training volume and their user numbers are like pretty minimal compared to OpenSea. And then maybe because this story is not really finished yet, lots of people are speculating that aggregators will help looks very succeed. So this is just the share of aggregator transactions that happen in the NFT market at the moment. And yeah, you can see that Gem is now sitting at like seven to 11% or seven to 15% market share of all NFT transactions. And I think the more this will rise the better it will be for luxury because in the end they actually offer a pretty good platform which has lower trading fears than openc. So any rational actor would prefer to trade an openc, especially for like if you do like if you buy like a board Ape for 100 ETH then 0.5%, which is the difference between the openc fee and the luxury fee is actually pretty relevant.
00:10:51.206 - 00:11:31.654, Speaker A: But yeah, we'll see how this turns out. But yeah, this is also like we can actually analyze which transactions are coming from aggregators and which are done directly which is also really cool. So yeah, this is basically the first part. Web three data is radically open. I hope I explained this somewhat sufficiently. And then my next point is web three data is fairly straightforward and basically we're going to try to understand how does this work. So web three data concepts like very simple and if there's developers they're probably don't listen too closely.
00:11:31.654 - 00:12:29.258, Speaker A: I might butcher something, but very simple concept is that Ethereum is a state machine. So basically these different smart contracts, they have different states. So for example, if I own 20,000 die then somewhere in the ESC 20 contract which is the Dai contract, or in the smart contract which is the ESC 20 die contract, there's just an entry in a database and obviously it's not a database in plain format but rather it's a Patricia Merkel tree, I think. But anyways, there's just an entry there which is like my wallet address and then the balance of the tokens that I own. So that's basically the state. And then if I want to change that state I need to send a transaction. So I will basically call the Dai contract, tell the dye contract I want to move my Dai to another address.
00:12:29.258 - 00:13:27.050, Speaker A: And doing that the dye contract will then output a lock. So basically I have a state, I send a transaction and that transaction will oftentimes emit something that is called an event lock. And those events event locks are very useful for analyzing what's happening on the chain. And basically all of this is fairly straightforward and of course you need to kind of understand what's happening inside of this system of smart contracts. And in the Dai case it's pretty easy because it's just like one dai contract. But if we analyze, I don't know, aggregator transactions where one inch starts routing over uniswap and curve and whatever, it gets more complicated. But basically the individual elements of a transaction are fairly straightforward since it's just output of a computer, so there's no user input errors, the data comes out very clean out of the EVM.
00:13:27.050 - 00:14:16.830, Speaker A: So that's pretty cool. So yeah, actually I almost explained this right now already. But basically on the left side we have the world state in the old format and then on the right side, so we input the transaction and then we just arrive at a new world state. So that's basically this concept of state. And then if I send out a transaction I basically call a smart contract, that smart contract will execute whatever I say it. And what might happen internally is that that smart contract starts calling other smart contracts. So this is basically this is a finite loop.
00:14:16.830 - 00:15:21.282, Speaker A: You send something into DVM or into a smart contract. And that smart contract can start calling other smart contracts until the transaction is finally finished. And while that happens, we output locks. So now basically what that leads us is like we can analyze state, but state, we don't have state on Dune at the moment because as you can imagine, the blockchain already is pretty big. But if we unroll all states over all time, since on Dune, it would be fairly useless on Dune because we are mostly historical data to have only the state that is current, but rather we would have to have all states of all blocks. So unrolling all of that, it's like a lot of work. We're working on it and there's actually teams out there who have already done this and kudos to them, we'll get there eventually as well.
00:15:21.282 - 00:16:01.834, Speaker A: But in the meantime, basically we can work with transactions. So who is trying to do what? Traces or internal transactions, they're called an Ether scan. There's like a bit of debate how to properly call them. So what happened while executing the transaction. So that's basically like if one smart contract starts calling other smart contracts, that leaves traces on the chain and then we have event locks and event locks are what just happened. So an event lock, you can basically, when you write a smart contract, there's a function called Emit. I don't know how to call it, but basically if you write Emit, it will spit out an event lock.
00:16:01.834 - 00:16:43.354, Speaker A: And those are really useful to actually analyze what's happening on the chain. And those are like the most used data type that we do on Dune because they are just very reliable and they're actually made for seeing what's happening on chain. Right. You developers, you will analyze what's happening inside your smart contract to see that everything's working properly. And just as well, us data analysts can then check not is this working properly, but what is it actually doing? Then we come to Web Three data creating on Dune because you guys actually haven't seen Dune yet. So all methods to get the data are public. Then once it runs, it runs forever.
00:16:43.354 - 00:17:47.982, Speaker A: So if you build a dashboard on Dune, it will just stay there indefinitely. Then standardization and abstraction happen. On a macro level that's basically so Web Three data, even though it is fairly straightforward, if you want to do a table like, oh man, this is going to be Dexter Trades or NFT Trades for that matter. Basically you would need to deal with all of the different smart contracts of all the different exchanges, right? So what we do on Dune is basically we have a layer of abstract. So we have like raw data decoded data, and then on top of that is basically our community. And our team will write kind of standardized tables, normalized tables, which abstract away those levels of complexity, which you would have to deal with if you are just analyzing raw smart contract data. So we basically build a table which is called NFT Trades, and then in that NFT Trades table is just like all the individual transactions of all the different marketplaces are in that table.
00:17:47.982 - 00:18:29.962, Speaker A: And that makes it very easy to write queries like this. This is probably like ten lines of code or something and it's pretty massive. And those tables are really useful to do these sector level analysis because otherwise you'd have to write like 1000 lines of code probably just to deal with all the complexity of all the different smart contracts of all the different marketplaces. And we just pretty much do that in the back end. And that way anyone can basically do like very broad level analysis of the space. So that's pretty cool. And then also social learning is overpowered.
00:18:29.962 - 00:18:58.230, Speaker A: And am I good on time? Yes, I think I'm okay on time. So if we actually want to go into Dune, so this is the Dune interface. So on the left side we have a Data Explorer. And that's basically I can just put in stuff here. So if I want to search for curve actually, I think it's called curve. Phi yeah. So these are all the different curve contracts.
00:18:58.230 - 00:19:54.534, Speaker A: So I can just go in here and see for each different smart contracts, it's like they output events and they have traces which are like the calls to them or the calls they make. And we just have all of those tables in a very clean format. So if we actually go into here uniswap V three and then there's like some event which is called yeah, I'm not going to search for this, but basically all the events that are. So for each smart contract we have like a bunch of tables depending on the individual events that they put out or the calls that they make or that have been made to them. I think that's the proper way to put it. We can take something from our Data Explorer. So this is a table that's called Uniswap V Three Factory event pool created.
00:19:54.534 - 00:20:57.230, Speaker A: So this is the event that the Uniswap V Three factory will put out, basically, if I create a new pool and yeah, then we just get fun stuff like which tokens are involved, what's the fee level, what's the tick spacing, what is the address of this pool now? And the contract address is just the factory contract and of course metadata, like the event transaction, hash, the EventBox time number and so on. And what we can very easily do with this now. So this is like the raw data. And then if I write one line of SQL, or like two lines, three lines, if I actually would format this correctly, then we can just do a chart which is basically show me how many uniswap pools or show me the cumulative amount of uniswap pools that have been deployed over time. And yeah, it was just easy like that. June is very much plug and play. You can just come to us, write a bunch of SQL and immediately get your results.
00:20:57.230 - 00:21:50.126, Speaker A: And then if we want to go a level deeper, because this is like fairly boring data, I would think. So if we go a level deeper and partition this by the fee amounts, we get to something like this. So this is the why is there a one? I don't know where that one comes from, but yeah, so basically, how many pools in which fee? This is hard to formulate, but basically, if we look at this, the 0.1% fee tier, there's like 2600 pools deployed with that. And then the 0.5 tier, there's 713 pools over time. And the 0.3
00:21:50.126 - 00:22:35.710, Speaker A: pool tier, there's only three or there is 3000. So basically that just shows you which pools are being deployed on Uniswap V Three, with which not which pools, but which t fear, like which type of pools. Basically, yeah, bit of a weird formulation here, but I hope you guys understand what I mean. And then this is just the Dune landing page, pretty much. And then if we actually so I was saying earlier, Dune is social, learning is Op. And what I mean by that is basically everything that I do on Dune is public. So the methods to get the data are public.
00:22:35.710 - 00:23:17.974, Speaker A: So if I'm like, hey, this is actually really interesting that this guy has analyzed the nesting of Moonbirds and I want to build on top of his analysis, then I can just click in here and I can actually just see this guy's query. So this is not my query. This is just like some random guy, I don't know him and I can just look into his query. And now if I was like, hey, I actually want to know what are the top people who are doing this or something? I could go into his query, fork his work. So do this and then the query basically sits under my namespace and I can just keep continuing on that work. And very quickly iterate on his work. So that's very useful.
00:23:17.974 - 00:24:16.720, Speaker A: While you are starting out on June or you're starting a new project, I was looking at Rawry Capital a while ago and basically I could just look at the compound dashboard and basically each Rari capital pool is like its own compound fork. So I just looked at the compound stuff and adapted it to Raw Capital and it's super useful since the space is very forking is very common. So we can just do the same stuff on the data layer as well. So it's pretty cool. So, yeah, what else would I want to show? Yeah, can you also export the data? Yeah, that is part of our pro tier though. So, Dune is free basically for all intents and purposes. It's like if you just want to push out public data and not export data, dune is totally free.
00:24:16.720 - 00:25:17.410, Speaker A: But then if you want to export data, you got to pay us money. And if you want to actually work in private on Dune, you also got to pay us money because you're not contributing to this public pool of knowledge that we are kind of trying to create on June. So, yeah, so, yeah, live demo of our time. And then my final point is basically web Three data levels, the playing field, and this is basically this alludes to the fact that everyone from everywhere has access to this data. They can just go on Dune and if they have a little bit of technical knowledge, or if they have a few hours to spare to learn something or have some money to spare to hire one of our wizards. So we have like a mountie program and you can just go in there and I want this data, and a few days later you'll probably have that data and then you can literally have better access to the data than the project itself, which is coming from a Web Two background or something. It's radically different.
00:25:17.410 - 00:25:55.650, Speaker A: If I write the better queries than whatever your data analyst is doing, I have a better overview over your systems than you yourself have. So that's pretty crazy. Then what we are trying to create is like equal access for everyone with no paywalls. So everyone should be able to have that data. And kind of we hope that the space matures more over time. As we service more data, we have more analysts and yeah, the space just becomes more transparent and then kind of june creators are building public goods and private goods and sometimes that is even the same. So this looks rare.
00:25:55.650 - 00:26:44.570, Speaker A: Dashboard is probably like even the Lookswear team, they were probably looking at it all the time. So that's kind of like a private good for them. They're using it to further their business. But at the same time, the whole space, and we as investors or participants in the space, can also look at this and then it kind of turns into a public good. So just like surfacing this data is like a really powerful thing for the space to basically advance and mature because then we can all make better decisions based on data and not on Twitter threads. And then all of us literally have better access to the data if we have some skills than the CEOs of Web Two companies. Because the data is live on the blockchain, dune trails like, 1 minute behind the head of the chain.
00:26:44.570 - 00:27:28.070, Speaker A: That's just like our data pipelines. We can probably try to get that more live in the future and compare that so, like 1 minute of reporting time and then compare that to a Web Two CEO who gets a quarterly report like once every four months. It's pretty crazy to see that difference. So, yeah, that was my short introduction to open data for Open Finance. This is our discord link. We have a really strong community in Discord, and if you ever have questions around anything Dune related, we'll try to answer you as quickly as possible. And there's also like minded annual lists so you can embark on Yannil's journey with there's, bounties posted there.
00:27:28.070 - 00:28:14.320, Speaker A: It's a great space. Questions, anyone? Yeah. API. Where I can use it in my dam. We are working on an API, and everyone we meet is like, when API, guys. And yeah, we know this is really important going forward, and we're working on it, and we hope to no real clear timeline, but it's like, very high on our list of priorities, nothing else. All right, thank you guys for coming.
00:28:14.320 - 00:28:30.500, Speaker A: Yeah, happy querying. We have a bunch of swag over there, the best socks in the universe and some cool sunglasses as well. So, yeah, feel free to take some.
