00:00:04.240 - 00:01:01.727, Speaker A: I'm still farming blast, which either makes me the dumbest person alive or your girl's a genius. Hey everyone, it's Jen. So I'm still farming blast, and it's been a little over a month since the BLAST Token Generation Event, or tge, and the official start of Phase two. Now some time has passed and I actually have the brain capacity to just like, I don't know, process the last couple of months. And I want to go over the good, the bad, the ugly, and where do we go from here on Blast? As always, nothing I say is financial advice. I am not a financial advisor. So let's dig in, starting with the ugly, the Token launch and the Price Action has been rough on the Token launch.
00:01:01.727 - 00:02:06.767, Speaker A: I don't know if this was like Hopium or just Bias from being on the chain, but I do think it's fair to say that nobody that was active on BLAST was expecting such a low fdv, which was the main variable we were all speculating on when we were speculating on the price per Blast Gold bar. So if there is a lesson here, it's that none of us really know what we're talking about, especially when we're speculating in the broader context. When it comes to airdrops and TGE events, most tokens underperform expectations. I think we can look at zksync, Wormhole and so many others and kind of just see this trend, especially in this current market. But for blast, even for me, I expected the FDV to be much higher. Like on the conservative side, I was thinking maybe like an FDV of 4 billion. And then on my absolute opium side, I was thinking north of 10 to 15 billion based on looking at the on chain performance of BLAST compared to other L2s.
00:02:06.767 - 00:03:12.547, Speaker A: And I know a comment that I've seen around a lot is, well, isn't all this activity incentivized? Yeah, it is. And this ultimately comes down to the philosophy that blast, as well as Pac man have when it comes to incentives, which is when they are used correctly, they could quickly bootstrap an ecosystem, which I do think is fair to say that BLAST did exceptionally well. Even though the app TVL decreased post tge, Blast still remains a chain with over a billion in TVL and has significant volume for being less than six months old. So okay, that's all great, but why does the price keep going down and why was it so low on launch? Honestly, I don't know. It could have been a lack of tier one exchanges like Binance. I Think the biggest exchange that Blast got listed on pretty much immediately was Coinbase, which I personally thought was bullish, but you know, the market plays by its own rules. Now we gotta talk about the bad.
00:03:12.547 - 00:04:09.451, Speaker A: There are a few things here that I think contributed to Blast losing traction outside of market conditions. First was the general rollout around Phase two. In Phase two, Blast Gold is distributed every month to apps and subsequently to users. However, the conversion of Blast Gold to Blast Tokens won't happen for another year. And one year is a long time in crypto that with the market as it is, I think more people opted to stay liquid and actually deploy capital into something where gains could be realized much quicker, like Meme Coins, whether that was on Solana or base. Second, and this is something that has actually been discussed pretty heavily before the TGE even happened, but it was just like the general lack of incentives around cultivating culture plays on Blast. Basically think meme coins and NFTs.
00:04:09.451 - 00:05:02.039, Speaker A: I think in general this is something that's actually really hard for most ecosystems to even have, but it is possible and we've seen it happen before. And the third thing was the lack of comms that followed. Phase two is all about building the infrastructure to create this full stack chain. From the TGE announcement we know that a huge focus here is on mobile and there's like a wallet slated for quarter four. These were amazing product announcements, but there was just like no follow up after. I think co marketing initiatives for builders on Blast was really just retweets and Pac man was pretty quiet on the timeline. And I think this communication was needed because it did feel like the Blast Ponzi, which is what a lot of folks came to Blast for, was immediately turned off and then pivoted to this long term vision.
00:05:02.039 - 00:06:02.923, Speaker A: Which to be clear, I do think the long term vision is great and like I can see it. However, I can also see that the lack of communication combined with everything else just caused for this negative sentiment to come out and like quote unquote, Blast is dead kind of sentiment. And reflecting back, I think the hype around Blast ultimately led to some incredibly high expectations and and when those were not met, combined with seeing the chart go down, it just led to a ton of disappointment. Especially if people had lost money farming. Typically with farming, the hope is whatever airdrop you get offsets your losses in the end. And I know this wasn't the case for everyone and I can see why at the end of the day it's kind of tough not to feel like completely bamboozled by all of this, but I don't think all hope is lost and that's the good thing. This is feedback that I've given to the Blast foundation and I know others have been sharing feedback with the foundation directly as well.
00:06:02.923 - 00:06:51.805, Speaker A: And the foundation is very aware of these pain points and they are working to address them. Like we've even seen some of this feedback more or less within the governance forum. Now let's talk about the good and the flip side. You know, I've said it before and I'll say it again, it is still so early. Don't get me wrong, Blast could go to zero and join the graveyard of dead L2s, but I just don't see that happening. Like I said before, the foundation is aware of the adjustments they need to make to support a large ecosystem and I think there is ultimately a huge market opportunity here for Blast, especially in the race for consumer. I really think the big ecosystems that Blast is competing with is actually Solana and Base, even though Blast is significantly younger and smaller than both chains.
00:06:51.805 - 00:07:30.801, Speaker A: Why? Well, it boils down to a few things. Firstly, the three ecosystems that I outlined have three completely different approaches to the same goal. You can think about it this way. Base is a web2 approach to build on chain for consumers and their plus side is they have this huge untapped potential market via Coinbase. Solana is a crypto native approach to build for consumers, but it's not an EVM chain and has its own coding language, Rust, which is a newer language than Solidity. Blast is also a crypto native approach. It's EVM based and fueled with incentives and a huge focus on mobile.
00:07:30.801 - 00:08:42.863, Speaker A: In my head, the bet for Blast is a better end to end user experience to bring mobile apps to the forefront of crypto transacting. And the way that works is if they can actually build the infrastructure to make that turnkey for developers that's actually really, really powerful. You know, over the last three years mobile web traffic has significantly outpaced desktop traffic and quite frankly we haven't really seen a crypto ecosystem with the exception of Ton because of Telegram put a huge emphasis on better mobile apps across the board and we also know that there is a market opportunity here. Why else do we think Solana went into hardware for a second and made the Saga phones? If you look at the Blast app today, it doesn't really have any functionality apart from tracking your gold, your points and the scratch card to get additional points. But knowing what I know about the builders in the Blast Foundation, I think it's really clear to me, and hopefully clear to you, that this is a bare minimum baseline. We know that a wallet is coming in quarter four. We know that a mobile SDK is also coming and that the next big bang competition is going to focus on mobile.
00:08:42.863 - 00:10:24.213, Speaker A: And like I said before, I think there is a real opportunity for killer apps to build on top of the only chain with native yield. So if we take the whole mobile infrastructure side of things and combine it with the core layer that Blast is the only chain with native yield, it does make me wonder what new applications are going to be built, what new metas can come by developers having access to tooling infrastructure and technology that didn't previously exist? You know, when I think about consumer crypto and what it looks like long term, it's clear to me that people will not care what chain they're on. And we're seeing that in real time with polymarket, which is built on top of Polygon. The infrastructure I see with Blast is really how can we build new tooling to enable new experiences and applications to be built? Like this is the real opportunity. Like how can builders take these tools, have new revenue streams and build applications that they couldn't build anywhere else? And at the end of the day, are those applications compelling? Do they create a transformative user experience that changes someone and the way that they behave on chain and off chain? Like ultimately, at the end of the day, this is a conviction bet for me and it's going to take time to play out. We know that phase two is set to be one year long and one year is a long time in crypto, but I feel like until we see a more fleshed out version of the Blast app, the wallet and give developers time to come into the ecosystem to build, it's too soon to throw in the towel. So that's why I'm still farming Blast.
00:10:24.213 - 00:11:16.035, Speaker A: And the last thing I want to say is I know that I have some bias. I am someone who has been covering BLAST like well before TGE all the way into testnet. I now am on the Progress Council and I think like the big problem I have with folks saying like, oh like you only have these opinions because like you're getting paid by Blast and it's like one my Progress Council duties are like very much restricted to like helping governance and like token holder governance. And what falls under that is like very, very specific. The videos that I make outside of that about Blast, I'm not getting paid for by anyone. Like I'm doing it because I've been doing it for months. I'm doing it because I believe in the ecosystem, and I'm doing it because, at the end of the day, I'm a content creator.
00:11:16.035 - 00:11:41.525, Speaker A: So I'm trying to, like, document my journey on chain and look like I understand that I may have some bias, like. Right. And I do try to check my bag bias when I do make these videos. And hopefully you guys see that. You know, as always, you should still do your own research. I'm just trying to present the information that I know my thoughts on it. And yeah, that's kind of it that I wanted to say on that front.
00:11:41.525 - 00:12:18.657, Speaker A: And I just wanted to say that if I ever make a video that I am paid to make, I will make it plainly and abundantly clear to you that it is made in partnership with whatever brand. Like, having that type of integrity is really important to me, and it's really important in how I want to carry myself throughout this space and how I just want to carry myself in general when it comes to my career. So hopefully you found this helpful. I know it's been a long time coming. I'm ramping up the content production. Don't you worry about it. So until the next one, guys, bearish or bullish, keep building, keep farming, keep learning.
00:12:18.657 - 00:12:19.305, Speaker A: I'll see you.
