00:00:00.170 - 00:00:38.502, Speaker A: We saw example of how to calculate rewards earned by a user using this formula. Next, I want to show you an example of calculating rewards earned by a user using this formula. However, before I do that, I first want to rewrite this equation so that when we go through example of using this equation, the calculations will be easy. In particular, in this video I want to prove two formulas. We define rj to be the reward per token from time I equals zero all the way up to J minus one. In certain case, this equation can be simplified to this equation. So we'll prove this, and also we'll prove that summing from I equals k all the way up to n.
00:00:38.502 - 00:01:26.262, Speaker A: Summing once is equal to n minus k plus one. Using this fact, we'll derive this equation. So first, let's start with proving this equation. Let's define the summation of reward per token up to time j. For j equals zero, we'll say r of zero is equal to zero, and for j greater than zero, we'll say r j is equal to the summation from I equals zero all the way up to j minus one. Summing the terms r divided by t of I t ab I is equal to the total stake that tie I. Now, when t of I is equal to some constant t for the time duration j of zero to j, then we can write this formula as r of j is equal to r of j zero plus r divided by t times the duration j minus j zero.
00:01:26.262 - 00:01:54.986, Speaker A: Let's prove this formula. We'll start with r of j from the definition that we defined over here. R of j is equal to the summation from I equals zero to j minus one, summing the terms r divided by t of I. Next, we'll split the summation into two parts. We sum from I equals zero to j zero minus one. And then next we sum from I equals j zero to j minus one. All we're doing here is rewriting this summation into two parts.
00:01:54.986 - 00:02:41.966, Speaker A: Summing from I equals zero to j zero minus one, and then summing from I equals j zero to j minus one. By definition, the first summation is equal to r of j of zero plus. For the second summation, notice that t of I from I equals j zero to j minus one is a constant t. This is because we said over here that t of I is equal to a constant t for the duration j zero to all the way up to j. So for this summation t of I is a constant. This means that from this summation we can pull out r divided by t and we get this summation pulling out each of the terms inside the summation. To the left of the summation, we get r divided by t and summing one from I equals j of zero to J minus one.
00:02:41.966 - 00:03:10.074, Speaker A: Next, we'll simplify this part of the equation. Summing from I equals j of zero to J minus one, adding ones. Well, in the general case, when we sum one from I equals k to all the way up to n, we get that this sum is equal to n minus k plus one. We will prove this formula later in the video. Let's apply this equation to this summation here. We start with n, so n will be j minus one, so that'll be j minus one. Next, we'll need to subtract k.
00:03:10.074 - 00:03:54.518, Speaker A: K is over here and k over here will be j of zero, so that will be minus j of zero. And lastly we add a one so plus one. Therefore this summation will be equal to J minus one minus j zero plus one. Finally, we simplify this equation. One last step and we get this is equal to r j of zero plus r over t, and this summation will be equal to j minus one minus j zero plus one. Or simply this will be equal to j minus j zero. And we have proven the fact that the reward per token r of j is equal to the summation from I equals zero to j minus one.
00:03:54.518 - 00:04:34.194, Speaker A: Adding the terms r divided by t of I, and when t of I is equal to some constant t in the interval j of zero to j, then we can write this formula as r of j equals to r of j zero plus r over t times the duration j minus j zero. In the next example, when we calculate the amount of rewards earned by a user, we will need to compute this equation. But instead of calculating this, we'll use this formula. So for the next part of the video, I'll prove this formula. Adding ones from I equals k to I equals n. This is equal to n minus k plus one. Let's see why.
00:04:34.194 - 00:05:16.674, Speaker A: Let's start with some simple examples and try to find a pattern for the summations. When we sum one from I equals k to k plus one, we're basically counting these vertical ticks from k to k plus one. So that will be k and k plus one. So one plus one equals to two. How about summing from I equals k to k plus two? Again, we're counting the number of vertical ticks from k to k plus two. So that will be one, two and three, and the summation is equal to three and likewise when we count the number of these vertical ticks up to k plus three, then that will be one, two, three and four. And we get the summation from I equals k to k plus three is equal to four.
00:05:16.674 - 00:06:08.146, Speaker A: So here observe the pattern that if we sum to k plus one, then our summation is equal to two. When we sum up to k plus two, then our summation is equal to three. And when we sum up to k plus three, then our summation is equal to four. Notice that the sum is always one greater than what we're summing up to. Starting from k in general, we observe that when we sum up to k plus I, then the sum is equal to I plus one. When we sum one from I equals k to k plus I, then the total that we get back is I plus one. When we continue this step all the way up to n, then what is this summation? What is the sum summing from I equals k all the way up to n? Well, in order to apply this observation to this equation, let's write n in terms of k.
00:06:08.146 - 00:06:44.560, Speaker A: So, notice that n is equal to k plus n minus k. Likewise, over here we will rewrite n as k plus n minus k. Now observe that we can apply this formula to this equation. When we sum all the way up to k plus I, then we get that the total is equal to I plus one. So here we will replace the I with n minus k, and this will be equal to. We replace the I that we see over here with n minus k. So that will be n minus k.
00:06:44.560 - 00:07:24.422, Speaker A: And to that we add a one, so plus one. And that is our final result. Summing one from I equals k all the way up to n is equal to n minus k plus one. And we got here by applying this formula. And that completes the proof for proving that reward per token. This summation r of j equals to from I equals zero to j minus one, summing r over t of I. When t of I is a constant in some duration j of zero to j, then we can rewrite this formula in a simpler form, being r of j of zero plus r over t times the duration j minus j zero.
00:07:24.422 - 00:07:32.730, Speaker A: In the next video, we'll go over an example of calculating the rewards earned by users and instead be using this formula, we'll be using this formula.
