00:00:00.250 - 00:00:57.102, Speaker A: Alright, welcome back everyone. Crypto markets are continuing to heat up this week, with BTC briefly crossing 57K for the first time since late 2021. On top of increased activity from spot ETFs, we now have a growing restaking trend that saw a 100 million dollar investment in Eigen layer and the ether Phi TvL crossing one $6 billion. That's why today we're talking about restaking, which is the newest shiny thing taking the crypto sphere by storm. Restaking allows DeFi users to stake their tokens across multiple chains, earning rewards from multiple platforms. At the same time, people are even betting on the likelihood of upcoming airdrops. So without further ado, here are six exciting projects that don't yet have a token and how to participate in these potentially lucrative airdrop opportunities, starting with the obvious one here.
00:00:57.102 - 00:01:47.322, Speaker A: Eigen layer this project has been on a tear lately, with TvL up 330% in the last month, reaching $8.8 billion at the time of writing. So what is Eigen layer? In brief, it's middleware built on the Ethereum network that lets users stake and restake ETH either natively or with a liquid staking token or LST. Users can then opt into Eigen layer smart contracts to restake their tokens to additional applications on the network. That way, they can earn additional rewards by extending cryptoeconomic security. Eigen layer has three options to get started restaking ETH directly restaking LP tokens or restaking staked ETH LP token. So how do we qualify for these points? To get started, we're going to head over to app Eigen layer xyz and connect our wallet.
00:01:47.322 - 00:02:31.462, Speaker A: Now you'll see the native staking and liquid restaking sections here on the screen, along with an announcement that liquid restaking deposits are currently paused. Once they're resumed, we can sort this token list alphabetically or by descending TVL and decide which tokens we want to deposit. We can then click on a token, input the amount, and deposit to start increasing our yield, and qualify for a potential airdrop. Native restaking is very similar, except we'll need 32 ETH to get started and to create an eigenpod. So we simply click on the beacon chain ether option. We follow the instructions to deposit 32 ETH and we create an eigenpod. Now your staking rewards and restaked ratio can be monitored back on the homepage.
00:02:31.462 - 00:03:05.154, Speaker A: Now I know what you're thinking. 32 E is a lot of money, and you're right. So if you're looking for a slightly more dgen play with higher risk and potentially higher returns. You'll love the bonus airdrop number seven in today's video. Next up we have Ether Phi, a decentralized liquid staking protocol where you can stake your ETH and earn rewards for staking. Ether Phi is a decentralized, noncustodial delegated staking protocol with a liquid staking derivative token. One of the distinguishing characteristics of ether phi is that stakers control their own keys.
00:03:05.154 - 00:03:49.686, Speaker A: Plus, your ETH automatically restakes in eigen layer, which is a nice bonus as we earn points for not one but two airdrops. To get started, we're going to go to app Ether phi and connect our wallet. Now, once we've agreed to the terms and conditions on the ETH tab, we can input the amount of ETH that we want to deposit, and bear in mind the minimum is 0.1 ETH. Once we input the amount that we want to stake, we hit the stake button, confirm the metamask popup, and we're good to go. Now, once you've staked, you can head over to the portfolio tab and see the points that you've accumulated for this potential airdrop. And you'll find a nice bonus if you head over to the promotions tab in the form of a five x boosted referral loyalty point option as well.
00:03:49.686 - 00:04:33.860, Speaker A: Third on today's list is swell protocol, another noncustodial liquid staking protocol. Aiming to simplify access to DFI and secure Ethereum's future. The protocol has received over $3 million in funding from names like framework Ventures and Mark Cuban. Swell users can stake their ETH, earn returns for securing the network, and receive an LST, which can then be restaked. The potential airdrop points are called pearls, and they can be collected by staking ETH and providing liquidity in the form of sweth in the eligible pools. So to get started with the airdrop, let's head over to app swellnetwork IO and connect our wallet. Once we're connected, we can stake the desired ETH amount and we're going to receive sw ETH in return.
00:04:33.860 - 00:05:18.374, Speaker A: So let's go ahead and put 0.1 and we're going to get 0.99 SW ETH so we can see the exchange rate and the transaction fees as well. Now we can head over to the restake tab and restake that ETH for even more points. And once we've gone through the staking and restaking processes, we can head over to the portfolio tab and see the points that we're accumulating for staking and restaking, respectively. Now another really cool page here is the Voyage tab, which gives us sort of a gamified voyage map and it lets us collect more pearls by interacting with various projects. So if I pick a random one click on uniswap, it's going to take me to Uniswap's website and I get information on how to get even more pearls.
00:05:18.374 - 00:06:01.050, Speaker A: And if you're thinking, gee, that's swell, then I've got news for you. If you subscribe now, you'll get notified to all of our upcoming airdrop videos and be the first to know. The fourth airdrop opportunity on today's list is from Kelpdao, which provides liquid staking with rs ETH and has a TVL of over $605,000,000 at the time of shooting. Rs ETH holders will be eligible to earn Kep or kelp earned points. Now, these are a token representation of Kelp's Eigen layer points, where one kep is equal to one El point. This airdrop actually requires only a few simple steps to get started, so we're going to head over to Kelpdao XYZ and connect our wallet. Now, once we're connected, we can stake either ETH or an lSt like Ethx or St ETH.
00:06:01.050 - 00:06:44.574, Speaker A: So let's head over to the restake tab and input the amount of ETH that we want to stake. Now, once this is completed, we're going to head over to the dashboard to view the points, rewards, and referral points that we've accumulated. You're eligible to claim kept tokens from tomorrow, the 20 eigth of February. Number five on today's list is Renzo, another unconfirmed airdrop option. And Renzo is a liquid derivative platform built on Eigen layer with over $590,000,000 of total value. Restaked users can stake ETH and earn eigen layer points as well as Renzo points by minting and holding easy ETH, providing liquidity, and by referring other users to deposit ETH onto Renzo. The full point calculations are available at docs renzoprotocol.com.
00:06:44.574 - 00:07:35.934, Speaker A: Now, once you're on the website, you're going to start by connecting your wallet. And once we're here, if we hover over the Eigen layer points information box, we see that the total amount of Eigen layer restaked points captured by Renzo will be distributed 100% to easy ETH holders. Now, they don't have their own token yet, but they could launch one in the future, meaning users who collect points may get an airdrop when their token goes live. Okay, so how do we get these points? We're going to start on the restake tab, and we're going to input the amount of ETH that we want to stake, and we're going to get easy ETH. In return, we see the transaction details. Confirm transaction and confirm in Metamask. Now, because Renzo is built on Eigen layer, you'll earn Eigen layer points as well as Renzo's easy ETH points.
00:07:35.934 - 00:08:14.918, Speaker A: And finally, you can also receive 10% of Renzo points for each referral you make. Happy farming next, we have puffer finance. This is another liquid restaking protocol which surged to an impressive nine figure TvL in just one day after launch. Currently boasting a $1.16 billion TvL, Puffer Finance is backing from binance Labs and has set out to reshape the future of DFI by making it more accessible and usable through their puff tokens. To be eligible for the AirDrop, users must stake BNB, Busd or ETH on puffer's website during the campaign period. The more you stake, the bigger your puff token reward.
00:08:14.918 - 00:09:00.990, Speaker A: Also worth mentioning that referrals will gain you extra points and a potentially larger airdrop. To get started, we're going to head over to forward slash home and start by connecting our wallet. Now we're greeted by this cute pufferfish that informs us that carrots have invaded our Ethereum waters. But no sweat, Puffy's got this brilliant, let's sign in. Now, we can see the total value locked on here and the campaign rewards, which are puffer points as well. So we're going to launch the puffer quest and we see that the project is already in chapter three. So if we head over to the deposit tab, we see the stake and provide liquidity options, and it informs us that we can earn 30 points per hour for every puff ETH we hold, or 60 points per hour when we provide liquidity.
00:09:00.990 - 00:09:47.766, Speaker A: So if we hit the stake button and input the amount that we want to stake, we're going to get two options. We can either deposit staked ETH or wrapped staked ETH, and of course we're going to get Puff ETH in return. Now, once you stake your tokens and or provide liquidity, you'll be able to track progress right here in the deposit tab or by heading over to the leaderboard tab. And we've made it to our bonus round of the day. Pendle strategy. With a TVL just shy of $2 billion and a trading volume of over $3 billion, Pendle has made headlines in recent days with the resurgence of interest in liquid staking tokens. According to Pendle, they are one of the earliest pioneers of liquid staking token finance, or LRTFI, offering a unique proposition for users to speculate on eigen layer yields and points.
00:09:47.766 - 00:10:45.914, Speaker A: So how does it work and why is it riskier? Well, Pendle is a DeFi platform, offering yields in the form of two separate tradable digital tokens called principal tokens and yield tokens, or PT and YT. This allows users to speculate on and lock in future yield rates. Pendle now offers up to 30 x points by buying YT, or 40% fixed yield by selling your points away. In practice, Pendle lets users supercharge their points through leverage so you can visit app Pendle finance to learn more about compatible Dapps and the yields offered. In practice, Pendle lets users supercharge their points through leverage so you can visit forward slash markets to learn more about the compatible Dapps and the yields that are offered on here. For example, you'll see the puff ETH is the first one that pops up, and the implied Apy and the fixed Apy are on screen. Now.
00:10:45.914 - 00:11:38.694, Speaker A: As with any speculative investment, this involves a significant amount of risk, and there is still no confirmation on eigen points being tokenized. And the value of the points users earn might not be sufficient to justify the costs associated with the strategy. Now a defiant video wouldn't be a defiant video without some words of caution. So here's a quick reminder by seasoned crypto investor Fiscantis, who reminds us of the risks we could be exposing ourselves to through this staking restaking leveraged restaking bonanza. If you want to learn how Eigen layer is mitigating some of these risks and addressing these concerns, check out the interview we did with them recently. Okay, so there we have it, seven exciting projects that haven't yet launched their airdrop tokens that you can get started with today. As always, I hope you've got some value out of this, and please hit that subscribe button to get notified when the next one is.
