00:00:00.330 - 00:01:06.740, Speaker A: Hi everyone. Excited to see you at the ETH Denver hackathon and even more excited about all the amazing things that I know you're going to build. I think that our industry is in a truly amazing place. It has started to reinvent entire other key global industries like the financial system through DeFi, the art world through nfts and gaming through fraudproof blockchain gaming. This and more is really a complete departure from what it was when I began in this industry many years ago, and it's a huge improvement on what people are able to achieve with blockchain technology combined with various other infrastructure like Oracle networks. I'm truly excited to see what comes out of this hackathon, and I view the hackathon here at ETH Denver as really a barometer of what can be built using the various infrastructure in the form of blockchains and oracle networks that become combined to create more advanced hybrid smart contracts such as DeFi, advanced dynamic nfts and various other cool use cases. Decentralized insurance being one that I'm particularly fond of.
00:01:06.740 - 00:02:43.594, Speaker A: I think that this is a great opportunity that everybody here should take immense advantage of. There is an amazing array of infrastructure, both in the form of Chainlink, Oracle networks and various other pieces of infrastructure that can be combined into more and more advanced hybrid smart contracts. The amount of resources available at this hackathon, both in terms of the amount of smart people and the amount of capital that's looking to actually put itself into a high quality project that does something useful or just basically fun for the entire ecosystem, is at an all time high. And generally speaking, I think that this is also a great opportunity to meet amazing people that you can collaborate on these things with. I've been lucky to meet some of the best people that I know at events like this, organized by amazing people like the ETH Denver hackathon organizers, which I think we should all be very grateful to. Beyond all that, I really do think that our industry is at a place where it is able to reinvent entire critical industries, and that is what we're all really taking part in by being at this hackathon and becoming part of something more than just making an application that does something repetitive and basic like what do you see in a lot of the web world? The ability to reinvent how things work in this industry is really unparalleled, and I think that this hackathon is a great place to do that by once again combining various pieces of infrastructure like blockchains and oracle networks to make more and more advanced smart contracts. I wish you all the best of luck.
00:02:43.594 - 00:03:02.450, Speaker A: And if you're new to our industry, I want to welcome you to a community of people that are very open minded and want to change the world in a fun, productive way. Good luck to everybody. Have fun. And immensely excited to see what comes out of the many hours of hard work that I know you'll diligently put in. Thank you. Bye.
