00:00:00.280 - 00:00:23.617, Speaker A: Hello everyone and welcome to another episode of Daily Gray Refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Dano. And today, 19, November 2024. Hi everyone. Let's get into it. So I'm back after Devcon 7 and what a week it was in Bangkok. There over 12,000 people attended the conference with 27, 2750 people participating in the hackathon.
00:00:23.617 - 00:01:05.121, Speaker A: And wow, it was amazing, guys. Like, as I said on Twitter, you probably saw my tweets. There was so many people, the venue was so amaz, the organization was so good, the talks were killer, the vibes were off the charts and I got to meet so many of you regular Daily Way listeners and got to speak to you and meet you in person and it was just really, really great to see you all and to get your feedback on things and to have, you know, real discussions in real life about Ethereum. And as I said, the vibes were high. I know if you go on crypto Twitter, the vibes are always crappy, but in real life the vibes were amazing. I mean, I know the price went up a little bit from I guess like before defcon to when defcon started, but no one was really talking about the price. It was all about the tech.
00:01:05.121 - 00:01:36.585, Speaker A: It was all about what was coming for Ethereum, what Ethereum has achieved, so on and so forth. It was just so bullish. Honestly, like, it's kind of striking how different the vibe and the sentiment was in real life as opposed to online on crypto Twitter. And you know, some people would say, well, of course it's going to be like that. It's an Ethereum conference. I'm like, yes, it's an Ethereum conference, but it's also a developer conference, right? This is not a conference that is meant to be attended by people that really, I mean, I guess like aren't interested in developing on Ethereum or aren't interested in being part of the Ethereum community. It's not a trade show.
00:01:36.585 - 00:02:07.157, Speaker A: There wasn't any sponsor booths, there wasn't anything like that. It's a, it's a conference run by the Ethereum foundation and that means it was fully Ethereum. There wasn't like L1s kind of sponsoring, you know, other L1 sponsoring booths, things like that. There was none of that stuff going on. So yeah, 12,000 people traveling to Bangkok, which is not close to people in Europe and the us Right. It was relatively close for me in Australia. Still a nine hour flight, but hey, that's close for Me in Australia, but people from the Europe, from Europe and the US traveled all the way there because they know that defcon is the best event in crypto.
00:02:07.157 - 00:02:29.723, Speaker A: I honestly, honestly think it is, especially this one. Like, I've spoken to so many people and they all said that it's the best crypto event they have ever attended. Not just Ethereum conference, but crypto event. And the hackathon was the second biggest hackathon that's ever taken place in the world. And not just within crypto, but within any industry, which is absolutely massive. So, yeah, as you can tell, I had an amazing time there. Extremely bullish on what's happening in Ethereum.
00:02:29.723 - 00:02:54.003, Speaker A: There was so many talks, guys, and they're all up on YouTube. You should definitely go check them out and check out which ones that, that interest you. But there was so many and you know, a lot of it will probably be stuff that I've already covered on the refuel, but the people directly working on this stuff were the ones giving the talk. So you really got to kind of deep dive into exactly what's being worked on and what's coming. And there was a lot of talking about things like interoperability between L2s. That was definitely a main theme. L2s generally.
00:02:54.003 - 00:03:39.213, Speaker A: There was a lot of talk about apps other than infrastructure. Obviously infrastructure is still a heavy thing within the Ethereum ecosystem, but there was a lot of discussion around apps and what these new kind of L2s enable on the app layer. There was also a lot of talk about the core protocol and scaling up L1 as well as the L2s, or scaling up L1 for the L2s share. There was a lot definitely going, going on here, but as I said, like, it was amazing for me personally because I got to meet so many people in real life, so many Daily Grade listeners and even people who didn't listen to Daily Way just knew me from Twitter. It was just great meeting everyone because the vibes were always high. I don't think I came across anyone that was like bearish or negative at all, which was amazing. And it just really added to the fact that, as I said, the venue was great, talks were good, the whole thing was run really, really well.
00:03:39.213 - 00:04:16.169, Speaker A: I think the only, I guess, like negative I could say is that the, the weather, because I'm not used to humidity. It was humid like every single day, like over 30 degrees Celsius and humid every day. And it made basically walking anywhere, I mean, not impossible, but like if you walked anywhere, you would just sweat the whole time. And it would be gross. But then getting around Bangkok, for those of you that attended, but also people who have been there before, you know, it is not an easy thing to do because there is always traffic. And you could get on one of the bikes, I guess, to avoid the traffic, but then you take the risk of, you know, you pretty much a lot of the time didn't get a helmet. And the people on the bikes, like the grab riders on the bikes, drive like maniacs.
00:04:16.169 - 00:04:58.537, Speaker A: So it doesn't feel really safe. But that was really the most efficient way to get around because you could walk places, you just sweat, you could go in a car, you'd probably get there like, you know, in double the time it would take you normally because there was so much traffic. But I guess that's not really a negative. I would say it's more of just something that I guess put a damper on things for people. But what was really nice about the Dev Con days, like the four Dev Con days, was that a lot of the side events didn't take place with on those days because the Ethereum foundation requested the side events be done at the, you know, before the event and after the event as not to split things up, especially in a city like Bangkok where you could probably maybe attend like two things in a day because of the traffic. So it wouldn't really be worth going to multiple events. So the main venue was always packed.
00:04:58.537 - 00:05:22.153, Speaker A: It was so busy. It seemed like it got busier as time went on. Like more people came as time went on, which was, which was great there. But yeah, anyway, enough of me rambling about devcon. There are a few updates to get through over the last, I guess, like almost two weeks now. A bunch of updates that came out of defcon as well that I'm going to cover. Just before I do that, I want, I do want to shout out this thread that ETH Global put together of the finalists from ETH Global Bangkok.
00:05:22.153 - 00:06:15.961, Speaker A: So from that hackathon there, there were 10 pro projects that stuck out to the judges from the 713 projects that were built. You should definitely go check these, these out because there's obviously like this narrative within crypto and it's not just within Ethereum, but it's also within, like broader crypto, that there aren't many apps, right? Like, where are all the apps? And I understand this because a lot of it has just been dominated by Defi and a lot of Defi is growing, but it's like not growing very quickly. I guess you could say it's growing like slow and steady. It's still growing, but it's like a slow and steady thing. And really the only, I guess like app level kind of stuff going, going on right now is Meme Coins across the whole ecosystem. Obviously a lot of that is happening on Solana, but that really is the main thing right now, outside of just regular defi growing nice and steadily. So I always go and I look at ETH Global and I look at the website and look at their hackathons to see what's coming down the pipeline on the app layer, what people are building here.
00:06:15.961 - 00:06:41.263, Speaker A: Especially now that we have. I mean, I would say at this point we have no excuse not to build in a better apps considering that we have the scale there. The UX is improving all the time. We're going to have interoperability between the different L2 soon and things just keep getting easier and easier. So. So really I definitely want to see the focus shift back to apps and apps that are broader than what we already have. Because honestly, if all crypto amounts to is being a casino, then we've failed.
00:06:41.263 - 00:07:11.405, Speaker A: Honestly, like that was one actual kind of theme that I talked to a lot of people about at defcon, because obviously Meme coins are so hot right now, nothing wrong with them at all. And I understand that at the end of the day these are permissionless networks, people are going to do what they want to do. But I'm in this industry for way more than that. I think that Meme Coins casinos are part of an economy, but should not be the whole economy. Could you imagine in real life if the entire economy was just gambling, right? Like there was basically nothing else going on except gambling. That would be destructive as hell. Because as we all know, most people lose when they gamble.
00:07:11.405 - 00:07:38.437, Speaker A: Like almost everyone loses when they gamble, especially over the longer timeframes when they essentially forget how much they've lost and then they win. They're like, oh my God, I won. And then they don't realize that they're like still net down so they just keep going. So it'd be incredibly destructive if that was the only thing. But it is still a necessary and I guess like necessary part of the wider economy. Just like it should be a necessary part of the crypto economy and the on chain economy. But it should not be the only thing that we focus on.
00:07:38.437 - 00:08:27.791, Speaker A: It should not be the only thing that we hope for out of this industry because the tech can enable so much more than that. It really is sad if that's all we amount to. And I'm not saying that that will be the case. I definitely don't think it will. I wouldn't still be in this industry if all I thought that we'd be doing is amounting to a casino. But obvious obviously given that, I think that what a lot of the participants want are in crypto for like speculation what a lot of the infrastructure actually enables today and what a lot of the focus is on because number go up right now, especially in a bull market, is that that remains dominant. But I do think as we kind of, I guess continue to scale up into the future, as more and more different types of builders come in, as more and more of these newer non, I guess financial apps, not speculative apps are enabled, those things will definitely become I guess like more and more successful and grow more and more and we'll have a broader, more diversified economy.
00:08:27.791 - 00:09:09.449, Speaker A: Because at the end of the day we know from real life that if a country has like most of their economy in one sector, then they're incredibly, I guess incredibly fragile as an economy because it means that if that sector goes into a recession or if that sector falls out of favor or if that demand goes down, essentially it can pull the entire economy of that country with it. And it's funny, in Australia we actually have this issue where our economy is pretty heavily mining. We mine stuff out of the ground and sell it to other countries and the internal economy is just selling shit to each other basically. Selling houses to each other, restaurants, stuff like that. Australia is a strong economy, but it's because of that mining sector primarily. Imagine if people stopped buying that. Imagine if people stopped buying those materials or got that from somewhere else.
00:09:09.449 - 00:09:39.675, Speaker A: It would negatively impact the Australian economy. Just as an example here, because I'm familiar with it, the same is true for a blockchain. If all you've got going on there, if all we've got going across any blockchain is speculation and meme coins, then when that stuff inevitably washes out and that stops being like the main, I guess like value driver of your economy, then it can be brutal the other way around as well. So I want to have a more diversified on chain economy. I don't just want it to be speculation and meme coins. I want it to be way beyond that. You know, payments, right loans, like under collateralized loans, stuff like that.
00:09:39.675 - 00:10:08.849, Speaker A: The real world stuff that we're already doing with the central system, centralized system, but on the on chain economy, on, in the, in the on chain system. So that's my hope. But you should definitely go check out the eth global projects. They highlight a bunch of these different things and not just within the finance industry, but also within everything else that can happen on, on chains. Yeah. So I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to go check out. Next up here is an announcement that myself, Bankless and the Grow the Pie team made at the Bankless summit.
00:10:08.849 - 00:10:45.981, Speaker A: So we have created a new website called Eth is Money xyz. It currently only works on desktop, doesn't not work on mobile right now, but mobile support is coming very soon and it is still an early version of this website. But the purpose of this website is to showcase exactly why eat this money. You know, we say it all the time, we say we meme it on Twitter, but we don't really show it and we don't really explain it. And that's exactly what this website is trying to do. So as I said, you can go check this out on desktop but you can see it in front of me here. So essentially as you scroll down you'll see things like where is it actually sitting in the Ethereum economy? You know we, I always say that I like that L2 scale Ethereum block space because that means we can scale either as an asset.
00:10:45.981 - 00:11:14.211, Speaker A: And that's exactly what happened here. What's happening here, as you can see there's been a lot of ETH exported into these L2s over time and the trend is generally up here. And you can see the L2 is listed on the right hand side and what they're all doing there. And then you can kind of get an overview of where ETH is held, like where is it held as a store of value? Who is it held by? There's a list of entities here. This is all going to keep getting updated. There's going to be more entities added here. And then we have a really nice graphic here showing Ethereum's monetary policy.
00:11:14.211 - 00:11:54.415, Speaker A: Now we had this, we being, me and Eric Connor had this on Ether back in the day, a similar thing, but there isn't really something like this that has existed before. Essentially we, we put this together. Me myself, I grow the pie, the bank, bankers and a few other people put this together here. And as you can see it's monetary policy is algorithmic. It's issuance rate is algorithmic because it takes into account the fact that it changes based on how much ETH is staked, but it also changes based on how much ETH is burned. And as you can see, like since the merge I've essentially been straddling this, this line here, this basically like zero line. Like sometimes we have uber deflationary periods, then we have slightly inflationary, but generally the trend is that it's basically at zero.
00:11:54.415 - 00:12:24.681, Speaker A: So it's a really nice way of highlighting what that kind of looks like here and why ETH is such a strong store of value. And then you can scroll down, there's a bunch of other information here and then you'll be able to get involved with the community soon enough. You can register your interest here for the, for the discord chann. But yeah, we're basically trying to grow an Ethy's Money army, trying to grow an Ethy's Money kind of support system around it and get people rallied around this. So you should definitely go check this out if you haven't yet register your interest. I'm excited to have this out there finally. But as I said, this is just the first version of it.
00:12:24.681 - 00:12:55.219, Speaker A: It's going to be updated a lot. There's going to be a lot more stuff happening on here and it's going to be a community first initiative. Is not just going to be myself, Bankless and Grow the Pie running this. It is going to be a community initiative, a community funded initiative as well. We have interesting ways of, of finding the development of this website, but yeah, I just wanted to give a huge shout out to Bankless but in particular Ryan who, who put a lot of work into this and also the Grow the Pie team. Forget this done. Honestly, like I, I think I was, this was kind of my like.
00:12:55.219 - 00:13:27.653, Speaker A: So to give some context here, I had an idea for a website like this a while ago and I passed this along to Ryan and then he really liked the idea and just ran with it. So full credit is got. It goes to him and Grow the Pie team for doing the, the majority of the work on this. I, you know, I just generally gave feedback on it and came up with one of the initial ideas for this. But they've really poured their heart and soul into this and, and made it like, I think one of the best websites you can find out there, if not the best website that we have right now to track Eat. Why eat this money? You know what ETH looks like across the Ethereum economy and it's just going to get better over time. So you can go check that out.
00:13:27.653 - 00:13:54.389, Speaker A: I'll Link in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so we need to talk a little bit about the ETH ETFs and this is something positive. I know usually people talk about the ETH ETFs. It's been negative because everyone's like oh, you know, it's still net outflows. I didn't have as much as demand as the BTC ETFs. No one's buying the ETF, blah blah blah blah, so on and so forth. Well, as of I guess like the last couple of weeks, the ETH ETFs are now net positive overall.
00:13:54.389 - 00:14:23.865, Speaker A: So you can see here that it's 139.6 million in the green. So this means that we've basically fully erased all of the outflows that came from eth. And we're on the up and up here. And as you can see, I think last week was the best week that the ETFs ever had from the 6th of November to the 13th. So this is a little, a little while ago actually not last week, I forgot that today is the 19th, but that was like the best week I believe that the ETFs have ever had. And, and that's showing that there is real demand there for the ETH ETFs.
00:14:23.865 - 00:15:10.117, Speaker A: There are people wanting to buy them, there are institutions wanting to buy them. And obviously we hope that this trend continues. But it is a positive trend here especially I mean if you look at the, the data since launch it hasn't been pretty, right? Like I'm not going to sugarcoat this and say that it's been been pretty, there's been a lot of outflows from eth right as you can see here. And then there's just been like, I mean kind of a, I guess ping pong between outflows and inflows as you can see from the numbers. But really from the 6th of November to the 13th things changed and over the last, I guess couple of days there's been some, some I guess medium sized outflows, not really large outflows but I guess that's just following price action. There seems to be some consolidation across the board right now within crypto, especially on ETH because eth went from 2400 to 3400. That was, that was like 100 billion dollar market cap increase by the way guys.
00:15:10.117 - 00:15:53.397, Speaker A: And now it's at like 31:20 I think. So from that perspective that that's pretty normal there. But yeah, the trend is looking really good on the eth ETFs and I think that we're going to see at one point billions of dollars of, billions of dollars going into the ETFs each day. And that might be towards the end of the cycle. But I do think that the demand is going to keep ramping up from here on that. All right, so as you guys know, Trump is currently selecting a bunch of different people for his cabinet and already made a variety of sel. The question on everyone's mind is who is he going to put in power as the SEC chair, potentially the CFTC chair and anyone got to do, I guess like with the financial system and anyone that touches crypto.
00:15:53.397 - 00:16:25.529, Speaker A: Now there was I guess like something a couple of weeks ago that apparently Charles Hoskinson was going to advise Trump on crypto related manners. I don't know if that was true. It seemed like it was fake news at the time. But there was another announcement today that came from a much better source, which is the Wall Street Journal here that says that Trump is expected to discuss appointments with Brian Armstrong. And as you guys know, Brian is the CEO of Coinbase and I quote tweeted this by saying Brian is one of the best people we could possibly ask for to be advising Trump on crypto related topics. I honestly couldn't think of anyone better. He has been around since 2012.
00:16:25.529 - 00:17:12.351, Speaker A: He has founded and grown the biggest crypto related company in the US it is a public company. He is across everything basically that's happening within the crypto ecosystem because not only is Coinbase a centralized exchange and has a lot of interactions with different parts of the ecosystem because of that, but they're also building their own L2 on Ethereum, they're making a huge push into on chain. So Brian really has a great bird's eye view of everything. And on top of that, which I believe is even more important, Brian believes in crypto values. He is not just some grifter, not just some mercenary that came along and just came into this to make money. No, he's been around since the early days because he really bought into the original vision of Bitcoin and then later Ethereum and open blockchains generally. So I really hope that he gets gets the chance to advise Trump properly on what he should do with regards to crypto.
00:17:12.351 - 00:18:07.677, Speaker A: And I really hope that Trump listens to him because if he does, if Trump does listen to him and Brian does what I assume that he's going to do, which is, which is give good feedback here and give good advice here, we could be in store for a very, very nice and healthy crypto ecosystem for the next couple of years, at least until the midterms and potentially four years in this admin, if you know, I mean, I'm making assumptions here. If the Democrats do well at the midterms in two years or if they, if they win the next election, that's the kind of timelines we're working with right now. But this has long lasting implications, especially if we see new laws passed, new regulations passed and stuff like that that make it easier to build within crypto. Because as you guys know, traditionally it's been very hard. A lot of people didn't want to touch crypto, but that all 180 once Trump won the election. But we also need to make sure that Trump isn't just saying things and that people around him aren't just saying things when it comes to crypto, but they're actually doing things and they're doing things that are actionable and provide value to the crypto ecosystem. This is what I want to see.
00:18:07.677 - 00:18:47.589, Speaker A: I want to see people that I trust within crypto, like Brian, advising the Trump admin on what to do within crypto. I don't want to see people I don't trust, like Charles Hoskinson and others who I consider to be not really in crypto for the right reasons, I guess you could say to be advising, to be advising the Trump admin. I, I think that Brian is going to do a really great job here and I can't wait to see what comes out of this. All right, so let's move on to some Ethereum core dev Update. Update. So first off, I wanted to talk about blobs. So as you guys know by now, if you've been paying attention at all, blobs have been at their target since the start of November, so almost, I guess, three weeks now.
00:18:47.589 - 00:19:16.841, Speaker A: And they have generated around $2 million of fees for Ethereum since then, which doesn't sound like a lot, but it's more than free. Remember when blobs are free and everyone was fighting it saying that blobs are free, you know, they're providing no value back to eth. Well, that is not the case anymore. Blobs are not free anymore. And we're still like on day one of blobs because we've only got three of them. We've got the target of three, the max of six, but effectively three. And they're still generating fees for Ethereum and that's showing that obviously their demand for roll ups is going up, demand for EA is going up.
00:19:16.841 - 00:19:51.399, Speaker A: And it's been great to see that this is happening here. And I said on this tweet as well, Ethereum will keep scaling up blobs and the demand will Keep eating them up aggressively. The trend is up and you can actually play around with that blob simulator that Tim Robinson made that I showed you guys on one of the refuels to see how this plays out. Because we're not just going to be on three blobs forever. We're going to scale this up aggressively, like hopefully getting to I think the, the, the target right now. But like it's a soft target, I guess, and it can be changed like 128 blobs, so orders of magnitude bigger than where we are today. Like if we got to 128blobs, it would be 42x increase from what it is today.
00:19:51.399 - 00:20:27.449, Speaker A: Now what you can do is you can actually like make a naive, I guess, I guess a naive what's, what's the thing I'm looking for here? What's the word I'm looking for here? A naive assumption around what the fees would look like if we had that many blobs. You could basically 40x the two meal fees, you could say $80 million of fees would come from, would come from blobs instead of $2 million here. While L2 fees remained low because the blob fees are still quite low. I think the average right now is like four or five gwei. So it's still, it's still quite low. It's not like 50 whales, something like that. And, but, but Tim Robinson's Blob simulator tool allows you to kind of simulate different outcomes here.
00:20:27.449 - 00:21:01.853, Speaker A: So you can obviously have assumptions here around demand, but then model it out if that was to actually come true. Now speaking of blobs as well, Tony here put out a great ETH research post today where he said with ongoing discussions about increasing the blob count while lowering the execution layer payload size in pectoral. I've summarized four potentially interesting changes to the Blob fee market. My stance is clear. We should scale up the blob count in picture while reducing the maximum payload size. This way we lower the worst case limits while giving users what they demand more space. So you should definitely give this, I guess blog this research post to read.
00:21:01.853 - 00:21:36.805, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But essentially what I guess Tony's advocating for and I guess like what the suggested updates are that raising the min blob fee to allow for faster price discovery. This is something I've talked about on the reefer before. Automating the blob gas update fraction which makes it future proof normalizing the excess gas. The excess gas Prevents an edge case where the blob base fee drops after a fork that increases the target, though nothing bad can happen if we don't do it. And making the base fee scaling symmetric ensures that mechanism stays as is. So it scales plus 12.5
00:21:36.805 - 00:22:28.517, Speaker A: at the extremes of 0 and 6 blobs. So essentially he's just proposing to summarize all these changes into the existing EIP 7762, which is the one that raises the mean blob fee for allowing for faster price discovery here. But I guess for me personally, you can go read this for yourself. I'll link in the YouTube description below. But for me, what I want to see, and I think what the guiding principle should be here, is scale up blobs aggressively as much as we can without increasing the bandwidth requirements too much. Because as I've discussed before, if we increase the bandwidth requirements too much, we risk kicking off certain players on the network, such as solo stakers, and we don't want to do that for obvious reasons. So we need to keep scaling up blobs, and it's a delicate balance here, but we need to keep scaling up blobs because they can't remain at ceiling forever because then the base features keeps going up for the blobs, which means that the fees on L2s will go up eventually, and that just leads to a bad user experience there.
00:22:28.517 - 00:22:56.973, Speaker A: And as Tony said here, this needs to happen in Petra. I know we're really late in the game here and Petra is probably going to go live in like March or April of next year. So we're very late to get, I guess, changes into Petra. But there needs to at least be a blob count increase in pectoral, I think going from three to six. So six target and a nine max is what's kind of being floated here as well. There is, there is the initial one that's being floated, which is 4, 6. So don't change the max, but change the target to 4.
00:22:56.973 - 00:23:25.827, Speaker A: I would like to see a target of 6 and a max of 9, ideally because of the fact that if we only do four, then we're stuck with four for like potentially a year and it's, it's not good enough. And I know peer dash should hopefully come in the next upgrade after that, but I don't think it's going to be enough. It is definitely very conservative. I think we can be more aggressive here, but we also want to make sure that we have the data to back this up. And I think there's a Lot of work being done on that and we want to make sure that we don't overload the network. Of course. But as I said, you can read this post for more information about that.
00:23:25.827 - 00:23:58.923, Speaker A: But that's my general stance on blobs there. All right, so Justin Drake gave a talk about something called the Beam Chain at defcon and I'm sure you guys all saw the, I guess, differences of opinion on the Beam Chain on, on crypto Twitter. Now I think Justin's biggest mistake was including a timeline slide in his presentation. For those of you who watched it, the timeline basically was a bit funny. It was basically like a five year timeline. And then essentially what happened was that everyone took that. I'm like, oh my God, it's going to take Ethereum five years to ship anything.
00:23:58.923 - 00:24:21.543, Speaker A: When in reality what he was talking about was a consensus layer related thing. So it's not really a user facing layer thing at all. And the consensus layer is the proof of stake layer for those of you who don't know. But people were acting like. Because we would, if, if we were to do this beam chain thing it would mean that everything else that happens on Ethereum would get paused. Like all the other development that happens at Ethereum core protocol would get paused is. And that is completely wrong.
00:24:21.543 - 00:24:59.217, Speaker A: And obviously you guys listening to this know that's completely wrong because you're not silly enough to believe that stuff. But Justin then did a follow up talk at the Bankless Summit about this. So he didn't talk about the Beam train specifically, but he basically created this little, I guess like timeline here where he shows where we're at today and what we're going to be like in five years and then where everything fits in there. So you can see the beam fork basically comes at the end of the five years here. But there's so much other stuff happening at L1 in between then and now at every hard fork essentially. So this is like a, I guess a summarized five year roadmap for Ethereum, for Ethereum L1. This isn't including the L2s, by the way.
00:24:59.217 - 00:25:18.415, Speaker A: This is just the L1 and what we're bringing here and what we're doing here and how this will actually improve Ethereum. And he talked about this. I highly recommend going and giving his talk a watch. It's actually live on Bankless's YouTube channel right now. Should definitely go watch that. But, but I think you should watch that before you watch the Beam Chain talk. Like the beam chain talk should have come after this talk.
00:25:18.415 - 00:26:06.593, Speaker A: I think because it gives better context around the beam chain and it explains the timeline a lot better. Now, in saying that I do want to cover the beam chain thing, the beam chain proposal, and the thing is, is that it is just a proposal. I think people took this as something that is I guess like set in stone, something that's 100 going to happen. It is still just a proposal, but it is not a new proposal. What it is is it's basically taking all the existing major consensus layer roadmap items, rolling them up into one fork called the Beam chain, and essentially doing them all as I guess another separate project to what we're already doing at L1. And the point of this, the reason why you do it like this, is because Justin believes it would be a cleaner way to do it. He believes that there are a lot of things on there that couldn't actually be done with a bit without a Beam chain liked like initiative.
00:26:06.593 - 00:26:32.719, Speaker A: And also it works as a way to bring new core developers into Ethereum. Now this is something that that wasn't discussed, I think by Justin himself. He did highlight some new core dev teams, but I think this is missed by a lot of people as it exists today. We have over 10 core dev teams, but they've been around for a while, right? Geth has been around since day one. Nethermind's been around for a long time. You know, BASU has been around for a while. The consensus layer clients have been around for almost five years now, pretty much probably longer than that.
00:26:32.719 - 00:27:13.793, Speaker A: And for new entrants, new core developers, new client teams, they will find it relatively hard to break into the existing consensus layer and execution layer. I guess like development pipelines, they can still do it, but you know, they probably, they might get disheartened by the fact that it's quite difficult now. It's not as easy as it once was. So maybe they want to work on something new. And I think this is part of Justin's proposal was like, okay, well the existing client teams already have a lot on their plate when it comes to L1, as you can see from this timeline. So let's recruit new teams, let's recruit new people to build out this beam chain thing so that we can get it done faster, we get these upgrades done faster while in parallel still doing all the stuff we want to do on Ethereum, L1, on Ethereum main. Net.
00:27:13.793 - 00:28:01.009, Speaker A: And from that frame of reference, I actually consider this a really good proposal. I, I know that I talked to a lot of people at the, at the bank, not the bank of summer, I mean at the back of summer too. But I talked a lot of people at DEFCON about this and I basically said that or maybe, maybe the beam chain just becomes a test net and then we test things there and then just like put those upgrades into Ethereum main nets as they're ready. But I'm more, I guess like leaning towards the fact that I really like the beam chain project. I really like the beam chain initiative because as I said it can be done in parallel to everything else. There's no need to interrupt the current flow of the Ethereum L1, I guess like development process in order to put like beam chain related things in there. Because that means that more focus can be put on Ethereum L1 execution layer, like user facing stuff.
00:28:01.009 - 00:28:38.311, Speaker A: And all the consensus layer stuff, all the non user layer facing stuff can, well, most of it can essentially be put into this beam chain which just gets forked into the chain in maybe gets delivered faster than five years, maybe it's like three years or four years. And during that whole period of time, as I said, all these other things get developed alongside it. So I'm coming around to that. I think that that is a sound strategy, honestly, from a number of different vectors here. But if you want to get involved with this, you can like the beam chain, you just have to email beam.chainetherium.org and Justin did announce that a lot of people already reached out and he has like I think five new teams that want to build a beam chain client. That's like, that's insane.
00:28:38.311 - 00:29:28.111, Speaker A: There's already five teams that want to build a beam chain client. What the hell? So there's a lot of interest in this obviously. But I think that as I said, Justin should not have shown the timeline on his original beam chain talk and maybe he should have given this talk first before his beam chain talk. But I think he got overly excited about the beam chain and I think he underestimated how far something like that would go outside of devcon, because as I said, defcon is a developer conference. But of course you start posting this stuff on Twitter and the majority of Twitter are not developers, they're just regular people and they see this five year timeline, they don't understand what the consensus layer is and they start thinking, oh my God, is it going to be five years before Ethereum does anything again? So obviously like an easy FUD vector, it doesn't make any sense, but it's there. So I think that this talk, as I said, is recommended. Watching before the beam Chain Talk if you have if you haven't even watched the Beam Chain Talk yet.
00:29:28.111 - 00:29:56.079, Speaker A: So that's on Bankless. The Beam Chain Talk is on the Ethereum Foundation YouTube channel or on the DEFCON website. You can go check those out there, but highly recommend giving them a watch. All right. Speaking of core development, there was an announcement that Tim Biko posted about on Twitter here, where he said the EF is running its first ever formal internship program. Next year we'll have both software engineering and research internships across a range of teams. Applications are open now and close on December 9, 2024.
00:29:56.079 - 00:30:29.725, Speaker A: So if you have what it takes, or if you think you have what it takes to be part of the EF engineering and research teams, you should definitely apply to this. I remember they did this a while ago, but I don't think it was a formal internship. It was more of a loose one. It was kind of the first time they had done it, I believe. But this is more of a formal one where essentially if you're interested in any of these kind of things that are listed here on on this blog post, such as working within Geth, working within the Robust Incentives Group, working on account extraction, etc. You should apply to this. So I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to go check out.
00:30:29.725 - 00:31:22.705, Speaker A: But I think this is an awesome opportunity to work within the Ethereum core dev and research pipeline here. Or another thing that I guess like forgot to mention before about devcon, but I'm glad that I have this tweet to highlight it. There was a keynote or I guess like an opening talk at the opening ceremony of DEVCON given by Josh Stark as well as AR&IR sorry, I should say who is the executive director of the EF and Vitalik of course. But Josh's one Josh's talk really stood out to me because I would say it's probably the best opening talk or just like talk generally that I've seen on the current state of Ethereum, as well as giving some context around where we've come from and what Ethereum is building for now. He summarized his talk in a Twitter thread here, but I highly recommend going and watching this one. It's on. It's again on the Ethereum Foundation YouTube channel or on the dev.
00:31:22.705 - 00:31:55.377, Speaker A: Com website. But one thing he really one one quote that he said during his talk really stuck out to me and you should watch the talk because it contextualizes this really well. But what he said was Ethereum hits hard problems first because it has gone the Furthest. This is something that I've been talking to you guys about for a very long time now. And I remember I said, I said recently that there was a tweet that I saw people that someone tweeted out that said ethereum, sorry. Other chains are just living in Ethereum's past. This is because Ethereum is the furthest ahead when it comes to basically anything related to blockchain technology.
00:31:55.377 - 00:32:17.225, Speaker A: It is the furthest ahead in every single kind of research direction you can go down. It's the furthest ahead in accepting the fact that the modular design is the long term sustainable design. It's the furthest ahead when it comes to things like mev and it has the longest term roadmap. And he's executing on that. It has been executing on that for going on almost five years now. Right. So that quote from Josh just really stuck with me.
00:32:17.225 - 00:32:52.233, Speaker A: The reason why Ethereum is always, you know, attacked for certain things is because it is the one facing the hard problems first, because it has gone the furthest. Like that just perfectly encapsulates what Ethereum is and why Ethereum, I think, gets so much, I guess like heat in the, in the wider sphere is because these other chains just haven't hit those issues yet. They haven't run into those problems yet. And they will. Like, I think people are kidding themselves if they think these other chains weren't running to those problems. They will. It's just that Ethereum is still the biggest ecosystem within crypto and he's running to those problems first and he's dealing with those problems and trying to deal with them in a decentralized way.
00:32:52.233 - 00:33:12.353, Speaker A: Other ecosystems may just opt to deal with them in a centralized way and actually have there is evidence of them doing this already because it's easier. But Ethereum doesn't want to take the easy path. We want to take the right path. And unfortunately, or fortunately, whichever way you look at it, the right path is the hard path. But we do hard things. Ethereum goes hard. Josh put a post about this.
00:33:12.353 - 00:33:42.781, Speaker A: Ethereum really is, I guess, like the one ecosystem, as I've said before to you guys, the only ecosystem I think that keeps me in crypto. If it wasn't for Ethereum, I don't think I'd be in crypto. Nothing else is doing what Ethereum is doing. And I think Josh's talk, his opening kind of ceremony talk perfectly illustrated that as well as that quote that I just mentioned there. So you should definitely go check that out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, speaking of talks you should check out, this is the Justin Drake one that I mentioned just before.
00:33:42.781 - 00:33:59.063, Speaker A: It's live on Bankless. I'll actually have this linked in the YouTube description below for you to check out. I'm going to put this over here so that I remember to link it for you, just so it's easy for you to go watch there. There's two other talks that I recommend you go watch. Of course they're mine. One of them was a debate. So there was a debate.
00:33:59.063 - 00:34:22.616, Speaker A: Had our blobs good for Ethereum between myself, Ansgar, Tim Robinson and 0X Bread Guy. Anscar works at the Ethereum Foundation. Tim Robinson made the Blob simulator and also works at a VC fund. And 0x Bread Guy now works at Mega 8th but has been a bit of an independent voice within the film community talking about blobs. And it was a really great debate. It went for about 45 minutes and then we had 15 minutes of Q A. So you can go watch that.
00:34:22.616 - 00:34:47.915, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to check out. And then finally here, my talk from the Bankless Summit is live. I got a lot of good feedback on this talk. People seem to enjoy it. It was a bit funny for me, like just standing on stage, I didn't know people were going to take this, but essentially in my talk what I did was take people on a journey through Ethereum's history. I looked at what Ethereum is like in the present and what I think Ethereum is going to be like in the future. So you can go give that a watch.
00:34:47.915 - 00:35:10.115, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do. Stand now just before I finish up for today, I did want to give a massive shout out to Bankless for their Bankless Summit. It was one of the best events that I have ever attended. It was the perfect end to devcon. Honestly. Like I went home on the Sunday, the, the, the Banker summit happened on the Saturday. It really was the icing on the cake.
00:35:10.115 - 00:35:47.487, Speaker A: I already had an amazing devcon by that point and then I got went to the Bankless Summit and the quality of the talks were incredible. For those of you who don't know, the Bankless Summit was basically like a TED style kind of or TED Talk style summit where essentially there was a bunch of speakers, not just me giving presentations and speaking on various different topics and every single one except, except, except one I think like I know the one that I didn't like the most. But I'm not going to, I'm not going to say which one I didn't really resonate with. But like, you know, there were just extremely high quality talks. The people talking about these things really cared about the subject matter. It was really entertaining as well as being educational. And the Vibes, again, were very high.
00:35:47.487 - 00:36:16.549, Speaker A: There was, you know, there was people everywhere. We were talking about all these different things, talking about the talks, talking about different things within the Ethereum ecosystem and it was just really great. So a massive kudos to Bankless for putting this on. I can't wait for the next one. Honestly, this was so great and I thank them for giving me the opportunity to essentially give my presentation here because I don't actually get to do a lot of public speaking. Almost like all of every. All this, the, I guess, quote unquote public speaking that I do is behind a camera, like the refuel, right? Or on going on Bankless doing podcasts with them or other podcasts.
00:36:16.549 - 00:36:45.753, Speaker A: It's like 99% in front of a camera where there may be like 5,000 people that listen to the refuel, but it's not 5,000 people looking at me in a crowd. So it's a different experience, right? And on the refuel, obviously I'm, you know, I'm at home recording. I'm much more comfortable in this space. So it got me out of my comfort zone and allowed me to flex some of my public speaking skills a bit more. And people said that I was fine. I mean, I was a bit nervous going into it, being like, I don't know how I'm going to go, but it was like a, I guess a live daily gray anyway for people. But yeah, if you want to watch that, you can go check that out.
00:36:45.753 - 00:37:08.883, Speaker A: I'll Link in the YouTube description below for you to do so there. Now, actually, before I finish off today's episode, I did want to discuss a little bit bit more about Vibes. Vibes generally. Not just Vibes at DEF CON or Vibes Online, but Vibes generally. What really, like, amazes me is that, like, I spend most of my time online in this industry. I only go to one major Ethereum conference a year. This year was devcon.
00:37:08.883 - 00:37:44.371, Speaker A: I've been to some smaller events, but that was the major one I go to. And going forward, I'm probably not going to go to any conferences except Dev Connect and devcon to be honest, because I know they're going to be Ethereum focused. The other ones, they're just trade shows at this point, there's too many sponsors. It doesn't really feel like an Ethereum conference anymore. It feels like a crypto conference and I'm not interested in those personally. It's just not what, where I want to be. Yeah, okay, maybe I'll see people there that I see at defcon and stuff, but like, I'd rather just see people at that one place, you know, in a place where I know is going to be high quality, rather than traveling halfway across the world or the other side of the world just to go to a conference that I know is not going to be the greatest.
00:37:44.371 - 00:38:42.143, Speaker A: Right, but, but in saying that the, as I said, the vibes at DEFCON were incredible. The vibes online are not. Now when you have such a stark disconnect and stark difference between like the online world and reality, you start to question certain things. And I've been questioning this for a while and I've been saying for a while in the deadly way discord and to people in real life and even to my friends that aren't in crypto, but just generally that like humans aren't made for the online world. We're not made for social media. Social media, it has its purpose and so and serves a role, but sitting online all the time interacting with only interacting people, only through like text interacting on discord, on telegram, on Twitter, all that, like, it's a completely different experience to real life, you know, person to person communication. And as humans, we did not evolve to do online communication, right? We evolved to communicate with each other face to face.
00:38:42.143 - 00:39:18.401, Speaker A: That's why we have different facial expressions and facial cues. And that's why we have different things that our body does to like, I guess, I guess signal to people whether we're interested in what they're talking about or not. And you know, all these different social things in real life, right? And that's why in real life you're a lot more, I guess, like reserved because you know that there are consequences for saying stupid stuff. Like for example, if even like half of the stuff that gets said on crypto Twitter was said directly to the person in real life, there is a high risk that that person would get punched in the face. Right? So there is a stark difference between these two worlds. Now I'm not saying that I don't think the online world and social media serves its purpose. It does.
00:39:18.401 - 00:39:36.625, Speaker A: But the fact that there's such a stark difference between I guess crypto Twitter and I guess devcon really, really stuck out to me because it was funny. I'd Be at devcon all day. I wouldn't really be checking my phone because I'd be so busy talking to people and I'd be so happy. Like the whole time. The vibes were so high. It was amazing. I wasn't checking anything online.
00:39:36.625 - 00:40:07.901, Speaker A: I wasn't checking any prices or anything, right. And it was great. I was, I, I felt like I was getting intellectually stimulated from all the discussions I was having. The, the, my mood was good and I didn't feel like my brain was turning to mush. Then I get back to my hotel room and decide, I'll just go on, you know, I'll go on Twitter for a bit, I'll check, I'll check some discord channels for a bit. And then all that happiness and all those good vibes just turn into bad vibes. The, the first tweets that I see someone fighting eth or fighting Ethereum, saying it's a shit coin, so on and so forth, people coping over everything.
00:40:07.901 - 00:40:46.845, Speaker A: And I just see that. I'm like, how is there such a difference here? Like, how is this a stark difference? And I really think it's because when you're online and when all you're doing is doom scrolling, it just feeds on itself, right? Like, it's like the opposite of the good vibes that I had at devcon, where the good vibes are feeding on itself. And talking person to person is much healthier and your brain registers that as being much healthier than talking online to people. I just look like a much different experience there. And as I said, this is not something that is exclusive to crypto. This exists, I think, across all of, all of the online world. And I think that there is no good conversations that can happen online, especially on social media.
00:40:46.845 - 00:41:34.161, Speaker A: I don't think you can have good debates. I don't think you can have good intellectually honest discussions. I think that when it comes to social media, the currency is engagement. And you don't get engagement by being intellectually honest or by being bring, being someone who brings good vibes. You get the most engagement by being controversial, by being dramatic, because that's what people really resonate with, or not resonate with, but really respond to, I should say, because they either want to correct you for fighting something or they want to make fun of you because you're being an idiot, so on and so forth. So that really is the best way to get engagement. Now, if you did that in real life, right, it's a completely different thing because one, you don't have a huge audience like you do online, for example, if you're speaking one to one to someone in, in real life, right? And let's say you're at the conference, let's say I'm at DEF CON and I'm speaking to someone one on one.
00:41:34.161 - 00:41:56.385, Speaker A: Yes, there's thousands of people around me, but I'm speaking one on one to this person. Now let's say I wanted to make fun of that person. I could make fun of them to their face, right? They'll punch me in the face probably for doing that. Or I could yell and make sure as many people around me could hear me making fun of this person to their face. And those people around me would not really respond to that. They'd think I'm crazy. Or like, what's going on with that guy? That's weird.
00:41:56.385 - 00:42:24.463, Speaker A: Or, or what's this guy saying? And they probably tell me to shut up, basically. But online, on social media, that's exactly what's happening when I'm replying to someone or when someone replies to someone, not even just with an insult, but just generally. There are thousands, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of people that see that and can read that. There's no need for anyone to yell. You don't have to like get a megaphone, you don't have to get into people's ears, you know, through like a podcast or anything like that. It's there, the people can see that. So as I said, like, imagine doing that in real life versus online.
00:42:24.463 - 00:42:55.415, Speaker A: Online it's accepted, on social media it's accepted. It's just like the norm. But in real life, you, as I say, potentially going to get punched in the face for doing that. You're going to get told to shut up, everyone around you is going to think you're weird. But online it's totally normal. That's just one example of how the two worlds differ so much. And again, why I tell a lot of you guys, especially those of you who are very susceptible to this, because you're just sitting there all day doom scrolling to take breaks from this stuff or to like not consume too much of it because it is not healthy, it's not reflective of reality, and it's just going to make you feel worse.
00:42:55.415 - 00:43:37.583, Speaker A: You spiral, essentially. And for anyone who hasn't been to Ethereum conferences before, especially stuff like devcon and devconnect, go to these things that will give you a completely different perspective on this industry, completely different perspective on what's happening in the industry, because as I said, there were no bad vibes at devcon There were no bad vibes and any of the side events I went to, there were no bad vibes anywhere. It was actually amazing. It was refreshing and it really re energized me being amongst all of that and realizing, I mean, I already knew this but like your brain plays tricks on you when you're exposed to something so much it tends to believe something even if it's not true. But I already knew this. Like I knew that obviously Ethereum isn't dead as an ecosystem. I know that Ethereum is thriving as an ecosystem.
00:43:37.583 - 00:44:27.689, Speaker A: I know that Ethereum is doing so much across so many different things, but actually being there in the flesh, talking to real people in real life, seeing it all happening, being amongst the good vibes, re energizing myself with it all, really just reaffirmed my belief and bullishness around Ethereum and really brought to the forefront that I personally needed to be taking more breaks from social media because it is not healthy, it is not something that actually does anything good for me personally. And I'll be a better, I guess, like educator of Ethereum, I think, and a better bull for Ethereum if I was to actually limit my social media time generally. Now it's hard to do obviously for someone like me who needs to be on top of things in order to do my shows, but yeah, I just, for you guys, I just wanted to give that kind of piece of advice as well. It's, it's not healthy, guys. It's, it's not reality. Reality is reality. The narrative is the narrative, as I always say.
00:44:27.689 - 00:44:54.701, Speaker A: And I really do think that almost everything you see on social media is complete narrative. It doesn't match up with the reality, not just within crypto but outside of it as well. So it's probably best to keep that in mind and try to remind yourself of that. But really the best thing you can do is just to limit your time on social media. That is, I think, the best thing you can do. And every single person that I've ever spoken to that has done that has not said that they regret doing it. No one says that they felt worse being off social media.
00:44:54.701 - 00:45:18.263, Speaker A: Now that tells you everything you need to know about how bad it is for your mental health for you to just be constantly doom scrolling. And I'm talking every single person, like whether they're in crypto or outside of crypto, every time that they've taken breaks from it, they, their minds clear, they feel a lot happier, their moods up, up. So that's all the evidence that you need I think. But anyway, I think on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet. Give it a thumbs up.
00:45:18.263 - 00:45:22.175, Speaker A: Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all next time. Thanks everyone.
