00:00:04.250 - 00:00:52.862, Speaker A: Thanks for tuning in to this week's news. Recap bitcoin's Price Surges Amidst Bullish Sentiment Bitcoin hit a trillion dollar market cap for the first time in nearly 150 days on Wednesday. As of publishing time Thursday afternoon, the price of one bitcoin was up roughly 25% for the week, increasing from $43,450 to slightly above fifty four thousand dollars. S One explanation for the rising price is rumors swirling around the approval of a bitcoin futures ETF. Nate Garachi, president of the ETF store, said he thinks the first bitcoin futures ETF could be approved in less than two weeks. Eric Beltunas, Bloomberg's senior ETF analyst, agreed, tweeting that he gives such an approval a 75% chance pointus. Reports that CME BTC based futures contracts were trading at a 12.8%
00:00:52.862 - 00:01:45.934, Speaker A: premium to the spot price on Wednesday, the largest premium since mid April. Many analysts consider CME bitcoin futures a proxy for institutional sentiment on crypto. CME is currently the only crypto derivatives exchange for institutional and traditional investors with federal oversight. Mike Bocella, a general partner at BlockTower, believes the premium suggests that institutions could be front running the news of a futures based bitcoin ETF being approved. Notably, SEC Chair Gary Gensler recently lent his support to a bitcoin futures ETF twice, mentioning that he would, quote, look forward to staff's review of such filings. In addition to speculation surrounding the approval of a bitcoin ETF, here are a few other reasons for BTC's bullish price action. Based on analysis from Ki Young Ju, the CEO of CryptoQuant, it appears that a whale purchased $1.6
00:01:45.934 - 00:02:42.938, Speaker A: billion worth of spot bitcoin in just under five minutes on Wednesday, coinciding with bitcoin's push up to $55,000. Both SEC Chair Gary Gensler and Fed Chair Jerome Powell explicitly stated their respective regulatory bodies do not plan to ban crypto. US bank, the fifth largest retail bank in the US, announced that Crypto custody for BTC bitcoin cash and litecoin is now available to fund managers, thanks to a partnership with NYDIG. The CEO of the $27 billion family office of George Soros confirmed that the fund invests in bitcoin. The CEO, Don Fitzpatrick told Bloomberg. Quote from our perspective, we own some coins. The Compound Bugs Compounding Bug Last Thursday, a bug was found in a recently implemented upgrade to a smart contract powering compound the fifth largest DFI protocol by total value locked, which put roughly 280,000 of the protocol's native token comp at risk of being erroneously claimed.
00:02:42.938 - 00:03:49.502, Speaker A: On Sunday, compound's bug intensified after an ethereum user called the protocol's drip function, adding 202,000 comp, or $66 million, to the rewards contract, almost doubling the number of outsized awards available to be scooped up. This brings the total comp at risk to approximately four hundred and ninety K, of which 136K is still in the controller, said Robert Leshner, CEO of Compound Labs, on Twitter at the time. Leschner explained that the compound team had hoped to keep the drip function quiet until the next governance protocol could be implemented to fix the bug. Quote Nobody had called the function in weeks, and community developers were hopeful that proposal 63, or 64, could go into effect before it was called, he said on Twitter. Due to the way compound's governance and private key structure is set up, it takes seven days to correct coding errors. According to Banteg, a core developer at Urine Finance, the Drip function had been known for days and was, quote, the best kept secret in DFI. As of publishing time, the bug is on its way to being patched with governance proposal 64 titled Fix.
00:03:49.502 - 00:04:40.338, Speaker A: Comp accrual bug. Passing 1,000,037 107 votes to zero, the protocol made it through the week with 129,000 comp left in the controller contract a far cry from a worst case scenario. 6000 Coinbase User Accounts drained via multifactor authentication error in a letter filed to California State Attorney General offices, Coinbase admitted that over 6000 customer accounts had funds removed due to an error in the exchange of security system. According to the document, attackers took advantage of a flaw in Coinbase's SMS account recovery process for users who used SMS text for multifactor authentication. Hackers were able to receive the SMS text messages necessary to gain access to user accounts. From there, funds were transferred to third party wallets. Coinbase believes that many of its customers fell victim to third party phishing hacks.
00:04:40.338 - 00:05:38.258, Speaker A: The exchange says that hackers had to have already obtained a user's email address, password and phone number associated with their Coinbase accounts to be able to utilize the SMS recovery flaw. Coinbase will be compensating users for any funds lost depositing the quote, value of the currency improperly removed from user accounts at the time of the incident. The exchange did not release information on how much crypto was stolen. The DOJ is building out a cryptocurrency enforcement team The US. Department of justice announced that it is creating a national cryptocurrency enforcement team on Wednesday. The team will be focused on analyzing crimes committed by exchanges and mixing and tubling services, along with helping to trace and recover assets lost to malicious actors. Deputy Attorney General Lisa Monaco explained the new team's purpose as dismantling, quote, the financial entities that enable crypto actors to flourish and, quite frankly, to profit from abusing cryptocurrency platforms.
00:05:38.258 - 00:06:32.060, Speaker A: As technology advances, so too must the department evolve with it so that we're poised to root out abuse on these platforms and ensure confidence in these systems. Circle comes under fire from the SEC CoinDesk reports that Circle Finance, a key backer of the USDC stablecoin, has been under investigation by the US. Securities and Exchange Commission since July. The company revealed in its most recent S four that it quote, received an investigative subpoena from the SEC enforcement Division requesting documents and information regarding certain of our holdings, customer programs and operations. According to the filing, Circle is, quote, cooperating fully with their investigation. In related News MoneyGram, a cross border payments company worth $700 million announced a partnership with the Stellar Blockchain Network, which will allow for nearly instant money transfers. Using Circle's USDC for its 150,000,000 customers.
00:06:32.060 - 00:07:08.782, Speaker A: The program will pilot in Q four MoneyGram previously worked with Ripple on a similar product. Regulators appear to want Stablecoins regulated like traditional products. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or FDIC, is looking into whether Stablecoins may be eligible for its coverage, reports CoinDesk. While the discussions are still in infancy, this could be very positive news for Stablecoins. Such coverage would ensure token holders up to $250,000. In the case of a bank failure, however, getting such insurance will most likely depend on the backing of the Stablecoin. An unnamed insider told CoinDesk.
00:07:08.782 - 00:07:54.366, Speaker A: Quote this is all part of a process by which they are trying to bring Stablecoins into the banking system in a responsible manner. It depends on what's backing the coins. If it's backed by reserves at the Federal Reserve for cash, then I think you just make the argument that it's a deposit. If it's backed by Treasuries, I think you'll have a harder time treating it as a deposit. As of publishing, neither of the two largest Stablecoins, USDT and USDC, are fully backed by cash. Last Friday, the Wall Street Journal reported that the Biden administration is, quote, considering ways to impose bank like regulation on the cryptocurrency companies that issue Stablecoins. The Journal says that Biden's Administration intends to recommend to Congress draft legislation regarding a special purpose charter specifically tailored to Stablecoin issuers.
00:07:54.366 - 00:09:01.322, Speaker A: If Congress doesn't act, the Biden Administration is prepared to go to the Federal Stability Oversight Council, or FSOC, which has the ability to designate Stablecoins as systemically important, a process that could lead to astringent risk management standards imposed by the Fed. The news comes ahead of an anticipated treasury report on Stablecoins. Speaking of Stablecoins, a Bloomberg report found that Tether, the issuer of USDT, loaned $1 billion to Celsius Network, a crypto lender. Bloomberg's investigation also found that Tether reserves held billions in loans to Chinese firms. The CryptoSafe harbor proposal gained steam in the House Financial Committee. On October 5, the ranking member of the House Financial Services Committee, Representative Patrick McHenry, proposed a new bill, dubbed the Clarity for Digital Tokens Act of 2021, which seeks to turn SEC Commissioner Hester purse's idea of a safe harbor for crypto assets into actual law. Under the proposed legislation, which would adapt securities laws developed in 1933, crypto companies would be allowed to launch a token without worrying about running afoul of US.
00:09:01.322 - 00:09:42.994, Speaker A: Securities law. The bill would allow crypto startups a three year window to fully decentralize and transform their tokens into something that does not resemble a security. To get the benefit of the safe harbor, startups would be required to disclose information like source code, transaction history and tokenomics to prospective investors. Time for fun bits. Is Elon Musk's cute puppy a buy signal? Maybe it's correlated, maybe it's not. But Elon Musk appears to have made a new meme coin, a top 20 asset, and all it took was a cute picture of his dog. On Sunday, Elon Musk tweeted out a picture of flocky Frunk Puppy, his cute puppy that just so happens to be a shiba enu.
00:09:42.994 - 00:10:02.890, Speaker A: Since then, the price of shiba enu jumped approximately 177%, vaulting the meme coin into the top 20 coins by market cap as of publishing time. Thanks for tuning in. To learn more about Ryan and Lightning, be sure to check out the links in the show notes. Unconfirmed is produced by me, Laura Shin Webell from Anthony Yoon, Mark Murdoch and Daniel Ness thanks for listening.
