00:00:00.170 - 00:00:22.480, Speaker A: Two weeks ago, we had a chat with Anatoly and he said, and this is a quote, the difference between Solana, difference between a Solana conference and an Ethereum conference is that at a Solana conference, there's way less talk about scaling. So when do you think we'll see a shift from the current sort of infrastructure focus to use case specific applications being maybe the dominant talking point?
00:00:25.050 - 00:01:18.210, Speaker B: Yeah. What do I think about this? I think the challenge, the, the challenging thing about use cases is that, like, talking more about use cases doesn't mean like, that necessarily mean that you get working use cases. Right. I remember how back in 2000 and 22,021 we had all of this excitement about the games and Axel Infinity and all of these NFT projects, and a lot of that stuff ended up not really panning out at all. Right. And we saw basically that people were trying to basically use the casino as a substitute for making a game that's fun. And that's something where you can convince yourself into believing that it works in a bull market.
00:01:18.210 - 00:01:54.002, Speaker B: But then once the bear market starts, the casino stops automatically giving everyone money. It starts losing everyone money. And then if the fun isn't there, then pretty much everyone is going to get bored and leave. Right. And so it's the sort of thing where on the application side, it's really important to both take things slowly and to recognize that sometimes a lot of the valuable applications are going to be kind of the boring ones. And even that there's a lot of fundamentals and research questions that we have to think about when you think about applications. Right.
00:01:54.002 - 00:02:59.160, Speaker B: So, for example, there's a lot of discussion around what is the right kind of Dow governance. And that is an application level question, but it's also a deeply technical question. And if you get it wrong, that you're going to make dows that break a lot of the discussion around ZK. Actually, zk voting is a really powerful Dow governance tool. A lot of the discussion around advanced cryptography, that stuff is incredibly useful for applications. Zoopas, that's a very application level thing, decentralized, social, very application level thing. So I think it's happening, but I think it's the sort of thing that you also can't rush and you need to have the fundamentals be there in a really strong and really reliable way for the push on applications to really make a lot of sense.
00:02:59.160 - 00:03:53.490, Speaker B: Yeah. Those two things, I think can only really coevolve with each other. Right. I think it's really good that we're having all of these deep discussions about not just how to scale in the sense of increasing TPS but increasing TPS in the right way. And on the application side, actually a lot of the same stuff. Right. The thing that I hate the most is applications that pretends to be crypto applications but then the only way to sign in is a Google account and the whole thing depends on one centralized server and there's no way to interact with it at all outside of the one server.
00:03:53.490 - 00:04:26.620, Speaker B: And it basically is just a completely centralized stick that just happens to have a couple of tokens on arbitrum or whatever somewhere or that just happens to stick a root on Ethereum once in a while. Right? Yeah, I think discussion about applications, it's also important for that to really be principled and to sort of remember what it is that we're actually all here for. So I'm a big fan of having much more high quality discourse on both of those things and I think you can't have a healthy ecosystem without that.
