00:00:06.360 - 00:00:34.404, Speaker A: You name is Reese Len Mark. Aka at reeslen. Mark my twitter handle. And this is blockchain ethics. And we're gonna I'm from the Digital Currency initiative at MIT. And yeah, it's gonna be 2025 minutes to chat about blockchain ethics. Before I do that, because we have a small crew, I just want to ask people where what your name is and why you came to this talk.
00:00:34.404 - 00:00:36.470, Speaker A: So let's start over here. Sure.
00:00:36.840 - 00:01:12.160, Speaker B: My name is RJ Herrick, and long ago I studied philosophy, and I am still deeply interested in morality and ethics. I've been attending Yale's Working Group on Technology and Ethics for the last couple of years. So a lot of discussion around emerging technologies and how that impacts our history of human experience that we use to build our ethical knowledge base out of. So obviously, very short timeline here. Not a lot built up. So we're having a lot of new experiences and figuring out what the ethics is around here. So love to have the conversation.
00:01:12.500 - 00:01:24.020, Speaker A: That sounds great. Thank you. Hi, I'm Saeed Mohammed. I'm from Kennedy State University Secondary. PhD student in robotics. In what, sir? Robotics. Robotics.
00:01:24.020 - 00:01:39.690, Speaker A: One of the guy of our lab, he is very experienced in this field, so he told me, just go and attend this seminar you'll enjoy. Nice videotape. Hello. And you can present it to him later. That sounds good.
00:01:40.780 - 00:02:09.600, Speaker C: And thanks for letting us do this. It's fun. I'm Elizabeth, and I'm from Detroit. I'm CTO of Blockchain startup ether blockchain IO the decentralized exchange and Evo, which is a decentralized trading app. Evo. And I'm particularly interested in this just because of how blockchain is applicable to so many different aspects and the ethical considerations around it I think are really fascinating. I'm really just excited to hear what you're going to share.
00:02:09.670 - 00:02:10.956, Speaker A: Sweet, thank you.
00:02:11.078 - 00:02:31.560, Speaker C: And I'm also an Elizabeth. How does it happen? Right? And I did, like you studied psychology and philosophy and ethics and have just always kept up with it. Many moons ago, I was an RN, and medical ethics was something I was very involved in. So it's fascinating to watch how it's coming to evolve here at the Blockchain.
00:02:32.540 - 00:03:21.076, Speaker A: Yes, I think, as you all noted, we are something like blockchain ethics. We're at just the beginning of this. It's actually kind of funny because whenever you say to folks, oh, I'm going to do a thing on blockchain ethics, or whatever, most people's response is kind of a hilarious, like, oh, ha ha, you mean lack of ethics, things like that, which I think is a sign that we need more ethics, I guess. Another note here at the Digital Currency Initiative at MIT, I just started teaching a class on blockchain ethics this semester, and as far as I know, it's the first blockchain ethics class that has existed. So I'll give it a little overview on what that looks like, how you can maybe is anybody here actually hacking by the way you are. Sweet. So we'll do a little bit on how it's even applied to hacking, but more macro how it looks in the movement.
00:03:21.076 - 00:03:35.710, Speaker A: So see if this thing can actually work. Is there a clicker or were people just clicking it on their computer? Interesting.
00:03:36.400 - 00:03:38.510, Speaker B: I can have one if you want to borrow one.
00:03:38.900 - 00:04:32.560, Speaker A: I think the hope is that it would I'll be able to use this if necessary. Okay. There we go. Sweet. So, yeah, talking about what is blockchain ethics, some specific examples of it, how can you use it while you hack? And then this other piece about how blockchain ethics connects to abundance more generally. So with that said, what is blockchain ethics and why is it important? So blockchain ethics is a field and a community of people focused on answering the question how can we positively shape the development of blockchain technology? Pretty much what you would expect, a group of people aligned around positively shaping technology. And you can think of it I kind of think of it like you have something like the state, like nation state governments and things like the SEC or the CSTC and things like that, that are regulating blockchain cryptocurrency technology.
00:04:32.560 - 00:05:22.364, Speaker A: On the other side, you have companies, I just copy pasted this from the website of various folks who are trying to do what companies do, which is increase shareholder returns and things like that. A little bit more confusing in the blockchain ecosystem because of tokenomics and open source protocols and things. But generally you have the state, you have companies and then you have what people often call like civil society or like the third space. And that's where blockchain ethics falls. It's with nonprofits, it's with universities and things of that variety. Why we need it is because in any case, if you have any technology, you're going to have the tech ethics like you were referencing earlier for any field. When nuclear technology came out, we started to be like, OOH, let's have nuclear security, let's make sure we don't blow ourselves up with AI.
00:05:22.364 - 00:05:59.080, Speaker A: We have AI ethics with biotech, we have biotech ethics. And so with blockchain, we will have blockchain ethics as a full feature field. We're just not quite there yet. Let me say also note here, which is this is especially true for blockchain cryptocurrency technology because in addition to it being tech like tech in and of itself, it's also money. And so that makes it even more needed from a tech perspective. So as I said earlier, why it's important, this is just an indication that we have no tech ethics right now, no blockchain ethics. Whenever I talk about it, people are like, ha, that's hilarious.
00:05:59.080 - 00:06:41.860, Speaker A: And so the way I really think about it is, although we're at the beginning stages here, if blockchain technology has even 10% of the internet's impact, we should take great care in developing it. That's the crucial idea. It's tough to tell how impactful this technology is going to be. I think a lot of us here believe that it could be surprisingly impactful. And if it is, let's proactively think about how it impacts society. So you can see these examples that people are starting to think of, whether it's things like Bitcoin and how it's used in darknet markets or with pseudonymous trading and things like that. Something like Libra, I think, was a big wake up call for a lot of people around tech, around blockchain ethics.
00:06:41.860 - 00:07:29.400, Speaker A: And Libra is the Facebook coin their cryptocurrency. And when that happens, then Congress was like, oh, we should talk about this. And they had a bunch of people come in. And you can also imagine if Libra has it, they're connected to 2 billion people. And so there are lots of societal impacts there. The other piece here is, this is a funny image that I took, where a big desire of Bitcoin and ethereum and other cryptocurrencies is to some extent to take down centralized, trusted intermediaries and institutions like banks and nation states. And if that does happen, what should that evolutionary process look like? So the other issue here with the current blockchain ethics ecosystem and why it's important right now is because it's not very big.
00:07:29.400 - 00:08:08.000, Speaker A: So you can compare it to the AI ethics world. And ten years ago there was essentially $0 in AI ethics with zero centers. But as you can tell here, these are a bunch of different centers around the world. There's tens of millions or hundreds of millions of dollars in annual funding with centers around the world. That compared to something like the blockchain ethics ecosystem, which doesn't have very many folks in it. There's a couple specific players. Most of these people are just not really ethics focused, but they are essentially lobbyist groups in Congress, although they have some ethical components.
00:08:08.000 - 00:09:07.128, Speaker A: You have this thing blockchain Trust Accelerator, which is kind of getting there this thing Open Money Initiative, which is thinking about how money is used in Venezuela and hyperinflationary countries, but it's essentially $0 in the blockchain ethics ecosystem while we have 50 million or hundreds of millions of dollars in the Aifics world. So when we start to think about what when we start to think about and goodbye, when we think about actually what blockchain ethics is, if we assume that's now, yes, we think it's important. By the way, just actually, let's check who based off of my explanation, there this being, oh, this seems super important. This being like, I wasn't really convinced. It doesn't seem that important. Where would you all fall giving me a thumb of like, this is pretty important, or this is not that important. So given that, let's talk about what it actually looks like.
00:09:07.128 - 00:09:40.352, Speaker A: And I'm going to reference Albert's Talk yesterday at the opening ceremony, which is blockchain is very complicated and we are at the beginning of understanding it as a technology. So depending on how you look at it, you can view it from a bunch of different perspectives. And this is especially true for blockchain ethics. So we're going to kind of take a similar multi perspective mindset here. So I like to think of it from these three big perspectives. There's the tech side of blockchain and so the tech ethics piece. There's the money side of blockchain cryptocurrency, so the money ethics piece or the financial ethics piece.
00:09:40.352 - 00:11:46.824, Speaker A: And then there's the institutional side, which is if you think of these blockchain and cryptocurrency networks as new kind of institutions in and of themselves and new kind of networks like something like Facebook or like something like Google that have the power to motivate and coordinate people, we can also think about some institutional ethics as well. So on the tech ethics side, the way that I think it's right to think about it is so as we know with blockchain technology, you can think of it as a new kind of database or a new kind of ledger. And if you do, you have this old kind which is the centralized ledger, and you have this new kind which is this distributed ledger where everybody has a copy of the blockchain and it's immutable, it's usually pseudonymous, so it has your public key out there. And when you have this distributed ledger and you have that technical affordance, and when people say technical affordance, what they mean is like the abilities that the technology gives you. When you have that new technical affordance of this immutable distributed database, a societal good that comes up is this tension between privacy and security. So what I mean by that is pretty much for any database, whether it's Facebook's database or the Equifax database or any kind of database, you're going to have issues around like, okay, if everybody's on this database, how can we make sure that thing is super secure and that people can't access it in these ways? And how can we make sure that it's private such that the data that is on it does not have revealing personal information or things like that? And so that is one way to view this technology. And you can imagine something like Facebook's libra, if you just connect Facebook libra to all of the Facebook system, you imagine all of our financial transactions in Facebook's hands in addition to all of our social media transactions.
00:11:46.824 - 00:12:26.020, Speaker A: That could be an issue with privacy and security. Another way to view it is still from the tech ethics perspective is as a new internet protocol. So this is the internet protocol stack, which was built in the late 19 hundreds. And you can view all of these were essentially ways to give and receive information and in a kind of permissionless trustless fashion. And you can inherit some of the companies that were built on or whatever. But you can imagine Bitcoin and Ethereum as a new layer of the internet stack. And a new internet protocol.
00:12:26.020 - 00:13:26.356, Speaker A: But instead of for information, it's for value. And so now we can give and receive value. The textual affordance is we can give and receive value in this permissionless trustless way through this protocol and it will have like the early internet, you can think of it as being like unstoppable code. And what they mean by that is just like at the early internet it's like oh, you're going to be able to on the early internet give and receive like porn on the internet, give and receive naughty words or things like that were able to be transmitted as bytes through this protocol. So too can you give and receive censorship resistant money like Bitcoin or unstoppable code like smart contracts if then statements that will be happening in this new world and is a textable affordance. Another way to think about it is the decentralization or disintermediation piece and that affordance. I like to think of it as.
00:13:26.356 - 00:14:45.648, Speaker A: So with the early internet it was what the internet was to information. It decentralized and disintermediated these trusted centralized information, things like media primarily. And so you get this decentralization and disintermediation where everybody now has their kind of personalized Facebook feeds or direct to them, kind of Google search engines and that decentralization disintermediation will happen as well in the blockchain and cryptocurrency world. But instead of with information, it will happen now with value where you will be able to have these weird new pockets and you can start to see them exist of networks of value start to be created. So with that as an importance, this new internet protocol, some of the societal goods that you are worried about here are just making sure you still have humans in the loop. So it's nice that we can be more efficient and send things in this through a protocol and this permissionless trustless way with unstoppable code. But at the same time if you have unstoppable code that allows terrorist financing to give somebody hundreds of millions or billions of dollars, then maybe we want humans to be part of that loop to some extent.
00:14:45.648 - 00:15:38.324, Speaker A: And so that's one kind of classic issue that again maps from the internet onto blockchain crypto. Another one is coherence. So the idea here is that this is very connected to the decentralization piece where you have with the internet as it now exists, you have these new kind of trust ecosystems where people believe in whatever their current Facebook feed is telling them or they believe whatever their Twitter feed is telling them. And you have a lot less coherence and a lot less clear stories for society which is both good and bad. But we expect a similar thing to happen in the blockchain and cryptocurrency world where you're like okay, there are all these tokens. It used to be simple when there's just like US dollars and then also if you went to another country you use their money. But now you have a lot less coherence around what is valuable and what is money.
00:15:38.324 - 00:16:46.388, Speaker A: So when you take blockchain ethics and think of it from a tech ethics lens, that's what this looks like. Now you can think of it also from a money ethics lens or a financial ethics lens. And hello and by the way, just to let you know, we're talking about blockchain ethics and viewing it from these three lenses. So we just talked about from the tech ethics lens and now we're going to view it from the money ethics lens. So if we think about money ethics, yeah, there's been this evolution of money over time and now we have cryptocurrency and it's cool. And so when you have this affordance of money, this new kind of money, the societal good, and this one's a little bit more complicated, but generally you're trying to protect investors or consumers trying to protect investors and consumers with what happens to their money. And so we have a bunch of different in the United States, we have a bunch of different those government regulatory bodies that help with this, like the SEC or the CFTC or Fencen.
00:16:46.388 - 00:17:37.636, Speaker A: And the SEC does securities, the CFTC does commodities, FinCEN does money. And so depending on how you think of cryptocurrencies and you can think of it as any of those things, you kind of have different regulatory laws here. And the real tension in societal good that we're pushing for here is like on one side we want the liberty of being able to say, hey everybody, anybody can have access to these new markets. Anybody can get access to these ICOs, that's cool. We don't need to be an accredited investor to invest. But if you have that, then people's incentives, then you have this permissionless system where anybody can access it. And you have things like Scams and things of that variety that have no consumer protection around them.
00:17:37.636 - 00:18:20.490, Speaker A: So that can be an issue. And another classic issue too is if you have these new kind of frictionless systems built around liberty, then you might not get very much equality. So this is with Bitcoin and cryptocurrency. The income inequality or the genie coefficient in all of these systems with Bitcoin and ethereum is like worse than all nation states for all intents and purposes. So when you think of it as money, those are some issues that come into play. When you think of it as incentives, that's another some other issues come into play. What I mean by incentives are because this stuff is money, then it will incentivize people to do something.
00:18:20.490 - 00:19:10.424, Speaker A: And when it does that a clear societal good. Here is a healthy environment. And I've seen the mining system with cryptocurrency. So you can imagine it as hey world, we're going to put this white paper on the internet 2008, post the code in 2009 and before you know it, ten years later you have these massive server farms all around the world that are spending about one 500th rather of the world electricity just to mine bitcoin. And that is crazy. And that's a result of these incentives just saying that you can turn electricity into money and then people are like oh shit, I'm going to do that. And obviously as an externality of that, then you have these environmental issues.
00:19:10.424 - 00:20:04.404, Speaker A: So this is saying that when you think from an incentives perspective, incentivizing people to do things is very, very powerful and that can have negative externalities like the environment. And there are also some other things that we don't need to go too deep into of like ways that you can be good or bad with game theory to be mean to people with these incentives. So that's blockchain ethics as money ethics. Let's finally talk about blockchain ethics as institutional ethics. So by institutions I mean so when people talk about institutions they're talking about things like religions. All these things are things that can motivate and coordinate people. And this is connected to this guy coast who has this coast theorem of why does the market exist versus why does the state exist, why aren't they just the same thing or not? It's because each thing there is better or worse.
00:20:04.404 - 00:20:53.448, Speaker A: Each institution is better or worse at organizing people. Either motivating them for things or coordinating them for things. Like the market is super good at motivating hey, let's go. And people are down to do things but it's not very good at coordinating the market's, not that good of a coordinating mechanism versus something like a state which is better at coordinating people, but it's less good at motivating people. So we have these institutions, big things like religions or nation states or companies or recently this is an interesting one. What's up Dan? This is a recent one of these new internet platforms. So you have a new kind of institution which are these internet enabled platforms like especially Google, Amazon, Facebook that connect people over the internet through this new trusted web.
00:20:53.448 - 00:21:39.816, Speaker A: Stuff like sharing economy, Uber, Airbnb, et cetera fall into this bucket. So this is our new institution that we've seen recently and now we're seeing some of these new blockchain cryptocurrency networks as institutions in and of themselves that can motivate and coordinate people. And so when you have these new institutions, the big issue is essentially stability, like societal stability. And the tension here is this tension between evolution and revolution. So you can imagine most of the blockchain and cryptocurrency world wants to exit the current system by creating a new revolution over here. And if they do so that is exciting. I'm generally bullish on that and think it will be good.
00:21:39.816 - 00:22:40.524, Speaker A: But if that happens and nation states go down or banks go down, it's like we want to make sure we do this in a way that is more evolutionary than revolutionary and less fragile for society. And as an example this. You can see this happening with Google, Amazon and Facebook when they had more of a move fast and break things mindset. What that meant is that our sense making as a society went down in a big way. Some things like Amazon and what it did to a bunch of small and medium businesses, they got hit by this in a big way. So there's things that you can kind of map from this internet world where you're like OOH, that was more kind of a revolution vibe than an evolution vibe, so we should watch out. Yeah, so that's kind of the third big way to view it and Dan, just get you up to speed here we are talking about the three big ways to view blockchain ethics, either as tech ethics, as money ethics or as institutional mean.
00:22:40.524 - 00:23:14.308, Speaker A: For those of us who are hacking here. I think that really I don't have too many pieces of advice for you. I mainly have this what's called the Collingridge dilemma which states when change is easy, the need for it cannot be foreseen. When the need for changes, appearance changes, become expensive, difficult and time consuming. And this is to say that right now you're at the beginning of your book this weekend. You shouldn't really be worrying about the ethical implications of the technology you're going to build. It's not going to be too big of a deal.
00:23:14.308 - 00:24:14.292, Speaker A: But as these things happen over time, you should think about things like the trust assumptions that are baked into your system, what your system is incentivizing people to do, what is the security of your system. All these things that we chat about in those last big three slides, start to think about them as you have today and make sure that you're not creating something that long term, if it continues to propagate, could have negative impacts. I want to say one final piece here though, which is the one thing that almost all of us I bet could do, which is connecting blockchain ethics to abundance. So it's kind of a more macro take but I think it's pretty important. So the idea here is that Austin society have gone through these shifts from scarcity to abundance. And at the beginning in the agricultural revolution and 12,000 years ago food was the scarce thing. But then we're like oh snap, we know how to make farms.
00:24:14.292 - 00:25:02.904, Speaker A: This is sweet. Then food no longer became scarce and land became the scarce thing because land is what you needed to make all the food. After that, in the industrial revolution land was primarily the scarce thing. But we were able to start to create these factories and machine shops and things like that. And that may be the case that the land itself wasn't as important but rather like the machines and the capital were the super important thing. And so that's kind of what we've been based around. Our main scarcity constraints in society recently but the shift that a claim is making now and that other folks claim is happening is that we are starting to be in the case where essentially we have enough for ourselves from a money perspective, for society, it's more of like a distribution problem than it is a production problem.
00:25:02.904 - 00:25:38.996, Speaker A: And then eventually we'll shift to this attention piece, attention as the main scarce thing in society. But as we move to this world of abundant capital, we have a lot of power us in this room. So, as you can see here in this last this is a graph for the last 200 years of the number of people who live in extreme poverty. 200 years ago, essentially 90% of people, everybody was super poor. No one has washing machines or like TVs or computers or any of that stuff. Half of the kids used to die before the age of five, now it is 10%. So a lot less people live in extreme poverty, which is great.
00:25:38.996 - 00:26:14.176, Speaker A: Still about 750,000,000, which is awful. But we are much closer to abundance here. Or from like an individual instead of a macro perspective, you can look from an individual perspective and this is a graph. X axis is individual income and it's a log scale, by the way. It just doubles each time. And the Y axis is how happy you are essentially across these four different kind of metrics that people are measuring. And if you look at it's like oh man, right around $45,000 per year, it's already diminishing to that point and it gets even essentially flatlines there.
00:26:14.176 - 00:26:55.964, Speaker A: So it's like you don't get that much happier after you make money after $45,000 a year. So what this means is that I self tax myself and I'm super transparent about it. So I make $70,000 a year of that, about $20,000 is taxed to the government, thank you, government. And then of the remaining $50,000, I self tax myself 20% of it or about $10,000 and give to a variety of random charities and things, a lot of which can have a lot of impact. And I'm also very transparent with the amount of money I have. So I literally took these pictures right before I moved the talk. So my amount of bitcoin in each has gone up recently, so I feel good about that.
00:26:55.964 - 00:27:35.110, Speaker A: And I have $5,000 in my bank account. So this is just a note to all of us here to really as you move, there's like what you're doing with your technology and then there's also taking a step back and realizing you're placing the macro picture of things and saying do I really need all that is coming into me? Or can I let some of that money flow through me back to others in the system? So with that, if you want to learn more, you can go to Blockchainethics co there's a really big syllabus there and a forum that you can join. Feel free. Like ping me at Reese Lenmark or anything of that variety as well and thank you so much.
00:27:52.900 - 00:28:01.260, Speaker C: Names that kind of vaguely have ethics. Do you see any groundswell to start anything bigger or are you creating that groundswell?
00:28:01.420 - 00:28:49.920, Speaker A: To some extent I am part of creating that groundswell. I think that there are a lot of the weird thing within the blockchain and cryptocurrency world is that a lot of folks have this mindset baked in because it's kind of a rejection of the Web 2.0 world and surveillance capitalism and the banking state and those things. So I think to some extent everything here is the groundwell and I would say there's not really I would look at Omi, the Open Money initiative that's very specifically about understanding how Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies are used in nation states that have hyperinflation. So I think that's the best one and the other one is Coin Center. Although they're technically a lobbying organization pretty much, they are very knowledgeable about all the money ethics side of things and how that works. That's awesome.
00:28:49.990 - 00:29:02.070, Speaker C: I think you're right. I think it is very baked in. I know as we started our firm, we created our value initially that had the ethics baked in because it was so important, but it would be nice to see more people.
00:29:03.640 - 00:29:06.228, Speaker A: Thank you. We have one more question, so I'll.
00:29:06.244 - 00:29:43.300, Speaker B: Lob this as kind of a softball and feel free to follow up afterwards. So should a good project be a valid reason to effectively launder bad money? With the current presidential election going on, there's some attention on Biden, for example, accepting money from oil executives to fund his campaign. And I've got a note that you're with additional currency initiative out of the Media Lab. So Joey Edo secured funding for you. So potentially some of that money in your account comes from Mr. Epstein, right?
00:29:43.370 - 00:29:43.988, Speaker A: Yes.
00:29:44.154 - 00:30:17.560, Speaker B: So that's currently a discussion right now around your center and I know you're aware of that. So what are your thoughts on is it okay for us to burn so much electricity to get Bitcoin and these networks off the ground for the potential value that they could provide? Is that equivalent to the moral cost of getting it? Bootstrapped? MIT does so many good things. MediaLab does so many good things. Is it acceptable to use tainted money to fund good projects?
00:30:17.640 - 00:30:30.370, Speaker A: Yeah, that's a great question. And so just for everybody else who just came in there, we're talking about blockchain ethics and wondering how one can use tainted money, how should we think about using bad money, dirty money for good things?
00:30:31.560 - 00:30:32.950, Speaker B: There's no good question.
00:30:36.280 - 00:30:59.144, Speaker A: Two mindsets here. One is like a consequentialist mindset or utilitarian mindset, which is to say, hey, this money is going to go somewhere. And so you can think counterfactually and say, oh, it could either go to this thing over here or if you imagine somebody with dirty money sends it super anonymously to just. Give to really poor people through gift directly. That seems good. Who knows?
00:30:59.192 - 00:31:00.984, Speaker B: Maybe you have seamless behind your finance.
00:31:01.112 - 00:31:17.724, Speaker A: Yeah, exactly. So I'd say that. Or you can think of it from a deontological or virtue ethics perspective where you say, hey, the most important thing here is that people are being honest about themselves. They're being transparent. And from that perspective, you may be less okay with what's happening. Thank you. Okay.
00:31:17.724 - 00:31:19.160, Speaker A: Thank you. Bye.
