00:00:00.200 - 00:00:28.622, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the daily Refuel where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Dan the Nissan Signer, and today's the 15 March 2024. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So a big episode today. You can see all the tabs that I have open in front of me. There is a lot to get through before I dive into it. Just want to give you guys a reminder that there'll be no refuel next week on Tuesday and Wednesday, the 19th and 20 March as I'll be traveling to Sydney for some crypto policy events there, attending a few dinners and doing a bit, bunch of networking there.
00:00:28.622 - 00:01:26.684, Speaker A: Definitely, definitely looking forward to it. But yeah, I'll be back on Thursday and there should be a refuel on Monday. So just giving you a heads up there, but let's dive into this. Probably going to be longer than usual episode today to round out the week here. So you guys have had a break over the last few days from everything related to the ETH ETF's. But I'm sad to say that the break, or not sad to say, but like happy to say because I love talking about this stuff, but happy to say that the break is over because we had some stuff come out today not really directly related to the ETF's themselves, but essentially what was posted was a letter here, but from two Democrat senators sent to the SEC and Alexander Grieve here, who works at Paradigm shared this on Twitter saying that this Senator Jack Reed and Senator Laphonza, I don't know her surname here, Laphonza Butler, she and she basically put together this letter signing the SEC is not to approve any more spots crypto ETF products. Then they didn't, I don't think they specifically mentioned Ethan here.
00:01:26.684 - 00:02:09.842, Speaker A: They did talk about BTC and how that was approved, obviously recently, recently here. But yeah, they basically asked the SEC not to approve this stuff. Now for those of you who don't know, as far as I can read, Jack and the Fonza here, they're both like not high ranking Democrats. They're not like an Elizabeth Warren or something like that. They're obviously still senators, but apparently they don't really have any political sway. So some people got thinking like okay, well, why are they sending this letter to the SEC? This doesn't really make much sense. You know, do they actually just hate crypto or what's going on here? And some people were coming up with, I would probably call these some borderline conspiracy theories that the SEC actually told the senators to write this letter and to actually send it to them as proof that, you know, look, the senators don't want us to approve these things.
00:02:09.842 - 00:03:08.886, Speaker A: You know, we're not going to approve them because as I've said to you guys before, the SEC is in checkmate right now and they're trying to find any reason they can to deny the ETF's and they're trying to like jump up support for denial of the ETF's. Now, if it is true, which, as I said, this is borderline on conspiracy theory, but if it is true that this is orchestrated in the back end by the SEC, then, well, I mean, they must be truly desperate here, right? Which just increases my bull case for the ETF's getting approved on, on May 23, honestly. But regardless of that, this was posted. You can read the letter, I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But then Nate de Rossi here put together a quote, tweeted this and said, you know, where was this letter before the SEC approved ETH futures ETF's or approved the BTC futures ETF ETF's or allowed microstrategy to turn itself into a BTC ETF proxy. Or bless the IPO of coin where anyone could buy doge or allowed OTC trading of GBTC where grandma could buy a broken product in an IRA. And then he continues in another tweet where he said, none of this is about protecting investors.
00:03:08.886 - 00:03:30.554, Speaker A: It's all about politics. And I've been saying this for months now on the refill, even like when the race was on for the BTC ETF's, it's not objective analysis. It's all politics. And it's very sad what has become of these institutions here. Like, the SEC is a complete and utter joke. Like, to me, it has literally zero legitimacy left as an organization. I think that the only.
00:03:30.554 - 00:03:54.248, Speaker A: There's only like maybe a handful of people there that are legitimate, or at least like, I don't know all the people there. But like, at least the, on the commissioner side of things, Hester purse obviously is, is probably the most, most, most legitimate. But there is another republican commissioner as well. It seems pretty pro crypto. But the two democratic commissioners and Gensler, who is the chief commissioner, is also a Democrat. They're very hostile towards crypto here. Obviously toeing the party line on this.
00:03:54.248 - 00:04:27.656, Speaker A: It's just bullshit, right? Just politics. It doesn't make any sense because, as I've actually said on the refill before, why did the SEC allow, you know, these products like GBTC and Ethi and other grayscale products to exist and be traded, even though there were vastly inferior products. I mean, even just today, the ETH discount widened to 18%, again because people are now speculating that the ETF's aren't going to get approved. So the grayscale conversion won't happen until later on. What, you know, won't happen on May 23, but will happen later on. But like this, these products have just been such dog shit for investors. Like, they're both traded at premiums and discounts.
00:04:27.656 - 00:05:19.598, Speaker A: But the SEC has allowed this, allowed this to happen. You know, they approved the Coinbase IPo and then sued Coinbase over the stuff that they approved, you know, in their ipo. Like, it's just crazy, right? There's no consistency here. From a purely objective view, the consistency is really in the Democrats being hostile towards crypto. Now, speaking of the Democrats being hostile towards Crypto, Justin Slaughter, also from the paradigm VC team here, put together a thread all about crypto, crypto today with regards to how crypto is influencing opinion polls about the Republicans versus the Democrats, specifically about Trump versus Biden, obviously, because this year is an election year. Now, this tweet is the most interesting here, where Justin said, and now for something surprising. Crypto voters leaned to Biden in 2020, but now lean Trump among crypto voters, 43% recall voting for Biden in 2020, and 39% recall voting for Trump.
00:05:19.598 - 00:05:50.222, Speaker A: Now, crypto support is Trump at 48% and Biden at 39%. In a close election, this swing could be decisive. And I've said this on the refill before, that, like, a lot of these elections are generally pretty close. And if it's close enough where a few thousand votes can swing things in different jurisdictions, then this really matters. This definitely, really matters. And this is something that I believe the Democrats could have an easy win on. Honestly, approve the ETF's stop being hostile towards crypto, work with the crypto ecosystem to a draft, you know, good legislation and policy.
00:05:50.222 - 00:06:29.812, Speaker A: And, hey, these people who vote for you as Democrats, they'll just, they'll keep vote, vote, voting for you. I would actually wager that a lot of the people that have swung towards Trump now aren't necessarily swing voters, but they're going towards Trump because they know that the Biden administration is not friendly towards crypto. Right. So it actually, in my view, and based on the data here, it seems to be having a material effect. And this is one of my bull cases for the ETH getting approved on May 23, is that I figured that the SEC, Gary Gensler, you know, Elizabeth Warren, the Democrats generally would wisen up and say, okay, well, here's an easy win for us. Like, here's something we can do to increase support for us on the crypto front. Like, we can put the brakes on the anti crypto stuff.
00:06:29.812 - 00:06:46.062, Speaker A: We can approve the ETF's, right. And that's just like an easy win for them. Now, obviously, I'm not an expert on politics. I'm not an expert on the undergoings of the ongoings of the SEC and so on and so forth. But from the outside looking in and from the very outside, I'm not in the US. I'm an australian citizen. I don't vote in us elections.
00:06:46.062 - 00:07:08.594, Speaker A: But from the very outside looking in, I just, I don't know. I see it that as like an easy win for them to do this because it would get them a lot of goodwill just to stop being hostile here. Maybe they haven't seen this data yet, and hopefully they do. And hopefully they see this reflecting their, in their own polls. So they can maybe take a step back and think, okay, wow, we're actually going against the voters now. We're going against what people want. So let's like put the brakes on and be more friendly towards crypto here.
00:07:08.594 - 00:07:47.286, Speaker A: Because this, to me, is the first kind of, I think, hard data that we have with regards to the fact that this could potentially influence the election in a negative way for democrats if they keep on their hostility towards, towards crypto here. But you can read this whole thread from Justin Slaughter. It's great. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. And there was also another tweet here from Nate Jurassi sharing something that Vanek said, where Vanek said, from a market perspective, well, sorry, someone at Vanek said, from a market perspective, part of me believes that the market size for a spot ETH ETF is potentially as big, if not bigger, than the spot bitcoin ETF's. You know, that's a, that's a, it's a bit much for small potatoes, don't you think? Right. But I've always said this.
00:07:47.286 - 00:08:38.948, Speaker A: I've said that, you know, the spot ETH ETF will go live and then we'll get a staked ETH ETF later. And within a staked ETH ETF, not only do you get the or within both the ETF's, actually. So with the spot ETF, what you get is you get spot exposure to ETH and you get a deflationary ETH right? So you're basically getting a stock buyback, essentially because of the fact that ETH, I mean, it's not a one to one stock buyback. Obviously, Ethereum isn't going and directly purchasing ETH using the treasury or using its own cash, but it works the same way where every time someone uses the Ethereum network, we burn like 70% to 80% of the fees there. And that, that leads us to a deflationary ETH. So with a normal spot ETH ETF, you get exposure to that, right? And that can be marketed to clients of these ETF issuers, like van X, for example. Then later on, when a staking ETF gets approved, not only do you get the deflationary ETH and the stock buyback, but you also get a yield on top of that.
00:08:38.948 - 00:08:58.968, Speaker A: I'm telling you guys, this product is something that Tradfi would absolutely love to have in order to shield to their investors like this. There's nothing better than this. Like, I can't begin to describe you how much the older generations love yield. Like they absolutely fucking love yield. And it's not even just the old generations, younger ones too. The ones that don't understand crypto or maybe don't want to take as much risk. They love yield.
00:08:58.968 - 00:09:17.120, Speaker A: They love dividends, they love stock buybacks. They love this shit. And like, bitcoin can't offer that. Like, bitcoin doesn't have staking. There's no yield to BTC, and it's not deflationary. What BTC can offer, to be fair to it, is like an analogy towards digital gold. But I don't think a lot of people really resonate too much with gold, honestly.
00:09:17.120 - 00:09:53.166, Speaker A: I think they resonate more with productive assets and things that are more of a tech play because ETH is a tech play as much as it is a store of value money play in my mind. And that can be marketed that way by these ETF issuers. They can market any way they want, but I believe that's what they're going to do here. So, yeah, the ETH ETF's, even just the normal ones and non staked ones could potentially be bigger than bitcoin ETF's if marketed correctly, in my opinion here. And I'm glad to see Vanek say that as well there and then. The last thing on the ETF stuff here is just a tweet from Eric Connor where he was going back and forth with Paul Greyl in a tweet thread. Paul Greyl being the chief legal officer of of Coinbase, where he asked him a question for you.
00:09:53.166 - 00:10:17.016, Speaker A: If the SEC were to deny the ETF based on poor reasoning, do you see a similar legal battle playing out like BTC? And Paul says one word. Yes. Now, obviously we can speculate here on what this means. Obviously, Paul believes that grayscale. Maybe not obviously. Maybe I am speculating a little bit here, but I think that Paul believes that Grayscale would immediately sue the SEC over this. Like, I strongly believe that the grayscale would immediately sue them.
00:10:17.016 - 00:11:22.600, Speaker A: But the more interesting speculative stuff here is if Coinbase would sue them, because Coinbase isn't one of the issuers. Right. But Coinbase is very tightly coupled to the issuers because they are the custody provider. And they've also done their own analysis between the correlation between spot, beat spot ETF's and futures ETF's. And they were in a meeting with the SEC just the other day alongside Grayscale, talking about these correlations and how they're very tightly coupled, and how with denying the ETF's based on a lack of correlation between futures and spot wouldn't really make any sense. So when you take that view and you look at what Paul's saying here, how, like, amazing would it be? I mean, hopefully we don't actually have to go down this path, but how amazing would it be if the SEC was to deny the ETH ETF's and then they just get double sued straight away by Coinbase and grayscale? Like that would send an extremely strong and powerful message to, you know, basically all of the crypto ecosystem, but also to those agencies that it's not just grayscale, it's also Coinbase that is willing to stick up for themselves. And keep in mind, there is an active SEC case against Coinbase right now as well, which I've long held the belief that Coinbase is going to win based on, you know, the arguments that they present in court.
00:11:22.600 - 00:12:14.890, Speaker A: Or maybe it just gets thrown out as well because it's a baseless case against Coinbase. But it's interesting to see, you know, if that becomes reality. Now, obviously, I hope that it doesn't, because I would just hope that they approve the ETF's and we can stop speculating. But speculating here, and I'm speculating that if they were to be denied, Coinbase would also sue the SEC based on that 100% think that Grayscale will do it. But yeah, I think Coinbase is actually another party that would do it here, even not as an issuer that would sue over the fact that hey, you know, you made the wrong decision here based on the law. You know, we're going to fight it such and such whatever, because Coinbase actually has a lot to gain from this too. Not just from the custody perspective, but when the staked ETF's eventually gets and get approved, Coinbase would probably be the majority player that stakes the ETH on behalf of the ETF issuers clients, right? So they'll do the custody and then the staking at the same time, and then they'll be able to make fees from staking as well as their custody service.
00:12:14.890 - 00:12:48.418, Speaker A: So when you look at it like that, Coinbase has so much to gain here, and also they're building a L2 on ethereum like they're all in on theorem. So they have as much to gain here as anyone else when it comes to these ETH ETF's being approved. But anyway, that's enough on the ETF stuff again today. Moving on to some core dev related stuff. So there was an all core devs call that happened. This is the first one post den coon. They obviously discussed everything got to do with Den Kun on the call and everything around it, such as, you know, how the fees dropped, how blobs are going initially, obviously hasn't been very long, but how blobs are going so on and so forth.
00:12:48.418 - 00:13:24.922, Speaker A: You can read Tim Bicho's third for a full breakdown of this. I'm just going to quickly go over this. There was also discussions about EIP 3074, which I'll get into in a sec, which is the account obstruction EIP. There was a lot of discussions around that actually. There was discussions around inclusion lists and I think that there is a little bit more noise being made about Max EB or Max effective balance. I don't know if it was on this call, but I'm seeing core devs kind of pick up chatter around Max EB, which is great because if for those of you who watched the Den Koon livestream the other day, I actually shield Max EB on there directly to the core developers. I was just like guys, like I really think that Max EB should be prioritized for Petra.
00:13:24.922 - 00:13:53.224, Speaker A: Hopefully we can get it done and get it shipped because I think it'd be a huge net benefit to the network. So I'm not going to take credit, but I'm glad to see more and more people talking about it there. But you can check out Tim's thread, I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But ERP 3074. So this is the account abstraction EIP that has been talked about for quite a while. A lot of people want this eip to go into the network because it basically supercharges normal EOA accounts or externally owned addresses. So sorry, externally owned accounts, which is basically a normal ethereum address.
00:13:53.224 - 00:14:29.982, Speaker A: So when you just create a normal address in metamask, for example, that is what we call an EOA or an externally owned account. Whereas there are other things like smart contract accounts which are part of smart wallets, such as argent, for example. And you know, I think Coinbase has their own implementation, a bunch of other wallets as well. But with ERP 3074, we basically supercharge eoas with abilities such as the ability to do a token approval and a swap in one transaction instead of having to do it across multiple transactions. So there's stuff like that, but it also enhances the user security. But don't let me butcher the explanation of what it is. Dan Finlay from Metamask put together a thread on EIP 3074 that you can read.
00:14:29.982 - 00:14:51.230, Speaker A: It looks like this is getting a lot of momentum here. And you can kind of see like what the, what the, what the benefits, what the benefits bring here. Like you can do like batching transactions, sponsored trend transactions, a proven call, which is what I just described, delegation, so on and so forth. So this is a pretty, pretty awesome EIP. There are some concerns around it. That's why it's taken so long to ship, but it is gaining momentum. So you can go check that out.
00:14:51.230 - 00:15:12.406, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, moving on to an update from Eigen layer now. This is a big update today. This is their roadmap towards their Eigen layer main net here. So this has been a long time coming. Obviously, Eigen layer has been in the works for quite a while now. You've got Eigen Da also going live with Eigen layer here.
00:15:12.406 - 00:15:35.628, Speaker A: And there's all the details in the thread, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. But the, I guess like rollout's going to be in phases. So the final testnet is going to launch very shortly. So on the whole ski testnet before the mainnet deployment, there is a contract pause coming up. Gradual operator registration for operators on the network. Eigen da launch will happen with a throughput of ten megabytes per second. That's huge, guys.
00:15:35.628 - 00:16:12.882, Speaker A: Like ten megabytes per second is absolutely massive. To give you some context here of what that kind of compares to when it comes to something like blobs. So blobs were a massive upgrade, but in terms of what blobs you what the blob throughput is, blobs are I think 32 kb/second like a big upgrade. But Eigen da is ten megabytes per second. Now of course this is off chain da. It's not equivalent to Ethereum DA, you know. But as I've said before, I think Eigen Da is going to be one of the most kind of secure because it uses, or will use a similar node operator set to Ethereum, as well as using restaked e to secure itself.
00:16:12.882 - 00:16:44.508, Speaker A: Obviously that economic security is a big deal there and then the main net launch will be completed after that there. Now in terms of timelines here, I didn't see any timelines on the tweets and on the blog post. I'm not entirely sure. Last I heard I think it was around q two, and I can't remember where I heard that. I don't know if I heard that privately or publicly. So maybe I'm leaking a bit of alpha there, but it seems like I think they're targeting Q two for launch here and, and maybe I saw that privately. So again, yeah, maybe I'm leaking some alpha here, but it's finally time, guys, for Eigen layer to launch.
00:16:44.508 - 00:17:07.226, Speaker A: Now, in terms of. I think that obviously everyone's expecting there to be a token because of the points. I don't know when that's going to happen. Maybe it happens when they launch, maybe it doesn't, I don't know. So I don't think they've actually even announced their token yet, to be honest. Like even though they've said, I mean, even though they're doing points campaign, everyone assumes they're going to have a token. I haven't announced it yet as far as I know, but this is just the roadmap of how they're getting to mainnet and how Inda is coming online.
00:17:07.226 - 00:17:37.383, Speaker A: And I can't wait for it. Honestly, guys, like this is a new era for Ethereum as much as I guess like blobs are, as much as obviously the merge was, because restaking as a primitive is massive. I mean, we all know this by now, it's just a massive primitive. It unlocks so many new use cases for Ethereum and it really starts the restaking era of Ethereum. And we're going to have a lot of cool stuff happening, obviously a lot of risky stuff happening, a lot of concerns that we're going to address over time, but it's all happening very, very soon. So you can go check out this from Eigen layer. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so.
00:17:37.383 - 00:18:08.100, Speaker A: All right. Speaking of roadmaps, Opal announced today, or introduced today, their R and D roadmap for Obel, the distributed validator protocol. So they say here, the DB protocol will be the foundation for a credibly neutral trust minimize infrastructure layer for Ethereum. So as I've said to you guys before, oh is not just a piece of infrastructure that you can plug into your nodes or do squad staking with. It is also going to be a network. So Obel 2.0 is going to be called the distributed validator protocol or you know, sometimes known as v two.
00:18:08.100 - 00:18:43.920, Speaker A: It's a research and specification effort started by Oval and nevermind for a middleware specification for distributed validators. So you can think of this as something like a chain link. Chain link is considered a middleware for Ethereum because it provides oracles. I know chain link is a lot more than middleware, but you know, traditionally, if you're just looking at chain link as an oracle provider rather than the lots of things that chain link does, to be fair, that's the way to think about it there. So that's similar to what ooh is doing here now in this, I guess, blog post they outlined the roadmap. I remember I went over this the other day as well. They've got like a very similar roadmap diagram here to what Ethereum has with different, different sets of items here, which you can go check out.
00:18:43.920 - 00:19:07.624, Speaker A: But in this post they detail those items. So if you're interested in learning more about Obel and all of their plans, you can go check this out for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. And just another disclosure here, I'm an investor in Obel and I should have disclosed I'm an investor in Eigen layer as well. Apologies for not disclosing that before. I sometimes forget. But you know, it's funny, I've been following oval for so long now, and I think when I invested in them was such a long time ago, like it was one of my first angel investments.
00:19:07.624 - 00:19:31.716, Speaker A: Actually, um, if I'm, if I'm kind of thinking about it now, I think I invested in them in October 2021. So it's been over two years now. So they've been heads down building for such a long time now. But it's great to see it's, it's really great to see them making a lot of progress here and seeing their technology used as well. I mean, Lido's using it. I think Rocketpool's going to integrate with it, solo stake is obviously integrating with it and so on and so forth. So it's been great to see all of that.
00:19:31.716 - 00:20:07.594, Speaker A: But you can go check this out for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, speaking of staking, Cody here from smoothly has given us an update on Farcaster today where he said a quick update as to the donations that came in from the den Cohen poa den Koon poop. So those of you who don't know, you have to send 0.003 ETH to an address to get your Denkun po up. Now, the ETH went to the smoothly address, which is going to be put into the smoothly pool, so that if you're a solo staker and you connect to this smoothly pool, which is basically a smoothing pool for solo stakers, you get a share in these rewards. So right now the funds are 6.8
00:20:07.594 - 00:20:37.010, Speaker A: ETH and rising. They're going to be transferred to the pool before the end of the next reward cycle, which is happening in less than 48 hours. I think it's going to be like 36 hours now. And if you're a solo staker, you still have time to join smoothly and get a share of these donations. So all you have to do is go to smoothly money. Follow the instructions there. And if you join that smoothing pool, it's, it's very similar to the rocket pool smoothing pool where basically everyone shares the execution rewards, but the yield can be juiced by things like, you know, pop, I guess ETH going to.
00:20:37.010 - 00:20:59.346, Speaker A: Oh, sorry. ETH people use to buy this up going as part of donations and then other donations that can go to that pool as well. So, yeah, I mean, I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to guys check out. But yeah, this is something for you solo stakers out there to go join. All right, so on to l two s. So blobs, they've been live for 24 hours. I think all of the major networks are now live with it.
00:20:59.346 - 00:21:32.076, Speaker A: Arbitrary is, but I'll talk about that in a sec. But first thing is here from Michael Silberling. So he decomposed op chains on chain costs by the source of fees. So previously this was bundled in l one data fees, but now l one call data used to be 99% of costs. Now it's 0% because they're using blobs instead of call data, the l one overhead is up from 1% to 70%. Blob gas is 0% for now, and state proposals accounting for now as well in this chart as you can see. I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to check out.
00:21:32.076 - 00:22:07.140, Speaker A: There's also a dashboard here for you to check. Now, I wanted to springboard off of this into another thing with regards to an op stack chain in base, so you guys would have seen some. I don't know if I call it FuD, but like some confusion on Twitter over the last 24 hours about how bases fees went up, like dramatically. I think they went up to like $0.30 from once into whatever it was. Now, the reason for this was not because of blobs going up in price. It was because on an l two, just to simplify it like this is, I mean, on a roll up, I should say just to simplify it, there are mainly two, I guess, like costs here.
00:22:07.140 - 00:22:41.668, Speaker A: There's the l one cost, the cost of settlement, essentially putting your data on there, on the l one, putting your proofs on the l one, whatever other things you put on there. And then there is the l two execution cost, which is basically the cost of processing the transactions. Now, these costs are meted in different ways based on a number of different factors. Obviously, with data, we've got blobs. Now, it's relatively simple to explain the roles, post their data to blobs, and then the blob price dictates how much that costs. The blob grape price on l one or gas price on l one dictates how that much that costs. But execution costs vary wildly across the different l two s.
00:22:41.668 - 00:23:09.244, Speaker A: And their costs here. Now, will Price put out a good tweet where he said that base transaction fees were spiking because of NFT mint celebrating lower fees, ironically, and these are the l two fees. And blobs are still cheap. So the total fees are actually still ten times lower than the pre upgrades. You can actually see the, the spike here in the fees. And that that spike was definitely due to the l two fees, the l two base fee, as you can see here on the chart, not the blob fee. So it had nothing to do with blobs.
00:23:09.244 - 00:23:41.464, Speaker A: And anyone saying that it had anything to do with blobs was wrong. Now, of course, as blobs, as there is more demand for blobs, as more, you know, as. As the l two s or the roll up start out bidding each other for blobspace the cost is going to go up over time, but it's still going to be relatively cheap. It's definitely not going to be expensive for quite a while there. But now the bottleneck kind of shifts to the execution side of things. So the l two execution costs, which are being worked on, I mean, even Jesse Pollack today tweeted out that that's what they're tackling and have been tackling for a while. But the cool thing about that is that it doesn't require a hard fork because it's the l two s.
00:23:41.464 - 00:24:15.876, Speaker A: It just requires them to upgrade their own kind of systems. It doesn't require a hard fork of l one, so which means that it can move a lot faster. Blobs obviously took multiple years to get into the network, but with the l two execution side of things, it can move incredibly fast. Guys, like, I'm talking in a matter of like weeks or months, not years here. They can upgrade their systems. And, and this is one of the beautiful things about the roll up centric roadmap, where essentially we've pushed all this stuff to l two s that can move a lot faster without having to go through the entire ethereum one governance process, which takes years. You guys know how slow it is, and it's slow by design.
00:24:15.876 - 00:24:36.704, Speaker A: Don't get me wrong. It's not a, it's not a bug. It's a, it's a feature. But still, that's not, that's, that's not necessarily a feature for l two s. Obviously, because the l two s want to be able to move fast. They want to be able to upgrade their systems, and that's exactly what they're going to be able to do on the execution side of things here. So if you did see that fud, I guess, on Twitter, that hopefully clears up the confusion for you guys there.
00:24:36.704 - 00:24:58.308, Speaker A: But those are the two kind of high level things. There's the l one costs, and then the l two costs. Like they're, they're separate a lot of the times. Um, and the l two, like the blobs didn't do. Didn't do anything for the l two execution cost. It was all about the l one data costs there. Now, speaking of blobs, Arbitrum's Arbos 20 atlas is now live on arbitrum one.
00:24:58.308 - 00:25:22.444, Speaker A: Blobs are, in effect, reducing data posting costs. I believe someone said that it costs like about $0.01 or something to, to use arbitram one right now to do a few things like sending tokens and stuff like that. Maybe it's a bit more expensive for swaps. But the cool thing about this is that this is only part one of Arbitrum's upgrade here. They also have additional gas fee reductions happening on March 18. Now, these gas fee reductions happening on March 18 are on the execution side of things.
00:25:22.444 - 00:25:46.964, Speaker A: So these are on the arbitrum one side of things rather than the l one side of things with blobs, which, which is a perfect example of what I was just saying before about how there are different costs here. And that's happening on March 18. Now, I believe they're lowering like the minimum gas price. You have to pay the minimum gray price from, from one to 0.1. So that's a 90% reduction there. That does not mean that the fees are going to come down 90%, but that's, that's the kind of reduction there. I think there's one other way they're doing it as well.
00:25:46.964 - 00:26:33.182, Speaker A: But if you want to know all about that, you can read it in their blog post, which they, they posted today, as well as the Twitter thread, which I'll link in the, the YouTube description below. But yeah, this just perfectly illustrates my point that the l two s can lower fees on their own, on their own execution side of things, and they can also lower fees on the l one side of things, too. They can just do more compression on their data. They can just, essentially, maybe they don't post their data every block or every few blocks. Maybe they wait like a couple minutes or something like that. Like for optimistic roll ups, for example, they can actually wait up to seven days because there's a seven day dispute period there. Obviously, we don't want them doing that because it's less secure and it affects things like, sorry, less secure and it affects things like guarantees around the security of the system.
00:26:33.182 - 00:27:15.672, Speaker A: But they could technically do that because there's a seven day challenge period there. So they're able to post that or wait that kind of whole seven days there. But, and I guess like similarly, ZK chains can do this as well, but it works differently where if they don't post their data, you won't be able to have those fast withdrawals. So, for example, you won't be able to withdraw until the data is posted to the l one because obviously with optimistic, well, ops, withdrawal takes seven days if you go through the standard route instead of using a bridge. Whereas ZK roll ups are faster, but they're only faster if you post the data right. If the data is there to be able to, to exit to the l one. But yeah, anyway, you can go read arbitrum's Twitter thread, I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so.
00:27:15.672 - 00:27:46.904, Speaker A: But as far as I know, that is all the major l two s now that has supporting blobs. So go forth my friends, go forth. Use whatever l two that you like using, whatever roll up you like using. Enjoy the cheap fees because they're only going to get cheaper from here, obviously. Like it's going to get more expensive probably in the short to medium term as blob demand goes up. But in terms of laying the groundwork for what's to come, peer Das increasing the size of blobs, full dank sharding, like that's all coming in the next hopefully couple of years, I think. And I think peer Das could even go live with Petra.
00:27:46.904 - 00:28:22.388, Speaker A: And if it does go live in Pektra, that means in less than a year's time we get another order of magnitude increase in scalability. Because peer Das is basically a simplified version of data availability sampling, where essentially the way it works is that not every node would have to store the blobs, even like, obviously blobs expire after 18 days, but we split it up. This is the original kind of vision of sharding, right? And doing that with data. Sharding is Ethereum's roadmap here. We basically split it up. But you can also always have guarantees that the data is available using, I believe, the cryptography that was part of the KZG ceremony using that. So we've already done the KZG ceremony, which is already in the protocol now.
00:28:22.388 - 00:28:56.886, Speaker A: So when you look at it from that perspective, like, we could be looking at another order of magnitude increase in scalability on the data side in less than a year. So that's why I'm saying like, the bottleneck is now moved the execution side for the l two s. And this is actually where a lot of the non evm l two s are going to shine, because they're not limited by the EVM's execution limitations. Obviously the EVM is being worked on in a really big way. Monad is doing it at l one, that apparently they've achieved 10,000 tps on the EVM, which is a pretty big feat. But we'll see that's on their testnet, we'll see what it's like on Mainnet. And there's also another project called Mega ETH that's building a L2 parallel EVM.
00:28:56.886 - 00:29:28.910, Speaker A: So we're going to see what their gains are there. I think they claim to be able to do like 100,000 tps or something like that, but obviously, until it gets the main net, we don't know. But when data is no longer the bottleneck and the bottleneck is execution, then the best execution layers are the ones that are going to be able to offer the best kind of scalability guarantees. And the EVM definitely falls into that because the EVM is always improving. Then you have eclipse with the SVM, you have fluent with ZK WaSm, you have movement with move. Like this is where it kind of shifts to now. And it's going to be very interesting to see the, how that all works across, across the L two landscape there.
00:29:28.910 - 00:29:59.970, Speaker A: All right, one of the last things on blobs is ultrasound money. Updated their website to now have a blob gas price and blob burn metric tracker now live. So if you go to ultrasound money and scroll down a little bit, you can see what the blob fees look like over time. And the blob, blob gas markets and the blob fee burn now, because the gas fees on the blob fee market are still very low, averaging about one way or something like that, like very, very small. And we've only got one day of data. This isn't really going to show you anything. And the total fee burn is absolutely tiny, like 2.13
00:29:59.970 - 00:30:12.706, Speaker A: way. That's like nothing, like zero point. Yeah. And there's basically nothing. Right. But, but as time goes on, you know, weeks and months go on, we're going to see this. Obviously, I'll populate with more data, then we're going to see what the, the burn looks like.
00:30:12.706 - 00:30:58.296, Speaker A: Because do keep in mind it's using the same ERP 15 fee mechanism as a normal fee market, which means that we're going to burn fees. But the whole point is that blobs are going to be cheap, so it's not going to burn as much fees. The majority, I mean, 99% of the burns still going to come from normal L1 transactions, but that's the way it's, it's kind of been designed here, but just wanted to put that on your radar. It is live now, but we're going to have to obviously wait a few days, you know, at least a few days, you know, weeks, months for us to get some accurate data on this here. All right, just wanted to give a kind of shout out here to Eric's tweet that he put out about Rabbi. Now, Rabi is a wallet that I've talked about a lot on the refuel before, but this basically more so talks about the Ux of Altoos. And I guess like how Eric has been testing them recently with blobs going live.
00:30:58.296 - 00:31:20.384, Speaker A: He's been testing a lot of l two s. So the cool thing about Rabi and Eric says it here, it's abstracted away a lot of the L2 user experience pain. He says, I have Ethan this wallet on five different l two s for blob testing. Unless I click it, it's all combined. Depending on the network picked on dapps, Rabbi automatically just uses that network. More of this, please. So I've said this for years now.
00:31:20.384 - 00:31:54.352, Speaker A: The abstraction happens at the wallet level, guys. At the interface level, it does not happen at the protocol level for the majority, vast majority of things. And that means there's a lot more freedom in what these, how these wallets can do things. Because you can see here that Eric's got a balance of like $1,000 on all these l two s. But then he only knows what he has on each l two if he clicks on it. And then it shows you, he's got, you know, 280, $80 on main net, 230 on op, 168 on base, so on and so forth. But then, as he said, that whichever network that he's using and whatever dapps that he's using, Rabbi will just automatically take the funds from where they are.
00:31:54.352 - 00:32:14.676, Speaker A: And then obviously it'll alert you if you need to bridge funds across. This is a huge layer of abstraction. This is not like metamask, where it'll basically not show you any funds unless you're actually selected that chain from the drop down menu that you have and go to that chain. It won't just automatically use that chain. It'll tell you to switch the network if it needs you to switch a network. But that's not good ux. What rabbi does is good ux.
00:32:14.676 - 00:32:51.030, Speaker A: And it's much better ux than, than the other wallets out there. And I do think this is going to be the UX that all the wallets eventually go with. Rabbi's just pioneering it here. But I just wanted to highlight that for you guys, because it speaks to what I've been saying for a long time, that abstraction is the way, this is how we solve scalability kind of issues. This is how we solve the issues of fragmentation. Well, one of the ways, I mean, there are obviously other ways, but this is one of the big ways that we do it at the user interface level here. Alright, last thing on blobs I've just got this thread here from Burt Miller, who works at flashbots, where he said, this is a brief thread on 4844 and block building.
00:32:51.030 - 00:33:33.008, Speaker A: Blobs add significant additional size to blocks. That size adds significant extra latency to building while builders are in a cutthroat competition to reduce latency. Now, I'm not going to read the whole thread, you can check it out for yourself. But I just wanted to put this on your radar because it's an interesting thread where essentially, because blobs, as Burt says, yeah, increases the size of blocks, it means that validators have to do more work. I mean, it takes longer to propagate blocks around the network. It means that builders have to do more work to build blocks and essentially give up precious time that could be used doing other things like building more profitable blocks. And that may mean that sometimes they choose to just drop blobs and say, okay, well, you're not paying a high enough kind of fee here in order to be included in my blockchain.
00:33:33.008 - 00:34:04.502, Speaker A: So I'm just going to like, punt you to the next block because there's another opportunity here. This isn't just exclusive to blobs. Pretty much like, it works like this across the whole network. That's the whole reason that we have priority fees where you pay more to get included. But Bert argues that the, the L2's posting blobs should pay a premium for these block builders to basically forego any other profit that they could be making by spending more time building a block that has blobs in it. So it's going to be interesting to see how the game theory works around that. Right now, we haven't seen any of the builders kind of like dropping blobs or not prioritizing blobs.
00:34:04.502 - 00:34:30.750, Speaker A: But yeah, it's an interesting game, theoretical kind of thing to think about. But anyway, I'll link this tweet thread in the YouTube description below from Bert for you to check out. All right, last up here before I end today's. Today's refuel. So Defcon is happening on the 12th to 15 November, as we all know, in Bangkok, Thailand. Well, today they announced the venue. So the venue is going to be they at the Queen Syracuse national convention center.
00:34:30.750 - 00:34:52.118, Speaker A: I probably said that word wrong, but hey, that's where it's happening. So I don't know this venue at all. I've never been to. To Thailand or to Bangkok, so I'm very much looking forward to going and seeing what the kind of like, vibes like, what the environment's like and everything. Hope to see a lot of you there. I mean, this is, we're going to be one of the only conferences I go to this year, honestly. It's relatively close to me, which is nice as well.
00:34:52.118 - 00:35:17.442, Speaker A: But yeah. If you want the full details on this, I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But I can't wait for Defcon, honestly. Defcon seven. This will be my first Defcon since Osaka in 2019. So it's been, it'll be a have been five years by the time this rolls around that I haven't been to a DEfcon, obviously, because DeF Con got cancelled because of COVID and then they ended up having it in Colombia and I didn't go to that one. And now we have it happening in, in, in Thailand towards the end of this year here.
00:35:17.442 - 00:35:28.514, Speaker A: But, yeah, I think on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all next week. Thanks, everyone.
