00:00:00.160 - 00:01:09.114, Speaker A: My name is Piers kicks and I sort of spend a lot of time on various gaming initiatives across ventures, research and increasingly media as well. Coming off the back of 2021, where there was this massive sort of speculative fervor, largely driven by the sort of rise of Axie earlier in the year, really turning the sort of heads of the more traditional games industry. I think we saw by the end of the year, by sort of November, December, even heading into January of this year, over 50% of all deals being funded in crypto were game related. So obviously we saw this tremendous wave of interest. Gaming as a sector has definitely taken a massive hit. I think people are slowly sort of waking up to the idea that these sort of 50 to 100 x token multiples before we even have anything playable, sort of aren't a meta that's going to persist. I think it's pretty clear that we're well within the sort of trough of disillusionment, if you like, within this hype cycle, and that's fine.
00:01:09.114 - 00:01:57.828, Speaker A: I think a lot of the games teams that we've seen moving into the space is super encouraging. But yeah, I think, as I say, the reality is that it's going to take time to build these things out. And so that's one of the things we're tracking is just this sort of mismatch in terms of the broader market perception of a lot of people feeling pretty lackluster towards the. Towards the crypto gaming space. But we're actually pretty excited by the conversations we're having with a number of these, you know, sort of world class developers who have moved into the space, who have been a bit more patient and slow to react. And, you know, some of them have gotten super deep in the trenches and literally spoken to 200 plus teams and sort of learned all we can from, you know, this early cycle of crypto gaming. And I think a lot of those learning is going to translate very well into this sort of next cohort of games.
00:01:57.828 - 00:03:00.234, Speaker A: But as anyone who's spent time in the more traditional game space will know, it's 24, 36 month plus cycles, not these kind of sub, sort of twelve month iterations. In terms of building out strong games, I think we've very much drawn the attention of the more mainstream operators in terms of the value proposition of true digital ownership and some of these other pieces. So it's awesome to see that pretty much without fail, all of the large studios and game publishers now have an eye on this. And I think, you know, that's a testament to the sort of quality of the ideas here, one of the ones that really stood out to me is the project weberverse. I think what those guys are working on in terms of building a sort of game engine that's, you know, fully native to the web and fully built on open web standards is super exciting. You know, they have sort of native webex our support. They're deeply integrated with crypto, like, you know, to the sort of maximum amount you could be and very much intend to sort of open up that engine for broader usage and sort of building over time.
00:03:00.234 - 00:04:20.708, Speaker A: And so, so seeing the progress that those guys made with, you know, a very small amount of money in the sort of twelve or so months since they raised, you know, last year, it's definitely exciting to see the quality of games moving into the space now. And I think people are going to be pretty, pretty surprised when all of that comes together. And then additionally, like, one of the other ones that I'd love to, love to shout out is there's the guys building Vale VR, which is going to be, well, looks to be a sort of lead candidate for winning the VR shooter category. And they actually have, you know, sort of inclination and an eye on crypto, which has been interesting to see. As it stands, it's not like a deep or core sort of proposition to their game, but messing around with bail this year, they recently hosted the first proper VR first person shooter esports tournament. Barring the obvious restrictions that come in terms of distribution platforms around, let's say, the Oculus store and other places, I'm intrigued to see what they might do in terms of weaving crypto, weaving digital collectibles into that over time. I don't think that their concerns are misplaced because, you know, crypto is a tool just like any other thing, right? And I think it can be used for great good and I think it can be used for great harm.
00:04:20.708 - 00:05:11.282, Speaker A: I don't want to point the finger and suggest this is the way it's going at all. But, you know, one case in point that I'm definitely watching heading into 2023 is Gabe Laden's company limit break. You know, they did this big multi hundred million dollar raise and have released their first project, which is, I think, Digidgekus. I forget the exact pronunciation of it, but I've already blown up quite substantially. Gabe's former company, Machine Zone, completely cracked the free to play mobile monetization formula. There was leagues ahead of everyone else as it relates to that, and a lot of those were very aggressive and predatory monetization practices. Right? So it remains to be seen as what I'll say, whether or not that's the path one of the more prominent, better funded projects is going to go down, I certainly hope not.
00:05:11.282 - 00:05:48.826, Speaker A: Right. I think one of the reasons many of us are so excited about crypto gaming is that there is the possibility of a much more elegant and equitable sort of alignment between all the stakeholders in the ecosystem, the investors, the players and the developers. Right. And so that's kind of the model that I think we're going to validate and prove out over time. For a long while, I thought it was a case of just sort of blabbering on at people and writing blogs and stuff, and that would change perceptions from the mainstream gamer. It's clear that's not the case. I think, you know, it's really up to us, you know, as an industry, to actually build something that shows and demonstrates beyond review why this stuff is so interesting in games.
00:05:48.826 - 00:06:20.058, Speaker A: And so to the skeptic, to the 2022 cohort of crypto game skeptics, I say, I don't know, I get it. Hang in there. We're working on it. I think, you know, within the next year or two, we'll have some stuff that really demonstrates why we're so excited. But I totally get why there are reservations at this point. And I still think most people's primary exposure to crypto gaming, if you type it in on YouTube, blockchain gaming, crypto gaming, whatever, it will make you 100 x looking shots. A lot of it still feels like it's trying to sell you something and force it down your throat.
00:06:20.058 - 00:06:57.562, Speaker A: And I totally get that. I totally acknowledge that. I think we haven't done a good job as an industry of communicating this stuff effectively so far. Certainly something I hope we're going to improve on the Delphi side, but yeah, I think we're honestly not far away from the products that really demonstrate this stuff firsthand. So in terms of things that are going to drive the next couple of million people, honestly, I'm not sure that 2023 is the year for it. I think a lot of the teams that I'm really excited about are heads down and they're well underway in their dead cycle. You know, they've got Runway.
00:06:57.562 - 00:07:45.044, Speaker A: They built the teams a lot. We've seen a massive talent influx from the traditional game space. I mean, some really senior developers from Riot, from Activision, from EA, you name it. So the talent's there, the teams have been built. These people are heads down. I'm, you know, I wouldn't necessarily bet that we see the next breakout in terms of long term sustainable title, because I just think the ones that are going to drive that, that I've got my eye on aren't quite going to be ready yet. What I will say in terms of who might do that is this sort of next cohort of high quality games who are sort of like the ones that came and started building just after Axie, if you like, and sort of caught the tail end of a lot of the excitement around 2021, namely the three sort of coming to market like embersword, alluvium and guild of guardians.
00:07:45.044 - 00:08:21.150, Speaker A: They're all within probably six months of having publicly playable stuff. Again. We've been following along with the builds there. They're looking extremely polished. The reception of stuff like alluvium in those, you know, like the streaming communities that are sort of being targeted has been really positive so far. Embersword hasn't really teased too much yet, but that's a proper fleshed out, large scale, sort of MMORPG coming to market that they've done insane work in terms of their web engine and how smoothly that runs across any device. I really think these things are technically equipped to accommodate a mainstream audience.
00:08:21.150 - 00:09:12.024, Speaker A: Whether or not it's gonna be the year where the perceptions flip and the marketing's right and it hits the right kind of thread with the mainstream game and remains to be seen. So, yeah, I don't wanna say that it's not gonna be the year that we have this big blowout case, but I feel like, as I say, the bulk of the teams that have been funded is still gonna be heads down for 2023. This next cohort of sort of strong titles coming to market. Those three I just mentioned, I think will be really interesting to keep an eye on. Given the sheer amount of funding that's gone into crypto gaming and the sheer number of projects coming to market in the coming years, it's definitely difficult to stay on top of things. We are putting out a monthly Delphi gaming newsletter that draws attention to upcoming mints, betas, things like that. So that's a pretty strong way to keep tabs on what's happening and have a bird's eye view on the market.
00:09:12.024 - 00:10:10.232, Speaker A: Beyond that, like, a lot of these teams are choosing to stay in stealth and, you know, would rather sort of start the marketing wheel when, you know, more of the game is actually built out and they have more to show and so can probably expect to see a lot of that coming in the later half of 2023. I think this notion of interoperability is still an interesting one. We're years away from what it's, you know, usually touted as. Unless it's like, you know, a small group of games that agree to opt into something like that. But I think some of the stuff that's going to be unlocked through that over time is going to be very interesting, especially as it relates to these people building foundational platform layers of different creator ecosystems. So that might be something that looks like a Roblox or a Fortnite creative. It might be something that looks like building a counter strike style game engine that everyone can build maps for, gun attachment skins and things like that.
00:10:10.232 - 00:11:13.490, Speaker A: I think that kind of world where you can really unlock and turn the whole creative side of things over to the community with no code or low code tooling to do so, is going to be super interesting to see. And I think the reason that crypto is going to prevail in that world is because of this amazing sort of granularity that you can get in terms of royalties and how creative fees basically are sort of streamlined across perhaps many different derivative creations. If I'm an asset designer that creates even a texture pack, if I model that and it ends up being used, then, you know, a thousand different games, then in some ways basically be able to track the sort of monetary flows across all of those and, like, have everyone come in real time. I think that's a pretty interesting and exciting vision. But, yeah, there shouldn't be any distinction by them between, you know, crypto games and non crypto games. I think it would be extremely exciting to see Epic push out something. Some first party support of some, you know, digital collectibles, some crypto related stuff.
00:11:13.490 - 00:12:24.252, Speaker A: You know, Fortnite, still a huge game, multi billion dollars a year and so of microtransactions for in game goods. I think starting to maybe not sell stuff upfront, but starting to drip digital collectibles into the game could be really interesting. The way I see something like that potentially playing out is around, let's say, the Fortnite world championships. Again, someone might be able to own the skin used or the item used by the winning player. I feel like this is the kind of way that they might actually start dripping provenance and digital ownership into an economy like that without actually selling stuff upfront, which, again, might upset the audience and the player base if they feel like they're just having stuff, you know, sold to them again. And then just to, you know, further add to that, I think it was Tim Sweeney's 2019 SIGGRAPH talk where he really demonstrated the insane depth of his knowledge technically of decentralized systems. He was like, you know actually has a really amazing understanding of it and kind of drew out these two paths towards like you the longer view of actually getting to a sort of state of the art chain that's quick enough and scalable enough to actually accommodate what we need in some of these economies.
00:12:24.252 - 00:12:55.174, Speaker A: And the other one is the sort of more federated model right? A sort of consortium of large game studios and publishers who all opt in to sort of maintaining this chain that does meet the technical requirements but probably sacrifices on decentralization to do so. I think that would be a really interesting step right? And it's like one of those wild cards that if one day Epic said we've been working on a consortium with Sony and some others I'd be like you know that would signify that would be a huge step towards mass adoption in my eyes but let's see, one can only hope.
