00:00:00.250 - 00:00:39.314, Speaker A: GM. And welcome back to another explainer with the Defiant. We're continuing with our comprehensive tutorial videos, which dive deep into DeFi projects and show you exactly how to navigate them with a step by step guide. As you will have seen in the title, today's video is sponsored by Tranche S, but naturally we've done all the research and created it in house as the defiant team, while of course adhering to our standards of objectivity. So let's get started now. As the name suggests, tranche is indeed a chess themed defi protocol, and it expands the allure of liquid staking on Ethereum and BNB chain. But what really sets tranches apart from other liquid staking protocols like lido or Rocketpool? The answer lies in the word tranche.
00:00:39.314 - 00:01:22.870, Speaker A: The word itself comes from tradfi, and it means a portion of the main fund. Tranches offers different risk tranches of the original fund based on the investor's preferred risk level. This is something that both DeFi and traditional investors find very appealing. And before we dive deeper into tranches and tranching, let's first understand the value of liquid staking and what actually makes it so appealing to investors. So liquid staking was born as a function of Ethereum's lockup mechanism, and LSDs allow users to earn staking rewards without actually locking up their assets for a long period of time. The system works by letting users deposit ETH into a smart contract, then giving the user a token which represents the staked ETH with which they can then go and generate staking rewards. Simple.
00:01:22.870 - 00:02:13.410, Speaker A: With this new development, when users stake their ETH to secure the Ethereum network, these funds will remain locked until the much awaited Shanghai upgrade enables ETH stakers to withdraw both their staked ETH and the accrued staking yield, which you can't currently do. Liquid staking is like a smart trick to use your staked funds without having to unstake them from the Ethereum network. And such protocols serve as middlemen in three rather clever ways. On behalf of stakers, liquid staking protocols deposit their ether in the beacon chain to secure the network and earn staking yields. In turn, they mint liquid staking tokens equal in value to the deposited funds. For example, the largest staked ETH token from Lido, represented by an St prefix or tranches'q, ETH, and then as fund liberators. Such protocols are typically linked to Defi's lending DApps or other utilities.
00:02:13.410 - 00:03:07.638, Speaker A: And as the cherry on top liquid staking protocols help decentralize the network by allocating ETH to different node operators, per the minimum requirement of 32 ETH to actually become a node operator. Consequently, users who take advantage of liquid staking protocols can have their cake and eat it too. They contribute to securing Ethereum, and they earn rewards for doing so. This essentially means the people who use liquid staking protocols can do two things at once. They can help keep Ethereum safe and make some money on the side, while also using their staked ETH for other defi investments like trading or taking out loans. So you could say that liquid staking tokens are derivatives and that they boost the entire DeFi ecosystem with additional liquidity that would otherwise be locked behind Ethereum's staking bars. And now that we've cleared that up, what does tranches bring to the table? Well, tranches adds an exciting new twist to liquid staking by offering risk tranches of the original fund.
00:03:07.638 - 00:03:56.642, Speaker A: This means that investors can choose the level of risk that they're comfortable with and accordingly select a tranche. It's this element of choice which makes tranches an attractive option for both DeFi and traditional investors. So liquid staking demand is going to be around for a long, long time, even after the Ethereum Shanghai upgrade, because in all likelihood, users will still want to participate in the network while keeping their staked ETH available as liquid tokens. And that is where tranches comes in. Now, they've been around since June 2021, and they started offering liquid staking on BMB in 2022 before expanding to the Ethereum network in November 2022. So in principle, tranches works a lot like lido. They mint liquid tokens that represent the amount of staked ETH or BMB, and in return, users receive rewards as proxy validators.
00:03:56.642 - 00:04:48.354, Speaker A: For instance, at the initial launch, tranches mints 100 ETH as 100 q ETH, where q stands for queen, as a nod to the chess team protocol. As the value of ETH grows, so does the fair value of q ETH. In fact, over time, one q ETH can even become worth more than one ETH. And what's the best part? These liquid tokens can be used in various dapps across the Ethereum and binance ecosystems. As a decentralized protocol, tranches offers a liquidity pool in which people trade q ETH for ETH. Consequently, because ETH equivalents are often used as collateral for loans, they're typically high in demand. In turn, Q ETH holders can earn trading fees by supplying liquidity on decentralized exchanges like balancer, biswap, or even pancakeswap and beyond q ETH tokens, rook and Bishop are the novel tranche twists within tranches, and of course these are unavailable on other liquid staking platforms.
00:04:48.354 - 00:05:26.446, Speaker A: So let's now talk about how the tranche mechanisms actually work. The protocol allows you to represent ownership of ETH and BNB with Q ETH and QBNB tokens, respectively. But that's not all, because these qliquid tokens can be split into Bishop and Rook. Again, continuing with the chess theme. So Rook was created for defi investors who are looking for high risk, high return strategies, and it involves taking leverage long positions on ETH, BNB, and BTC. Essentially, you're going to be using borrowed funds to buy ETH, BNB, or BTC in the hopes that their prices will rise so you can make a profit. But you might be thinking, hold on a second, the risk of a forced liquidation is real and scary.
00:05:26.446 - 00:06:15.214, Speaker A: Luckily, trenches has an innovative solution for this. They use a combination of their rebalance model and Twap pricing time weighted average price, and they do that to ensure that there's no risk of forced liquidation. The TWAP methodology helps to lower the risk of manipulation or volatility by calculating an asset's price over a specified time interval. While the rebalance model keeps users within the transis ecosystem safe from potential volatility moves, and it maintains a good balance between the bishop and Rook. Essentially, with this system in place to protect investors, the number of tokens held by each user changes with each free balance, but the total asset value remains constant. And of course, to maintain Rook's leverage long position, there has to be an effective funding cost. This metric is in place to measure the cost of borrowed funds in order to maintain a leverage position for a specified time interval.
00:06:15.214 - 00:07:04.670, Speaker A: Rook's effective funding cost is anchored by stablecoin lending rates on popular dapps like compound and Venus. Now, what this means is that the cost of borrowing funds to maintain Rook positions is based on the interest charged for borrowing stablecoins on those protocols. And lastly, it's worth mentioning that Rook shares the queen token's staking rewards. So let me now quickly tell you about stable Bishop, and it's actually quite interesting in how it differs from Rook. You see, while Rook is a bit more aggressive in its investing strategy, Bishop is geared a bit more towards investors who are looking for more conservative approaches with lower risk. So Bishop is fully collateralized and anchored to USD, enabling users to earn interest by providing liquidity to Rook's leveraged exposure. That's pretty neat and in a way it's like a stablecoin because it's backed by ETH, BNB or BTC, and users actually get a token as a rebate for utilizing chess.
00:07:04.670 - 00:07:45.566, Speaker A: Beyond this, they're also able to earn stable interest from Rook. And another thing to note is that Bishop shares queen's staking rewards just like Rook. So if you're interested in purchasing either Rook or Bishop, you can actually do so with USDC stablecoins. What I find great about this is that investors with different risk appetites have options to suit their personal needs. And on top of liquidity staking if you're a Q ETH liquidity provider, you can earn some rewards with chess tokens, which is tranches's very own governance token. So by holding chess tokens, you can get a weekly rebate in the form of all underlying assets available on the chain. This adds up to about 50% of all fees collected within tranches, except for the gas fees on the BMB chain.
00:07:45.566 - 00:08:42.270, Speaker A: For example, rebates are in BTCB, ETH, BMB, and Busd. As of March 2023, there's about 115,000,000 chess tokens circulating out of a total supply of 300 million. Get this, the chess emission schedule is determined by a weekly vote, meaning chess holders can also have a say in Frances's operations. One thing they can do is vote every week on how to split alpha between the bishop and rook strategies. But it's worth mentioning that it wasn't always like this, because originally only Queen and Rook token holders would receive the alpha rewards. Later, in line with the community's wishes, the dev team upgraded the reward system so Bishop token holders now also get a share of the alpha earnings. So to wrap it all up, along with the baseline liquid staking via Q or queen tokens for either Ethereum or BnB chain tranches offers extra flexibility via Rook's leveraged exposure and Bishop's high yield farming.
00:08:42.270 - 00:09:39.606, Speaker A: The chess governance token gives an added layer of incentive for users to participate in the protocol, and as we just saw, this can have a significant impact on things like who actually receives the earnings payouts. So overall, we can summarize tranches as a DeFi protocol like this. You can earn staking rewards by depositing ETH or Bnb and get Q ETH and qbmb. In return, you can use Q ETH and Qbmb on a wide range of dapps. As your liquidity is freed, you can engage in high risk, high reward leverage and exposure using Rook with no forced liquidations and low funding fees. And beyond all of this, you can use the conservative bishop strategy to earn yield by lending to Rook, supported by the two top chains by market share, Ethereum and BNB chain tranches has a solid head start while giving users more ways to put their crypto funds to work. So if you're looking to put your crypto assets to work with high yield enhancing solutions, but do so without the fear of getting liquidated, trenches might be the right solution for.
