00:00:01.040 - 00:00:03.394, Speaker A: You're now plugged into the Delphi podcast.
00:00:07.534 - 00:00:19.038, Speaker B: Hello everyone, and thank you for joining us today on the Delphi podcast. Today we have Rosin Yardanov, who is a core contributor to Azuru Protocol. Thank you for joining.
00:00:19.126 - 00:00:20.754, Speaker A: Hi, Ian, thanks for having me.
00:00:21.374 - 00:00:31.136, Speaker B: So I guess to kick things off, would be great to just do a quick intro on yourself and Azuro and then we can dig into the landscape and everything else.
00:00:31.240 - 00:01:14.518, Speaker A: Yeah, sure. So I've been into crypto, I guess, personally since 20, 1720. Yeah, 2017, 2018. And professionally, I spent most of my career in online payments in a big multinational company that was in the so called high risk vertical. So it serviced like the betting gambling industry, adult with payments. So basically industries where card transactions mostly fail and you have like these payment providers and wallet providers to essentially service the industries. And yeah, during my time there also, like, we introduced crypto trading in the applications that we had.
00:01:14.518 - 00:01:49.004, Speaker A: Actually something that I worked on initially and I had it happen before, it was actually trendy. And then crypto was all around, like, and then PayPal, audited, etcetera, etcetera, something I'm proud of. And yeah, in 2020 we started, yeah, we started Azure in 2021 and we've been building it for three years. We call it the predictions layer. And I guess we're going to speak a little bit about what it means now with you.
00:01:49.304 - 00:02:15.266, Speaker B: Yeah, absolutely. And to kind of preface going deeper into Xuro, I would love to hear your thoughts around what the trajectory of predictions markets has been in crypto and kind of why it hasn't per se taken off, despite there being broader consensus around something like this needing to exist and why perhaps that's going to be different now going forward.
00:02:15.450 - 00:03:40.640, Speaker A: Yeah, sure. So I guess, like, I mean, what you're alluding to is the backdrop. Like, I mean, prediction markets were one of, I think three primitives that Vitalik kind of put in the or Vitalik and the guys put in the Ethereum white paper back in the day and algor, like, prediction markets protocol was the first ICO on Ethereum and so forth and so forth. So I think why it hasn't really become super big until now is maybe two things. One, first the tech stack, like in the early years, and just the overall experience was very, very clunky. More on site of, I guess, speed, like overall user experience, transaction cost, wallet experience, everything else, like also tooling, I guess, and congestion, all of these things, like just overall, I guess it was very early and then as a macro factor. But beyond that, I believe the other main reason is prediction markets as a concept, initially, I think, was a peer to peer markets concept where essentially you have two parties that meet their, yeah, their, their needs.
00:03:40.640 - 00:04:15.794, Speaker A: So somebody wants to say, okay, something is gonna happen, and somebody want to say, okay, this something is not gonna happen, etc. Etcetera. So they would, you know, like they would meet and their expectations about like, yeah, the probabilities of this thing happening or not. Like would be, would be similar. And then like the size in terms of their financial bet on, like, okay, it's happening or not will be similar, etcetera, etcetera. So basically you have like this peer to peer market that that works. And, and I think that's a pretty inefficient concept for a lot of the actual real world markets where there's volumes.
00:04:15.794 - 00:04:54.334, Speaker A: So the biggest areas of prediction markets in the real world are sports markets, financial markets, politics probably then like maybe interplays social and so forth. And I think in that regard, basically in the crypto realm, the focus has been, okay, well, this is a peer to peer thing, so it should work like that. But the reality is like for the big volume markets, then that approach didn't really work.
00:04:55.274 - 00:05:40.414, Speaker B: And, yeah, so I guess thinking about that approach not working, some of the issues around that or one of the bigger ones has been the liquidity element and the bootstrapping of it. Prediction markets are interchangeable with just betting but with a centralized platform. But the idea is with a centralized platform, you're betting against the house and so they're really providing that liquidity for you. Whereas when you're trying to set up these kind of peer to peer ones, you have a bit of a cold start problem where the underlying liquidity isn't there to create enough interest in the initial bets. And so there's an issue there. And so curious to understand how you guys are helping solve that issue.
00:05:41.194 - 00:06:17.168, Speaker A: Yeah, 100%. So this is a big problem, right. Because I mean, from the user experience perspective, right. You definitely, like, if you want to, if you want to, if you want to bet on something happening, right, or not happening, you want to go and you want to bet. You don't want to go and say, okay, well, I'm going to just put in this thing here and I'm going to hope that somebody comes and says, oh, no, no, I'm thinking exactly the opposite with the same size. In that regard, that's a big problem. So essentially a peer to peer prediction markets, they require active liquidity, I would call it.
00:06:17.168 - 00:07:23.336, Speaker A: And what I mean by active liquidity is like essentially somebody has to be market making each market so that these work for the end user because the end user is not thinking, okay, well I'm going to go there and I'm just going to put and I'm going to hope that somebody is going to come and match it because that doesn't really happen usually. And then you never go and try it again. In that regard, it's been something that has I think plagued really most of the solutions. And now finally, and it's super exciting, but now we are finally seeing, we're seeing product market fit with polymarket in that approach, right? But even with Polymarket where there's very big volumes now overall and so forth, we're actually seeing that I think 65% of the volumes are on one market, which is the US presidential election. Right? So on one side it's fantastic. Like I think it's like for example, poly market with this approach is starting to become maybe source of truth and kind of price discovery for like the biggest markets out there. And I think Us presidential election is the best example of it in terms of like social politics and so forth.
00:07:23.336 - 00:08:45.456, Speaker A: But on the other hand side, you only have like a couple of like maybe a couple of tens of actually liquid markets with this approach, right? So, and that is a big problem. Right. So essentially what, what we are doing and how we approached it is that we, we thought like well prediction markets have to work also in the peer to pool realm. So essentially replicating kind of like the model from traditional, like let's say betting, which is the house pool model and, but putting it on chain, right, which I think like this approach was deemed to be well let's say nearly impossible until maybe it's like maybe a year or two years ago when we were starting because with that approach it was deemed that actually the LP's in that pool essentially who provide the passive liquidity would get wrecked just because risk management and essentially the pricing front running of the markets. So having that liquidity just sitting there and backing people who are coming and just watching the markets always there's liquidity to margin. It was thought that is not going to work because the passive LP's would just lose money. But it's possible.
00:08:45.456 - 00:09:56.118, Speaker A: And this is the first big thing about Azuro. So this is the thing that we saw and said, well if that is solved, then you open up a completely new avenue for prediction markets because yes, peer to peer can work and it's great for the most popular markets out there. But if you want to go for kind of high frequency short term and long tail, many, many, many markets, which is particularly sports, then you have to solve it with a peer to pool approach. And at this very core, this is what Azuru is doing, and this is the angle that we're taking. And this is also why I believe we are at the point of really seeing a huge progress and huge increase in what we're going to be seeing, both in terms of volumes like users and so forth on chain with regards to this vertical.
00:09:56.246 - 00:11:04.674, Speaker B: Appreciate that summary. No, it's super helpful, kind of flipping the model upside down and allowing anyone to basically play the role of the house and allow their liquidity to be counter to everyone else who's betting. And the concerns, obviously, the concept of sharps and those that are really optimizing for discrepancies and the risks that they can, over a long run, degrade the returns of that pool, you know, make it unattractive for LP's. But so far, you know, with kind of what you guys have done and the traction, you know, you've been proving that otherwise. And I think one of the elements there is the, as you add additional markets to that pool, you allow that capital to scale more efficiently. Right. It's, you have a natural limit on how much you can expose yourself to one bet, but as you take on more and more bets, you're kind of diversifying the risks and exposures and allowing that capital, each dollar in that pool, to kind of support more gambling volume over time.
00:11:04.674 - 00:11:43.594, Speaker B: And so it should allow you to, over time, basically, the capital efficiency will kind of should only increase. And as you tap into other markets outside of sports, that trend should continue, which is a really compelling kind of model, I guess, because what you typically see is the inverse, where you lose efficiency in some elements on DeFi, as you get bigger because of stagnant liquidity and what happens until yield comes down. Whereas here you're actually unlocking a deeper amount of volume that's possible with every dollar that's provided.
00:11:44.734 - 00:12:49.652, Speaker A: Yeah, no, absolutely. Absolutely. And I think that's really important. And it's important to say that it really is a new concept, in my opinion, just in general, in Defi, it's really like a primitive that is new in its own right, in the sense that with size, you are not necessarily actually getting deterioration in the return. Actually, size allows for supporting more volumes, and it allows for the user experience and overall proposition to become better and therefore support more volumes. And then, of course, with more volumes, you are getting more yield returned into the pool. And it's a flywheel, it doesn't really, in my mind at least, the vast majority of the rest of Defi, it doesn't really deteriorate with size or not in the same way.
00:12:49.652 - 00:13:02.892, Speaker A: And all the profit or revenue, however you want to call it, into the pool, is really not connected to actually driving it from somewhere else. It comes from the direct activity on the protocol itself. In that regard, that is very cool.
00:13:03.028 - 00:13:32.114, Speaker B: Absolutely. Liquidity is one of the hurdles that prediction markets have dealt with, but there have certainly been a few others things like dispute resolution. And so I was curious how Zoro is designed to handle those and kind of what technical unlocks are being kind of pushed forward on your end to help address some of the issues. Right now, we're seeing prediction markets.
00:13:32.274 - 00:15:15.974, Speaker A: So, I mean, let's speak a little bit about how it actually works. So we call Azul the prediction layer, and within Azuru basis, basically we have a liquidity solution, an oracle solution and tooling that wraps those solutions and allows for essentially what Azura is at the protocol level to be used by anybody who is building applications or user experiences, derivative products, widgets, whatever it is. Basically with those markets, first we have a liquidity pool, and we have a custom liquidity pool design, which we call the liquidity tree, which is specifically made in order to work with real world markets with no time of resolving. And again, the best example for this at the moment is sports, but that actually extends pretty easily to politics and many other real world markets in that regard. And then we have an oracle solution, which at the moment is actually, there is one oracle provider on the protocol, but we are planning to decentralize that function shortly before the end of this year, hopefully as well. And then, of course, all of this is wrapped in the smart contracts which ensure the settlement and the movement of the funds, so forth. So in that regard, when we're speaking about dispute resolutions and so forth, this is really connected to the decentralization of the oracle at the moment.
00:15:15.974 - 00:16:12.182, Speaker A: It is an optimistic approach. So it is usually pretty easy when it comes to the big events or especially with sports, you have basically a lot of sources that would confirm the resolution of events, and you normally have very, very, very little to kind of dispute versus, let's say, idiosyncratic social markets or so forth, which might be worded in a particular way, et cetera, et cetera. When it comes to sports, for example, things are very, very clean and clear in the vast majority of the cases. So in terms of that side of things, I think the solution eventually is an optimistic oracle with a dispute resolution mechanism. We call it safe oracle. We have a concept for it. And yeah, we're planning to deploy it hopefully later this year.
00:16:12.182 - 00:16:39.334, Speaker A: But I personally, for sport markets in particular, I don't see too much of, I don't see these being problematic in the vast, vast majority of cases. It is way more often for idiosyncratic social markets that these need to be utilized in terms of dispute resolutions than compared to sports.
00:16:40.394 - 00:17:52.820, Speaker B: Yeah, no, I largely agree. Especially you can have situations where, based on the way the question is framed, you can interpret it two different ways. If you really focus on a certain technicality, in the end, there is usually an obvious correct answer. But if you kind of stick to the letter of the law based on how the question is framed, then perhaps there's some opaque kind of scenarios with even things as clear as presidential elections where if it takes a certain amount of time, or even polymarket had the issue with the ETF as well. And so things that appear pretty things that would, you'd assume have very clear outcomes can often still result in things that require dispute resolution. But like you mentioned, you know, sports is certainly one of those that you don't really have it outside of scenarios with, you know, overtime and things like that. But that's already been tried and tested so many times that it shouldn't really be too much of an issue.
00:17:52.820 - 00:17:57.704, Speaker B: And so is sports where you guys have seen most of the kind of traction so far?
00:17:58.564 - 00:19:10.558, Speaker A: This is where we focused initially because, like, I mean, first, like sports in terms of time is like, it's the holy grail of prediction or betting markets in general, it is by far the biggest, you know, like sector that people, that people basically bet on worldwide. And in order to make it work, we believe that we can find a solution. And I think now with more than 350 million in volumes and about 20 months in history and the returns that the pools are seeing at the moment, it's, yeah, it's a grand success with something that seems very, very, very, let's say very, very hard not to say impossible before. And I think with regards to what we just said, basically with social markets, the problem is resolutions. The problem is how they are worded. The problem is really like that ambiguity that surrounds all of these markets. Right.
00:19:10.558 - 00:19:58.836, Speaker A: Also, there's another problem which is like, okay, when does the market resolve, right. So that you can actually close it quickly, etcetera. There's all of these problems with social markets and of course, curation, which are the markets that you can market make, which are the markets that. So these are the problems that polymarket is dealing with. So they curate the markets they would need to ensure that they work for the markets that are there and that curated and so forth. On the other side, where sports is the best example, the problem is how to make passive liquidity work because the experience for the end user has to be iconic and it works for me, right? So I come and I make my prediction, I come and I place my bet and that's it, right? So I don't have to think about like, okay, well, yeah, what liquidity is here, like what can I pick, you know, like for what size, etcetera, etcetera. It just has to work.
00:19:58.836 - 00:20:27.094, Speaker A: So the problem is very different. So the majority of the problem is like, okay, how do you risk manage that? And how does that actually work on chain with passive liquidity? So that for the end user it is a seamless experience like how it is in centralized world. And this is basically the problems that the zuru has been tackling and you have much less of the dispute resolution and the ambiguity about wording of the markets and what happened and what didn't happen then in the social variant.
00:20:27.954 - 00:21:08.964, Speaker B: Yeah, no, I couldn't agree more. And sports are very consistent. You know, every league is having the same season every year. And so, you know, there's a certain amount of games and there's preset volume and that's consistently there time in and time out. Whereas what you see with kind of the election markets, right, you have these large events that will generate a lot of attention, but they happen once every four years. And no one really bets on the interim elections, at least not really in size. And so if you're thinking about what makes the most sense from a business perspective, where to focus, there's a lot more tam, like you mentioned, going on the sports side.
00:21:08.964 - 00:22:05.216, Speaker B: And so naturally makes a lot of sense. And also there's issues on the social side of kind of how you set up markets, how you set up that initial liquidity, right? Because with you guys, when you want to start introducing those or focus more on those, you have that passive liquidity that's already there. But if you're doing kind of polymarket sell order book, they need to incentivize these markets. And you often have to do it in a pretty expensive way because it's not really a commoditized form of market making, right. There's no way for someone to go hedge this. Market makers normally want to not really be sitting on a lot of inventory risk, and so they need to hedge that somehow. And it's very difficult to hedge the market on a presidential election or any of these smaller social outcomes.
00:22:05.216 - 00:22:26.204, Speaker B: And so it's very expensive to provide that, to incentivize that liquidity, which is a headwind for, I think, their business. And so it's another really strong point of having this underlying passive pool of liquidity that you can integrate new oracles and new bets on top of to open up new markets.
00:22:27.664 - 00:22:29.164, Speaker A: Yes, absolutely.
00:22:29.824 - 00:22:58.076, Speaker B: And so I guess in terms of the protocol itself, I know you mentioned that you guys have been going strong for 20 months and have 350 million volume and there's a very strong yield now on stables that gets deposited there. I was curious to just hear about what elements of what you guys have built that you're happiest with or most proud of and the progress that you guys have made.
00:22:58.260 - 00:23:18.692, Speaker A: Yeah. First, in summary, it's like making passive liquidity work with betting markets or prediction markets at scale. I think that's. Yeah. Again, that is hard. Yeah. And that is, and that is a process like it's not done.
00:23:18.692 - 00:24:25.352, Speaker A: There's still many things to be improved, there's still many things that can be better, but by now we see that, that it is doable and that it creates a new proposition within the DeFi space more broadly that we haven't seen. Maybe many people thought that actually that it would not happen. So I think that is the first big achievement. And I guess that's really connected to the tech solution and how the liquidity pool works and its connection to how the oracle works on Azuru and so forth, which is what has made this possible. But to be honest, for me, the most exciting part is actually the other main aspect of how Azuru is structured and positioned. And it is as a middleware protocol that can connect to any chain. Actually, at the moment it's an EVM chain easily, but of course it could be other infrastructure as well.
00:24:25.352 - 00:25:18.974, Speaker A: So it could be other chains too. So a middleware protocol that connects to the chain, to the tech stack on the EVM chain, plugs in the Oracle liquidity solution, the settlement of the markets. There's a resolution of the markets, but wraps this whole thing up in an SDK and also other forms of tooling and then gives this to the builders who can actually go and build applications that essentially work end to end. Liquidity, risk management, markets, settlement, everything. And the applications can just basically, that's what they want to do. They can just do marketing, user acquisition, user experience. Of course, they could do derivative products, they could do like smart contracts on top of the Azure smart contracts, they could do some variations of the markets and so forth.
00:25:18.974 - 00:26:18.982, Speaker A: But in the most straightforward example, somebody without coding experience could come and use the SDK and have a working application in a couple of hours. And that is in my opinion is really insane. Like I'll just make, I'll just make a kind of note from my experience in the betting industry. Like, I mean, and speaking about centralized betting operators and what's happening to this industry and so forth, like seven, eight years ago there was like 2030 betting operators in any geography and there was like only a handful of global ones. Like only like just, just like really a handful. And now like six, seven years later there is thousands of global operators. And what they do is actually, I mean, why there's thousands is because they, they take crypto payments.
00:26:18.982 - 00:26:43.400, Speaker A: Before that actually the problem was not like, okay, I cannot have an operator like in all the countries in the world. Like everybody could, but they couldn't take the money. And with crypto now basically, and we've seen like stake.com and we see the rollbits and like, and like Steve.com is like many people now believe it's actually the biggest single entity or single website operator in the world. And that's a crazy thing. They've achieved it in a couple of years.
00:26:43.400 - 00:27:51.586, Speaker A: So the betting and gambling industry is fragmenting through crypto as a payment method already. But with what Azor is doing now, we are seeing an acceleration of this fragmentation by way of making it so much easier for like a streamer or an influencer or a small team or like a small marketing website, etcetera, to start their own application right where they have full control, they have certainty of like, you know, essentially ownership of their revenue flows and so forth. And that is, that is, and that is doable, you know, like within a day with no upfront costs, with no running costs and so forth. Whereas if you, if you try to do this in the, in the traditional world, it will take you months and hundreds of thousands of dollars, you know, like to do. So. It's a dramatic change in the accessibility of betting and prediction markets as a business. And this is, I think that the second thing that we are, we are most excited about and most, most happy in terms of like how it's, how it's happened because now we have more than 20 applications live on Azuro.
00:27:51.586 - 00:29:04.804, Speaker A: We have more than five applications already that have generated more than one hundred k dollars in revenue. And the biggest application has generated more than 2 million in revenue at the application level. And all of this is inbound. It's not like we haven't gotten to a stage where this is incentivized, or that there's elaborate business development efforts or so forth in that regard. It's just the thing where I personally am most excited about, because in my mind, fixing, basically, let's say this peer to pool liquidity problem is the enabler of the thing to happen. But the real thing that is the game changer is essentially what crypto allows, or what the on chain variant of things allows, which is, okay, let's take the technology liquidity layer and put it aside, and then have the application layer separately and make it super easy, open, permissionless, free, quick to do applications. And that's the second thing that I think we are most happy about, that we have essentially, basically very early days of PMF.
00:29:05.264 - 00:29:29.644, Speaker B: You describe the fact that you guys haven't really done too much on the outreach front. Is that set to change? There's two forms. You have the application side, and then you have the liquidity and volume side. I'm curious how you're thinking about those separately. And perhaps where does a token in the future come into play here?
00:29:30.144 - 00:31:05.028, Speaker A: Yeah, so I personally believe that it was important to obviously go through the process of making, making passive liquidity work and having a user experience that is close enough to centralized user experience when it comes to sports markets. And I think we're there now, we are not exactly on par yet, but once you start thinking about the positives on chain, certainty of payout, no discrimination at the player level, etcetera. So some of the core crypto ethos, right, which we care about, and I think more and more people in the world care about, you know, like over time, once you start thinking about these things, then I think we are now at the stage where the proposition is becoming pretty viable, you know, but of course, the proposition is also becoming better. It's still very, very early days. So in that regard, I think we are now just now getting into the stage where the protocol can be marketed to a wider audience of builders, entrepreneurs, again, streamers, marketers, etcetera, because it provides an order of magnitude, more than an order of magnitude improvement in the experience of actually creating a business within that vertical. And it's a very, very powerful vertical for engagement and monetization of users. Probably the most powerful tool for engagement and monetization of users online that we are seeing in the world today.
00:31:05.028 - 00:31:34.806, Speaker A: So I think we are just now getting close to that stage where you should start thinking about, okay, well, this thing is becoming interesting also for people, and again, entrepreneurs and so forth, that are not necessarily within crypto, within the on chain realm of things, but that thing would make them think about like, okay, should I try? Should I do it? Just because it's so much cheaper, so much easier to get involved now makes.
00:31:34.830 - 00:32:35.686, Speaker B: A lot of sense. And on the. So naturally, the fact that you don't necessarily need to leave your money on a centralized platform and be subject to withdrawal periods or delays or a whole host of frustrations, ranging from small things like that to obviously your nightmare FTX level scenarios where what you think is safe isn't necessarily the case. And so having that immediate settlement and no issues of asset custody, I think are huge. I guess one of the things that the centralized platforms do focus on a bit is certainly the talent, the user retention side. So with kind of incentive programs and kickbacks and just a lot of the stuff, you know, you've had this in sports betting from day one. Vegas will bring you out to fly you out and house you if you spend enough money.
00:32:35.686 - 00:32:53.884, Speaker B: The old poker sites had the Ironman type stuff on full tilt where the more you come back, the higher status you get to keep. Is that something you guys are focusing on or is that going to be more so kind of on the front end side those folks will be kind of focusing on?
00:32:54.344 - 00:33:23.270, Speaker A: We are not for sure. I mean, again, like Azur is taking the tech approach here. And also, if we're speaking about the liquidity, like, there's nearly 5000 lp's in the pool. So that side is quite decentralized already. So at the Azuru level, definitely no, at the application level, honestly, Jan, I, I mean that you're bringing a big point. My personal opinion is like, it just won't be the same. Right.
00:33:23.270 - 00:33:46.900, Speaker A: So the more of the benefits that you have, you know, like, in terms of like, I mean, self custody, like no counterparty risk, etc. Etc. The less of the benefits of like, okay, take me to, you know, like, take me to that party, like bring me to this game and all of that, that other stuff you're gonna have. Right? So. And also same about like pseudonymity or like kind of privacy and all of that stuff. Stuff. Or like no discrimination at the user level and etcetera, etcetera, etcetera.
00:33:46.900 - 00:34:23.819, Speaker A: So I think they don't really go together. Also, like bonusing and all of that. Right? So all of these things on chain at the moment is like, I mean, like, it's an address, right? Of course, at the application level, the application can say, listen, we are using the azure smart contracts, right. But they might still take a very like traditional way in certain parts of the experience. They might say to the user, well, listen, I mean, like we are using the Azure smart contracts, right? So you have the certainty, you have the non custodial aspect of the whole experience. So you have that. But if you want to have bonuses or if you want to have like the other experience, then you got a kyc, you got to do this and so forth and so forth.
00:34:23.819 - 00:34:50.994, Speaker A: Right. So I think maybe there's going to be some blend between these things. We already have like applications that are taking a more traditional approach. We have some other applications that are just pure direct use of the smart contracts at user level. So I think there's gonna be nuances there. But at the end of the day, I don't think that you are like really getting the best of both worlds anytime soon, in my opinion. Like it's just gonna be like one thing makes the other thing harder and vice versa.
00:34:52.454 - 00:35:48.004, Speaker B: Absolutely. And it makes sense, right, because you guys are also focusing more on the liquidity side. So you let the front end folks focus on their own incentives and it helps you kind of lean out your business model and really plays into the modular approach you were describing earlier in terms of how the protocol is broken out and allows you to really focus on how do we provide the best liquidity experience most bang for your buck and really leverage that asset to grow your market share and just allow more markets to be traded against that pool of liquidity. And so, yeah, it's, yeah, absolutely. And so I guess thinking about, you know, you guys have, have come really far in, you know, the time you've been live and what you even what you've been able to build up would love to hear kind of what you have coming next and what you're excited about on that front.
00:35:48.944 - 00:36:16.344, Speaker A: Yeah, sure. So a couple things. So first, the peer to pool model, it easily extends beyond sports, really. Any real world markets can be plugged into the peer to peer model. Sorry. Into the peer to pool model that we have. And we definitely also want to have a social politics markets added.
00:36:16.344 - 00:37:53.726, Speaker A: And for some of these markets, let's say the less idiosyncratic ones, it's going to be easier with the peer to pool model. And with the more idiosyncratic ones, it's going to be probably much easier for it to be done in a more peer to peer setting. But adding more markets, both on the sports side and beyond that is on the roadmap adding games of chance. So essentially any game with math and logic that can be placed on chain, even if parts of the UX and UI are server based, is also like something on the roadmap, essentially, where Azuru allows game developers to put games on chain and then distribute them through the protocol to applications. And we have things like, I call it kind of like mini financialization within Azure itself. So at the moment, liquidity positions in the Azure pool are not financialized because they are nfts and they're not fungible. So it's harder to, it's harder to financialize those in the ways that most of the kind of liquidity around crypto is being financialized because it's fungible tokens with Azur, it's nfts.
00:37:53.726 - 00:39:50.264, Speaker A: And that's completely a long story reason why it's nfts, but because it's for particular important reasons. But basically there's going to be the opportunity for people that are in the LP to financialize their positions through loans and essentially take a sizable chunk of their LP position and then go and use it however they like in DeFi, essentially taking up a loan into the same currency, say USDT for example, based on their liquidity position, which is very, very nice addition to the usability of the pools and the flexibility that it gives to the office. And I think quite normally there's integrations with more chains and solutions that are going in the cross chain direction, so that long term you can concentrate liquidity in one place, but access liquidity from anywhere in a way that is really working and seamless. And last but definitely not least, we are working towards further decentralization also on the governance side, launching token very shortly as well, and through that of course, forming the DaO and, and plugging the token both into the economy of Azur on the user side and sorry, on the LP side and on the application side. And also with regards to decentralized governance and participating in the future in the decentralization of the oracle mechanism, dispute resolutions and so forth.
00:39:50.884 - 00:40:15.084, Speaker B: And on the token front, is there anything you can share in terms of the plans, in terms of like the distribution? I know you have the zero score as one of the components of measuring the kind of value that certain users have provided to the platform, and that's perhaps an input into the distribution. But yeah, we'd love to kind of understand how you're thinking about it and what you can share on that front.
00:40:16.944 - 00:40:50.584, Speaker A: Well, it's been pretty clear that the zero score is going to result in conversion of points towards tokens, or like many people would call it an airdrop. So that's something that will happen. And, yeah, all of that, I think, is going to be either at the same time or very close in terms of timing with the TGE, which is expected in the second half of June.
00:40:51.224 - 00:41:40.324, Speaker B: Very exciting. Yeah. And it seems like right now is as good a time as any to start launching and protect, especially quality projects. I think in a world where you're seeing quite a few where there's such an overweight towards memes right now. And I think it's partially, you know, it's caused by a variety of factors, but one of them is also just, I think, sometimes a lack of quality projects to invest in and that forces people kind of out into the long tails. And so I think seeing projects with viable economics and a business model that scales well is always promising. And so definitely excited to see the launch of the token and how things go.
00:41:41.904 - 00:43:19.296, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, in personal opinion, it's a very kind of interesting, weird market. But I really do hope that what we are doing, because we want to really, this is a big word, but we do believe that this technology can actually change the world and can change a humongous industry in a way that hopefully will be at least, at least to a certain level, you know, like for the, for the better in the, in the long term through, you know, like through the, through some of the core values that are just like, I think cryptocurrency, although not, not always, they represent themselves fully, but I mean, I think it's, I think they're fantastic values in terms of, like, you know, the constantly the certainty of, you know, I ownership and all the things that, that, I'm afraid that sometimes we kind of forget that this was the kind of, like, main purpose of things like to achieve and also to improve businesses or people's life in some meaningful way. So in that regard, like, I mean, yeah, token launches and all of that, it's amazing. Of course people want to speculate. People want to. Yeah, people want to make money, but I think for us, it's just another step. So mem market or not mem market, hopefully what we are doing is going to be positive towards the problems that we set to work on with our solutions.
00:43:19.296 - 00:43:55.304, Speaker A: And for us, that is many, many, many years in the making things. We have been doing it for three years now, and it's going to take much, much more to get the big, big outcomes that we believe in in terms of changing the accessibility of this industry and hopefully really changing the experience at the end of the day, both for the entrepreneurs and the LP's access and also at the end of the day, also for the end user in terms of, again, their certainty, their comfort, and the fairness and trust that they feel when they're using betting markets or prediction markets.
00:43:55.974 - 00:44:38.054, Speaker B: Absolutely. And it serves as a great marketing tool as well to help kind of throw fuel on the fire that is the booming business that you guys have going right now. And so it's exciting times and you guys have been going at it for quite some time. Should have probably disclosed this earlier, but Delphi are investors and so it's been awesome to see how much progress you guys have made and going from great times in crypto to winter to now coming back and kind of continuing through it and seeing the fruits of your labor materialize into this. It's got to be satisfying. I'm sure it's hard.
00:44:39.674 - 00:45:02.486, Speaker A: It's not easy. It's hard. I mean, it really is. Like, yeah, it requires a lot of stamina, a lot of resilience, but it's been also fantastic. So. And I mean, thank you for your support and obviously the early believe, but yeah, it is, absolutely. You know, like, it's been a fantastic experience, I think, for us.
00:45:02.486 - 00:45:12.674, Speaker A: And of course, we're looking forward to making it much, much, much more bigger and more meaningful, you know, like in the coming years.
00:45:13.224 - 00:45:25.004, Speaker B: Absolutely. And really want to thank you again for taking the time to jump on and chat about what you're building and let everyone get a kind of look under the hood of Azuro and what's coming.
00:45:25.544 - 00:45:27.232, Speaker A: Oh, yeah, thank you for having me.
00:45:27.408 - 00:45:35.044, Speaker B: Yeah. And if anyone else wants to kind of learn more, what would be the best way for them to get a deeper understanding of what's going on?
00:45:36.664 - 00:45:58.688, Speaker A: Azuro.org gem dot azuru.org is the docs for builders for chains, all the technical documentation or just the website? Also, you can follow Azuro protocol on Twitter and. Yeah, I think that's it.
00:45:58.816 - 00:46:01.924, Speaker B: Perfect. Thank you very much. Really appreciate it.
00:46:02.464 - 00:46:03.184, Speaker A: Thank you. Zoyan.
