00:00:00.960 - 00:00:31.496, Speaker A: All right, everyone, we're going to get started. So welcome to the 11th daily Gwei Ama series. Thank you all for being here. For those of you who haven't been to one of these live AMA's before, I'll be reading the questions from the AMA series channel throughout the AMA. But if you want to ask a question during it, feel free to just raise your hand by using the button at the bottom of your discord kind of window there. And I'll have the request, and I'll invite you up on stage that you can ask your question live. Or if you want to, you can ask your question in the AMA series channel and that those ones will be answered at the end.
00:00:31.496 - 00:01:08.054, Speaker A: Of course, this whole thing is recorded and will be uploaded to YouTube within 24 hours with timestamps. So if you have to leave early, you'll be able to catch up on everything that you missed. So let's get started with the first question that comes from axiomatics. I think that's how you say it. So they ask, what's your view on different airdrop token distribution strategies? There seems to be multiple schools of thought of how to approach this. People from optimism and Lyra have mentioned that they are seeing bot like small transactions, likely with the aim of hunting potential airdrops. This makes it tricky to distribute tokens to the right users, potential Dao contributors, while at the same time keeping it decentralized.
00:01:08.054 - 00:01:42.460, Speaker A: Yeah, so I think Uniswap, like, since Uniswap did their airdrop back in 2020, and it was like a pretty, pretty generous airdrop, pretty big airdrop. Everyone got every address, got 400 uni tokens if they had interacted with the Uniswap protocol at least once, from V one to v to V V two. And the funny thing is that you even got tokens if you had a failed transaction. So the transaction didn't have to succeed. If it failed, you still got tokens. And then the liquidity providers got even more tokens on top of that. And there was a couple other things where people got tokens for as well.
00:01:42.460 - 00:02:20.444, Speaker A: But since then, we've seen like a number of airdrops come, come out and, and they've had to use kind of like different tactics to weed out this game of this gaming that people are doing right now. So obviously you can use like, multiple addresses to potentially get multiple airdrops. You can use bots to do all these kind of small transactions to maximize your chances of getting an air, getting the airdrop, and getting more than you know you should, rightly? Be entitled to and things like that. And obviously, it's really, really hard to do civil resistance on chain because there's no identity tied to addresses, right. If you've got a new address, it doesn't have an ens on it or anything like that. It's just like a fresh address. Then no one knows if you're a bot or a human who you are, whatever.
00:02:20.444 - 00:02:43.152, Speaker A: Like, it's Sudan unless you connect it to some kind of identity system. So from that point of view, you know, I remember seeing kind of like one inch when they did their airdrop. They noticed that someone was trying to game it. One person in particular was trying to game it. So they said, well, you had to do a transaction of at least $20 worth of value. I think it was, you know, through, through one inch. So they weeded out a lot of the smaller transactions.
00:02:43.152 - 00:03:21.744, Speaker A: But this obviously becomes a lot harder on L2, because on L2, the fees are much cheaper than layer one. It's much easier for the, and probably much more profitable for these people to do this in the hopes that they get an airdrop based on their activity on the networks. So I think this is something that there's a lot of different designs out there today for airdrops. There's new ones coming out all the time. I've gone through on one of the AMA's before and on the refill plenty of times, my kind of philosophy on token distribution. And I always kind of think that you should reward your early community, the ones that are there from the beginning and your core contributors the most. They should get the lion's share of the rewards and airdrops should be done.
00:03:21.744 - 00:03:52.264, Speaker A: But you shouldn't give away, like, most of the network in an airdrop unless your product has already been around for a while. So say you have like a product that goes live, and then you say, okay, well, I'm gonna airdrop tokens to a bunch of people who use these other products within Ethereum. And because, like, I think that they're gonna be interested in my product. But when you think about that, like, from that point of view, it's like, okay, well, I mean, yeah, okay, that's cool. That makes sense. Maybe you give some tokens to people who used Gitcoin and donated on Gitcoin. Maybe you give some tokens to people who use different defi apps on Ethereum such and such.
00:03:52.264 - 00:04:25.186, Speaker A: But those people are probably going to just sell the token. Like, they're not actually going to be interested in your product just because you gave them a token. Yes, they may check it out and everything like that and maybe some free marketing. But you know, if they're not interested in the product even after checking it out, well, they're probably just going to sell the token straight away. You have like this downward pressure on the token price and then you, you just have like a bunch of speculators that, that are, that hold your token from the get go. Whereas the way uniswap did it, I thought was really interesting because they had their product out for a long time, right? Like it had been out for a few years, they had lots of users and all this sort of stuff. And it was a good product.
00:04:25.186 - 00:05:02.250, Speaker A: It was, still is a good product, of course, and it's the most popular product on Ethereum. So there was no doubt that obviously people wanted to kind of like hold the token and a lot of people did like, yes, there were people that inevitably obviously sell their airdrops because it's a lot, it was a lot of money even at, you know, I think when uni first started trading, it was two or $3 was kind of like the price that hung around for a little bit. It did swing kind of violently, but obviously that's a lot of money for people. 400 unitokens, $2, it's $800 as kind of like a flaw there. But for those who held their uni tokens, they were obviously greatly benefited from that too. Against the USD at least. Against ETH maybe not so much.
00:05:02.250 - 00:05:39.122, Speaker A: I looked at the Uni ETH chart the other day and I was just like, okay, well, it's not doing too well there. But I guess like, you know, a lot of people obviously care about the fiat or USD value of their holdings there. So from that perspective, I like that strategy. Where do an airdrop, once your product actually has product market fit, don't just airdrop your token to a bunch of people from day one before you even got a community, because that way you just. Because, because by doing that you kind of attract speculators instead of long term, kind of like community members. And obviously it's not just airdrops that do this. It's also kind of like liquidity mining strategies as well, which we've seen play out time and time again.
00:05:39.122 - 00:06:16.972, Speaker A: A lot of them are pretty bad. Like you can use them in a right way as long as you've got a product that people actually want to use. And I think the perfect example of this is Dy DX. They currently have a liquidity mining program, but they launched their token after their product was obviously live and being used and they had some initial traction, but the way they've structured their kind of liquidity mining program is actually really really really awesome. And the thing is that it's based on kind of like trading volumes and things like that and it's shared across everyone depending on how much trading volume there is. But at the same time their products actually good. Like I've used DydX a fair few times over the last, I guess, couple months.
00:06:16.972 - 00:07:06.870, Speaker A: It's such an amazing product. It feels like you're using a centralized exchange except you're using a L2 on Ethereum. So from that perspective it works for Dy Dex because they have a product that people actually want to use and obviously they have a lot of hype around it and a lot of ethereums are throwing their support behind it because it's actually a true L2 Dex on Ethereum. So I think you have to have that for the token distribution or for the liquidity mining program to actually work its at its best. Otherwise it definitely does become a story of locust coming along, farming the token and dumping it. And that will still happen even if the product is like the most amazing thing ever. But you want to optimize for kind of like the people who actually want to use the product and will stick around like be sticky liquidity once kind of like the liquidity mining rewards run out, or they, I guess like get lesser and lesser over time because they usually do so.
00:07:06.870 - 00:07:52.858, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, and the ecosystem is littered with examples of liquidity mining programs that were not done correctly and that put too much downward pressure on the token price, which really hurts the early community because to build a strong early community, you want to get them in on the ground floor, ideally of the token price, right? You want to launch your product out there. You want to maybe keep quiet about it at the beginning, launch the token, have it out in the wild for a bit. But like have the market cap be, you know, relatively low so that there's actually potential for growth and it doesn't start like really high. And then as you have liquidity mining happening, the, the market cap just goes down over time. Or the token price doesn't move because it has to match that massive fully diluted valuation that you have. As more tokens come into the market. And we've seen this plenty of times, not just with defy ice, but with other chains as well.
00:07:52.858 - 00:08:50.203, Speaker A: I mean there's lots of them with very high fully diluted kind of market caps. And then a lot of them were just stagnating price for quite a while because as the tokens come to market, that kind of like puts downward pressure on the price. So I think there's also obviously the demand side to it. Different kind of token, I guess, like mechanisms that are out there of kind of like how to actually drive value to your token. Curve is a perfect example here of something that I believe has a really good token design where they kind of have like lockup design where, and they force people to compete and bribe each other to kind of lock up CRV to, to get like bonus apy or to get more apy on their stables. And obviously curve is an amazing product and a lot of people use it, but the problem is, is that curve is still paying out a lot in liquidity mining rewards, you know, and they, they do have other kind of like token emissions going on and that's why. And the price started off, sorry, the fully diluted market cap started off pretty high for what it is now.
00:08:50.203 - 00:10:08.578, Speaker A: I, you know, the same, same goes for dy DX as well, right? Like you look at Dy DX, and I know I said before that I think DyDX has done, has done it really well, but at the same time, they also have, you know, a really high, fully diluted market cap. Right now I think it's $22 billion and only 5.1% of the token supply is actually circulating. So like how does the community get kind of like exposure there? Do they buy the token at $20 or $22 or whatever it is today, and then do they just like hold it? And over time it's just either going to stay around that value or bleed out as more and more of these tokens come to the market, it may be really good for bootstrapping the liquidity and the usage of the product itself, but the token, you know, in a year's time may be worth a lot less against both USD and ETH because of the fact that there was just so many, so many tokens coming to market. So this is something that I think we need more, probably need more mechanism designers, mathematicians, kind of like staticians looking at and kind of designing these things or these token distributions in such a way where you kind of like play the game theory of it, right? You, you probably need psychologists in the mix as well because you think, okay, well, if we do this, this and this, then what's the outcome? Because that famous quote, show me the incentives and I'll show you the outcome. Well, there's very basic incentives. Do you have a liquidity mining program? Yes.
00:10:08.578 - 00:11:06.126, Speaker A: Okay, well, people are going to come in, they're going to dump the liquidity in, and then they're going to sell the token, and the token price is going to go down if there's too much sell pressure. Like that's the pretty simple kind of thinking around that. But then you can extend beyond that. You can be like, okay, well, you know, what's the demand side here? Like, why do people actually want to hold this token? Or what's its use? What's its long term value accrual, all that sort of stuff. And then you want to ideally craft something that both has a kind of modest supply kind of schedule where new supplies come into market and also a very good way to drive demand to the token and to kind of like, in curb's case, they have like a lockup mechanism which obviously works really well, but still there's a lot of kind of like supply coming into the market still and, you know, and the demand and supply is kind of at equilibrium. From what I can see now, the price hovers around the same kind of value, but it would require probably waiting it out until those token emissions are done, or at least kind of like much less than what they are today. And then you might see kind of the prices going up.
00:11:06.126 - 00:11:25.440, Speaker A: But that's not the only thing that plays into it. I mean, it's also just overall sentiment when it comes to these tokens, too. It's like people are like, oh, well, Defi tokens are dead. They're not valuable. We're just going to ignore them. And these things work in like cycles. Like, I'm sure a lot of you noticed a lot of the kind of like layer one blockchains going up in value over the, I guess, last two months.
00:11:25.440 - 00:11:48.264, Speaker A: And that's just a cycle that's playing out. And then, you know, we had the Defi tokens going crazy late last year. That was a cycle playing out. And you have different cycles and people follow different narratives, so that also plays into it, too. And that's something you can't really design for because that is just like, it can happen very randomly. Like, one day everyone could hate Defi tokens, the next day from like, oh my God, I got to get my hands on Defi tokens because they're going to go to the moon. It's just the way crypto is.
00:11:48.264 - 00:12:24.686, Speaker A: But what you can optimize for in these token distributions and airdrops and things like that is making sure that you reward your early community. You make sure they get in as early as possible with a market cap that's, you know, really low. Like you don't want the market cap to open at like billions of dollars for a new protocol because that's just purely speculative. And new tokens coming to market will be sold into that. Like why wouldn't they? I mean that's a, it's a very high valuation for a project just that just started for an example there. So hopefully kind of like that answers your question. Axiomatics, obviously, I have a lot of thoughts here and I've, I've thought a lot about this, but I think, you know, I could go on forever about this, but I have a bunch of other questions to get through.
00:12:24.686 - 00:12:59.160, Speaker A: But it's good to pay attention to all the different token designs within the ecosystem. See which ones work, see which ones don't. Because I think over time we're going to see maybe not the perfect design come to life, but we're going to see like a design that comes out and people are going to be like, wow, why didn't we think of this before? This is awesome. Like this is really, really good. This solves kind of like a lot of the issues we had with, with liquidity mining and with token distributions and everything. I think we'll get to that point, but it just has to have like a lot of these experiments run out. People will make money, people will lose money, but eventually we should get to a point where it kind of becomes a standard thing of, okay, well that's how you do a token.
00:12:59.160 - 00:13:44.584, Speaker A: Like, that's how you actually do a token distribution and have everyone kind of like be happy about it. And the funny thing is, is that I was kind of like reading some stuff about the equities market the other day, and I think this is true. Like, I didn't fact check this, but like it came from a reliable source. Apparently it took like 80 years for this kind of like, I guess, stock market to come to consensus on how to value equity in a company, right? Like the price to sales and price to earnings ratios. Apparently it took a very, very long time since kind of like the birth of capital markets in the US, I guess, and kind of like the proper stock market and proper, proper trading. It just took a very long time to get to an, I guess, consensus on what a valuation kind of like, template, I guess, like valuation mechanism looks like for these sorts of things with, with tokens. It's probably going to happen a lot faster.
00:13:44.584 - 00:14:28.136, Speaker A: It's probably not going to take 80 years, but maybe it takes us another five years. Or ten years to get to that, like, ideal, perfect design, because we have to go through all the experimentation, we have to go through all the speculation to get there. So we'll have to see. It's still, I think it's exciting that we get to run like thousands of economic experiments in parallel and we all, and it's all open for everyone to see, everyone to kind of like, write about and everything and educate each other about. So that's what kind of, like, I'm most excited about. But I think, yeah, the design space for airdrops and token distributions is huge, and we're going to see much more come along. All right, next question comes from idoneven, who says, I've been arguing with my BTC Maxi coworker for years, which is great, because I've learned even more about why I love and support Ethereum.
00:14:28.136 - 00:15:04.230, Speaker A: He recently sent me this very dense paper titled only the strong survive, and tries to argue that BTC is the only crypto that should exist from a philosophical, technical, and economic perspective. Have you read this and do you have any thoughts on it? So I did see this piece. I didn't read the whole thing. I kind of like skimmed through it. I don't know. I'm probably not going to speak to this piece in particular. I want to speak more generally about how I view in particular bitcoin maximalists and their kind of train of thought they start, the way they debate and the way they present their ideas is that they start from the end and then work themselves back to justify the end.
00:15:04.230 - 00:15:48.326, Speaker A: So what I mean by that is like they work themselves into a position where they're like, okay, well, I have this belief. This is my position on something, so let me find all the reasons I can to justify that belief instead of doing it the other way around, where you have all these reasons to believe something, and when you work backwards like that, you get into this thing where it looks more like a kind of like religious zealotry than actual kind of like a practical science. And that's always what's turned me off about, I guess, like the bitcoin ecosystem is that they take the ideology of this stuff to the extreme. Obviously, I'm very ideological about ethereum and decentralization and all that sort of stuff stuff. But I'm kind of like practical about it, too. I look at the kind of like the real world stuff that I can measure. Like, I don't get too bogged down in the philosophy of things.
00:15:48.326 - 00:16:21.544, Speaker A: I don't try to convince myself of something, of an argument or a position without kind of like getting into that position from the start. I don't try to work backwards sort of thing, whereas the bitcoin maximalist, from my experience, will try to work backwards. And I think the perfect example of this is them assuming that everything else except bitcoin is a scam. So let's take a theorem, for example. They say ethereum is a scam. And then you ask them, okay, well, why is a theorem a scam? And then they work themselves backwards and they say, well, there's this in this reason, this, this and this reason. But the thing is, is that they have automatically called ethereum a scam.
00:16:21.544 - 00:16:41.808, Speaker A: It's not because of, of anything that they've kind of, like, researched ticket themselves into that position. They've just gotten to that position because they take a view that everything except bitcoin is a scam. Then they have to look for reasons as to why they feel that way. Oh, you know, it's, it's. Vitalik's in control of it. Oh, you know, there's a prima, oh, you know, this, this and that. And, and that just doesn't make for good debate in my mind.
00:16:41.808 - 00:17:22.225, Speaker A: So that's why I actually stopped debating and kind of engaging with bitcoin maximalist a very long time ago. I just, I can't reason with someone who didn't use reason to get into their position in the first place. I can't, like, reason with someone who basically debates as if they're kind of, I guess, like with, with zealotry and with kind of religious like beliefs, rather than kind of like actual debate based on facts. I just, I just can't do it. And that's why I ignore a lot of these pieces as well, especially ones that basically say, well, only bitcoin should survive. And already, like, just, you know, just kind of like knowing that that's what the piece is about. It's kind of like, well, I just, I don't, I don't, I don't see how that even you can even reason yourself into that.
00:17:22.225 - 00:17:57.584, Speaker A: And, but they do. They find a way to do it. I mean, I call them masters or like gold medalists in Olympic, Olympic style mental gymnastics because they have an ability to, to reason themselves into a position without using reason. And you see that play out a lot on twitter and things like that. So I guess, like, to answer your question, you know, my thoughts on the piece don't really have any. Cause I didn't read it. But because of the reasons I just outlined, I don't know, I just feels like a waste of time to entertain these ideas, and I'd rather focus on fact, fact based debate than pure beliefs and ideology about things.
00:17:57.584 - 00:18:35.820, Speaker A: Because you can have your. Your ideologies, you can have your beliefs, but if you're using them to justify a position that doesn't factually make sense, it just doesn't really interest me. And, you know, it's kind of boring to me. So hopefully that answers your question. I don't even. All right, one coming in here from Dom, who says, in the absolute worst case scenario, where the US bans all crypto activity everywhere they can, unlikely, IMO, but we have to prepare for it anyway. How do you see fiat stablecoin ramps existing in a decentralized way that can't be regulated or stopped? Or is that just an idealistic pipe dream? I mean, they can exist, but it'd be very hard, right? Like, you'd have to do it in a peer to peer fashion.
00:18:35.820 - 00:19:00.434, Speaker A: And we actually saw that these peer to peer marketplaces, like local bitcoins, already forced to implement KYC a while ago. So, you know, that would probably be banned anyway. So it would basically go underground. There'd be like a black market for it. It'd probably be quite a large black market, but it'd be a lot less scalable. It'd probably, you know, there'd probably be tasks force set up to kind of, I guess, you know, catch people doing this. So it'd be a lot riskier and things like that.
00:19:00.434 - 00:19:26.134, Speaker A: So I would say that if there's anything to worry about, it definitely is the. I guess, like the US banning or at least choking these kind of like fiat on and off ramps or stable coins and things like that. And I've spoken about this on the refuel plenty of times. That's the kind of things I would go after if I was a regulator. But also, I think that, I mean, I don't think that the US is going to do this. Like, the US is definitely not anything like China when it comes to this sort of stuff. The.
00:19:26.134 - 00:19:57.614, Speaker A: I mean, the US can't unilaterally basically, or the US government can't unilaterally say while crypto is banned. You know, there has to go through the whole kind of like, political process, the whole democratic process, whereas in China you just have the one party, the CCP, who can basically say, well, crypto is banned and then it's banned and they can do whatever they want. They can crack down on whatever they want. They have the power to do that. That's not the same in the US. That's not the same in a lot of countries around the world, especially, obviously the western ones that have democracies. And again, it's just very very hard to outright ban things.
00:19:57.614 - 00:20:58.908, Speaker A: But in saying that what they can do and what is actually I think something that's worse than outright banning it, funny enough, is basically restricting people from being able to withdraw to their own wallet. So say you can still buy crypto on an exchange, but you can't withdraw it to your own Ethereum wallet, for example, which means you can't do anything within DeFi or any other app you want to use on Ethereum. That to me is worse because what it does is it basically just turns crypto into this really boring thing which, where the only thing you can do is buy tokens on exchanges and speculate on them and then the whole thing just turns into a massive casino. Because if there's no, if there's no use cases backing it up, then why people are buying these tokens? If you can't actually use the networks because no one can be on boarded onto them, then what's the point at the end of the day, right? So it just, I think that's actually even worse. And I don't think that's protecting anyone at all. I mean it's probably protecting banks and the incumbents and stuff like that, but it's definitely not protecting retail investors or kind of like everyday investors or anything like, like that. So um, that, yeah, those are kind of like the threats that I see.
00:20:58.908 - 00:21:33.080, Speaker A: Of course. Um, I think they're going to try and their hardest to, and they probably will succeed at regulating the centralized stable coins, uh, because they're just so easy to regulate. I mean they're already regulated to some extent, but I think they want to clamp down on it harder, which I guess makes total sense. I mean stable coin, like stable coins obviously are a big deal. They're, they're, they've got market caps in the tens of billions of dollars. There's some that are shady, some that are not like Taylor's obviously shady USDC is not. And then you have like, you know, decentralized alternatives or hybrid alternatives which are either not very scalable or just like not as used as these other things.
00:21:33.080 - 00:22:12.192, Speaker A: So I think that the regulators are going to look at these centralized stable coins and be like, okay, well we can, we can choke this, we can, we can do a choke point here, but we'll have to see how that plays out. Maybe they basically require KYc for everyone using a stable coin, which would probably kill decentralized stable coins on, on chain, not on, on centralized exchanges, but definitely on chain. So it's going to be interesting. We've got a lot of people fighting for us in kind of like the political sphere right now, fighting for crypto to make sure this stuff doesn't happen. But you can never rule out this, this sort of stuff here. So, yeah, hopefully that answers your question, Dom. All right, we have one here, one or two from MD triple eight.
00:22:12.192 - 00:22:55.968, Speaker A: Regarding l two s and potential airdrops. If someone were to deposit ETH on optimism, use uni to swap ETH for die, then die to WBTc, then provide a small amount of liquidity to the WBTC ETH pool in uni, would that be enough to qualify for a hypothetical airdrop? Are there any other actions that would increase the likelihood of receiving an airdrop? Are the requirements for other l two or side chains the same, different? What did Dydx require to qualify? So the first question would that be enough to qualify for a hypothetical airdrop? I mean, your guess is as good as mine. I have absolutely no inside information here. I don't know if these teams are even going to do a token. I don't know if they, I mean, I've said before that I think they will, but I don't know for sure. Right. And I don't know how they're going to do their airdrop or even if they're going to do one.
00:22:55.968 - 00:23:30.594, Speaker A: It's all speculation, but obviously the easiest way to kind of like position yourself for that is just to use the network in any capacity. I would actually like. Personally, I would wager the more you use it, probably the more of an airdrop you would get if they wanted to do an airdrop, kind of in, kind of like more of the right way, or at least the right way that I see it. So I would just, I would suggest just using as much of kind of like the L2s as you can. But the thing is like you could use it as well because it's actually just a good product. Like you get cheaper fees and everything like that. So don't just use it for the sake of using it, just so you can potentially get an airdrop one day because you never know.
00:23:30.594 - 00:23:52.638, Speaker A: Maybe the airdrop snapshot only happens for, in six months and they only count like the last six months worth of activity from that point. And you kind of like stop doing things on the L2 network because you were just doing it for the airdrop. So you never know how they're going to do it. Maybe they take the only, the most active people on the l two. Maybe they don't even take everyone. They just. Okay, well, this address has been active, you know, every week for the last six months.
00:23:52.638 - 00:24:38.842, Speaker A: We're going to airdrop, you know, a more sizable portion to this kind of like, address here. So, yeah, it's just, it's anyone's guess, but I would say just use these products as much as possible. And then your second question, are there any other actions that would increase the likelihood of receiving an airdrop? I mean, I guess like they may airdrop tokens to people who are contributing to the network in some way, whether that's being in the Discord channel, helping out people in the community, you know, answering support, answering questions, people who are asking kind of like, for support and things, spreading the word about it, writing articles, writing educational stuff. There may be airdrops for people like that as well. So that maybe might be something you can do. Maybe they'll airdrop to people who are using the bridges to bridge into these l two s. I'm not sure if they, if they will do that.
00:24:38.842 - 00:25:18.228, Speaker A: Maybe that's a low chance, but yeah, I mean, there's a few, I guess, auxiliary things you can do to maximize your chances at an airdrop and to maximize the amount you can get from it as well. Then your next question. Are the requirements for other l two or side chains the same or different? I'm going to assume that everyone, every one of them is going to do it differently. So I wouldn't assume that, you know, you can do everything on everything the same on every network. But again, I would just do organic kind of like user activity on each of these networks. Use which ones you actually want to use. Don't just force yourself to use them, and don't just kind of like try and fake your activity to guarantee a higher airdrop because I'm going to assume that these teams are going to try and filter that out if they're doing the airdrops in the right way.
00:25:18.228 - 00:25:43.484, Speaker A: So that's kind of like, I guess, my thoughts on that one. And then you ask, what did dy DX require to qualify? I think it was based on kind of like trading volume before they took a snapshot. So if you had traded a certain amount of volume, you were given more of an airdrop than, than other people. I think the base airdrop was like 1100 tokens or something like that. So there was quite a sizable airdrop. But then the more you traded, the more you got. I think that's how it worked.
00:25:43.484 - 00:26:11.488, Speaker A: So, I mean, that makes sense, right? The, and the thing is trading, it is very hard to kind of, like, spoof that because of the fact that there's fees associated with that. So if you were just kind of wash trading on there, they do have a way to filter out wash trading as well. But if you were sophisticated enough to maybe kind of like, I guess, make it look like it was natural activity, you would still be paying, you know, lots and lots of fees. So. And it just depends on kind of like, the volume that you were kind of pulling and things like that as well. So that's kind of like how I, how DyDx did. Did it there.
00:26:11.488 - 00:26:49.170, Speaker A: So, yeah, hopefully that answers your questions. MD triple eight here. All right. I think there's three questions here from Bulla 42. The first one, what is the risk of using wrapped assets such as wrapped ETH? Is it right to say, as long as they are backed one to one with ethanol is good? So I actually checked up on this a few months ago with a smart contract developer that I know. I asked, you know, what is the risk of using wrapped ether? Like, is it actually one to one equivalent with ETH in terms of trustlessness, or is there a bit of added risk? I mean, wrapped ether is a smart contract, but it is so basic. I mean, it's really, the code is, I don't remember how many lines it is, but it's so, so basic.
00:26:49.170 - 00:27:17.402, Speaker A: You can go look at it on Etherscan that I would actually consider wrapped ETH to be pretty much the same as normal ETH in terms of trustlessness. There's no one that owns the contract or anything like that. It just exists on Ethereum. And as I said, like, it has minimal, minimal code, so minimal surface area for bugs or exploits. It's been around for a very long time now, and no one's exploited it, even though it has a huge amount of ethan there. So I'm pretty, I'm pretty confident in saying that it's basically 99.99% equivalent to ETH.
00:27:17.402 - 00:27:49.374, Speaker A: You know, you can never, never be like 100%, but I'm basically, you know, it's basically equivalent there. And of course, it's always backed one to one with, with ETH because you can't, you can't kind of like, wrap. Sorry. You can't issue w ETH without depositing ETH into the contract, and you can't get your ETH back without swapping w ETH for it as well. So. Yeah, and I'm sure there's been we that's been kind of like lost over time, which means that ETH is just locked in there as well. So, yeah, maybe it's a bit more than one to one backed, if you count that as well.
00:27:49.374 - 00:28:23.656, Speaker A: So your second question, as a newbie scouting your projects, are there any high level checks I can perform for a smart contract that can immediately alert me to something being wrong? For example, token distribution, lack of multisig wallets. If there is a good tutorial somewhere online about this, that would be great. If you're not someone who knows how to read smart contracts, then it can be a bit hard. You have to rely on, I guess, like, uh, the social layer where you rely on other people calling this stuff out, but ones that actually know how to read smart contracts. But I'm sure that there are some guides online for this. Like, in the contracts, you can see if it's a, if it's a kind of like multi seq, controlling it or not. You can kind of like, see what the multi seq is.
00:28:23.656 - 00:29:00.374, Speaker A: And if, is it like a, is it just like a two of three or is it like a three of five? And like, how many sign is and stuff like that? Like, is there a time lock on the contract so that changes can't just happen? Like, can't just happen immediately. They have to go through a waiting period. But generally, yeah, it is definitely harder for people who can't read the code. You have to rely on other people. But I mean, there's other stuff you can look at when you're kind of like, looking at a project. Just generally, it's kind of like, you know, are they. For me, it's like, okay, what does their community look like? Does it look paid? Is it, you know, do they have, like, tens of thousands of community members, but they don't have a product yet? That usually means that it's, that it's paid for.
00:29:00.374 - 00:29:31.644, Speaker A: Are they, is their marketing focused on just talking about the token a lot? Usually means they're trying to pump the token. There's a few red flags that kind of, like, pop up and things like that. So that's another thing that I kind of look for. But in terms of the smart contract itself, I always rely on the social layer because I can't read smart contracts either. And I'm, and I kind of like, make sure that I'm relying on, I'm relying on trustworthy people, too. You don't want to just talk to anyone. You want to kind of rely on the ones who have got a good reputation within the ecosystem, and you can be, you know, pretty sure that they aren't lying to you, really, at the end of the day.
00:29:31.644 - 00:29:47.622, Speaker A: All right, so third question. Recently chanced upon a project that had the following characteristics. I guess this is a follow up to your second one. No audit liquidity pool is not protected by a multi sig, as there was one dev only. However, they claim that this. They claim that this is fine. Sorry.
00:29:47.622 - 00:30:07.884, Speaker A: Yeah, I just got it. Yeah, sorry. They claim that this is fine as they are a fork of impermax, which has been audited by certic. And while some protocol parameters can be modified at the discretion of governance in the future, the core contracts are not upgradable. Does this sound like a ticking time bomb to you? Well, I mean, just because something's a fork doesn't mean really anything. It can be forked and then modified. Right.
00:30:07.884 - 00:30:39.574, Speaker A: And the developers can say whatever they want and, you know, if you can't read the contract yourself, then you're just trusting the developer on that front. So what can end up happening is that they can fork it and then they can just like change a few lines of code and basically change something critical where they basically have full unilateral control over it in some way. They maybe introduce a bug without even realizing it. Like they could, they could literally change one character in the contract and introduce an exploit. That could mean that all the funds in the contract were drained. That's how sensitive these things are. And that's exactly what happened with the comp token contract the other day.
00:30:39.574 - 00:31:13.418, Speaker A: They were missing two characters or two of the same character in the same character in two different places. And that's what resulted in $90 million of comp tokens being paid out when they shouldn't have. So I would never trust the developers, to be honest with you, even if they say, oh, this is a fork, and they say, oh, well, you know, we can't modify anything because you just don't know. You have to actually check the code for yourself or you have to ask someone that you trust to check the code for you as well. So. And, you know, just because the original contracts were audited, as soon as any code change is made, that audit goes out the window. It doesn't count anymore, really.
00:31:13.418 - 00:31:49.974, Speaker A: I mean, as I said, because you can introduce a bug with just like a one character change of a smart contract. So I definitely wouldn't trust the developers, you know, word on that, I would. I would get someone else to check it too. But I know this stuff is kind of like not, not easy to scale either. And that's why we see a lot of rug pulls, because a lot of people just take the, I guess, like developers word at kind of like face value and get themselves either exploited or scammed or, you know, rug pulled or whatever they're calling it these days. But generally, if you want to protect your funds, you, you definitely should check and kind of like get a second opinion, so to speak, on, on these kind of contracts. Outside of the developers, of course.
00:31:49.974 - 00:32:19.810, Speaker A: All right, another one here from Dom. What are your thoughts on the rise stable coin? If it accomplishes what it claims to do, it seems like a big deal. You yet I barely hear about it anywhere. Is it just a matter of poor marketing or is there a fundamental downside I'm not seeing? So I guess I should give a bit of context about rye and what it is for people who may not be familiar with it. Rai is a stable coin that's pegged to itself. It is not pegged to the US dollar. It maintains its stability through, I can't remember exactly what the mechanism is called.
00:32:19.810 - 00:32:57.246, Speaker A: It's like it's something got to do with control theory. And as I said, it's stable to itself, which means it doesn't target $1, it targets an arbitrary value that has been set, and it's only backed by ETH as well. So people were saying, okay, well, this is like a truly decentralized stablecoin because it's not pegged to the US dollar, because obviously the US dollar loses purchasing power over time. It's pegged to itself and it's backed only by ETH, which is truly decentralized collateral. And as far as I know, I don't think there's any centralized kind of points of failure as in admin keys or anything like that. And I don't think there's any kind of like governance or any heavy governance in it. So from the, on the surface looks really good, but it hasn't been tested in a really big way yet.
00:32:57.246 - 00:33:26.622, Speaker A: It's been out for quite a while, but still it needs to go through more trials of fire. It hasn't really scaled up to, I guess, like the scale of other stable coins out there. It definitely needs better marketing, maybe for people to kind of like pay more attention to it and to kind of like. I know about it as well because. Yeah, I don't hear about it too much either. But if it does accomplish what it aims to do, it definitely is probably one of the best stable coins we have. And especially because it's not pegged to the US dollar, because, you know, pegging to the US dollar, definitely not.
00:33:26.622 - 00:34:19.782, Speaker A: Just, not only do you inherit the kind of like inflation that the USD suffers over time, which means loss of purchasing power, but you also inherit, I guess, like the, what is it, the risk of just the US generally, right? And you inherit the kind of like risk of the peg coming off for whatever reason because of the USD doing weird things or whatever. Or maybe the US government decides to outlaw, you know, all stable coins that are pegged to the US dollar and that could affect the decentralized ones as well, out of kind of like a panic. So it's good to have these things definitely just be outside of kind of like nation states and outside of pegging yourself to a nation state currency. But yeah, I just think maybe it just needs better marketing. I think they might be being quiet just because I don't want to get, they probably don't want it to get too big while it's still in these early phases. But if it works, yeah, it's going to be massive, that's for sure. All right, a couple of questions here from Max invests.
00:34:19.782 - 00:34:58.604, Speaker A: First one, confused about volitions and validiums. Can you give me a TLDR on what they are and why you are so excited about them? So validiums and volitions are a type of scaling construction that people, that I've gotten into a bit of a discussion with people lately about if these things are actually L2s or not. So I should actually define exactly what a L2 is. So something is considered a L2 if both the proof of the transactions being executed off chain is posted to ethereum layer one. And also the data is posted to ethereum layer one. That is what is considered a true l two. Zk roll ups and optimistic roll ups are the true l two s because of that.
00:34:58.604 - 00:35:47.606, Speaker A: Now volidiums and volitions take a trade off where validium will store the data portion of, of kind of, kind of like the scalability piece, for example. And when I'm talking about data, I'm not talking about kind of like data such as metadata for nfts or kind of like JPEG files for nfts. I'm talking about user balances and stuff like that. So the actual data about, okay, who owns what asset, what's the user balance of this account at this kind of like state and all that sort of stuff that need, that goes on chain as part of a ZK roll up and an optimistic roll ups. And that's why ZK roll up. I mean, that's why, I mean, optimistic rollops are kind of like more expensive and ZK roll ups that are as well, but they're a bit cheaper. But they definitely are more expensive than something like a validium or a volition.
00:35:47.606 - 00:36:50.872, Speaker A: Now what a validium does, as I said, it takes the data off chain, so it'll put the data on what's called a data availability committee, which is just a bunch of nodes running off chain that kind of keep the data available and feed that data into the validium so that you can get that more scalability. So the only thing that the validium is doing is posting proofs or that they're running the transactions to layer one. Now the problem, I mean, not the problem, but like the trade off with a validium is that if you, if that data is inaccessible for whatever reason, if you can't access that data because the community has gone offline or they've just withheld it from you because they're trying to censor you, then the potential issue becomes that you can't actually withdraw your funds from this kind of volidium construction. Your funds are frozen and there's nothing you can do about it. So obviously that is not a, not an ideal scenario. That's obviously just a massive trade off that you would, you kind of like you take when using these kind of solutions. But it is a stepping stone to the kind of like next solution, which is a volition, which is like a validium, but it gives you the option of where to store the data.
00:36:50.872 - 00:37:51.596, Speaker A: You can store it as part of a daily data availability committee, or you can actually switch on what's called ZK roll up mode and store it on chain. So volition essentially just gives you a choice of what to do with the data. And potentially you can store it anywhere, really, as far as I understand it, you can store the data on your own pc if you want to, and then provide that data to the layer one where you want to withdraw your funds and things like that, especially in the case that the construction withholds the data from you or it tries to sense you or something like that, then you kind of get that option there. Now, the reason why you take such these trade offs is because you get massive scalability out of this posting the proof to layer one, Ethereum is very, very cheap. The expensive part is posting the data, the core data. And if you, if you kind of like don't post that to layer one, you obviously save a lot, and that's why platforms like Immutable X, which are valid, I'm allow for free minting because they're covering the cost, because the costs are so low. Like literally, you know, pennies on or even just like less than that.
00:37:51.596 - 00:38:27.950, Speaker A: I think, you know, to mint an NFT is like maybe 0.001 cents or something like that, something very, very cheap. But as I said, there's a major trade off there where the data is somewhere else. It's not on chain. But the thing is, the reason why we're using these solutions is because Ethereum's kind of like capacity, Ethereum layer one's capacity for data availability or for data in general is low right now because we only have the single Ethereum chain. We don't have data sharding yet. But when we get data sharding, we'll be able to have initially with 64 data shards, 64 x more data availability capacity than we have today.
00:38:27.950 - 00:39:16.320, Speaker A: And that lends us to be able to do kind of like those true l two s in a more scalable fashion, and then we just add more shards over time and things like that. But in saying that, I think that the trade offs that these things are making, like volidiums and I mean, evolution is better than a validium. I think the trade off that evolution makes, where it allows you to kind of like select where you want to store your data, is really, really cool. I really like that. I think that's an awesome solution, an awesome hybrid solution that basically allows for really, really nice scalability while also giving the users the choice of how secure they want this thing to be. And, you know, depending, obviously the costs are going to vary and things like that as well. But like, over the longer term, we're definitely going to get to a point where we're going to have so much space for data on layer one that it's going to be kind of like cheap to have these as true l two s as well.
00:39:16.320 - 00:40:00.240, Speaker A: So hopefully that kind of, I guess, answers that question. I think, I think you had a follow up question within that as well, is like, what is the nature of data availability solutions? The thing is, is that there's a few kind of like blockchains out there that are just trying to be data availability layers, like Polygon avail and Celestia. They aren't trying to do. What Ethereum is doing is where Ethereum is doing the security and settlement layer and data availability layer with, with sharding. Um, but the problem is, is that from my understanding, if you store your data on Celestia or avail for example, well, then you're at the mercy of, of their validators. You're at the mercy of that network. So from that perspective, you're, you're not getting Ethereum level security, you're getting avail or celestial level security.
00:40:00.240 - 00:40:41.590, Speaker A: They're good solutions, don't get me wrong. And it can actually help us scale, but, and it's probably better than just trusting like a handful of nodes to kind of like keep your data available, but the problem becomes that you're trusting just like another network. So you have like a trade off there. So that's kind of like how to think about data availability solutions. And so your second question here is, I think a bit of a follow up as well. What's the difference between the crappy BTC L2 side chains, whatever it is called, stuff like RSK and Ethereum L2s? So because bitcoin doesn't have an expressive base layer, it doesn't have kind of like a virtual machine. It can't verify like L2 proofs and things like that, it can't have core data stored on it.
00:40:41.590 - 00:41:12.692, Speaker A: Bitcoin. The only quote unquote L2 that bitcoin can do is state channels, which is the lightning network. And they work very differently to how roll ups work. So bitcoin is relying on side chains, which as we all know probably by now, side chains are very, very different to L2s. When you rely on a sidechain, you're relying on the nodes within that side chain for everything, for both data availability and security of your funds. And then you think about the bridges as well into that. Like when you're bridging into a side chain, you know, what's the trust assumptions of the bridge too.
00:41:12.692 - 00:41:45.796, Speaker A: So bitcoin can't do roll ups. If it added the ability to verify proofs and have call data and stuff like that, it could do. It could do. True, kind of like ZK roll ups and optimistic roll ups. If it added the ability to just verify the proof and not do cold data, then they could do like a volition or a validium. But we all know that bitcoin doesn't change, right? It just, and I don't think they're actually going to do this. So from that perspective, they have to rely on side chains or the lightning network, which is inherently very limited as well because it inherits limitations of bitcoin's layer one.
00:41:45.796 - 00:42:17.194, Speaker A: So those are the kind of like major differences between the things. RSK, as far as I know, is a side chain rootstock. There was also this thing, I think this is kind of like in research for a while called drive chains, which I think, I think is what roll ups kind of like similar to, at least they take some things from drive chains, but I'm not entirely sure. It was definitely something that came out quite a while ago now. So, yeah, hopefully that answers your questions there. Max invests. I'm going to take a quick drink break and I'll continue with the rest of the questions.
00:42:17.194 - 00:43:17.976, Speaker A: All right, so I get a few here from RVD. Do you validate both? Sorry, I've got a few questions regarding running a non validating node. Do you validate both current chain and beacon chain or only one? So I guess by non validating you would mean like not becoming a validator. So not having the 32 ETH to become a validator or running validator software and not having like a mining machine to kind of like mine. So, I mean, personally I run an ETH one full node and an ETH two full node, which is called beacon node, and obviously validators that talk to that beacon node and kind of like run off of it. So, yeah, I mean, I run both of them, and not everyone does. I mean, some people don't run an ETH one node and just like point their ETH two kind of node to an ETH one node and do it like that.
00:43:17.976 - 00:43:58.992, Speaker A: You can do that, but I guess that introduces additional trust assumptions. So you obviously would just for maximum kind of like trustlessness, you want to run your own nodes. So, yeah, that's the kind of like, I guess the question, the answer to that one, what happens after the merge? Are there two chains to validate? So there's not two chains to validate. There are two layers to kind of like, I guess, like validate the consensus layer and the execution layer. The consensus layer consists of the beacon chain. The execution layer is basically what we know as ETH one today without proof of work. So in a post merge world, you can run, you don't have to run both of them, but you would be running both of them.
00:43:58.992 - 00:44:20.724, Speaker A: You would be running your beacon node with validators talking to that beacon node. Okay, I take a step back for a second. You don't actually have to run a beacon node either. If you have validators, you can talk to other beacon nodes, but ideally you want to run your own. So essentially what you do is you run your beacon node. If you want the most trustless setup, you run your beacon node on your machine run, you run your validators off that beacon node. So they're talking to that one.
00:44:20.724 - 00:45:01.342, Speaker A: Then you have an execution layer, full node up like a geth or an aragon, and you have your beacon node talking to that. And then kind of like you have like the full trustlessness and you don't have to trust anyone. You'll get, you're validating everything by on your own and kind of like on your own hardware, and you get like the full decentralized experience like that. So there's not two chains to validate. To answer your question, there are two layers to, I guess, run full nodes for it. For back, for lack of a better term there, the beacon node and the kind of like consensus, sorry, the execution layer, which is the ETH one, kind of like full node as we know it, as we know today. All right, the next question.
00:45:01.342 - 00:45:41.978, Speaker A: Are there any benefits to running a minority client? So this has been a hot topic, I guess, over the last few weeks within the Ethereum community, especially when it comes to ETH two, because the prism client is a large part of the network. It's around 64% of the network, lighthouse coming in at second at 21%. And then you have Nimbus and Tecu taking up the remainder. The benefit of running a minority client is. So it's two, I think it's two or threefold. The most important benefit is the fact that if you run a majority client and something goes wrong with that client, you're more susceptible to being slashed. Susceptible to being slashed.
00:45:41.978 - 00:46:40.106, Speaker A: Because the way the ETH two proof of stake works is that if the network detects that you and a bunch of other people do something malicious or kind of like go offline at the same time or whatever, like say, prism is like 50% of the network and 50% of the prism clients go down, well, you're going to get a much harsher penalty than just yourself going down because the network is going to think that, okay, well, you know, this is really bad. All these clients went offline at once. All these clients stop validating, all these validators stop validating the chain at once. Let's punish these people for that. So it's, it's in your best interest to not run on the majority, just from an economic perspective. But also, I guess the second benefit is the health of the network. So I explained this in my newsletter the other day, but if 66 or more percent, so two thirds or more of the network is running on one client, it means that that client has the final say, uh, and kind of like the final say in terms of what the actual canonical chain is.
00:46:40.106 - 00:47:51.890, Speaker A: So for example, if the majority client, if the two, the client that has two thirds had a major bug in it and uh, and kind of like it forked off onto its own chain because of that bug. And there, and the other three clients came out of consensus with it. Um, it would actually finalize on that new chain after twelve minutes, which means that if you wanted to revert it you would have to basically um, uh, slash all the finalized stake which is billions and billions of dollars and lots and millions of ethics. And, and then you basically got kind of fall into this trap where you have to kind of go back to the, the social layer and say well we need to kind of I guess like come to consensus on rolling back the chain or kind of like rolling it back to this point where this bug kind of like it gets fixed and, and kind of like reversing all the finalization and everything. And I mean it's, it's a huge mess. Like I mean this sort of, the beacon chain was designed so that this stuff doesn't, that this stuff can't be done very easily at all and it's like the last resort sort of thing. So by running a minority client you help the health of the network and you help the fact that we don't want any one client being more than two thirds of the network because that's really, really bad just for the network in general because of the reasons I outlined.
00:47:51.890 - 00:48:42.718, Speaker A: So those, I guess like the two major benefits, I think, you know, the last benefit would be maybe that you're just helping these teams like feel valued as well. Like the teams that are the, maybe the smallest client on the network that only has a couple of percent each share. If you, you know, you spin it up and if, and other people do, maybe they gain more market share. It makes their work feel more valued at the end of the day. And I can tell you right now, the majority clients, like prism for example, they have no issue with people using other, other clients instead of theirs because they, they very much know that the network health is a major priority and the multi client architecture is a major way to, to ensure network health. Um, and on that note as well, they, they put out, I mean the pro labs team put out a blog post the other day where they basically said well we think that um, we shouldn't force people to like change clients. We shouldn't kind of like bribe them to do it, whatever.
00:48:42.718 - 00:49:21.926, Speaker A: And prism is going to still, uh, uh, sorry. Prolapse is going to keep building the best client they can, but the way you do it is you just coordinate as community and you signal to the community that, hey, you know, we need to um, make sure that the network's healthy. All the clients are awesome, but you know, just for the sake of the network, if you can run, you know, run a different client, and this is more for more. So for I guess like the large staking providers and newer stakers, I know old stakers or ones that have been staking for quite a while are very hesitant to change their setup because they said it's been working well. So why change something that's not broken? It could introduce kind of like bugs into their own system. They could get slashed for whatever reason. So people are very scared to do that, which is fine.
00:49:21.926 - 00:49:58.322, Speaker A: So we should focus on like just getting new people onto these validators, giving them to these minority validators, but also kind of like explaining the benefits to them too. So yeah, hopefully that kind of answers your question. There you ask, where can I see current client weightings? There's actually a website that I pointed out on the refuel node watch IO. So if you go to node watch IO, it was a website made by chainsafe. I'm just looking, I'm just looking it up now. You'll be able to see kind of like the nodes and kind of like the distribution between them and kind of like geographic location and stuff like that as well. But do know that this is an approximation, aka an estimate.
00:49:58.322 - 00:50:33.786, Speaker A: It is not going to be 100% accurate because kind of like sorting out all these nodes and trying to kind of like figure out what's what. He's just based on a bunch of heuristics that aren't, you know, 100%, kind of like 100% accurate. So. Yeah, but still they're accurate enough to get it like a decent picture of the network. And your final question, any opinions of DAP nodes, pre built boxes? Can you run any client software from these? I think the pre built boxes are fine. Adapt node comes, I mean, DAP node is software. So their pre built boxes obviously just like the hardware that their software runs on.
00:50:33.786 - 00:51:23.108, Speaker A: So DAP node is basically just like, I guess like, I mean a piece of software that allows you to run different clients, not just for Ethereum but for other change as well at a click of a button. So it's kind of like purpose built to allow you to, to run any kind of like client and just do it very easily and update and stuff like that. I mean, I would recommend it. People who just want an easy way to have like an ETH one or an ETH two kind of like set up with, with nodes and validators and clients, but also you're relying on them to deliver packages and stuff too, and you're relying on them to update things. And yeah, it does introduce a little bit of extra trust into them, into the mix here, but still a pretty good solution for people who, who definitely want something just, you know, easier than doing it themselves sort of thing. All right, on to the next question comes from Yayvr Lux. I think it's Yayval JV.
00:51:23.108 - 00:51:45.508, Speaker A: I think the J silent there. Yeah, Lux. Who asks about Ey blockchain and the Polygon integration, are you. There's actually, it's a, it's a long question here. I think they want to know. Sorry, I'm just looking for the actual question. Here's a bit of a paragraph, I think, just like from the gist of it here, they're just kind of like asking my thoughts, I guess, on this.
00:51:45.508 - 00:52:27.542, Speaker A: And, you know, what it means for the wider kind of enterprise ecosystem and what it means for kind of like big corporations, banks, whatever. It's getting involved with crypto and stuff like that. Well, so I guess, like just focusing on EY's blockchain initiatives and nightfall, which is the roll up that they kind of teamed up with Polygon to kind of put into production. I think that's like super awesome. Like it's, it's really cool to see that these large enterprises are getting involved and putting their resources and like both monetary and personnel resources behind this new technology and built and building things on the Ethereum mainnet, especially because it's all well and good to build things in private, you know, behind closed doors and stuff like that. But the crypto ecosystem doesn't work like that. We generally like the openness.
00:52:27.542 - 00:52:48.926, Speaker A: We like open source stuff. And that's exactly what happened with the EY nightfall software. And now that polygon is kind of putting their weight behind it, essentially, it's got like a really great marketing and bd effort behind it. So they'll be able to get, you know, more users that way as well. So I think that's, you know, really, really positive. I really like, like that outcome there. But, man, they're not the only one doing this.
00:52:48.926 - 00:53:18.472, Speaker A: There's plenty of corporates and enterprises getting involved with, with crypto now. I mean, Visa just announced the other day they're building their own kind of like L2 payment network. Obviously Visa is getting visas, getting involved with other ways, like buying a crypto punk and stuff like that. You had Mastercard, do stuff as well. JP Morgan has, you know, had their quorum fork of Ethereum that they worked with for quite a while and they're doing a bunch of other stuff in there too. But yeah, I mean, there's, there's plenty of these kind of like things just scattered around. Microsoft's done a bunch here as well.
00:53:18.472 - 00:53:43.284, Speaker A: So these corporates and enterprises are definitely doing a lot of, a lot of things both in private and in public. So I think it's just very, very, very kind of like a very good sign and especially that they're building on a theorem and see the value of Ethereum too. So, yeah, hopefully they're kind of like, I guess, like answers your question here. You just had like, yeah, a bunch of, I guess, comments about corporates getting involved and stuff like that. And then. Oh yeah, no, yeah. Okay, that was your first question there.
00:53:43.284 - 00:54:23.540, Speaker A: And then the second question is, are you aware of Accentra, IBM Global Services, Kapki Mini, we pro projects in Ethereum, blockchain? Like, are they working with Ethereum? I'm sure they are. I think I saw that accenture and IBM were. I'm not aware of those other kind of like corporates there, but I'm sure pretty much every corporate, you know, big corporate enterprise has some kind of blockchain research or division going on, or at least they're aware of it and they're trying to spin something up. That would be my assumption at this point in time. But a lot of them are definitely not public about it. Maybe they don't want to be public about it till they have something tangible to show, but there are ones that are public about it, which is cool to see as well. So stuff like ey and things like that.
00:54:23.540 - 00:54:51.396, Speaker A: So yeah, hopefully that answers both of your questions there. All right, another one from Bulla 42 who says, you mentioned that this is the era, era of l two s. What are some ways to gain exposure to promising l two s? Optimism and arbitrum don't appear to have tokens at the moment. So I guess, like, I went over how to position yourself for an airdrop earlier for these kind of networks in general. So that's one good way. The other good ways of obviously just buying ETH. Cause like a lot of the value flows back to ETH anyway.
00:54:51.396 - 00:55:42.794, Speaker A: But that's probably a little bit of a cop out answer there. But just thinking more generally, the way I'm playing it is the kind of like bridges and the supporting infrastructure around it and like the L2s themselves is kind of like, obviously what you want to purchase to get exposure to it. But obviously, a lot of these l two s don't have tokens yet. No, I'm kind of like an investor in arbitrum, but that was done privately. There was no public sale for arbitrum, so that's how I got exposure there. I'm an advisor to Polygon, so I have. I get compensated in matic tokens over time, you know, and I'm not telling you what to buy here, and because it's an investment advice and what not to buy, but, I mean, if you're thinking about liquid tokens that are actually available for l two s, I mean, matic is obviously the kind of like, I guess like the most well known one.
00:55:42.794 - 00:56:05.844, Speaker A: Yes, they have the pos chain, which is in an l two, but they're also building l two s. I mean, they. And they also have one live. The Hermes is live. They're doing a lot of stuff in the background, but, I mean, disclosure advisor to polygons, I'm not trying to show you too hard there, but it's. It is kind of hard right now to get direct exposure to these things because a lot of them don't have tokens, and I doubt any of them are going to actually do public sales. They'll probably do airdrops, but I really doubt if they're going to do public sales or not.
00:56:05.844 - 00:56:31.896, Speaker A: And if they do, they may just do it through coin list, which is inherently very limited because there's so much demand for these sorts of things that you may only get a very small allocation as well. Then you look at things like bridges, hot protocol connects by economies, hyphen seller network, all that sort of stuff. Some of them have tokens. Seller has a token. Synapse has a token. You know, I'm assuming hop and connects are going to have tokens. You know, you.
00:56:31.896 - 00:57:11.692, Speaker A: You obviously, you know, maybe you get an airdrop, so you're going to want to position yourself for that as well by using these bridges. But again, it's just very hard because not many of the tokens alive yet. And when they do go live, they're probably going to be worth a lot of money from the get go because there's so much hype around these things. So unfortunately, it is hard to get exposure right now. So, like, even for me, I mean, I, as I said, like, I'm an investor in arbitrary man, have kind of like my. The advisory ship to Polygon, but, you know, I'm not an investor in stockware or like optimism or some of these other ones. So, like, I not even, I can get exposure to everything because there's just so much kind of like, I guess, fomo for these sorts of things.
00:57:11.692 - 00:58:16.006, Speaker A: These teams probably don't even feel the need to raise again because they're like, well, you know, we can just kind of like put our token out there. And if they do, if they do have a token, maybe we can kind of like just have a treasury where we, we kind of like decentralize out the protocol and then we kind of fund the operations to the treasury via the token and stuff like that. So, yeah, it is kind of difficult. But in saying that, try to position yourself for every airdrop with all these sorts of things because I would be very surprised if they don't do airdrops. I'm pretty much very confident that they'll all do airdrops in some kind of capacity. So, I mean, as I said earlier, just use these things, use all the l two s, use the bridges, use the supporting infrastructure and everything like that that's built around it, and just make sure that you kind of like position yourself for the best possible way to get those airdrops and to get exposure to this because, I mean, I obviously firmly believe that the next kind of, I guess, like few years is going to be heavily focused on the l two ecosystem and everything connecting that and everything supporting that. So that's where I'm placing a lot of my bets.
00:58:16.006 - 00:58:58.870, Speaker A: But at the same time, the l two ecosystem works to reinforce ETH as an asset as well. And as you guys know, I buy Ethan stack ETH in different ways, you know, pretty much every day. So, you know, that would not be a good option for you as well if you want to just kind of like broad exposure to the whole kind of like, I guess, theorem ecosystem. But again, none of that is meant to be investment advice, just as kind of like how I'm playing it. All right. One here from KB House who says what is the best way to keep track of upcoming developments in the l two bridges space? For non tech people, listening to your show is certainly one way, but would like to find out other ways to broaden my knowledge. So I would suggest if you want to just keep track of all the developments of any project, just join the Discord channel.
00:58:58.870 - 00:59:34.620, Speaker A: They pretty much all have one. And follow their announcements channel or follow, you know, follow their kind of community channels and just talk to people, talk to the developers, ask for their, you know, what they've got coming up, ask, you know, don't pester them about it. Don't say, oh, you know, when, when token or like when this part of the roadmap or when this, when that, don't, don't be like that. But, you know, just talk to them and get to know them and kind of like gets to know their project and gets to know what they're working on. That would be a really good way. Another way, I mean, if you want another, you know, there's plenty of news aggregators out there right now. Obviously, the Daily way will keep you up to date with pretty much everything on the bleeding edge, but bankless is essential as well.
00:59:34.620 - 01:00:21.634, Speaker A: They have interviews with these, with the people building these sorts of things, whereas obviously the Daily wear doesn't do interviews and stuff like that. Keeping up to date with just like general kind of, I guess press releases too, from the block and stuff like that. And maybe even coindesk that'll keep you up to date, too. Twitter obviously is a great tool. Reddit, Reddit used to be a better tool than it is today for seeking new alpha and just follow smart people as well on Twitter that are talking about l two stuff all the time because they'll be the first ones to point out any of these new developments and stuff like that. So those are my ways to keep up with it. But again, the funny thing is, is that my goal with the Daily Gwei refuel is to basically make it so that you don't have to go anywhere else to get all the info on everything, make sure that I, you know, cover all these sorts of stuff on there.
01:00:21.634 - 01:00:46.698, Speaker A: But that's not me telling you that you shouldn't go elsewhere and find information elsewhere. You shouldn't just centralize within the daily way. But I'd be surprised if you were able to find information elsewhere. Like, I've been covering stuff on the refuel now for, for a long time. And it's always funny when I see people kind of like talk about it in my circle two weeks later and I'm like, hey, guys, don't you watch the review? I talk, I talked about this two weeks ago, come on. And then they're like, oh, go, I don't have time to watch the review. I'm like, okay, fair enough, fair enough.
01:00:46.698 - 01:01:20.798, Speaker A: But yeah, I just think that, like, I pretty much cover all of this stuff anyway because I pretty much, I'm signed up to all of the different newsletters. I'm on Twitter all the time. I have like all the discord channels on notifications for announcements and stuff like that. But if you want to keep up on your own for the bleeding edge, you know, you can do all the stuff that I do that I just outlined. All right. Question here from Boho Bohas a ethnic. There are so many bridges between l two side chains already, and it's hard to keep up with which one is the cheapest and most capital efficient.
01:01:20.798 - 01:01:37.478, Speaker A: Do you know if there is some bridge aggregators which checks multiple bridges and chooses the best one or is anyone building it? Yes, there is. It's called Lee finance. So. Ally Finance. I don't remember their Twitter handle, but I will get that for you right now because I'm pretty sure I'm following them. Lee Finance. Let me have a look.
01:01:37.478 - 01:01:59.126, Speaker A: Yeah, so it's, it's leafy protocol. So li fi protocol is their Twitter handle and it's Li finance. Now, this is in very early stages. It is not compatible with everything. It's kind of like in a, I guess like a beta stage right now. But this will be an aggregator for all these bridges. It will be an aggregator for all the chains that the bridges support and for all the assets as well.
01:01:59.126 - 01:02:54.684, Speaker A: So, yeah, there is someone building this right now, which is really cool. I came across this project the other day and I was like, oh, my God, this is awesome. So, yeah, definitely go check that out if you, if you're kind of, like, concerned with that sort of stuff there. And your second question here, Bojas, is you say in optimistic roll ups, funds can be stolen if there is one. If there's no one that checks the published state fraud proofs, assume at least one honest and able validator. Is there any data or dashboard showing that there are some validators that actually check the transactions produced by sequences on existing opportunistic roll ups? If not, how can we be sure that sequences provided arbitrarium, optimism actually produce valid transactions with optimism? Arbitrum right now, I'm pretty sure they're both completely centralized. I don't think I've mentioned this before, where no one else can run a validator node right now, you're basically just trusting them to keep the state of the network, you know, sorry, to produce the fraud proof if they do detect fraud and to go through that whole process.
01:02:54.684 - 01:03:33.204, Speaker A: But the thing is, is that from my understanding, there can't be fraud unless they do it themselves because no one else is running a validator right now. So that's kind of like mine is saying, maybe I'm off there. I haven't actually kind of looked into that just yet, but from my understanding, yeah, they're both totally centralized. So I wouldn't be worried about checking it. You just have to trust them at this point in time. That's going to change over time when they decentralize out their validators and anyone can kind of, I guess, go through the fraud proof system and anyone can do that and put up bonds and stuff like that as well. But right now I would assume that it's all on the optimism and arbitrum team because of the fact that they're the only ones running validators and sequences.
01:03:33.204 - 01:04:14.116, Speaker A: All right, one or two here from yawn the phone. Could you go through the metrics which prove that Ethereum is by far the most decentralized blockchain? So the thing is about talking about what makes a blockchain decentralized and why Ethereum is the most decentralized. It's less so about the metrics, such as how many full nodes there are and what the mining pool distribution looks like and what the token distribution looks like. And it's more about the social layer and the subjectivity layer. Now what I mean by that is within Ethereum we have a governance process. We have rough consensus, off chain governance process. There's no on chain binding governance process.
01:04:14.116 - 01:05:14.288, Speaker A: You can do token voting if you want, but that token vote doesn't give you any power over changing things on the network. The way that changes go into the network, it goes through the EIP process, which is the Ethereum improvement proposal process, which includes basically community feedback, community kind of, I guess, requiring community consensus. And ultimately to get an upgrade on the network, you need overwhelming community consensus, like what we had with 1559, for example, which is a, which was the highest profile EIP in existence, I think, ever, besides the merge. So from that point of view, I would say you need to know that there is a culture of people who care about decentralization enough to speak up when they see that something is kind of like Ori, or something is kind of like going wrong within the system. Or there's a EIP, for example, that has been proposed that is not in the best interest of the system. We've had a few of these within Ethereum. We had the progpal EIP, which a lot of ethereums felt was not a great EIP.
01:05:14.288 - 01:06:07.072, Speaker A: It didn't solve the ASIC kind of like problem on the network, and that our goal shouldn't be to kind of like be ASIC resistant because we're getting rid of miners anyway, so it doesn't really matter in the long term. Another one was an EIP to basically bail out the parity multisig wallet that was exploited and the funds were frozen in there, that again was rejected. And I'm pretty sure there's a few others out there as well. But those are kind of like the two most high profile ones. So we were able to reject them as a community because we have a culture of a lot of different people, thousands, tens of thousands people probably, that really care about Ethereum, the network, care about decentralization, run their own full nodes, care about the governance process. And we also have core developers that are distributed throughout the world. They aren't just working for one company or foundation, or obviously the Ethereum foundation does fund core development, but it's not, they're not the only ones.
01:06:07.072 - 01:06:53.866, Speaker A: You have no says funding core development. You have independent teams like Nethermind and stuff like that as well, and building the different clients and things too. So they're not all just funded by one entity. So there's that aspect to consider. But then, yeah, I mean, the hard metrics, obviously, the Rana full nodes that are running, how easy it is to run a full node, the token distribution, like, you know, what kind of players are involved with the ecosystem, is it all centralized in one kind of like exchange or one kind of like central actor? All those sorts of things. How decentralized is kind of like the app layer as well and things like that. Is it just like a handful of apps that control the network? Or are there lots and lots and lots of apps that all have their own say within things? Stable coins play a big role as well.
01:06:53.866 - 01:07:46.882, Speaker A: Is there decentralization amongst the stable coins or distribution, at least amongst the stable coins? I think there are so all those sorts of things you kind of like take together. And as I've mentioned before, Balaji has a really great post on this called quantifying decentralization that he posted in 2017, and it's aged really well. So, yeah, from my point of view, I don't think you can just look at the hard metrics and draw a conclusion from that, because the hard metrics can actually be spoofed. And there actually can be a lot of misinformation around this where a blockchain can claim, oh, we have 10,000 full nodes running, but then in reality they're not actually full nodes at all. They're just like these things that they've fluffed, or maybe they're actually fluffing the metrics on their kind of like website, and they're just faking them completely. And you have to just trust that they're not sort of thing. So from that point of view, those kind of metrics, yeah, obviously can be faked, but the social side can be faked as well.
01:07:46.882 - 01:08:12.838, Speaker A: It can be like Astroturf. There can be bots spun up to kind of like, put weight behind an opinion that isn't consensus, but to make it look like it's consensus. So governance just generally is very hard, and governance is at the heart of whether a blockchain is decentralized or not. I think, like the governance process to kind of, like, get upgrades in or out of the network. And it's funny because bitcoiners will commonly say, well, bitcoin doesn't have any governance. Bitcoin is. And it doesn't change.
01:08:12.838 - 01:08:37.956, Speaker A: And that's it. Well, no, you do have governance. You have the governance of not having governance. That is still governance because by rejecting changes to the network, by rejecting hard forks, that is governance. Because, you know, what happened in 2017 with bitcoin with the kind of, I guess, hard fork to increase the block size limits, they rejected that as a community, and then the people who wanted it forked off as bitcoin cash. Right? That's still governance. Like, you can't just say, oh, we have no governance.
01:08:37.956 - 01:09:22.008, Speaker A: Well, you do, because you fought back against something that you didn't want in the network. That is a form of governance. So bitcoin's governance is the exact same as ethereum's, but Ethereum's embraces it. Ethereum kind of says, well, we have, like, a process in place where we embrace hard forks. We'll do them regularly because we want to put upgrades into the network, and we're happy doing that. So, yeah, hopefully that gives you a bit of an idea of how I think about decentralization and how I think the hard metrics don't always work very well. But on the flip side, they do work very well for things that are very obviously centralized, for example, and I've brought this up a lot before, if you look at Solana right now, the top 19 validators can halt the network.
01:09:22.008 - 01:09:59.848, Speaker A: So 33% of the state can halt the network, which means they can shut it down, they can stop transactions from happening on there, and there's nothing you can do about it. And also, it's really hard to run Solana validator. It's also really hard to run a fully validating node. I don't even know if it's possible to do that, because the more transactions there are, the more state that builds up over time. I don't know what kind of solutions they have in place for maybe discarding state over time, which introduces new trust assumptions and stuff like that. I mean, it's just, it varies from chain to chain, and there's like different terminology and different things happening on all the different chains. So it is hard to do, to kind of like measure that stuff.
01:09:59.848 - 01:10:39.556, Speaker A: Um, so that I always look to the social layer and I always look to the kind of like the, the history as well, the historical context to, to kind of like, see, you know, what's happened in the past. Is there a, is there a culture of rejecting bad changes? Is there a culture of people being active in governance and all those sorts of things? Yes. Well, you know, maybe, you know, this thing is actually decentralized and stuff like that. So hopefully that answers your question there. And your second question is, you mentioned that it would be a good idea to use these l two protocols and bridges in some fashion because they're an opportunity for airdrops. Do you think we'll be okay just using the protocol once I've already talked about the airdrops? I think at the start of the AMA and also just before. So definitely go check that out.
01:10:39.556 - 01:11:00.920, Speaker A: For my answer to that, I think the question was from where is it? MD Triple Eight. That's the, that's the question I answered around airdrops and what to do there with regards to L2. All right, onto a question from Zero X. Boomer. My number one source of unbiased info is the deli Gwei. Number two is blankless. I'm looking for number three and four to fill out my working day.
01:11:00.920 - 01:11:42.120, Speaker A: Do you have any recommendations for regular content podcast that can fill those hours? They can be very technical, and thank you for everything. So I listen to a bunch of different podcasts, but it just depends, like, what you're looking for. If you're looking for technical stuff, I would suggest listening to the podcast Zero knowledge. That's a really great podcast. It's very technical, but it's very good. I like listening to up, only not as more of kind of like a casual listen and a casual kind of podcast where there's a lot of comedy kind of rolled into it, but still kind of like hits on a lot of different things and they have interesting guests on. Um, I'm just going, kind of going through my podcast up here to see Epicenter has.
01:11:42.120 - 01:12:11.486, Speaker A: Has done a lot over the. I mean, Epicenter has been around for a very long time, so they have a lot of really great episodes. I do listen to other ones sometimes, like unchained and block crunch. But yeah, in terms of my core, I mean, I'm the same bankless. I mean, I don't listen to myself on the daily way, of course, but bankless is my, is part of my core rotation. I do enjoy up, only I would say, you know, into, into the ether, the one that I do with my co founder Eric Connor. We do actually a weekly recap of aetherium and it's, it's him on there as well.
01:12:11.486 - 01:12:39.164, Speaker A: So it's kind of like not just me giving my thoughts, he's giving it his thoughts as well. But that might be a little bit redundant if you listen to the daily every day because we do cover pretty much the same stuff, but still, it's good to get someone else's opinion on it. And we have like a, have like a really good vibe going on. I mean the, the podcast has been around for quite a while, but it does just general content too. I would say that there are a few YouTube channels out there that I follow. Find matics is, or finimatics. I think that's how you say it is really, really great.
01:12:39.164 - 01:13:22.184, Speaker A: Has a lot of great educational content, but it's a kind of like kind of semi regular video uploads, like maybe once a month, once every two months. But every time they do upload a video, it's really great and it's really educational on top of that, I guess like Twitter as like a content machine. Like everything's pretty much on Twitter. Uh, I would go on there, obviously, and read it to a lesser extent, but, um, yeah, I think, like daily, gwei, bankless, and a few of these other ones, like, you have pretty much like a lot covered in terms of, uh, keeping up with the ecosystem already. Uh, and if you want to dive deeper, as I said, zero knowledge has a lot of technical stuff going on. Epicenter, um, you know, there's a few others out there as well that I sometimes listen to. Like, uh, where is it? Uh, Delphi digital, uh, sorry, Delphi podcast.
01:13:22.184 - 01:13:57.734, Speaker A: It's pretty good as well. But yeah, I mean, that's kind of like what I listen to at the defiant. I mean, it's just funny because like bankless producers, so much content that I find myself listen myself listening to them a lot, a lot more than any other ones out there. But there's plenty of. Plenty of podcasts out there and plenty of kind of like YouTube channels as well. Yeah, as I said, phinematics and I mean, Benjamin Cohen, or into the crypto verse, he does a lot of videos, pretty much all of them are on trading. So if you're into, I mean, not trading, but like macro kind of like outlooks of prices and stuff like that, it doesn't really change day to day, but if you're interested in that, you can definitely do that.
01:13:57.734 - 01:14:28.312, Speaker A: Watch those. I tend to watch them when I'm eating lunch, just as something to have there in the background. But I've been watching him for it for a while now, and he's not like Shilly, like the other kind of like youtubers and stuff like that. But he does do videos on other coins, not just like ETH, but I tend to just watch his Ethan bitcoin videos. So, yeah, hopefully that helps you out there. Zero x ability boomer. Another one coming in from Bulla 42, who says, when yield farming, can you share with us your risk management framework, for example? I believe diversifying deposits across different platforms is one way.
01:14:28.312 - 01:15:14.264, Speaker A: However, are we also diversifying risk if we deposit funds in different pools within the same protocol? Eg Ren BTC pooling curve and HBTC pooling curve, deposit funds into the same pool, same protocol, but different network, eg ren BTC pool on Badger dao on a three main net versus ren BTC pool on Badger Dao on arbitram. So, I mean, there's always these compounding risks, of course. Like, if a protocol is using another protocol and it's using another protocol, then you inherit the risk of all those protocols. Perfect example being like alchemics. And this is a strategy that I've used where alchemics, maker and curve sort of thing, where or year and, sorry, I should say, well, I mean, yearn and curve, I would put my ethan to maker risk one. I would. I would kind of, you know, I risk one being the maker risk.
01:15:14.264 - 01:16:04.754, Speaker A: The risk being, you know, smart contract risk, peg risk, because I draw die kind of like getting liquidated risk. But I mean, I keep my liquidation price really low, but some people don't. Some people like to play fast and hard. So there's that kind of thing there. Then I would take my die, put it in Alchemyx, and then Alchemyx obviously puts that into yearn, and then yearn does their strategies with curve. So alchemyx, yearn, curve maker, four different platforms, four different levels of risk. And, you know, diversifying it across different platforms is sometimes pretty hard because if you've kind of like, if you kind of like, borrow funds from Aave, for example, or kind of like, deposit your funds into aave to earn like a yield, maybe someone else has borrowed those funds to go do something else, another contract, or maybe they put it into a curve pool, and then the curve pool kind of like becomes unstable because a coin loses its peg.
01:16:04.754 - 01:16:39.726, Speaker A: And then all these kind of, like, stuff happens at once. Maybe die loses its peg because it does, you know, sometimes maybe it goes to then, you know, all this stuff just happens around it. So there is compounding risks here, but my risk management framework is to basically just use the protocols that have been around for a while. As I said, I did do the alchemic strategy, but I didn't do it for very long, and I stopped doing it when they're kind of like, ETH exploit happened, unfortunately. I just kind of like, was like, okay, well, if it happens on the ETH contract, then there's no reason it can't happen on the other one. And I'm generally pretty risk averse. I don't do that much yield farming these days.
01:16:39.726 - 01:17:20.874, Speaker A: I've pretty much put most of my ETH into staking at this point because I think staking is the lowest risk thing you can do with your ETH right now, besides holding it in cold storage, of course. But, yeah, I would say that spreading out your funds across different platforms and stuff, just make sure that you're doing it in such a way where you're not inheriting risks anyway because there's just so much kind of composability going on. There's so much money legos going on. I would just be very careful about that. Also, if you're on different platforms, like if you're on arbitrum instead of Ethereum l one, when they've just inherited the arbitrum risk, which is, as I mentioned, arbitrary, is 100% centralized right now, but it's also a new system. So something could go catastrophically wrong within it. You could potentially lose your funds.
01:17:20.874 - 01:18:10.292, Speaker A: You know, you never know. So you have to be careful around these new platforms as well. All right, question here from Jake and Steak, who says religious daily Gwei listening here. You've said before that you expect the yield for staking ETH to rise from five to 6% to over 10%, maybe 20% after the merge. Could you elaborate on how that might happen, particularly the mechanics and maybe some probability weighted predictions? So there's two areas that stakers are going to get yield, going to get rewards from, or I guess like extra yield from, besides the block reward. Once the merge happens, that's going to be all the unburned fees. So say today we're burning like 70% to 80% of the fees, the stakers would get 20% to 30% of the unburned fees as pure revenue, basically as pure, kind of like additional AP APR, then on top of that, you have MEV.
01:18:10.292 - 01:18:36.726, Speaker A: So if you're part of a staking pool that's actively taking advantage of MEV, something like flashbots or one of the other solutions out there, there, and they're kind of distributing that to their, to the people staking with them, then you also have that on top. On top, on top. So that's where I get like the 1020 percent number from. I don't know exactly what it's going to be. I haven't run the math myself. I know that. I think that Justin Drake has run the math and he probably has some spreadsheets kind of floating around somewhere.
01:18:36.726 - 01:19:10.434, Speaker A: But for most users, unless you are part of a staking pool, or unless you're doing kind of like MeV on your own and offering up, you know, your service, your services on your own, it'll come from that unburned fear of a new, and that's where the extra API will come from. So I do expect it to. To probably get over at 10% at one point. But in saying that the higher it is, the more ETH gets staked, I think we're going to find an equilibrium at some point. And the lower the APR goes, the less incentive there is for more stake to come along. So it's like a self balancing act. And obviously once.
01:19:10.434 - 01:20:01.570, Speaker A: I'm sorry, obviously right now it's a one way bridge because you can't withdraw ETH from the beacon chain until the withdrawals are enabled after the merge. But once that happens, we're going to have like people leaving staking, joining staking. We're going to really reach an equilibrium that I think maybe three to 5% will be like the base rate, and then you'll have, I guess, like the additional rate, which is the MEV and the, the fee revenue. Now, in saying that, I wouldn't count on the MEV being like a long, long term thing. Most of the meV, I think, will be a lot of the MEV that we see today, especially the toxic meV, will definitely be kind of like, I guess, not fixed, but like made a lot better where it's just like a lot hard. It's a lot harder to extract that Mev because there's a lot of smart people working on that. But those are the two major areas where the extra kind of like APR is going to come from.
01:20:01.570 - 01:20:37.054, Speaker A: So hopefully that answers that question. All right, one here from Rob dog, who says, what type of calm behavior on Twitter, disco or discord do you dislike and discourage? So this is an interesting question on Twitter. I really, really, really dislike when people just, like, say things with such confidence and have absolutely no idea what they're talking about. And, you know, same goes for discord, but doesn't really happen that much on discord. Happens a lot on Twitter, where people will give, like, their opinion or give their kind of, like, you know, give. Say something, make a statement, and they'll have absolutely no idea what they're talking about. Like, literally no idea.
01:20:37.054 - 01:21:03.974, Speaker A: And, you know, that they haven't done any research, you know, that they don't actually know what they're saying. They're just repeating something that they've heard somewhere else. That really irks me, and it irks me even more when people use it in a debate. Obviously, Twitter is a pretty shitty place to have a debate, but when people get into a debate with. With other people and I fall into this trap sometimes where they'll just keep saying really dumb things and they're not actually having a healthy, constructive debate. I really hate that. That's like a really big pet peeve of mine.
01:21:03.974 - 01:21:23.766, Speaker A: And also, I really hate public shaming. Like, what happened with, when Robert Leshner put out that tweet. Uh, we all saw that tweet about him saying, oh, you know, return the comp or I'm going to dox you to the IR's. Um, the public shaming that he got for that was insane. Like, it was crazy. He obviously put that tweet out because he's stressed and anxious about what happened. Right.
01:21:23.766 - 01:21:47.760, Speaker A: That compounds his baby and everything. Um, and he's really stressed that that that's what happened to compound it obviously isn't. Isn't a great look and things like that. Um, and, you know, the public shaming that he went under for just that one tweet that obviously was done in the heat of the moment was. Was intense. And, you know, even if he deleted the tweet, someone would have screenshotted it and still shamed him about it. So I'm not a huge fan of that sort of stuff, but in saying that, I have done that in the past, too.
01:21:47.760 - 01:22:11.782, Speaker A: Like, I publicly shame bitcoin maximalist a lot of the time when they say really stupid things, but I think there is kind of, like, a fine line. I try not to do it as much these days. It is. It is a bit toxic. But I think the difference being that with with what? With Robert Leshna is that, like, he's actually a good actor. I don't actually consider bitcoin maximus to be good actors within the ethereum ecosystem. They're very bad actors because they spread misinformation, they spread lies, they just spread toxicity.
01:22:11.782 - 01:22:38.314, Speaker A: Whereas Robert Leshner doesn't do any of that. I mean, he basically kick started Defi summer, which kick started this whole defi revolution. And actually, you know, I guess, like, accelerated its growth. He built compound, one of the most popular defi apps. So I really hate when that sort of stuff happens and just general toxicity on, on Twitter. I really hate when people kind of, like, insult other people or kind of, like, be really mean to each other on Twitter. I know that just kind of like humans being humans, but it's just unproductive.
01:22:38.314 - 01:23:14.690, Speaker A: It's boring to look at. It's kind of, like, wasteful to kind of read. And I think the last thing is when people make stupid comments about things that people have spoken about for months and there's kind of solutions to, but people are making the same comments. Obvious example being, and this happens a lot to me, people being like, oh, the gas fees on ethereum are too high for me. Ethereum's dead, blah, blah. I'm not going to use ethereum anymore. I really hate those statements because, I mean, it just reeks to me of, like, this person's a noob, and this person also isn't a critical thinker because, yes, okay, the fees are high, but we have solutions to this.
01:23:14.690 - 01:23:49.046, Speaker A: There's more solutions coming. You don't, you know, ethereum is not going to die. Like, that's just really stupid thing to say. And I hate when people just show me these other solutions, especially other chains in my replies, and call me an ETH maxi if I don't pay attention to their favorite chain of the week. So that's another kind of thing that I, that's, that's, that's, like, probably a summary of the behavior that I really hate seeing within Twitter. Um, and, and on discord, I think one thing I really hate is when people shield things and don't contribute to this, to the discussion. Otherwise, there's been a few of those in the daily Gray Discord Channel, actually, and I've deleted these messages where I can see if they've been active or not.
01:23:49.046 - 01:24:11.218, Speaker A: I can search their user within the server and be like, okay, you know, has this user said anything before? I searched their name and the only thing that they've shared is a link to an NFT project that they're shilling. And I'm like, okay, well, you haven't actually contributed anything to this discord. I'm gonna delete that message and if you do it again, I'm gonna ban you. Um, so that's. That kind of like is a pet peeve of mine. I really hate that. Um, because it's just blatant shilling at the end of the day, so.
01:24:11.218 - 01:24:28.378, Speaker A: And, you know, some people might say, oh, that's censorship. But no, I mean, I don't think it's censorship at all. The, you know, you. The daily gray Discord channel isn't kind of like protected by the constitution of the United States. I'm sorry. Like, it's not protected speech. Like, and I've got channel rules as well that says, if you shield things, I'm going to ban you if you repeatedly show something.
01:24:28.378 - 01:24:53.938, Speaker A: So those are kind of things that kind of irk me a bit and common behavior that I just don't like to see generally. So hopefully that answers your question, rob dog. All right, another one coming in here from Dom, who asks, are there any plans to move Ens to L2? Yes, there is. EnS has been working on L2 for quite a while now. I don't know what solution that they're going to kind of like go with. I think they are working with on optimism. I don't know what the status of that is, but they're actively looking into it.
01:24:53.938 - 01:25:20.286, Speaker A: So I think if you just Google Ens L2, you'll be able to come across a few kind of like talking points about it. There was an ether research post, I believe, but I'm not sure on the exact status. I haven't kept up with it myself, but yeah, there are plans and there's a lot of people working on it as well. All right, three questions here from Bebe. What's the closest you come can come to a safe asset in crypto? BTC and ETH can drop 90%. USDC centralized. Dai can lose its peg rise early on, proven.
01:25:20.286 - 01:25:42.200, Speaker A: What's the best alternative with. One believes things may go to shit in the short term. I mean, you said it, right, like BTC and ETH can in theory, they have in the past drop 90%. Stable coins. Pretty much all of them are centralized or pseudo centralized. Dai is not decentralized because it's got USDC backing now. I mean, it's kind of like half decentralized maybe.
01:25:42.200 - 01:26:18.300, Speaker A: I guess you could call it Rai, as you said, early, unproven, and as I described before about Rai, it's just like, pegged to itself. It's a very unproven mechanism. Needs to go kind of go through, um, kind of like a testing battle testing and stuff like that. Um, so I would actually say that if you want a safe asset that can't drop in value 90% within a year or even like 60% within a month, as we saw during, uh, during, uh, the kind of like, recent crash, probably fiat. Like, I'm. I'm sorry, like, probably fiat in your bank account is going to be the safest kind of, like, asset. I know that's not within crypto, but I mean, if you want it within crypto, then a centralized, stable coin.
01:26:18.300 - 01:26:41.946, Speaker A: Outside of crypto, it would probably be fiat. Because, I mean, yes, with fiat, you can have it confiscated and everything like that and kind of like censored and all that. Kind of like, ugly stuff that can happen and the same thing can happen with centralized, stable coins. But if you're looking for stability, like, maybe. Maybe stability is the better term than here, rather than safe asset, then you're going to need to use something that's. That's a stable coin. Right.
01:26:41.946 - 01:27:17.854, Speaker A: But if you're looking for the safest asset, then, yeah, BTC and ETH, like, even if it drops 90%, the safest assets to hold are the ones that come with the least amount of trust involved with it or the ones that are actually truly trustless, which are BTSC and ETH. And I think that's it right now. Really. So, yeah, it's kind of hard to say, but I would say that, like, if you want the safest asset, not the most trustless asset, not the most decentralized one, you would go for either USDC or you would go for fiat in a bank account. I hate saying that, but I guess, like, that's the. That's the only answers I've got to that question right now for you. Second question.
01:27:17.854 - 01:27:45.198, Speaker A: Does Tornado cash exist on any L2s? If not, why? And is there something similar on l two s? Not that I know of. I think it's on side chains like Xdai and polygons. Pos chain. But I don't think it's on L2s, and I don't think there's anything similar on l two s right now. From my understanding. I'm sure they will launch on l two s, but, yeah, nothing right now as far as I know. Number three, how do you keep track of all of your wallets? I guess you don't want to share your personal setup understandable, but anything you can share would be great.
01:27:45.198 - 01:28:19.268, Speaker A: I'm thinking about, if you want to take advantage of airdrops and you use multiple wallets, how do you keep track of everything? It's easy to end up with 100 plus wallets, right, Zappa? I mean, I'm not going to show Zappa too hard here, because I'm an investor in them, but Zappa is how I keep track of all my wallets. I add them all there. I have my whole dashboard there, and then that's how I keep track of all of them. The actual wallets themselves, interacting with them, with my ledger, and kind of, like, through metamask and stuff like that. I have names attached to them. Ledger live. I'm pretty sure the app allows you to kind of, like, assign names to it.
01:28:19.268 - 01:28:44.392, Speaker A: For me, personally, I don't assign names within the app. I just write the names down on a piece of paper of kind of like, and write the address out. And that might seem a bit insane to do that, but that's kind of like how I do it, to keep track of things. But generally, I mean, if I lose the naming and if I lose what something belonged to, there's an on chain footprint there. So I can actually go and look at the. The address on chain. I can see what actions I took on that address, and I can say, okay, well, now I remember what it was.
01:28:44.392 - 01:29:21.880, Speaker A: So it may be a bit hacky to do that, but I think, like, the best one stop kind of, like, solution right now is Zappa, because it allows you to kind of, like, view everything in one dashboard, allows you to interact with different things based on different addresses and stuff like that. So that's how I keep track of everything. So, hopefully, that answers your three questions there. Bebe. All right, another, I think I got just a few more left here, but another one coming in from MD triple eight. How far off do you think we are from? Good options for staking ETH on an two. So, this is an interesting question, because you have to, like to get into staking the ETH has to go into the deposit contract, which lives on l one.
01:29:21.880 - 01:30:33.094, Speaker A: So even if you stake on l two, you still have to make a deposit on kind of like l one. So what could happen was that if you want to save on costs to get into staking or to get into something like rocket pool, there could be kind of like a, I guess, pooled thing on L2, where you kind of, like, all put your funds into something, and then those funds go across a bridge, and then they go over to the deposit contract and then it's just programmatically assigned to your validator on there or assigned to your kind of like rocket pool node or whatever. That might be one way to do it. There's probably other ways to do it, but I would, I would think that you could still do that on layer one as well, where with layer one you basically have like a trustless smart contract that pulls all the ETH together. And then once it, once it reaches a certain number of ETH, it deposits this into the deposit contract and shares the load of the gas fee between everyone that was, that was in that kind of like pool, like proportional to the amount of, I guess, kind of like, kind of like deposits that were in there. So yeah, I don't think that you could do like a thing on l fully kind of like ETH on l two to staking because there's no deposit contract there and there can't be because it has to come from the layer one chain. So yeah, hopefully that kind of like that answers your question there.
01:30:33.094 - 01:31:24.354, Speaker A: All right, so Brian, peace asks when you, when considering a future where ethereum l one is primarily used as the security layer for roll ups, I have considered this, that this would result in high gas prices on layer one due to increased network demand. But I wonder how the price of ETH might affect things. You have mentioned that ETH is divisible to 18 decimals, but would that help when paying for gas even at one way? A basic transfer costing 21,000 gas would be pretty expensive. If the price of ETH were in the six digit range. Could we lower the gas cost of transactions? Or would that be equivalent to increasing the block size? Does execution sharding address this? So, yeah, I mean, a lot to unpack here, but basically we can actually change it. So ETH is divisible to more than 18 decimals. So we can actually go to as much as we want, essentially, or as much as kind of like the high limit is on the math within the kind of like code.
01:31:24.354 - 01:32:16.758, Speaker A: But you're right that, you know, basic transfer for ETH costs 21,000 gas, and that's a hard fixed limit. So even at one way, depending on the price of either could get expensive. But that can be changed to like it's, it's, it's a hard limit until you hard fork to change it. And it can be lowered over time, but it doesn't increase the block size, doesn't increase like the state size, but what it does is that. So? So the state is like, and the gas limit and everything like that. It's kind of like a healthy balance and different kind of like actions on the network require different amounts of gas because you basically want to make it more expensive for the more, I guess, computationally expensive stuff on Ethereum to cost more. And sending it to simple ETH transfer is a kind of like cheap thing to do because it is a cheap thing to execute, is a cheap transaction to execute, whereas handling all the smart contract logic and stuff like that is more expensive.
01:32:16.758 - 01:33:02.550, Speaker A: So you need to pay more of a fee so that it's, it's, you know, because you're, you're filling up more of the states. Now, the block size can only be increased if the block block gas limit is increased. So even if you changed ETH transfers to only cost 1000 gas, that wouldn't affect the block size because the gas limit hasn't been increased along with that. Unless maybe it. And if it had, well then the block size increases from there. And then you say, does execution sharding address this? Yeah, the funny thing is, execution sharding is still in such a deep research phase. I can't give a definitive answer here, but from my understanding, yes it would because you would be able to do executions on the shards with the extra capacity, with the 64 x extra capacity if there was 64 more shards.
01:33:02.550 - 01:33:26.894, Speaker A: Because it's basically like having 64 more eight one chains, for example. But I don't know when execution shard is going to come into the network. I don't know if it's ever actually going to be a thing. We may never need it because we're just going to do all the execution at L2 anyway. So hopefully that answers your 1st 1st few questions there. Brian, second question I hope you could share thoughts on the ETH two x fly. It's double volatility in the near term is overshadowed by my long term bullishness on ETH.
01:33:26.894 - 01:34:06.288, Speaker A: I just buy and hold long term, so I don't mind volatility. But doubling my long term gains without the stress of having to manage a debt position feels almost too sweet. And I wonder if I'm overlooking something. So you mentioned here that you've already read a bunch of the index co ops post on the fly products. They've got a few on there that discuss this. The major risk is, I can't remember the exact term for it right now, but it's around kind of like the volatility. It's basically the risk of over time, the kind of like index product getting chopped up due to the volatility and basically you ending up in kind of like a worse position over the long term than you would have just having held.
01:34:06.288 - 01:34:36.384, Speaker A: Ethan. Um, I'm not going to go over it now because I'm not like an expert on this topic in particular. But as I said, there are blog posts on the index cards medium page that discuss this. And I can't remember the exact term for it. I don't know if it's called volatility drift, but it's something got to do with the volatility of these things. And why over time, potentially, if it's not managed correctly, you can end up in a worse off position. And obviously you take on smart contract risk and you know, obviously the thing can still be liquidated if it's isn't serviced correctly as well.
01:34:36.384 - 01:34:58.624, Speaker A: So there are additional risks there. But yeah, I suggest reading those blog posts. There are older ones. Maybe you didn't see the older ones because they don't show. If you go to the archive section of the medium page, you'll be able to see those there. But also asking in the index code will probably get you an answer pretty quickly as well. All right, taking a quick break for a drink, and I'll continue through the questions.
01:34:58.624 - 01:35:30.508, Speaker A: All right, I got three more left here before checking the channel for any new questions. So one here from Lefi who says, would love to get your take on running an ETH validator node through a service like AWS. I'm not in a position to house the hardware as I travel frequently and will continue to do so for the foreseeable future. I'm aware is not the most decentralized option, but maybe the best at this stage. Pros cons will be greatly appreciated. And if you have any suggestions of where to start this. This path, that would be great.
01:35:30.508 - 01:35:50.044, Speaker A: Also, I would say that obviously you realize that it's not a decentralized option because if you put it on AWS, they could cut you off at any time that they wanted to. Right. It's a centralized company. Amazon controls it. Jeff. Jeff Bezos kind of like, could kind of like switch off AWS if you wanted to. So obviously it's not decentralized.
01:35:50.044 - 01:36:17.742, Speaker A: If you do that, that would be the major risk. Another con would be, maybe it becomes more too expensive. Maybe it becomes more expensive than just doing it on your own. I don't know. I haven't looked at the cost for that sort of stuff yet. Another con would be you contributing to, I guess, like an unhealthy network because the less hosted nodes, less AWS nodes, the better. But there's an argument to be made that you're actually contributing to the health of the network because you're running a validator anyway, and you maybe weren't going to do that if you.
01:36:17.742 - 01:36:38.794, Speaker A: You couldn't do that on AWS, for example. So there's arguments to and for and against there. Sorry. But the pros, of course, like, if you're traveling a lot, then you can still be a validator, right? You can still earn rewards, you can still put your ETH to work. So. And as I said, you're still being part of the network and validating on the network. So the pros and cons, I would say 50 50.
01:36:38.794 - 01:37:18.236, Speaker A: And really, the. The major con is that you could just be shut off from your validator. You could kind of, like, because of that, if they shut down your validator, you could get slashed. Because if you go. Sorry, not slash, but if you go offline, you can kind of, like, suffer in activity leak, but you could get slashed as well. If, for some example, the AWS glitches out and does something wrong, it runs two instances of your validator when it shouldn't be, then what ends up happening is that you will double sign, and then by double signing, you get slashed and you get ejected from the validator set, and you don't get to access your ETH until the withdrawals are enabled and you're left with less. Ethan, you kind of started with.
01:37:18.236 - 01:38:06.704, Speaker A: So that's a, I guess, a major risk there is. You really aren't in control of what happens there. You know, I guess, like, you are in control because you get the control panel, but, like, I guess the ultimate control relies on AWS's goodwill. I guess in your second question, or I guess, like a follow up thing, I have considered using a service like lido or rocket pool, but I have some concerns around that initial deposit being possibly viewed as a token swap taxable event by the australian tax Office. Any thoughts on this as well? Would be awesome to hear. Not tax advice, but the way I'm treating it is when you swap ETH for another version of ETH. So something like ste lido reth rocket pool, even w ETH, right, wrapped ETH, it's a like for, like, swap so it doesn't incur a capital gains event.
01:38:06.704 - 01:38:29.174, Speaker A: Now, as I said, not tax advice. Consult your own accountant about this. But that's how I'm treating it personally, because that's how it's treated in just like the non crypto world. If you're swapping something for a like, for like, it is not a capital gains tax event there. But as I said, consult your own tax professional. All right, a few questions here from Virat. I hope I said that right.
01:38:29.174 - 01:39:12.914, Speaker A: So first question, what are your thoughts on Ethereum and its ecosystem uploading its data on storage blockchains like Filecoin, R Wave, etcetera, as this can help with data availability at all times, which could be especially beneficial for NFT. ZK roll ups and zero knowledge proof based protocols reduce the dependency on AWS. So I think I need to, I guess I talked about this earlier. When we talk about data availability, we're not talking about JPEG data and metadata of nfts and stuff like that. We're talking about the core data, which is user balances. Like this is very different to the other data that I just mentioned. And as I mentioned before, if you store that data on something else, then you're relying on that something else to secure it, rather than relying on Ethereum to secure it.
01:39:12.914 - 01:39:56.590, Speaker A: So it would basically be like, I mean like a volition, for example, or a validium or something like that. It wouldn't be a true l two, like a ZK roll up or an optimistic roll up. But in saying that, I'm very happy for filecoin or ipfs or r wave to store the JPEG data or the metadata or whatever for these nfts because, you know, they're built for this sort of thing. They're purpose built to be a kind of like data storage blockchain, not a data availability blockchain, which is very different. I know that can be confusing because the term data is used both times there, but it's good to understand the difference between the two. So hopefully that answers your question. Second question, how can crypto help in solving the logistics of universal basic income? I haven't looked into this myself, but there are a few projects out there working on this right now.
01:39:56.590 - 01:40:42.744, Speaker A: If you just search like universal basic income crypto, I'm sure you'll find a few out there. I think it can help greatly because of the fact that global, that crypto is global, permissionless, decentralized, all that good stuff out there. And we have tokens that we can issue and do stuff with, and we have like on chain identity that we're looking at doing as well and doing decentralized identity and all that sorts of stuff. So I would definitely just google it and you'll be able to find a bunch of projects out there and kind of like follow the rabbit hole down there. What other are the chains that are not Ethereum killers that are solving problems other than Ethereum? And they can also benefit from Ethereum and other chains. I think you mentioned a few of them, like Filecoin and Arweave. I think some of the bridges are actually going to be their own kind of like chains, so that they can kind of like have their own states and things like that and bridge between the different chains.
01:40:42.744 - 01:41:09.164, Speaker A: I think that's cool. The data availability chains like Celestia and avail are pretty cool. There's a few out there as well that are doing cool things around ZK snarks like Mina protocol. I don't think there needs to be a whole new layer one to do this sort of stuff. I think it can be done at L2, but still, still, they're doing a lot of good research and a lot of good development then, and testing stuff out in the wild, so I can't fault them for that. So those are the kind of like main ones that I'm interested in. So yeah, hopefully that answers your third question and the fourth question.
01:41:09.164 - 01:41:51.518, Speaker A: What other possible changes, if any, would you come up with to fix bitcoin without changing its hard cap and proof of work consensus? As I mentioned earlier, I would change. So to make bitcoin just like much better than what it is today, I would make it so that you could validate volition and validium proofs, or kind of like just like L2 proofs and stark proofs on the bitcoin layer one. Because then bitcoin layer one could do roll ups like that would already be a massive improvement. Right? That's what I would change about bitcoin. The number one thing that I would come up with to quote unquote fix it. But the thing is, you depends who you talk to that doesn't fix bitcoin, according to bitcoin is that just makes it worse. So that's just like my view, my view on that sort of stuff.
01:41:51.518 - 01:42:37.348, Speaker A: And I would actually change its hard cap and proof of work consensus as well if I was to fix bitcoin. But then we're just at ethereum, so why, why am I even going to focus on fixing bitcoin? We already have a fixed bitcoin in my eyes, which is ethereum. But anyway, um, and then you go on to say, I think right now we may not see any solutions to bitcoin's problems, but there might be a chance that any future breakthroughs that we might not have seen coming at all might help solve its problems through the changes though, the chances might be slim. I think another thing that people are underestimating is, is quantum resistance to ethereum is definitely has been looking at that and kind of like trying to build quantum resistant systems. I think the bitcoin is maybe aware of this, but I don't know what their current plans are for this sort of stuff. It seems like a distant thing, but it could come faster. Like quantum computers could come faster than we think, which could lead to kind of existential threats for these sorts of things.
01:42:37.348 - 01:43:12.802, Speaker A: But I think in that scenario, the bitcoiners would basically say, well, we need to fix this, let's hard fork, because it is an existential threat. So yeah, hopefully that answers all of your questions. Last one on the sheet here before I move to the channel one from knowledge fight. How can I get exposure to starkware and ZK tech other than just stacking ETH? Any recommendations? I mean, I spoke about this on, on the AMA earlier on about kind of like how to get exposure to all the L2s through airdrops and stuff like that. That's how I would do it. Basically positioning yourself for an airdrop for things like Starkware, Zksync, ZK tech, I mean, polygons. Working on that as well.
01:43:12.802 - 01:43:37.410, Speaker A: As I mentioned earlier, matic is a token you can buy if you want to, don't buy it if you don't want to. I'm not telling you to buy it or not, but that's just one that's live today. But yeah, go back and listen to the kind of I thing. If you're kind of like watching this on YouTube, you can go back and listen to the answers that I gave around airdrops on L2 in general. All right, AMA series channel gear. There's a few questions in here. So first question from KB House.
01:43:37.410 - 01:44:02.598, Speaker A: Given that gas now is shutting down, any other good gas trackers to recommend? Yes, the block native gas tracker. So if you just Google block native gas estimator, there is a website and a Chrome extension. I don't know if it's available in other browsers, but it's definitely on Chrome that you can use to access. Sorry to do the same thing that gas now did. So that's one that I've been using for quite a while. And a disclosure. I'm an advisor to block native, but I mean, that's an amazing product.
01:44:02.598 - 01:44:28.830, Speaker A: I'm not just shilling it because I'm an advisor. It works really well. I use it all the time. Definitely go use it. Lloyd Banksy, you asked, you just mentioned coin list, which I've never heard before. Can you talk a little bit about how that works and differs from popular decentralized exchange offerings? Is it only available for the accredited investors in the US? I think KB House answered you a little bit here. But, but coinless is just like a centralized exchange platform that does like idos essentially like initial Dex offerings.
01:44:28.830 - 01:45:17.940, Speaker A: It's not just for accredited investors, but they do bar us investors, unfortunately. And in the past they've bought other jurisdictions like the immutable ex sale recently on coin list barred australian investors and there's been other kind of things going on there. So it is like fully Kyc, you're usually given a very low limit of how much you can buy for some of the sales, like $1,000, and that you can only put in and stuff like that. So yeah, I mean, I, I mean there's been a few kind of sales on there, but yeah, they're kind of like not great. They're, they're definitely closed off to a lot of people, unfortunately. All right, one question here, or a couple of questions here from Wimwam. First one, what are the main use cases for an ens these days? I guess like the main use case is just tying kind of like an easy to understand, I guess like string of characters to your address.
01:45:17.940 - 01:45:46.454, Speaker A: Now of course when you do this and other people know the string of characters, they can see all your on chain activity. But like for Sassle, for example, it's just easy for me to go up to someone and say, hey, sassle ETH, here you go. You know, that's my Ethereum address. There's no need to tell them, you know, go copy paste the address. I can just put it in there, which makes it a lot easier to share my address around other things like on chain profiles and identities and stuff like that. That DNS team is working on. They're working on the sign in with ethereum stuff too.
01:45:46.454 - 01:46:51.324, Speaker A: There's more stuff coming, but like those are the kind of use cases that I'm paying attention to, especially around decentralized identity and stuff like that too. Your second question, how would you define liquidity in adapt? What about across, in an ecosystem? How do you feel liquidity affects investors decisions? I think it's a pretty black and white thing where you can kind of like go and see the kind of like liquidity in these things. And is it useful liquidity, is it liquidity that's only there to earn token rewards? Um, you know, is how long has the liquidity been in there for? Is it actually offering something to the system? Like in a decentralized exchange? It's actually offering kind of like liquidity to the pool so people can trade in and out of them. But is all the liquidity in a pool that no one actually wants to trade in and out of? So are the volumes low and are just farming rewards? Um, and in terms of liquidity affecting investors decisions, I think it really does. Like personally I'm not going to buy a lot of a token if I see that the liquidity is really low. Like I'll go and go on Coingecko and I'll look at the plus -2% depth. If that depth is really shitty, say it's like for a lot of these tokens it's like ten or 20,000 either dollars.
01:46:51.324 - 01:47:30.052, Speaker A: Either way I'm probably not going to take a sizable position in that token because I don't know like what kind of exit liquidity is going to be there when I want to sell. And in saying that it's not just me, like I mean I'm not like a active trade, I'm not like a huge whale trader. But there's a lot of investors out there that are, they're not going to answer these, these things unless they think that they can eat the slippage and then out, and then the token will outperform enough to eat the slippage on the, when they buy in and when they sell as well. So yeah, Tintin, a respect to Anthony with what I'm posting is this is just my personal preference. I don't like listening to upload only. It's too much fooling around. I mean, yeah, as I said, it's like a comedy kind of like casual listen.
01:47:30.052 - 01:47:51.384, Speaker A: It is not something that should be taken too seriously. And they do have some guests on sometimes that I like listening to. Like I listen to one with Hazu recently, but yeah, there's a lot of fooling around. So that, I mean that's what you get from that show. At the end of the day, if you want something super technical, there are other podcasts out there as well. And I think, yeah, I think that's it for now. I think someone's typing.
01:47:51.384 - 01:48:09.424, Speaker A: Maybe I'll, maybe I'll wait for them to finish typing if, if they'll finish in the next few seconds. Otherwise I think that's going to be it for today. Unless anyone in the audience has a question they, they wanted to ask. If so, you can raise your hand and I'll happy to invite you on stage. If not. Yeah, I think I'm going to end it there. I'll just give it a few seconds and then I'll wrap it up.
01:48:09.424 - 01:48:38.464, Speaker A: Alright, I think that's it. So thank you everyone for listening in again, this has been recorded. It will be uploaded to YouTube in about 24 hours and with timestamps and everything. So if you came in late, you'll be able to. To, I guess kind of like go there and listen back and everything. But on that note, I will catch you all on the discord channel. Thanks again everyone for coming and see you later.
01:48:38.464 - 01:48:39.684, Speaker A: Bye.
