00:00:03.080 - 00:01:02.324, Speaker A: Welcome back everybody, to the last hour of our today's lecture, and I will continue proving now that kernel convergence is equivalent to these two statements. And now what remains to be done is to show that these two statements imply kernel convergence. Well, let us see. So suppose that w is an element of omega. Then you can find k in omega, the subset of omega compact which contains w and w naught in the interior of k, right? Because you can join any two points by interior of compact set. Then of course k is subset of omega n. For large hands, that's our condition one.
00:01:02.324 - 00:02:22.511, Speaker A: So if you take h to be interior of k, then this h is also subset of all of the somme agains. So omega itself is a subset of the kernel of the sequence omega n double naught. On the other hand, if you have point on the boundary, then c is not in the kernel of any subsequence because you have a sequence which converges to this c. So if you have such set h which contains c, remember h is an open set joining w naught and c. Then c and k would be elements of h for large k, which is contradiction of course, to the fact that h is subset of one k. So d omega is subset of the complement of the kernel of every subsequence. So omega itself is a kernel of this subsequence, which means that we do have convergence to this, because kernel of every subsequence is omega, because again, this proves that kernel is contained in omega.
00:02:22.511 - 00:03:11.494, Speaker A: But we already know that omega is subset of kernel of the sequence and then of any substitute. Okay, so we just proved this characterization. Now there is third equivalent definition, which as far as I know is relatively recent. It was introduced in my joint work with Christopher Rojas and Michael Jimpolsky. I'm sure classics knew it, but somehow we couldn't find it in the literature. So this is yet another equivalent definition of cathedral convergence. And this is in terms of what is called common interior approximation.
00:03:11.494 - 00:04:16.944, Speaker A: So suppose that you have now at the beginning two connected domains, omega one and omega two, and k is compact subset of the intersection. So this is called common epsilon theory approximation. If of course it contains reference point w naught and second, while second condition is stretch, for every point on the boundary, there are points on the boundaries of omega one and omega two which are absolutely close to w. So let me try to draw a picture here. So we have this two domains. Let this be, say, domain omega one, and let it be domain omega two. The color is supposed to be different anyway.
00:04:16.944 - 00:05:08.304, Speaker A: And now let us consider this compact. So I want to slightly correct on the one if I can do it quickly. So axis, okay. And then all I claim is that any point on the boundary, the epsilon clause to both boundaries, some points of the boundaries of omega one, omega two, can be actually very far away from the boundary. From k, it's okay. We only say that we approximate from the interior. There could be cusps outside.
00:05:08.304 - 00:06:14.492, Speaker A: And now we say that omega and converges to omega in terms of interior approximations. If for every sort of exist, of course for every epsilon there exists k and n such that k is common epsilon theory approximation of all omega, n's and omega itself. For n bigger equals than n. So you conversion crossed ends. If you can squeeze a compact inside for large enough ends, which would be approximating it from inside. Again, it doesn't care about cusps, it doesn't care about, let's look at our examples. It doesn't care about things which are eventually cut away.
00:06:14.492 - 00:07:19.056, Speaker A: So here, this compact would try to do something like that. Now you notice that when you draw here, it's impossible to actually do this approximation. So what I really mean here is that if omega is unbounded and omega unbounded, we are talking about spherical metric, not the real, not the euclidean metric, but it's equivalent. Okay? So now let us try to prove it. First, let us show that kernel approximation implies interior approximation, that this is indeed the kernel definition. So for this, take an epsilon over two interior approximation of omega that you can always do. So for any domain, you can exhaust it by compact sets the distance, the maximum distance to the boundary would tend to zero.
00:07:19.056 - 00:08:19.684, Speaker A: So eventually you would construct this. Then capsule is a compact by one of our definitions, capsules subset of one. Again, for every n bigger than n. Now take z in the boundary of capsule and c in the omega such that c minus z is less than epsilon. Or what? Then you know the existing sequence c and k, which converges to c. So if you cn rather which converges to c. So if the existing k such the distance from zero to d omega and k is bigger than epsilon for every nk, then distance from c to d omega would be bigger than epsilon over two.
00:08:19.684 - 00:09:03.114, Speaker A: And that's a contradiction, of course, because you know that they tend to zero. So that's why kernel implies interior. And now why would interior imply kernel? Suppose that all you need to, well, you need to show two things. You need to show that every compact will eventually be swallowed. And second, that every, for every point of the boundary, there is a sequence. So let's start with swallowing compacts. Suppose that you have a compact.
00:09:03.114 - 00:10:10.890, Speaker A: Then you can always join f with w naught by connected compact, and take epsilon, which is less than distance from this f tilde 2d omega, then it's very easy to see that f Tilde would be subset of any k epsilon. And so k is this k epsilon subset of one. Again, for all n bigger equals nn, because it's supposed to become common interior approximation. And so you get that this f is also subset of omega for light channel. That's the first part. And this in particular implies that omega is subset of the kernel. If now w is a point from the outside, so it's in kernel minus omega, then you can find h, which is in the intersection of omega and k.
00:10:10.890 - 00:11:35.624, Speaker A: Follow h such that it's open, contains w and w naught. And again, the same argument with the exhaustion shows that since omega is union of k epsilons, and you know that h is subset of omega k and k epsilon is also subset of this omega k. You see that, and you know that also that for every z in the boundary distance is less than epsilon. And then if you take this again, return to this w naught, you can join them by connected compact and let two epsilon will be the distance from f to DHD. Then any epsilon theory approximation of h, which is subset of omega and k contains f. But it means that w belongs to k epsilon, because again, they had common interior approximation, omega and k and omega. So k epsilon eventually would become interior approximation.
00:11:35.624 - 00:12:32.834, Speaker A: And that's a contradiction because we assume that w is outside of. Okay, so just like that. Okay, so now we had three equivalent definitions of Cressadori convergence. Why do we need it? So here's italian mathematician Constantin Cressado, whose name will encounter a lot during today's lecture. And essentially Carthage convergence is geometric characterization of what I just said. It's geometric characterization of locally uniform convergence in the class s. So that's a precise statement.
00:12:32.834 - 00:13:19.664, Speaker A: If you have a sequence of univalent functions, then the sequence converges locally uniformly to f. If and only omega n converges in kernel sense, or in car Sederi sense to omega. And informing a wall is not the whole complex plane. If it is, there is another discussion. Okay, let us prove it. That's not very complicated. Let us first prove that fn, if fn locally uniformly converge, strive, then omega is a kernel of omega.
00:13:19.664 - 00:14:24.534, Speaker A: This is enough to prove one direction, since you know every subsequence also local uniform converters to f. So omega is also kernel forming nk. Also, since f is not equal to constant. So again, I'm skipping the discussion here. What happens when they converge to constant? Then by Horwitz theorem, f is univalent and omega which is equal to f of d is not the whole complex plane. Okay, so let you have a point in omega and you need to show that omega is in the kernel of w. Again, if f is equal to constant, there is nothing to prove.
00:14:24.534 - 00:15:18.714, Speaker A: Now suppose that z is a pre image of w. Take r which is bigger than z, and take h which is just f of z. So this is the image of disk of radius r. We need to show that h is subset of omega for latch n. Assume not. Then you can find a sequence of points in h which do not belong to omega and k, and you carry them pass to a subsequence to assume that they converge to some point w. And again, the same Rocher trick that we already used today.
00:15:18.714 - 00:16:49.124, Speaker A: You look at this difference. It converges local uniform to f of z minus w star here. But f of z is not equal to w for every z in Rd, right? So this is a contradiction with the fact that w is in h bar. So again we look at this. We know that this is f and k of z is never w and k by the same rochetric, you know that f of z is never w inside Rd, which is bad. Okay, so h is indeed a subset of omega. Now let us take a point in the kernel form.
00:16:49.124 - 00:17:57.182, Speaker A: Again, take a connected domain as usual, which contains w and w subset of nice. Now let's look at the function gen, which is fn inverse. It's univalent on h because h is subset of Ohm. Again. Now let's remember that w naught is mapped to zero, and let's normalize it so that gen prime of zero is positive, so gen of h then is subset of d, right? So by Mantel theorem you can find a subsequence which converges to some function j. G of zero is zero bounded by one in h. Now there is another trick.
00:17:57.182 - 00:18:35.374, Speaker A: It's a limit, so it's less or equal than one. By maximum principle, it has to be strictly bounded by one. So j of h is actually subset of d, f, and k, on the other hand, converges locally uniformly near z, which is j of w to the function f and j and k converges to j. So f and k of j and k is equal to w. We pass to the limit and forget that w is equal to f of z. So w belongs to omega. That's just how it works.
00:18:35.374 - 00:19:26.614, Speaker A: So just a few locally uniform statement. So that's easy. Now that's direction. Assume that omega kernel converges to omega, and omega is not the whole complex plane. First, let us show that the corresponding sequence fn is normal. Okay, so what do we know by Kerber that this disk is subset of omega. This is just curb theorem.
00:19:26.614 - 00:20:19.234, Speaker A: If this would not be bounded, fn prime of zero would be unbounded. Then you can find the sequence which would contain disks of larger and larger radius. So c would be kernel of this sequence omega nk. And that's bad. We assume that it's not the case. So the sequence fn, prime of zero is not bound, is bounded, so it's not unbounded, it's bounded. Now, let's observe that fn of z divided by fn prime of zero is function from s.
00:20:19.234 - 00:21:06.674, Speaker A: So we have by growth theorem, this estimates. And this is bounded. So f is locally bounded, so it is normal. Okay, so here we do use distortion theorems. Assume now that, well, by passing by to subsequence our usual argument, we already know that it's normal. So we just need to consider convergent subsequences. So, to be precise here, assume that fn doesn't converge to the corresponding f.
00:21:06.674 - 00:22:10.084, Speaker A: Then binary, they exist f and k, which converges to f star, which is not f. But by what we just proved, omega and k would kernel converge to omega star, which is f star of omega. But we know that omega and k and convergence to omega. We should start your start of d, but we already know that this converges to omega, which is f of d. So we assume that f star is not fixed. But our normalization remembers that we have to normalize them. This implied that they should be mapping to different domains.
00:22:10.084 - 00:23:26.424, Speaker A: But again, omega and k should converge to omega. So it's contradiction. Okay, so that was an easy crosshair theory. So basically that this very geometric notion, kernel convergence, is equivalent to the convergence in the space of analytic functions, or in the space, sorry, not analytic functions, conformation. To move further, we will use a method which actually was invented after Crossado reinvented his theorem. So what? Well, his theory of prime ends, which would be one of our goals next. But the next method, which I will be talking about, it would be very important not only to establish this of boundary behavior of conformal maps, it will be extremely important for us when we talk about sle, when we talk about crossing exponents and similar things.
00:23:26.424 - 00:24:34.264, Speaker A: Okay, and so this method, it's called extremal length method. And the idea is that you have a geometric conformal invariant notion. Again, you can imagine, since we are talking about conformal environment objects, it's extremely important for us to study conformally geometric conformal invariant properties. So what is it? So suppose that you have a family of rectifiable piecewise connected curve and dominion, and rho is non negative measurable function. So you should think about rho as a distortion of matrix. So you locally would multiply the metric by the function rho and you multiply it the same in every direction. So this is why it's conformal metric.
00:24:34.264 - 00:25:31.990, Speaker A: Then you have two quantities. A of rho has nothing to do with the curve family. It's just the integral of rho squared with respect to the area. So in terms of conform metric, again, this is just the area forming with respect to rho. And now l would be the shortest length of curves from gamma in metric rho. And now this is our very important object. Lambda of gamma would be the supreme over all possible row of this ratio square of the length divided by area.
00:25:31.990 - 00:26:11.824, Speaker A: Again, we want to make it conformal invariant. So first we need to make it scale invariant. That's why there is a square here and no square here, because this scales like a square. This scales like the first power when you multiply it by constant. Okay? So this is called extremal length. And for those of you who see it for the first time, this is probably extremely not intuitive. So let me just first discuss very briefly the families that we would encounter.
00:26:11.824 - 00:27:33.754, Speaker A: So one example is the following family. You take a domain, omega, you take two points and you take all the curves which separate these two points from the boundary. So all the cycles here and dual family to this, is this or this somehow dual, we will see later, y, z. These are curves which are cross cut in our domain which separate these two points. So c and D is another example of dual things. So you have a point, you have an arc on the boundary, and you look at all the curves which either join two points of the boundary and leave our point in the same component, or which separate our point from the boundary arc. And the last example would be you have two boundary arcs and you consider all the curves joins.
00:27:33.754 - 00:28:21.004, Speaker A: Okay, so these are examples which would be a bit more clear later. But again, why would we want such complicated object? This is this theorem very easy that it's actually conformal environment. Let me state it precisely. Suppose that you have this curve family in domain omega, and you consider a conformal map from omega to another domain and to another domain, omega prime conformal map. And you consider a family gamma prime, which is simply images of curves from gamma. Under this map f. Then the extremal length is the same.
00:28:21.004 - 00:29:20.134, Speaker A: Okay, so now if you look at this definition, it's very easy to bound this from below, right? It's supreme. So one example would bound it from below. It's relatively hard to bound it from above. But here all we need, we need to bound lambda of gamma prime from below to show that lambda of gamma prime is at least lambda of gamma. For this we need to do the following. For every metric on omega, we define a new matrix, rho prime, which is just rho divided by f prime composed with f inverse. So what you do, you take a point in omega two, you map it back to omega one, you take a matrix there rho, but you divide by f prime, you normalize by f prime.
00:29:20.134 - 00:30:07.278, Speaker A: So make it a bit more natural. So this is geometric rho prime. And I claim that area of rho prime is exactly the same as area of rho. And area of rho prime is exactly the same as. So first is obvious, this is just change of variables. Second, it's also change of variables. So in both of these cases, the lengths are the same of each curve and its image, and the area is the same.
00:30:07.278 - 00:31:06.314, Speaker A: This is the beauty of conformal metric, because you can point vice rescale by one factor. So as I mentioned, lambda of gamma prime is bigger than lambda of gamma. But now we can take f inverse and we are done, because then lambda of gamma is bigger equals than lambda of gamma prime. Let me now do some examples to show of computation of this method. And the first example, very important example, very easy example, is this rectangle besides a and b. And you consider all the curves, we join it horizontally. So from left to right within this rectangle, all rectifiable terms.
00:31:06.314 - 00:31:41.014, Speaker A: And for this family gamma, I claim that lambda of gamma is equal to b. Well, low bound is actually very easy. And this immediately gives you the extremal metric. You take rho to be identical one. Then every curve has length of at least b. Well, every length is length. Now you multiply by nothing.
00:31:41.014 - 00:32:11.974, Speaker A: So every curve has length at least b. So the minimum length, remember, we need the minimum length at b area is ab. So lambda of gamma is less big or equal than b squared over ab, which is b of a trivial. For upper bound, let us normalize. Let us make sure that l is equal to one. Remember, we can divide and multiply our metric. Nothing would change.
00:32:11.974 - 00:33:19.384, Speaker A: So we take only matrix where l, meaning that for every curve gamma in our family length of this curve in our metric is at least one. And let me again make it a bit more precise. Okay, now this is an easier calculation, which in sense predates extremal matrix. I will explain in a moment why. So you want to estimate the area of this. You want to estimate it from above, right? You need up above you divide by area, so you need to estimate it from above by cache estimate. This is bigger equal than zero from a one over b zero from b rho of x y dx squared.
00:33:19.384 - 00:33:59.384, Speaker A: This is dy. Now this is, if you look carefully, this is just the length of this curve symmetric row. It's just the length of the curve at level y of horizontal curve. So this is bigger equal than one. So this area is bigger equals than integral from zero to a one over b dy because this is bigger equals than one one over b. So this becomes a b. So l of rho squared over a of rho is bounded above by b over a theta.
00:33:59.384 - 00:35:32.292, Speaker A: Okay, now the next result can be proven without this extremal length and essentially by the same calculation. Suppose that you have a conformal map between two rectangles besides a one b one and a two b two a two b two. Did I manage to do it? Okay, and then this is equivalent to a one over b, one being equal to a two over b two. Well, this is trivially follows from our discussion, because you know that the extremal length of the family joining left to right side is boa is preserved on the conformal map. And so this is a one. So we need this equality. Now let me be precise what I mean here, this conformal map should map this side to this, this side to this, this side to this and this side to this.
00:35:32.292 - 00:36:32.294, Speaker A: Otherwise, of course, there are conformal maps between any two simply connected domains. But if you want to preserve sites, that's what happens. More than that, there is another thing. So let's take conformal rectangles. So let's take any simply connected domain. So with two boundary arcs, lambda one lambda two, which are connected. Then you can map f to some rectangle with sides one and b with lambda one, lambda two mapping to the vertical sides, and b would be equal to extremal length lambda of gamma, where gamma joining lambda one to lambda two and omega.
00:36:32.294 - 00:37:34.770, Speaker A: Okay, so again, the reason for this corollary is the following. There is you can uniformize every rectangle. So what you do, you map first map your conformal rectangle to a disk. Then there are four points on the disk. These four points, again this disk with four boundary points can be mapped to some rectangle. And what would be this? Some rectangle, honest to goodness rectangle this by what we just discussed, it's the one where extremal length is the same. So this is the one where extremal length of the family of such curves is equal to the same.
00:37:34.770 - 00:38:37.514, Speaker A: So and we know what it is for one to be rectangles b. And so another definition here, extremal distance between these two points is extremal lengths of the family, not two points. Two boundary arcs is extrema length of the family which joins another corollary which is not so obvious that the product of lambda of gamma lambda of gamma star is equal to alpha. Any conforming rectangle. What do I mean by that? Suppose that we look at all four boundary arcs again for this discussion. Let's assume that boundary is a Jordan domain, so we can really talk about arcs. But it's applicable to prime ends too, as we will see a bit later in the course.
00:38:37.514 - 00:39:51.804, Speaker A: And so we have these four guys mapped to some honest rectangle besides one b. Then lambda of gamma is of course b. But what is lambda of gamma star? By calculation it's one over b. So it means that for any conformal rectangle, extremal length of these two families is one. This is a particular case of the duality I mentioned here. So for any pair here a and b, c and d, the product of extremal length is always one. So this family sadul in the following sense that any curve from here intersects any curve from here and vice versa.
00:39:51.804 - 00:41:10.474, Speaker A: And so dual to this picture is the picture is other curves joining to other guys. So I will not prove this more general theorem, but just wanted to mention it. And so this corollary actually allows us to prove a highly non trivial result due to Oswald. And this is the following. Suppose that you have a conformal rectangle and d would be the distance from between two sides of this and d will be the distance between complements. Then product of these two distances is bounded by the area of this domain. Okay, so this is a purely geometric statement that if you draw any curve on the plane, any closed curve and Jordan curve take towards here, look at the distance, look at the distance here, looks at the distance here.
00:41:10.474 - 00:42:07.564, Speaker A: Then the product is bounded by the area of the domain highly not real. The proof is trivial now, because you just to estimate from below extreme length of the family from here to here, you just put just trivial extremometric one. Then length in this matrix D squared square of the length rather, and you divide by the area the same with lambda of gamma star. And then you know that one is lambda of gamma times lambda of Gamma star. It's big or equal than the product of these two. So D d is bounded by one. That's all.
00:42:07.564 - 00:42:59.304, Speaker A: Now let us do something very similar. Let's look in doubly connected domains. So here we first looked at domains with two boundary arcs selected. Now let's do look at domains which are doubly connected. And here we start first with an anulose. So first we look at this analysis z minus z. Notice, between r one and r two and gamma curve joining in and outer boundaries.
00:42:59.304 - 00:43:47.994, Speaker A: And this is the formula for lambda of gamma. And the proof is very similar. So let me go through this just to show you how it's done again, because, well, the metric is no longer just unique unit one. You need to do also the extremal metric is one over absolute value of z. And then you just compute the area. It's two PI over of log two over r1. And area of Rho is just, well, the shortest curve is just straight line.
00:43:47.994 - 00:44:13.934, Speaker A: You just integrate doctor over R. And this is log two reals r1. You now take l squared over l four. You get exactly this. Once again, there is two PI here. So for the upper bound we do exactly as before. We normalize so that l is one.
00:44:13.934 - 00:45:15.744, Speaker A: Then for every theta, this integral is at least one, the integral of a straight line. And then we again integrate. So this is one is bounded by integral of rho s eight doctor squared. And I forgot, integral from zero to two PI. Okay, so this is bounded by cash by this times this. So rho squared r doctor d theta multiplied by the same integral rdr over r squared. And this would be your air fro and this is log two reals r1.
00:45:15.744 - 00:46:12.774, Speaker A: So that's exactly gives you the low bound on air fro the same scale. Now the next thing I call corollary omega is doubly connected domain. Then the existing map to some analysis where ratio of the exterior and interior radius satisfy this identity where you look at extreme lengths of gamma joining two components of omega. Now this is not quite a corollary. If such a map exists, then this equality of course is true. But to prove that such a map exists, this is a theorem of curb, which is, well, easy but technical I would say. So every doubly connected domain can be mapped to honest to goodness.
00:46:12.774 - 00:47:11.058, Speaker A: And example two prime would be exactly the same. If you look at now two doubly connected domains and you look at the curves separating components. Then the extreme length here is two PI over log r two over r one. And this is called modulus of this doubly connected domain and the same proof as before again. So again for annulus, that would be the formula. And then we see that again for any doubly connected domain. As for rectangles, we had lambda of gamma times lambda of gamma star is equal to one.
00:47:11.058 - 00:48:19.424, Speaker A: Another iteration of this theorem I mentioned about duality. Okay, so let me briefly state some properties of extremal length and we'll prove them already next time. So first property is that if you have two extremal matrix so for which the supreme is reached, for which the areas are the same, then they are the same. Note that I'm not saying that they exist, sometimes they don't. But if they exist, they're unique. Second, we have some rules, and these are two extension rules which are kind of easy and the proofs would not be difficult. So if we extend our family gamma to a large domain, so for every gamma, for every gamma prime and larger domain, you can squeeze little gamma inside from gamma.
00:48:19.424 - 00:49:24.690, Speaker A: Then of course extremal length of this new family would be at least extreme length of original family. This is called extension rule. Serial rule even makes it more exciting. So if you have two curve families in disjoint omega one and omega two, and gamma is curve family in the union which contains curve in each of them, then lambda of gamma is at least the sum of the extrema lengths. Parallel rule is again disjoint domains. But here you do it slightly differently. You take again two families and gamma is in the union such that the opposite is true, that for every gamma in gamma one union with gamma two, you can find gamma prime in gamma such that gamma prime is subset of gamma.
00:49:24.690 - 00:50:31.356, Speaker A: So for every curve in gamma one, or in gamma two, there is a curve in gamma. So for example, gamma can be just union of gamma one and gamma two. Then you have the serial rule that one over lambda of gamma is at least one over lambda, gamma one plus one over lambda gamma two. So it gives you upper bound actually on lambda of gamma. And finally, symmetry rule actually says that if your domain is invariant under some sort of symmetry, analytical, anti analytic, and gamma is invariant under these two, then actually it's enough to take for to compute lambda of gamma. It's enough to take curves to take metrics which are symmetric with respect to this. So all of this is not complicated.
00:50:31.356 - 00:50:44.564, Speaker A: We'll start next lecture with proving it, and then we'll continue this application. Okay, so thank you for your attention. Let me stop the recording.
