00:00:00.570 - 00:00:40.460, Speaker A: I'm just a humble farmer in the cosmos and I want to earn the highest aprs on my IBC enabled assets. Definitely not Diego. And that's why as a humbled yield farmer, I use osmosis. With osmosis I earn yields on all my IBC enabled assets. For example, these Osmo plums where I earn 51% Apr on them, or these akt apples that I earn 17% Apr on and I earn 23% Apr on these DBPN berries every day. I wake up early in the morning, make me a cup of coffee, and then I collect my rewards. It ain't much, but it's honest work.
00:00:40.460 - 00:01:41.510, Speaker A: Osmosis is the premier dex of the cosmos ecosystem and truly displays the power of application specific blockchains and the cosmos SDK with the best UI in all of crypto. Fast and cheap transactions with tendermint, cross chain transactions with IBC, huge potential for passive income and Wasmington and Doge. Osmosis is something you definitely don't want to miss out on. So in this video, I'm going to go over what is osmosis? A tutorial on how to transfer your assets, how to swap, how to LP. Why is osmosis so special with application specific blockchains, staking governance tokenomics, their stats tab, and then one of my ultimate price predictions. So what is osmosis? Osmosis is an application specific blockchain that's only designed to be the interchange amm. Osmosis allows you to exchange your IBC enabled assets and make money off them by providing liquidity.
00:01:41.510 - 00:02:05.662, Speaker A: Go to osmosis zone and then enter the lab. Osmosis allows you to swap LP, deposit your assets, staking governance and other stats. But before you do any of that, you first need to say hi to Wozminton and Dodgemos. And then you need to connect your wallets. You're going to connect your wallet in the swap or in the bottom left corner. And I would recommend Kepler for this. And now that your wallet is connected, now you can start interacting with the osmosis blockchain.
00:02:05.662 - 00:02:30.150, Speaker A: But before you do any LPN or trading, you're going to need your assets on the blockchain first. In this example, I'm sending Adam from the Cosmos hub to osmosis's blockchain. So you're going to want to go to the assets tab. Pick an asset. I'm using Adam. Press the deposit button, enter how much you want to deposit, press deposit and then approve transaction. And then you're going to wait 10 seconds and then once those 10 seconds are up, you're able to trade an LP on osmosis.
00:02:30.150 - 00:02:55.870, Speaker A: So now let's initiate a swap. You're going to want to go to the swap tab and then pick a cryptocurrency that you want to exchange. And I want to swap some atom for some osmo. Enter the amount you want to swap, press swap, and then approve the transaction, and boom, you're done. It takes seconds to finalize the transaction and cost pennies and gas fees. In addition to gas fees, you will also be paying a swap fee. But if you want to be the one receiving those fees, then you could learn about lping on osmosis.
00:02:55.870 - 00:03:36.142, Speaker A: So what is lping? Lping means providing liquidity in a liquidity pool. Now, liquidity pools are complicated and out of the scope of this video, but basically Wasmington is just way too busy mixing all these pools and he doesn't actually have time to buy these individual cryptocurrencies. So you can lend your crypto to osmosis. Osmosis will use it for trading, and in return you will receive a small percentage of the swap fees. So if you want to earn passive income on osmosis, you need to start lping. So you're going to go to the pools tab, select the pool that you want to lend your crypto in, press add liquidity in the top center button, add how much crypto you want to LP, press add liquidity, and in return you will get these LP tokens. Pick your bonding period.
00:03:36.142 - 00:04:24.206, Speaker A: The longer the bonding period, the higher the ApRs. And then sit back and relax and receive passive income on your digital assets. So what makes osmosis special? Osmosis is an application specific blockchain that's only designed to do one job, and it does that job very good being a Dex. And because osmosis is its own blockchain, it has its own dedicated set of validators, its own token Osmo, and its own governance. Osmosis is built using Cosmos'tenement engine, meaning fast transactions that only take three to 7 seconds, cheap transactions that cost literal pennies. And tenerment is secure and trusted by other big blockchains like terra Luna with billions of dollars of TVL on it. And osmosis has an IBC module, meaning easy, seamless bridging through IBC or the inner blockchain communication.
00:04:24.206 - 00:04:57.782, Speaker A: This means it's interoperable with 30 IBC enabled blockchains. And this list is constantly growing. Another cool thing is osmosis attention to UI and UX isn't it beautiful. Anyways, because of this application specific architecture, Osmosis offers a lot of cool features staking. Click on the staking tab and then here you have a list of all the people you can delegate your osmo to. And for governance, press on the vote tab where you can vote on the future of osmosis. Another cool tab is the stats tab where you have an overview of the pools tokens and IBC statuses.
00:04:57.782 - 00:05:40.198, Speaker A: But the coolest feature of osmosis has to be superfluid staking. Superfluid staking means you can stake and lp your Osmo at the same time, meaning you get 53% APR from Lping and an additional 15% from staking. Superfluid staking might not sound that cool, but the alternative are these weird and ugly staking derivative tokens. Another cool feature of osmosis is threshold encryption. Because osmosis is its own blockchain, they can edit the logic of the consensus and add cool features like threshold encryption. Basically, you can't front run the mempool since the mempool is encrypted, and that's a really cool feature of application specific blockchains. Another one is just the general interoperability of osmosis.
00:05:40.198 - 00:06:27.250, Speaker A: Since osmosis has a cosmosm module, it can interact with any other cosmosm based smart contract platforms like Terra or Juno. And this allows for a lot of cool collaboration. Let's say you're on osmosis and you want more exposure to an asset. Well, osmosis can send a cross chain transaction to Terra to then use Mars protocol for their decentralized credit loans, and then apply for a loan, send that money back to osmosis for then you to use, and you can make multiple complex transactions like the one I just talked about with just one click of a button. So that is osmosis and what it has to offer. We went over tutorial, bridging your assets, swapping LP, staking governance, some stats, and then went over application specific blockchains. And that is an explanation of osmosis.
00:06:27.250 - 00:07:01.842, Speaker A: Osmosis is one of my most favorite projects in my favorite ecosystem. So I'm a really big fan and I've been using it for a while and I'm excited to see what the future has in hold for osmosis. So that is osmosis, the premier dex of the Cosmos ecosystem explained. Oh wow, you made it to the end. Not a lot of people make it to the end. That probably means that you like this video. And actually YouTube made a button for people who like videos and if you like this video and you want to see more videos like this, then they also made a button called the subscribe button.
00:07:01.842 - 00:07:37.162, Speaker A: So press those buttons. Another thing is I forgot an introduction. I'm Diego, I'm the guy who makes these YouTube videos and I actually quit my crypto job to do this full time. So you better like and subscribe. Another thing you can do to help me out is know I try to keep this content very high quality, educational, entertaining, all that stuff. And if you donate then that's telling me that I'm doing the right thing. You see, I could get more views if I did the to the moon face and had the emojis and those cringey thumbnails.
00:07:37.162 - 00:08:07.318, Speaker A: But I decided to take a completely different route and go more educational. So please, if you do like this content and you can't help me out, then please, it really tells me that I'm doing the right thing when it comes to making this content. So thank you for actually I forgot my price predictions. Give me 1 second. Okay. Let me go to trading view and I want to find out on Osmo. Okay.
00:08:07.318 - 00:08:34.890, Speaker A: And let's get the drawing tool. Okay, perfect. Actually I'm a bit rusty with my technical analysis so just give me a second. Okay. So looking at my technical cool analysis, we can predict that Osmo is going to be son of a bite.
