00:00:00.410 - 00:00:35.026, Speaker A: And good afternoon in Tel Aviv, and good morning to everybody in New York. It's a great pleasure to be here. And I also want to thank the organizers for putting something like that together, which takes a lot. So as Sam mentioned, I'll try to give an overview of what my lab is working on when it comes to therapeutic ultrasound. And before I do that, I want to show just a side of what else we're doing in my lab. Just food for thought. I know this is just to spark some of the collaborations between the two universities.
00:00:35.026 - 00:01:42.326, Speaker A: So we work in both diagnosis and treatment of diseases, and then we trying to basically get quantitative information from conventional ultrasound scans. When it comes to imaging, the main aspects that I'm not going to talk about today are on heart and vessels as well as cancer. And then we're also looking at therapeutics of that cancer drug delivery, but also ablation. And what I am going to talk about is that the last two bullets here, I'm going to start with what we do for deep brain drug delivery, and I'm going to end with some of the modulation, stimulation and inhibition of neuronal function, both in the brain and the nerves. All right, so why are we working on the brain as the next? Because I'm really anticipating that talk as well, is because there's a lot to treat. And currently diseases are being under treated in the brain. Such diseases are Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease, but also Huntington's, ALS, and of course brain tumors.
00:01:42.326 - 00:02:44.466, Speaker A: And I'm not going to show here what I'm going to focus mainly for this talk for the sake of time, is Alzheimer's and Parkinson's. And there's going to be two different areas. Parkinson's is going to be with drug delivery, and Alzheimer's is going to be the immunomodulation aspects that we have uncovered more recently about how we can reduce pathology with the immune system response as a result of the blood rim barrier opening. So why do we want to open the blood rim barrier? So this is a scanned electron microscope of the capillary in the brain. And what happens is that the capillary is very well sealed. There's not much that can penetrate from what you see here in white, which is where the blood usually circulates in the brain, and what you see surrounding this cross section, which is the brain parenchyma. In fact, anything above 400 daltons is not going to cross through passive diffusion through multiple ways, mechanisms that the bladder barrier can open.
00:02:44.466 - 00:03:35.178, Speaker A: So this is still a very big problem in drug delivery. So why is ultrasound helping so far? So, as Sam mentioned, we are familiar with ultrasound imaging. So it's a mechanical wave that penetrates into the tissue. And for imaging, we'll look at the reflections on the screen, and then we can make out the distance between organs and also inside organs. So if you take the same source of ultrasound and you curve it very similar to an optical lens, you get a geometric focus according to the dimensions of the source in blue and the frequency at which the wave is oscillating. And then you can have this ellipsoidal shape where you can induce mechanical effects, thermal effects, or both. So I'm going to focus today on the mechanical effect.
00:03:35.178 - 00:04:27.630, Speaker A: But what's actually already in the clinic is the thermal effects of ultrasound. So very similar. With a magnifying lens, we can focus the electromagnetic, magnetic waves and put a piece of paper on fire. The same way can happen with acoustic waves. And that's actually approved for essential tremor ablation in the brain. So there's a lot that is done also in drug delivery to be able to bypass the bloodburn barrier, anything from non invasive and non targeted approaches to targeting and invasive, such as direct infection and intranasal delivery, respectively. But what focus ultrasound can provide is because of this curved lens effect, it can be targeted, and because of the penetration depth, as we know from imaging, it can also be deep and non invasive.
00:04:27.630 - 00:05:27.234, Speaker A: So this is an animation that we put almost a decade ago together, showing this blood vessels that have both, obviously, the red blood cells, but also these macrobubbles that we inject iv. And those macrobubbles are small resonators in the brain that are designed to absorb the ultrasound beam that you see vertically here oscillating and put in motion. And they engage the blood vessel that surrounds them. And as they engage the blood vessel, the actual tight junctions, which is part of the blood ring barrier, are relaxing and then allow, finally, the dragon purple to reach the neurons. So we can have control over that with the pressure of the ultrasound beam, but also with the diameter of these microbubbles. And what you see here are pairs of images, three dimensional mris, contrast enhanced, that we use to see where the opening has occurred, and also in blue, where we see the permeability. So very deep blue means the barrier is closed, nothing goes through it.
00:05:27.234 - 00:06:10.334, Speaker A: And very high red means the barrier is open. And you can see, we can have a very localized region, for example, zero point 45 megapascal at the sound pressure and four to five micron macro bubbles. And it can actually open to the points as if the barrier is no longer there. And it can be centered here at the hippocampus area of the brain, which is the start, usually, of early Alzheimer's. What happens at the microscale, and this is the bar, 20 microns is the capillary. You see the tight junctions that are sealing the endothelial cell as part of the Blandwin barrier expressing GFP green fluorescent protein. So that's intact.
00:06:10.334 - 00:07:10.114, Speaker A: But at the same time we have biocitine, which is another contrast in fluorescence imaging that can penetrate in very localized region of where the barrier is open. So what can we do for Parkinson's disease? So the Parkinson's disease at this early stage affects a dopaminergic neuron, and that's the one that's releasing dopamine, making sure that we can function in our brain and also we can move with our limbs. And this is a mouse dopaminergic neuron. And there's a model in mice where you inject a toxin called MPTP and depletes axon dendrites and terminals, a subacute dose at 40% to 20%. And then we were looking to see, after we deliver proteins or gene delivery vectors, how much of that we can bring back or restore. So we perform a histological section. So what you're going to see here is the two hemispheres, left and right hemisphere, and we have administered the stocks in both hemispheres.
00:07:10.114 - 00:08:04.440, Speaker A: When you see this, regions of the neurons are in brown staining here, called ph staining, thyrosin hydroxylase. And deep staining means that the neurons survived the insult. Mouth staining, like here, means that the neurons did not survive it. And long story short, the ultrasound alone, whether you do a weekly session or three weekly sessions, is not enough to bring the neurons back. They're still being depleted. However, if we have the drug in place, a protein called neutrine, which is a neurotrophic factor, you can see that the staining on the left is a little bit deeper than the staining on the right. If we quantify that, we see that we have the cell bodies increase by 17% and the actual dendrites of the neurons increase by upwards to 22%.
00:08:04.440 - 00:09:06.214, Speaker A: When we look at the other side of the neuron, where it actually has the terminals and connects with other neurons, that's also brought back only the triple weekly session of ultrasound with the protein administration, and that's also upwards to 50%. So that's with the delivering of the protein after the barrier opens. Another way to treat the neuron is to deliver gene vectors that express that protein. And we have done work on that. These are much bigger, the gene delivery vectors on the order of mega dolphins, the actual proteins on the order of tens of kilo dolphins. And you can see here again, expression of the glyph fluorescent protein, which is packed in the genome, in that case of the aav nine, if we pack the neurotrophic protein and we do the same thing of mptpitoptin, and then looking after with single delivery through the bladder barrier opens, what's on the left is where we focus with ultrasound. What's on the right? No focusing of the ultrasound, just the aav alone.
00:09:06.214 - 00:10:28.546, Speaker A: And we can see here with fluorescence, that the dendrites are much more replenished compared to the contralateral hemisphere, where only the aav tried to penetrate the barrier, but not at enough dose, and we have a significance between the two hemispheres. So we put this together as a graphical abstract a couple of years ago that made the COVID of the Journal of Controlled release. And we can see that with a single administration of gene delivery vectors, we can get a replenishment of the dendrites of the neuron up towards the 76%, and with triple the dosage of the nutrient going through the bladder barrier, we get a replenishment of the terminals at 50%. So we're looking at a combination of these therapies in the future and in both this mouse model, but also translating that in humans. The other disease that I want to focus on is Alzheimer's, and there's no drug involved. And what happens is that in Alzheimer's we have amyloid plaques, which are very well known, that deposit over decades in the brain, finally causing memory loss, but then a lot of cognitive impairment in the future. What's less known is what happens with the macrotubal protein tau, and that is packed in the neurofibria tangles, and that also is both together, the amyloid and tau are in fact synergistically helping the disease progress.
00:10:28.546 - 00:11:42.778, Speaker A: So what we have found is that opening the barrier alone, as I mentioned earlier, wakes up the immune system. This is the hippocampus in longitudinal section, the neurons, now, the pyramidal neurons, as they're called, have the cell bodies on top, and the axons, you can see them here, are lined up in this region, on the terminals, on the bottom, and you can't make those out anymore after opening the barrier. So again, no drug just opening. And that's because the tau, which is packed in the axons at the early stage, is actually removed by upwards to 73% as a result of the opening alone. And what we have found us and others is that we have microglia, which are part of the immune cells in the brain that are energized here. You can see a microglia that has been activated here and is going to the region where we open, similar to what I showed you before, both at low pressures and high pressures. And when we put them both together and we do confocal microscopy, we can see that in the area where we opened, we can see collocalization of the tau, this protein, with a macroglia that's being phagocytosed by the macroglia.
00:11:42.778 - 00:12:34.458, Speaker A: And if we correlate the two, so the tau reduction of that protein of the Alzheimer's with macroglia density increase. We can see, as the density of the macroglia is increasing, the tau is decreasing. So we found that also to be true in the amyloid and this cognition, improvement of the memory, as we have the amyloid reduction, not complete clearance, but reduction in both density and load. So what's even more interesting, though, is that we have been able to do clinical trials in Alzheimer's patients more recently. I'm going to go fast here just to show you how we do targeting and planning of the actual, where the focus is in the brain. You can see the deep penetration region of the brain that's being opened. We can map this cavitation during the opening, and then we can assess very similar to what I showed you, the mice with contrast enhanced.
00:12:34.458 - 00:13:03.010, Speaker A: Mr. This is what the actual system that we put together looks like. The whole operation is actually feasible through neuronavigation. So we load. We're not in the MRI system. We can do everything without the MRI, and within ten minutes, the patient can go from sitting in this chair, getting their berry open, and then going to the MRI to make sure that this was safely done. This is the system with our first patient last November.
00:13:03.010 - 00:13:43.806, Speaker A: This is the actual apparatus here with a transducer and a middle void here for cavitation event. That's the mechanism of opening. And we can see real time how the bubbles are going into the region of the focused ultrasound beam, engaging the blood vessels and opening the barrier. When we take this patient to the MRI, we can see whether we have opened here the region in three dimensional throganous slices of the gadolinium enhanced MRI. What's even more important is that something that translated a very rare occurrence from mice to humans. We also had amyloid reduction within the first three days of opening. So 14% reduction of the amyloid in the hemisphere where we opened.
00:13:43.806 - 00:14:50.090, Speaker A: And then five months after this patient came back in April, this amyloid reduction was actually sustained. So the last couple of minutes that I have, I want to show you what we're doing in the realm of neuromodulation in the brain. So ultrasound alone, no macro bubbles here, and something that us and others over the past 50 years have been showing that just shining ultrasound into the brain, no opening of the barrier, nothing is just mechanical events that translates to electrical motion of the actual limbs, in this case of the mouth. We have also correlated that with pressures, and we know the success rate is correlated with pressure. The higher the pressure and safe pressure, the higher the success rate of this motor stimulation. And then we can do that also with sensory stimulations such as pupil dilation and oculomotor movement. And that has allowed us to map some of the motor response to the motor cortex in the mouse brain, but also the somalosensory cortex, also in the mouse brain.
00:14:50.090 - 00:15:42.810, Speaker A: And we also could correlate that with both heart rate and breathing rate changes that we assume. The thalamus in the brain, for example, can actually be very selectively stimulated at every bar here, which is basically when the ultrasound pulse goes through the brain. And finally, this also translates to the nerve. We can shine ultrasound on the nerve itself, the sciatic nerve, and cause similar motion that you can see in the limb of the mouse. We're also investigating, monitoring that with what's called acoustic radiation force. So that's displacement of the nerve, very little thermal response, very little temperature change on the order of 0.8 degrees c, and very little cavitation, unlike what we did it with, blood brain barrier.
00:15:42.810 - 00:16:24.482, Speaker A: This also translates in the brain. So whenever we have nerve stimulation, that also changes the blood flow in the brain, and we monitor that as well. So that also translates in humans. So this is actually the median nerve of the human arm that is controlling three of our fingers. Here in the palm, we can see where we're focusing, and we can get also electrostochalography. So we can actually monitor what happens in the brain. And we have seen that we can enhance some of the model response when we get EMG results only slightly, and we can suppress on the EG, the somatosensory, so the sensation of the actual nerve activity.
00:16:24.482 - 00:17:19.140, Speaker A: We're translating that for pain mitigation. And very quickly, because I know I'm running out of time, is that we also can get this displacement of the nerve if it's more than four microns to correlate with the actual pain suppression of the sensation. So, in conclusion, the protein and gene delivery in parkinsonian mice has been shown to increase neuro restoration. We have shown immunomodulation and cognitive amelioration in Alzheimer's. We continue with clinical trials in both Alzheimer's and Parkinson's patients and then we can modulate both neuron activity in the somatosensory but also in the cortical motor regions with successful response rates and modulation of the nerves for pain sensation mitigation. I want to thank my group, our sponsors and you for your attention. Thank.
