00:00:01.050 - 00:00:36.994, Speaker A: Hey everyone, just a quick note before we start. Due to the holiday in the US and various other reasons, michael and I recorded this on Wednesday instead of on the usual Thursday. And of course, after we wrapped, David Margaretz of Calibra published a blog post answering some questions. Michael and I obviously did not get to discuss this blog post, but this podcast is still a meaty conversation. We talk about the letter of Facebook from the House of Representatives Financial Services Committee. Plus, we draw on Michael's experience covering global economic affairs at the Wall Street Journal. But I just wanted to explain why we didn't cover David Marcus'post.
00:00:36.994 - 00:01:05.814, Speaker A: I still link to it in the show notes. Otherwise, enjoy the show. Hi everyone. Welcome to Unconfirmed, the podcast that reveals how the market names in crypto are reacting to the week's top headlines and gets the inside scoop on what they see on the horizon. I'm your host, Laura Shin. As you know, we've been doing a survey here at Unchained and Unconfirmed. I've gotten a ton of good feedback and lots of great suggestions on who to have on the show, like the recommendation that I interviewed to Toshi.
00:01:05.814 - 00:01:46.254, Speaker A: I'll be sure to get on that right away. If you still haven't taken the survey, let us know your thoughts on how we could do better. Go to surveymonkey.com runchainedsurvey 2019 to give us your thoughts on what you like about the show, what we could do better, and who you'd like to see as a guest. The URL again is surveymonkey.com runchainedsurvey 2019. Also, don't forget, those who answer the survey can enter to win one of five free Casa Bitcoin lightning notes, plus a free year of CASA's Gold membership, including a multisig security app for iPhone and Android, a treasure hardware wallet, a Casa Faraday bag and 24/7 support.
00:01:46.254 - 00:02:04.130, Speaker A: Those of you interested in learning more about Casa or about protecting your Bitcoin investment generally should check out my interview with CEO Jeremy Welch. Thank you to Casa for donating. Again, go to surveymonkey.com r unchanged survey 2019 to give us your thoughts and enter to Win.
00:02:04.280 - 00:02:22.422, Speaker B: CipherTrace cutting edge cryptocurrency, intelligence powers, antimoney laundering, blockchain analytics and threat intel leading exchanges, virtual currency businesses, banks and regulators themselves use CipherTrace to comply with regulation and to monitor compliance.
00:02:22.566 - 00:02:29.974, Speaker A: Today's guest is Michael Casey, chairman of the advisory board at CoinDesk and CEO of Streambed Media. Welcome, Michael.
00:02:30.102 - 00:02:32.318, Speaker C: Hi Laura, thanks for having me back.
00:02:32.484 - 00:03:11.610, Speaker A: Facebook's proposed Libra is being seen as a threat to a lot of fiat currencies and could be especially destabilizing for countries with weaker currencies. You covered global financial and economic affairs at the Wall Street Journal, where you worked for almost two decades. Plus, I know you have personal experience living in countries with weak economies. So I was interested to get your take on Libra, especially now with the letter this week from the US House of Representatives Committee on Financial Services to Mark Zuckerberg cheryl Sandberg and the head of Calibra, David Marcus. But before we get to that particular news, can you just tell me what your initial reaction was when you learned about Libra?
00:03:12.990 - 00:04:35.300, Speaker C: Well, obviously we've been anticipating it for a while, so it was something of an anticipated response. But I think I was pleasantly surprised at, I think, the lengths that they'd gone to, to try as best they could within the confines of what is obviously a corporate mission and a permissioned structure to ring fence the Libra project from Facebook itself. Which made me kind of conflicted because I'm on record as being extremely critical of Facebook. I have a very dark view of the company and its impact on society. So I'm very nervous about the role that it could play in this. But I feel like the structure of it is actually potentially, if they can live up to it, lots of ifs and caveats in there quite potentially constructive to both cryptocurrencies, but just more importantly because the one thing that really matters is financial inclusion and reducing global friction in money flows. So I was somewhat pleasantly surprised, but I'm inherently cautious given again the genesis that this has come from.
00:04:35.850 - 00:04:50.620, Speaker A: And as you know, a number of governments and financial regulators had pretty much the opposite reaction, like pretty negative reactions that were fairly immediate as well to Libra. So why do you think that is?
00:04:51.390 - 00:07:12.902, Speaker C: Well, I wouldn't say they're entirely the opposite to mine either, though, right? Because I think it's inevitable that your response is going to know, oh my goodness, this is Facebook, right? The company behind Cambridge Analytica, or not behind it, but the company that essentially enabled Cambridge Analytica, the company that has built an algorithm that essentially has undermined our democracy by building echo chambers in service of its own advertisers, that steers views away from creditors and brands and the people who really do make content in this world. I think it's inevitable to feel negative about this given the data breaches and everything else. So their reaction was somewhat understandable, but I think the biggest problem that they face is that regulators don't understand the nuances here. And I want to see regulatory effort made around holding Facebook to its word, that it live up to the structure of libra and the spirit of it as being this external, open source model, and that whatever fears, rightly. Or wrongly exist around Facebook's. Capacity to extract data from users doesn't come to bear because of that structure, rather than what could be actually be the worst of both worlds, where they just focus, as regulators often do, on these money laundering risks and the broad concerns they might have about deregulated money and therefore bake into the solution a model that essentially just reinforces the corporate control and the gatekeeping roles of these participants of these members. You could just imagine regulators focusing on the wrong concerns and essentially in the process building regulatory capture into the system because many respects the capacity to build innovative permissionless systems is often undermined by excessive regulation and compliance because that just becomes too costly for the little guys to deal with.
00:07:12.902 - 00:07:50.706, Speaker C: So we could have them overreact and just make things worse in terms of the risk of there being a corporate monopolistic gatekeeping role here. Or they could play a constructive role in really ensuring that this is truly as close to decentralized as is possible under the current permission system, and that there is no way, in fact, that any of the members, Facebook or any of them, can control the process and extract data from individuals and so forth. That would be a good outcome. I'm just not convinced that these legislators understand the problem, and that's what worries me.
00:07:50.888 - 00:08:29.070, Speaker A: Well. So now let's talk about this letter that Maxine Waters, the chairwoman of the House Financial Services Committee, and other members of Congress sent to Mark Zuckerberg, Cheryl Sandberg and David Marcus. One of the statements that I wanted to pull out here was they said that Libra and C Libra, which is the wallet that Facebook intends to roll out, would quote, or could quote, lend themselves to an entirely new global financial system that is based out of Switzerland and intended to rival US monetary policy and the dollar. Do you think that's overblown or do you think that that is a possibility?
00:08:31.250 - 00:09:17.066, Speaker C: I would say that's a feature, not a bug. The dominance of the dollar is a massive problem in the global economy. It creates so many distortions. And I've written a book about this some time ago. I mean, it's like, unfortunately, yes, what happens is that every sovereign nation will fight for what it regards as its interests. But I think that this model, right, which is essentially, and ironically, something that John Maynard Keane said, that there should have been a global system of money built on when he came up with the model for Bretton Woods, and he lost out because the US. Had the upper hand and they made the dollar the centerpiece of the global financial architecture.
00:09:17.066 - 00:10:07.854, Speaker C: But Keynes's model was a basket of currencies that he called the Bancorp. And here it is, ironically, Facebook, essentially Facebook and its partners, let's be clear, it's 27 other partners building a system that is not based on one particular currency. It's a basket. And I think that's a good thing because it's less volatile for countries who get exposed to big, sweeping exchange rate changes and for all of the distortions that happen in terms of correspondent banking and everything else. Way too much power in New York bank's hands precisely because the dollar has to be the intermediary. So I'm passionate about this, and I think that is barking up the wrong tree, but exposed the way that any regulator is going to say it. I also think that there's allusions there to the concern about a financial system and what they often allude to.
00:10:07.854 - 00:11:03.626, Speaker C: I think that letter in fact, had the words in there a too big to fail system that's a complete distortion of what too big to fail is. Too big to fail is a direct outcome of reserve banking, of fractional reserve banking. I mean, it is the very fact that banks it's 2008, right? We're talking about the financial crisis and there were multiple hops of counterparties facing counterparties facing counterparties, and there was an absolute lack of visibility to the credit exposures of all of these institutions. And the risk of essentially a massive global bank run that would come from that because these banks are not fully reserved. That's the nature of banking. It has fractional reserves. So that's what too big to fail is that you have to prop up these banks because the systemic risk of all those intermediated credit connections builds a potential disaster.
00:11:03.626 - 00:11:51.066, Speaker C: Now, this isn't the case unless they think and it's easy to regulate this. This is focus on the one thing that this is supposed to be, which is a fully reserved model. Now, it's a little complicated because it's a basket, not a one to one relationship, but that's a mathematical thing and there's various ways in which that can be adjusted for. It has to be heavily regulated, must absolutely be audited and compliant and transparent, but it doesn't create the same systemic risks as the current banking systems. There might be other systemic risks for sure, because if this just becomes a go to global payments rail, but that's what user is, right? That's what mastercard is. What's the difference? This is just a payment Rails payment rails should become a commodity. There shouldn't be money to be made from payments.
00:11:51.066 - 00:12:14.360, Speaker C: It should be free. And that's what potentially Libra offers, especially if Libra just enables a lot more competition on top of either It or other platforms. So I find that line of inquiry frustratingly, misleading and misguided. It misses the whole point, really.
00:12:14.890 - 00:12:30.998, Speaker A: All right, well, there will be some people that will make money from these payment to, so we're just going to take a quick oh yeah. So let's do this in a moment. And we're also at that point, I want to ask you a little bit more about Facebook school of financial inclusion. But first, a quick word from our fabulous sponsors.
00:12:31.094 - 00:13:26.298, Speaker B: Will the world follow France and advocate banning privacy coins? Will government backed stablecoins become the new fiat are distributed and peer to peer exchanges just a flash in the pan? The answer is maybe. Virtual currencies can flourish and create a new, private and more versatile economy. But that grand vision can't happen without keeping crypto clean, and that requires support of governments and accountability for bad actors. Privacy enhanced compliance using cryptographic controls has the potential to preserve anonymity without compromising legitimate investigations. CipherTrace is working on this vision of the future. Sign up to stay up to date on the privacy enhanced compliance initiative and receive authoritative crypto, AML reports, quarterly WW, cyphertrace.com, slash keepcryptoclean.
00:13:26.474 - 00:13:56.054, Speaker A: Hey, everyone, don't forget, unchained is doing a survey, and if you give us your feedback, you can be entered to win some pretty awesome prizes. We want to know, how do you think we can make the show better? How would you like to see unchained expand? Please take a moment and go to surveymonkey.com runchainsurvey 2019. That's surveymonkey.com runchainedsurvey 2019. It won't take long, I swear. And when we get all your feedback, unchained will be even better than before.
00:13:56.054 - 00:14:38.978, Speaker A: What more could you want than that? Okay, there is something more you could want. You could maybe want to win some of the prizes we're giving out to survey respondents. You could be one of the five lucky people to win a free Casa bitcoin lightning node, plus a free year of CASA's gold membership, including a multisig security app for iPhone and android, a Trezor hardware wallet, a Casa faraday bag, and 24/7 support. Those of you interested in learning more about Casa or about protecting your bitcoin investment generally should check out my interview with CEO Jeremy Welch. Thank you to casa for donating. Again, the URL is surveymonkey.com r unchained survey 2019.
00:14:38.978 - 00:15:06.030, Speaker A: Go there now to give us your thoughts on the future direction of Unchained and enter the giveaway. Back to my conversation with Michael Casey. So what did you want to say there about because as I mentioned, the validators they're going to be making quite at least your previous publication, the wall street journal, estimated that it could be quite profitable for them to be running nodes. So it's not like this is literally a community effort.
00:15:06.850 - 00:15:36.850, Speaker C: No, I don't think that we should be deluded to believe that this is nothing but a profit making business. But it's a classic reserve management model from what I gather. Right. The $10 million that you put up front essentially backstops funds that come in and as tokens get tokens get issued.
00:15:36.930 - 00:15:38.854, Speaker A: I think it's the reserve. Right, right.
00:15:38.892 - 00:16:11.326, Speaker C: You're running the reserve on the back of that and you can make money of that. That's a standard model. All reserve models are built on that. You could legislate that. They can't. But that's actually interestingly kind of a legacy of the financial system itself that allows you to do that, that there's a benefit that one hands over to whoever's providing that service in return for you getting a liquid cash payment system. But we all do that with our checking accounts.
00:16:11.326 - 00:16:24.054, Speaker C: I mean, of course we get a small amount of interest on our checking accounts. Maybe they could be mandated that they have to pay some level of interest back to the token holders. I'm not sure, but it's really not much different from everything that we have.
00:16:24.172 - 00:16:31.740, Speaker A: Yeah, no, it is actually quite ironic. Yeah. What's ironic is that what makes this work is the fractional reserve banking system.
00:16:32.830 - 00:16:50.526, Speaker C: As the source of income for them. Right. But then again, holding it all in a cash deposit is one way. Of course there's also T bills and everything. You could legislate that and dictate that there's only certain places they can hold it. In fact, that's more or less what will happen, I would think.
00:16:50.708 - 00:17:15.270, Speaker A: Well, so there's two kind of takes that you've had, I think, on regulation of Libra. And one is, oh, I hope that they don't kind of stymie the development of this. This could be a really good outcome for certain, especially the Unbanked. But then on the other hand, you said, oh well, they definitely need to regulate it for these reasons. So in your world, if you were in the position of the regulator, how would you proceed?
00:17:15.770 - 00:18:42.260, Speaker C: Well, obviously so, to be clear, hopefully that doesn't sound too contradictory. I just think that it's smart regulation, right? So I don't think that it should be regulated in the context of a too big to fail systemic risk problem and some sort of threat to the dollar. I don't even know what laws you would have to build to challenge that. And I certainly don't think that you should build custody requirements and so forth that might make it really expensive for other innovators to build on top of this. So those are the things I wouldn't do. I'd look at all of the BitLicense problems that came up in terms of how that killed off innovation and be very careful about that because if you want to avoid these big companies from becoming monopolistic, then don't put too big burdens on innovators who would compete with them. But what I do think they should regulate is reserve management, right? So they obviously strict rules on auditing, transparency on what they can do with the reserves, right? That to me is fundamental to the broader idea of risk within this and that's a key part of it.
00:18:42.260 - 00:20:24.946, Speaker C: And Data and trying to build in privacy protections in this and actually being sort of pro privacy. Of course that runs counter often to the AML and KYC demands that the banking system currently has. But I think this is the kind of moment for a very smart conversation about what are our priorities and when it comes to banking, the Unbanked. Or financial inclusion or however we want to call it, resolving the challenge of how we identify under the anachronistic current models, that we have people in countries that just do not have reliable state IDs and systems for checking on that, figuring out how to do that in a way that just actually enables them to be included, that doesn't burden them. Data to me, is a great opportunity right now with this, that regulators could start to think intelligently about using some of this technology to manage and assess risks on a broad basis, but not sort of build this very excessive personalized KYC model for people who simply can't live up to those standards. Unfortunately, I think the way that the Fatif is going, the Financial Action Task Force with its travel rule for crypto, it doesn't look like that's necessarily something that's going to open up. But I do think that this is something that Facebook and its partners at Libra could be quite constructive in.
00:20:24.946 - 00:20:44.220, Speaker C: They could have a very constructive conversation with regulators about sort of a smart, leaner approach to KYC AML that doesn't know shut down Somalia entirely just because you can't figure out who the guy on the other end of the line is.
00:20:45.710 - 00:21:32.874, Speaker A: Yeah, it's hard to know what that would look like on the ground. But one thing I wanted to ask you about, so let's just get past the regulation issues for a second. If Libra were to succeed kind of as you described it as this basket of currencies that kind of, I guess, removed some of the dollar hegemony and just actually was really widely adopted to the point of helping to bank the unbanked, then what kind of impact do you think that would have? Like what would we see kind of in developing economies where there are a lot of unbanked people and also, frankly, how would that affect those governments. So both on the ground impact as well as that kind of the second.
00:21:32.912 - 00:22:52.194, Speaker C: Part of that governmental impact really important because it will come down to whether or not in those governments, they take a smart regulatory stance on this or not and what their priorities are. First of all, I share or at least say I appreciate some of the cynicism around the view that this is really all about financial inclusion and not just about making a bunch of companies rich. I think that's an okay and healthy skepticism that we see. I think that however, anything that reduces the cost of value transfers in global money flows that sort of does a runaround of the distortive correspondent banking system will have benefits broadly for global inclusion. It'll just make accessing and onboarding cheaper and easier. So I think that we need to look upon the prospect of financial inclusion within that broader perspective and not necessarily get too sort of rose colored glassy eyed about this all being about the poor. That said, I obviously care deeply about it and want that to be something that any company working in this space works hard on.
00:22:52.194 - 00:24:01.562, Speaker C: And it's good to see that there's a number of NGOs within the structure of Libra that might be able to hold that to bear and might be able to put resources toward developers to focus on apps and the like that specifically help that kind of community. And that's a good thing. What's going to be interesting, like, let's take India for example, which is very skeptical of cryptocurrencies, right, and has its own approach to solving financial inclusion. It has its own very centralized identity system ada, which has come to a lot of criticism for the hacking risks associated with it. And the centralization of biodata that comes in that and is a proud large economy that I suppose likes to have its own currency. There's going to be a challenge, no doubt, to the idea that its people might prefer a non rupee based currency that's more stable than the rupee itself and that that might be seen as a risk to their current structure, I suppose. Hope.
00:24:01.562 - 00:25:25.314, Speaker C: I think there needs to be a really rich conversation about how the payoffs from having at least the payment system, or at least the global payment system reside in something outside of the rupee is actually really beneficial to Indians as a whole, to the Indian economy as a whole. And on that basis it's a decent compromise to give up some of the sovereignty over that aspect of it. Am I confident that in India or any other country for that matter, is going to willingly do that? Not always. I think some countries are going to be much more broad minded about it than know. It'd be interesting to see what Venezuela's new, whoever it is, takes over from Maduro and creates something realistic would say to this kind of model because they would recognize the absolute harm that having your own sovereign currency that's badly managed has done to the welfare of their people. So Argentina willingly put itself under a currency peg a few years ago, and it wasn't necessarily the best choice, but there was an acknowledgement there that the only way for the country to grow was to essentially handcuff itself away from having monetary policy. So these are tough questions, but a realistic assessment of what's in it for your country and ultimately in the long run for your economy is what I'd love to see be part of the conversation here.
00:25:25.314 - 00:26:12.660, Speaker C: As you can tell, I'm saying love to, hope to, and not necessarily all that confident, but this is interesting for the sake of just raising the conversation. Having all of this is going to be really interesting. And hopefully it brings us to a point where we can truly discuss these things like the strength of the dollar and how that's a huge burden to developing countries like India who are beholden to the monetary policy of the United States. And just like whether or not those same developing countries might want to defer to a more basket like structure for the simple reasons that people can have a more stable form of payments for international money, those are things that could be on the table for conversation and at least the discussion is now potentially going to continue.
00:26:13.110 - 00:26:21.314, Speaker A: Wow. So you're kind of implying there that governments might actually also prefer something like a basket of currencies.
00:26:21.362 - 00:27:24.954, Speaker C: Is that where I was saying before? In the sense that, again, you got to look at it the cynical way in which many people and the crypto, sort of libertarian sort of crypto look upon government is that they are nothing but an entirely selfish entity that is driven around power of printing its own money. And part of that is true and that is a concern. But there is such a thing as an honest government that says I want to do what's best for my people. And if I can see how giving up on that engine of bureaucratic control that is the printing press, I actually benefit from unlocking payment flows, then that's a perfectly reasonable decision for them to make. Some will make it. And you've seen countries through history, as I said, Argentina did mean, you know, they didn't make the best choice. But there's a willingness to give up on that, where it benefits the population, where your long term economic growth is built upon it.
00:27:24.954 - 00:27:37.918, Speaker C: So I'm not as cynical to believe that owning the printing presses is something that governments will never give up. And I think this is an opportunity to have that conversation now and that's what I'm hoping comes out of this.
00:27:38.084 - 00:27:43.146, Speaker A: All right, well, we will see where this goes. Thanks so much for coming on Unconfirmed.
00:27:43.258 - 00:27:45.310, Speaker C: It was a pleasure, Laura. Thanks for having me.
00:27:45.460 - 00:28:11.410, Speaker A: Thanks so much for joining us today. To learn more about the topics we discussed, be sure to check out the links in the show notes of your podcast player. If you haven't yet taken the Unchained survey or entered to win a free Casa node, do so now. This is the last week go to surveymonkey.com runchainedsurvey 2019. Unconfirmed is produced by me, Laura Shin with help from factual recording anthony Yoon, Daniel Nuts and Rich Strafalina thanks for listening.
