00:00:00.440 - 00:00:40.888, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Way Refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Cisano, and today's the 10 March 2021. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So I've been on my good friend Greg's channel today on YouTube called Dapp University, and we recorded about an hour long video, obviously about Ethereum, talking about, you know, L2, nfts, you know, the bull case for ether as an asset, all that sort of stuff. So, you know, after you're done watching this video, I highly recommend going and checking that out in the YouTube description below. I mean, I always love talking, you know, about Ethereum, but I in particular, I love talking about just the narratives, right. And, and like the layer, the, the stuff that's happening, you know, in the future, like L2.
00:00:40.888 - 00:01:23.176, Speaker A: And, you know, ETH as an asset as well is really exciting. I think, you know, a lot of people still don't understand what makes ETH valuable, right. And it's monetary policy, you know, why people are really bullish on it. I'm actually, I think I'm actually gonna do a video like a standalone video on that soon. Kind of like the bullish case for, you know, ethan, ethereum as a network as well, because there's still a lot of misunderstanding out there, right. I mean, I don't know about you guys, but whenever I try to explain kind of like crypto to a new person, you know, they immediately get like, I guess, you know, bitcoin and like how it's like got a cap supply and it halves every four years. You know, that's very simple to explain, but eats monetary policy is, is much, I guess, denser than that and in my opinion better.
00:01:23.176 - 00:01:39.008, Speaker A: But it is definitely denser and it takes a long, a longer time to explain it. But I'm not going to explain it now because it's in that video towards the end of it if you want to skip ahead to the end. But I highly recommend watching the whole thing. It was a great interview and I mean, it was kind of like a live stream that we did. It wasn't really an interview. It's just us chatting. Greg's really smart.
00:01:39.008 - 00:02:10.796, Speaker A: He's, he teaches kind of like blockchain development, specifically on Ethereum. So if that's what you're interested in as well, definitely go check out his channel and that'll be linked in the description, of course. So I think the biggest news of the day was this news out of Makerdao and Sam McPherson here posted it on Twitter. So a little bit of background here before I get into what the news was. So, you know, I've spoken about L2 solutions a lot, and in particular, I've spoken about optimism's optimistic kind of Ethereum network. Right. And one of the drawbacks of this solution was that kind of one week withdrawal delay.
00:02:10.796 - 00:02:40.888, Speaker A: Right. You've probably heard about this on Twitter before. You know, I probably mentioned it before as well, where you know, it basically, you know, you have to wait up to a week to withdraw your funds from the optimistic L2 back to Ethereum layer one. And people were saying, oh, well, this is like, you know, such a massive problem, it's going to kill optimistic roll ups. You know, it's not going to work because of this. But, you know, I've said before on the refill that I think that it's not like a showstopper or anything like that. And because there's multiple ways to kind of get around this.
00:02:40.888 - 00:03:15.918, Speaker A: And Sam McPherson from, you know, make a dao here, basically posted this, this tweet thread with a link to kind of like the proposal down the bottom here, which they've dubbed the optimism die Bridge, which aims to solve the one week withdrawal problem for optimistic roll ups. And he explains how it works in this thread. But basically this image kind of gives you an idea about how it works as well. Kind of like there's a, there's basically a bridge from these l two s to l one, and you can see like Uniswap's there as well. And, you know, I obviously think that, you know, Maker is going to be deployed to, to optimism at this stage. Right. That's another project that's probably be on optimism here.
00:03:15.918 - 00:04:08.970, Speaker A: But basically he explains how it works here. They basically take the maker protocol basically takes advantage of, I guess, what is it here, the result of the computation up here of the L2 kind of solution here with an off chain proof. I mean, I'm getting pretty technical here, so I kind of like didn't want to dive too deep into the technicals. But basically what they can do is they can take advantage of the way this kind of technology works and offer a new token, or not a new token, but like a token called FDAI, which represents a claim on the layer one die through a vault, which allows locking up FDIE in exchange for newly minted regular die. And then FDI is then validated by a maker, Oracle, which you can verify against the CTC, which is this kind of computation proof up here that I was talking about. And there's a nice little image here that kind of explains how it works. I think my camera is kind of blocking it off if I, if I zoom in there.
00:04:08.970 - 00:04:40.494, Speaker A: But basically, this solves that one week withdrawal period problem and doesn't come without its own trade offs. Don't get me wrong. It is not something that's, like, fully, you know, trustless and decentralized. And, you know, there's still an oracle there, which means that if the oracle for some reason is compromised, then, you know, this probably wouldn't work, or this could be, you know, potentially compromised. But this was the biggest news to come out of today, and Patrick McQuarrie actually does, like, a really good job here of breaking down the trade offs. There's some news from arbitrum that I'll go over soon as well. Actually, I'll drag this over here.
00:04:40.494 - 00:05:12.094, Speaker A: But basically, Patrick breaks down that with optimism's kind of FDI solution, where they're going from l two to l one. Basically, he says the former, which is the optimism solution, requires a new validator set, who checks the L2 logic to verify that everything is okay before minting the coins. Downside is that it's not an atomic operation, and there's no guarantee that you will receive your coins. And obviously, the upside is that the. I mean, he says here the quantity to withdraw is limitless. Yes. But also the, you get to, you know, fast withdraw, basically.
00:05:12.094 - 00:05:49.940, Speaker A: And then basically, he compared it to arbitrum solution, which I'll go over soon, and I'll come back to his comparison there. But, you know, I don't think the trade offs are too bad here. I think, you know, forgetting instant, kind of liquidity and kind of like an instant withdrawal here, or at least a fast withdrawal from optimism where before it was going to take a week. Like, that's, that's really awesome. Right. So I think that solves, like, a big problem. I also think that I've said it before, but I do think that this problem is probably more pronounced than, than I think it will be, because once everyone's on L2, there's going to be bridges between the different L2s and things like that, you know, and I think there's going to be ways around this.
00:05:49.940 - 00:06:27.066, Speaker A: But, you know, I don't think people are going to kind of get out of L2. I think people are going to live in L2 at the end of the day, and there are already people doing that. You know, a lot of people are living in, in loop ring and other solutions that are available because that gives them what they need. But when we have all the apps on there, you just won't want to go back to layer one because you know the fees are going to be high, right? Like, why would you pay a $50 fee on layer one when you can do it for free on L2? And I guess the reason would be that layer one would still have a lot of the smaller apps, I guess, that haven't migrated across. Or maybe there's new. There's opportunities on layer one still and stuff like that. Or maybe there's some things like flash loans that you want to do on layer one that haven't been built on L2 yet.
00:06:27.066 - 00:07:02.832, Speaker A: But most users, you know, are going to be on L2. Like, I don't imagine users who just basically do basic things like go and do a uniswap trade, right? You know, put their. Put their ETH as, you know, up as collateral or kind of yield farm. I feel like those apps are all going to be on L2 very quickly and then it won't really, you know, most users won't really ever need to leave L2 until they maybe need to off, off, kind of like off ramp to an exchange. And I actually think the Coinbase is going to support optimism. I've said it before, I think they're going to support optimism withdrawals and deposits at some point. You know, if they do it like this month, that would be absolutely crazy, right? Because optimism is still coming this month.
00:07:02.832 - 00:07:37.684, Speaker A: If they enabled that at the same time, that would be like a complete game changer, because all the users, the new users coming into the ecosystem can choose from, you know, to go from Coinbase to the Ethereum main chain or to optimism, which would be really, really positive as well. And because I believe that a lot of new users now in the Ethereum system, their first experience is just high fees. Right? Which is sad because we have such an awesome system that we've built and it's just being hampered by these high fees. So if we can give them a nice first kind of. First kind of impression, I guess, of Ethereum, then that's much better. So I think that's what. That's what optimism will do.
00:07:37.684 - 00:08:08.424, Speaker A: But, yeah, really awesome to see this from, from the Makerdao community here. And, you know, Lucas had a really great kind of reply to Sam here where he said Ethereum is a giant, productive, interconnected permissionless Lego. If one team hits a wall, he says one team hits a wall, you know, with a question mark. Other, other teams bring a ladder while the third one is already building a tunnel. Never ending innovation and collaboration. You can't copy or replicate such a community. I mean this is just like, I mean I wrote about this in Delegate newsletter, but I wanted to summarize it here.
00:08:08.424 - 00:08:27.210, Speaker A: This is the bet on Ethereum. This is a large part of the Ethereum bull case and why ethereum means so much to so many people. Like as I was just saying, this withdrawal delay was a problem that a lot of people were talking about. And I just knew people were working on solutions for this already. Like I just knew it. I mean, you know, it's not just the make it out community. I'm sure there's many other solutions.
00:08:27.210 - 00:09:18.754, Speaker A: Like Kinect is also working on stuff there, right? Hot protocol for bridging and stuff like that. I'm sure there's plenty of people working on this and that's just not something you get in other communities, right? In the Ethereum community you have such a vast kind of like I guess, field to play in and you have such a vast talent pool to kind of pull from and that's what happens, right. Which is just amazing. I mean I love his analogy here that, you know, if a team hits a wall, one team will bring a ladder while the other team is already building a tunnel. Because there's multiple ways to tackle these problems because you know, this, this kind of make a dao, um, I guess like die bridge from optimism to, to main, main net is going to be different to a solution that someone else comes up with, um, and that's going to be different to another solution. So we have multiple solutions for the same problem which um, you know, come with their own trade offs and things like that, but which are really, really boring, bullish, right. For the, for the, you know, the whole ecosystem.
00:09:18.754 - 00:09:50.630, Speaker A: And I constantly think about the way kind of like I guess bitcoin approach, scaling where they put all their eggs in one basket. And that being the lightning network. Because to me the lightning network is a failure. I don't know if it's going to be successful in the future. I have my doubts. I mean up until this point it hasn't really done much and I just think that it's just for a number of reasons. It has kind of been a failure up until this point, but a big reason is definitely that, you know, they've put all the eggs in one basket because like the lighting network very clearly, you know, know, from my point of view, doesn't work as well as it, as it should or it could, doesn't work as advertised.
00:09:50.630 - 00:10:28.900, Speaker A: I know they're still working on it, but the fact that they've gotten like next to kind of like near near zero adoption while Ethereum has like exploded in use kind of like just signals to me that, you know, people don't really want to use lightning network, especially when they're bringing their BTC over to Ethereum, you know, in droves. And it kind of like outnumbers the BTC and lightning network by a time. But I don't want to bash the lightning network. But it speaks to the point that, you know, in Ethereum, we wouldn't just go all in on one solution, right? One scaling solution. We didn't just go all in on sharding, for example. We didn't say, okay, we don't need L2 because sharding is coming in ETH two. And then in the end, what ended up happening was that sharding ended up being a much more complex thing to implement.
00:10:28.900 - 00:10:53.266, Speaker A: Right. You know, at least data sharding is fine. But like execution sharding is very, very difficult to implement, right. In a, in the way that we want to. So we have like L2 as well, right? We don't have just one solution, we have multiple. And that kind of like gets away that, that execution risk as well and that kind of like delivery risk there. So very, very bullish, you know, comment, I guess, like from, from Lucas here.
00:10:53.266 - 00:11:18.824, Speaker A: And I wrote more about it in the newsletter. You can go check that out if you want to. But speaking of L2 as well, arbitrum released their, their fast cross chain ETH transfers. So you can get your ETH from l two to l one with, without waiting for the dispute, period, using Connect's network. Now I said that Patrick wrote about this here. So basically the, the way that arbitrary is doing it is they're using an atomic swap with intermediary. So it's basically all or nothing.
00:11:18.824 - 00:11:45.442, Speaker A: The upside is that there's no new trusted kind of party here and close to instant withdrawals. The downside is that the, the needlework to reduce impact of free american call option plus a limit on throughput withdrawal size. I don't exactly know what that means. He's using some terms that I haven't seen before. But I guess the second part means that there's a limit on kind of like the throughput of these instant withdrawals and how much can be withdrawn at once. Again, both of these solutions work. They just have their own trade offs here.
00:11:45.442 - 00:12:09.246, Speaker A: And, you know, I think it's really great. I mean, arbitrum is also a optimistic roll up solution as well. So, you know, they also suffer from that seven day withdrawal period, but they're tackling it through a different way here using Connext. And you can actually try this right now at Bridge Arbitrum IO. And I'll link it in the description for you to try out. But yeah, two solutions to the same problem, and we'll see which one is the best one, which one people want to use. I mean, they have their own trade offs.
00:12:09.246 - 00:12:39.346, Speaker A: Maybe there's no best one. Maybe there's just like, what's kind of like best for the situation? Because there's different situations where withdraws happen. But as I said before, as I was talking about before, I don't think that we're gonna have a world where everyone's gonna just be withdrawing to layer one or wanting to withdraw to layer one. They're just gonna be in L2. And then when they want to cash out to fiat for taxes or whatever other reason, they will just go to the exchange right from the late the L2. They're not going to need to go to layer one to do that. So very, very bullish stuff going on here.
00:12:39.346 - 00:13:28.180, Speaker A: Very exciting times for L2. So Stani from Aave had an interesting tweet today where he said that $100 billion coinbase valuation demonstrates how undervalued DeFi is as an ecosystem. I've been saying this for a long time on the refuel, right. About how I think that the market is severely underpricing Defi still, and that's not investment advice. But when you look at the amount of traction Defi has just with layer one, right, and layer one is limited, where there's the high fees, right, there's the low scalability, what do you think is going to happen when we have L2? What do you think is going to happen when we basically unshackle Ethereum, essentially? Like we, we take off the chains that it has on its ankles and we say, you know, go, you're free, run for it. Like, I know what's going to happen. DeFi is going to go like ten, hundred x from here, 1000 x from here.
00:13:28.180 - 00:14:02.706, Speaker A: And you know, the fact that Coinbase, an exchange that does similar volumes to Uniswap, right, has a hundred billion dollar valuation, which, mind you, is worth more than all of Defi combined by a lot. What do you think's going to happen? Right. I know what's going to happen. All the DeFi tokens are going to, are going to re rate up for the projects that are succeeding, I think so many of them are still undervalued. And again, not investment advice. But if you look at the metrics, you look at the daily volumes, you look at the total value locked, you look at the growth, right? The month on month growth of these protocols is absolutely insane. You don't see this in the traditional world, like in the traditional startup world.
00:14:02.706 - 00:14:37.086, Speaker A: If you had 100% month on month growth across, like, all your metrics, it'd be like people will be saying to you that you're lying, you're faking them. But we can actually see that people aren't faking these metrics because it's all on chain. So that's just even more exciting is that no one can doubt this stuff. Like you can say, you know, maybe it's being faked or whatever, right? But you can do investigations and see if that's the issue, see if that's what's happening. And with Ethereum, it's very hard to fake it because of the high fees. Right. You know, I know I've said that, you know, something like BSc had fake volume and stuff like that, and I believe that they did because it's just cheap to do that.
00:14:37.086 - 00:14:56.482, Speaker A: And, you know, it's a centralized kind of arena there. Not to say that you can't fake volume and stuff on Ethereum, but it's very expensive to do so. Right. If you wanted to fake volume, you'd have to spend like thousands and tens of thousands, potentially millions of dollars to fake that amount of volume. And for what, right. What are you trying to fake the volume for? Right. Maybe to pump the token a little bit.
00:14:56.482 - 00:15:21.528, Speaker A: And if the pump doesn't work, you've wasted all your money. Right. So from that point of view, yeah, it's, it's, it's much harder to do. But in general, if we just take that, you know, most of the volume is real. Right. And real activity from real users, which I think it is, like, almost all of it probably is, then, yeah, everything is kind of undervalued right now. And I think once Coinbase goes live is actually trading in the proper kind of markets because it's just trading on secondary markets right now.
00:15:21.528 - 00:15:47.760, Speaker A: But when it trades on the, on the primary markets, people are going to eat up this narrative more so than they are now. They're going to realize that, okay, if Coinbase can be worth this, then these protocols that are doing similar volumes that have much more potential for growth, mind you can do this because if you think uniswap is just going to stop at the volume that they have now. I mean, I got a bridge to sell you. Seriously, they're not going to stop. As soon as Uniswap goes to L2, their volumes are going to absolutely explode. And v three still hasn't come out. Right.
00:15:47.760 - 00:16:19.052, Speaker A: So I know Uniswap is very, it has a very rich valuation now and I actually think that maybe it's getting to a point where it's like pretty hot, right? It's pretty much already there. But, you know, there's not just uniswap. There's other decentralized exchanges that are growing rapidly as well. There's other Defi apps that are growing rapidly. They're still kind of like not worth near as much as Coinbase is worth. So if you take all that into account, you can very quickly come to the realization that, yes, Defi as an ecosystem is extremely undervalued and that's not going to last forever. So again, I know I've said it over twice already, but not investment advice.
00:16:19.052 - 00:16:51.824, Speaker A: Please do your own kind of research. But it's hard for me not to get excited about this and hard for me not to say that's not undervalued based on the research I've done and the metrics that I've looked at. And, you know, I've gone through a little bit of these metrics before. You can go to like token terminals website, you can just google it and kind of see the metrics on there and see what's undervalued versus overvalued and stuff like that. Cause some of this stuff is overvalued, don't get me wrong. But yeah, it's just cool to kind of like, see Stani say this. I mean, Stan is the founder of Aave, right? So I mean, I trust his opinion on this sort of stuff and I'm glad that he kind of feels the same way as I have for a little while.
00:16:51.824 - 00:17:38.540, Speaker A: So mintable, the app that lets you create nfts, have, have announced today that they're actually going to be partnering up with Immutable X, which is a L2 NFT scaling solution going live soon to deliver, you know, basically zero gas, NFT minting and trading, which is awesome. Like, I've seen some NFT apps go to other chains because of the fees and I just kind of think that's very short sighted. And I think that they are basically shooting themselves in the foot because these other chains don't have users. So why are you moving to another chain? We have L2 so I'm very glad to see mintable going the L2 route here. And not just any L2. Immutable X is, you know, using Starkware's technology, which powers Dy DX, and it also powers diversify. So this isn't just like a small, little kind of shop that's doing L2.
00:17:38.540 - 00:18:28.292, Speaker A: They're a big deal and they've got some really great technology. I mean, everyone that I've ever spoken to about starkware rants and raves about how awesome the team is, how great the tech is, how bleeding edge it is. So this is like proper, you know, L2 tech. This isn't just anything. So I'm really glad to see immutable X getting all these partnerships lately with these projects because, and they have like a very aligned kind of ethos as well. I wouldn't call them like ETH maximalist, but, you know, I spoken to some of the team members and, you know, just the way they put themselves out there on Twitter, like, I know, and you kind of heard Robbie on the, one of the co founders of Immutable on the Bankless podcast, if you listen to that one, where he basically said, you know, ethereum is it, right? It's super secure. ETH is an asset, is amazing, right? Why not use that kind of layer with L2? So it's really great to see apps embracing this and sticking with Ethereum.
00:18:28.292 - 00:19:04.448, Speaker A: Right. I, you know, obviously I'm very happy about that. And as much as I do believe that it's probably going to be like a multi chain world eventually, I do think that most of the activity is still going to remain on Ethereum and the L2 technologies built on top. So, yeah, awesome to see this from, from interval. So Coinbase Pro announced the listing of three new tokens today, which was funny because these are tokens that. Well, I think at least two of them are tokens that are very hyped up. So they announced that they're going to list Matic, which is now Polygon, obviously SKKL, which is scale network, and sushi, which obviously sushiswap.
00:19:04.448 - 00:19:34.872, Speaker A: So I think Matic and sushi are the most hyped up on Twitter. And full disclosure here, I am an advisor to Matic and I have tokens that vest over time and I have sushi tokens. So I just want to get that out of the way. But the reason I'm talking about this is not to pump my bags, but it's just to say that it's funny how Coinbase is now doing these listings of like, three assets at once. Right. And it's also very interesting to me that they listed sushi in particular, because if you know, a little bit of the background here, Coinbase listed uni on day one. Right.
00:19:34.872 - 00:20:15.524, Speaker A: Coinbase has connections with Uniswap. I don't know if they're investing in Uniswap directly, but Coinbase's co founder that left a few years ago, Fred Ursum, is, is the co founder of Paradigm, which is a VC fund which had a huge stake in Uniswap because they invested back in 2019. I've spoken about this before, so there's a connection there. So I would have thought, you know, they wouldn't list sushi because it's direct competitor to Uniswap, but, you know, they did, and I'm glad they did because I believe that, you know, you shouldn't not list the token just because it's a competitor to something that you're invested in. And, I mean, Coinbase invests in a lot of things. If you go to the Coinbase Ventures website, that's their kind of like, investment arm, you can see how many things they've invested in and some. And there's.
00:20:15.524 - 00:20:37.420, Speaker A: There's overlap there at the end of the day. And, you know, they've got lots of different kind of, like, I wouldn't call them conflicts of interest, but they've got lots of different kind of overlap between the investments that they have. And I think they're an investment, they're an investor in Matic as well. So that explains that. And I think they're an investor in scale. Now, I don't really know much about scale network. Maybe some of you do.
00:20:37.420 - 00:21:08.462, Speaker A: I know that it is trying to scale Ethereum with what they call elastic blockchains. I think it's a side chain. I don't think it's L2. I don't want to say it is or it isn't because I haven't looked into it too much yet, but I. Yeah, I think it's a sidechain solution that is just kind of like branding it as ethereum scaling because, you know, you want people to. To kind of, I guess, like, you know, not kind of like hate you or call you an Ethereum killer or whatever. And, and Matic is a funny one, or polygon because they are building L2 solutions and their current live iteration is like a hybrid.
00:21:08.462 - 00:21:56.064, Speaker A: I mean, I wouldn't call it a side chain. I know I have in the past, but I actually learned more about it recently and learned more about the underlying tech of how it works. And I've spoken about this before, where they actually use, they use their own validator set, but they do checkpoint to Ethereum. So they do have like Ethereum as like a security, I guess, like guard on the network where if they needed to, they could recreate the entire state of matic network using that checkpoint on Ethereum. And they can actually slash validators using a theorem to not, not a theorem 2.0 ethereum as well. Um, but yeah, so I think, um, there's going to be like some more information coming out about that because I, as an advisor to the team, I encourage them, hey, you should put more information about this because everyone still thinks polygon is like a pure side chain or matic is like a pure side chain, and we should change the kind of narrative around that.
00:21:56.064 - 00:22:12.834, Speaker A: So, yeah, I mean, not to shield too much there, but I think it's important to make this, the distinction here. And again, I'm not an expert on scale network. I need to do more research on it. But as far as I know, it is a kind of normal side chain kind of solution. And a sushi, of course, is a, is a decentralized exchange. Right. But yeah.
00:22:12.834 - 00:22:39.724, Speaker A: Cool to see Coinbase listing more assets. I was wondering when that would list more assets, actually, because the other day I was talking to a friend and I'm like, Dracon, they're going to wait until they ipo to list more assets because maybe they want to drum up, you know, I guess, like volumes when their ipo is going on. But I guess they can do that before the ipo and maybe it's even better doing it before. So, yeah, there it is. I'm curious to see what they list next. They're still missing a lot of the top kind of assets out there, especially the top Defi assets. So we'll see how they go.
00:22:39.724 - 00:23:04.844, Speaker A: So, Tim Ferriss. So for those of you who don't know, Tim Ferriss is a pretty famous author, podcaster, investor. He's been around for quite a while. I'm sure a lot of you are aware who he is, but he also has a, I mean, as I said, he has a podcast and he had Vitalik Buterin on today with Naval as well. So if you're interested in listening to that, you can kind of, I guess, go to the page here to link to the YouTube description. Kind of like listen to it. I haven't listened to it yet.
00:23:04.844 - 00:23:43.834, Speaker A: I. It's definitely on my to listen to list. But, you know, always very interested in talking, sorry, in listening to Vitalik talk, I think he's very well spoken. I think he has very high emotional intelligence. So he speaks about things in a way that isn't kind of like, you know, he's not like speaking from emotions, he's speaking from logic, which I really like as well. And he also talked about, I mean, see here, life extension technology as well, which is something that for those of you who don't know, I'm pretty sure Vitalik splits his time between like mostly Ethereum and on the side, he does a lot of research into life extension and it does a lot of stuff there. He donated like millions of dollars recently to that technology as well.
00:23:43.834 - 00:24:18.202, Speaker A: So I'm very interested to hear what he has to say. But yeah, go give this a listen if you haven't yet. And I will definitely give it a listen very, very soon. So Hasu posted this little mini thread here about kind of like miners. And he basically said here, after reading the ether mining subreddit and watching miner YouTube for the last few weeks, I came to the conclusion that many miners have totally different picture of Ethereum than we do, we being the community at large. And then he basically states some points here. He says most are convinced that devs make all the decisions, including about 1559.
00:24:18.202 - 00:24:46.724, Speaker A: If non devs support a proposal, they are quote unquote, paid shills. And he and Hasu says he actually blames this on the Ethereum community for peddling his warped image themselves for many years. Just yesterday I saw a flowchart for the EIP process that didn't even mention community consensus. And then three, most miners fundamentally reject the idea that they are being paid, that they are being paid by holders. And then, quote, the ETH we get is paid for by the protocol, not holders, end quote. Four. Same goes for fees.
00:24:46.724 - 00:25:15.198, Speaker A: Most miners have no concept of who transacts on transacts or why they pay a lot of money for it. And then House of finishes his thread by saying Reddit and YouTube communities are places where hobbyists meet. So this is clearly isn't representative of the overall mining community. Larger players might have totally different views. Now, I want to go back up to the charts he has here. So he has a chart, basically a pie chart where it says how minus see Ethereum. And you have like this little yellow section which I guess is like maybe 5% of, of the kind of network paid shills.
00:25:15.198 - 00:25:39.000, Speaker A: Then you have like most of the network, most of the community, sorry, being devs and most of the community being miners. And this is the miners view of Ethereum. But this is how Ethereum actually works, right? A large chunk of it is holders. A large chunk of it is DeFi users. A small, an equal share is aptivs, devs in general and miners. So devs in general. I think he's saying app devs, like defi app devs and devs is in protocol devs and miners.
00:25:39.000 - 00:26:29.156, Speaker A: And this is true. I mean, this is exactly how it works, right? The holders, the ETH holders have an extremely vested interest in seeing the network kind of continue as it is and having kind of like upgrades be put into the network that have been beneficial for Ethereum but also beneficial for ETH as an asset. Defi users, of course, have like a very large say here because they're the ones going to be encouraging the projects to support, you know, certain ips and certain things. And if there was a chain split, they would decide where they want to go and then app devs obviously decide where they want their apps to go and what chain they would want to go on and what they want to follow. Protocol devs as well, have a big, have a pretty, I mean, not a huge say, and they kind of follow what the community does, but they have like a pretty, pretty, pretty good say here. And then miners as well have like an equal share there. I would actually argue that miners don't have this big of say.
00:26:29.156 - 00:27:15.356, Speaker A: I would actually argue that miners have like a small say, like maybe even 1% of what happens with the network. Because as I've said before, they are service providers and they are paid ETH for their work, right, directly by the protocol, mind you. So I do not think that miners deserve to have like a really loud voice. And actually, after hearing them and hearing all their arguments against 1559 and this isn't all miners, right? I'm not trying to generalize here, but the miners that I did here, they very clearly, as Hasu illustrates here, do not understand how things work. They very clearly don't understand ERP 15, for example. They very clearly do not have the same kind of, I guess, outlook for ethereum than the rest of the community does. And they very clearly aren't aligned.
00:27:15.356 - 00:28:04.162, Speaker A: Right? So at the end of the day, I can't wait to get off proof of work. I want to get on proof of stake as fast as possible. And I think that's going to happen sooner than most people think. But at the end of the day, we still have to deal with this until we on, until we're on proof of stake when the merger happens. And I don't. I mean, I know I've seen, like, a few people kind of talk about this minor revolt that's going on on April 1, where they're actually, on April 1, they're encouraging, like, all different miners to redirect their hash power to the ether mine pool. Now, ether mine has been vocally opposing ERP 1559, and they're saying that they want to get over 51% of the hashrate on ether mine to demonstrate to the, you know, the community and to the, like, the network that this is, like, a bad idea, you know, and demonstrate that, you know, if miners want to band together, they can.
00:28:04.162 - 00:28:39.672, Speaker A: This is the stupidest thing I've ever seen in my life. Like, I would just be straight up. This basically just wrecks all the game theory of mining. Like, one of the concerns is that the Ethereum network is going to become insecure because of 1559. So that they're kind of, like, solution to this is to basically band together, collect more than 51% of the hash power into one pool, and show that, you know, they could attack the, the network at any time. Like, how does that even work? Like, what, what is that? Right? What? I just. It blows my mind, the kind of, like, short term thinking here from these miners, and, like, it just doesn't make any sense to me.
00:28:39.672 - 00:29:05.934, Speaker A: And I don't want to bash miners again. I know I'm ranting, but it just. It's so weird, right? And I get why they're doing it because they're going to get a pay cut because some fees are going to get burned. But as I've said on the, on the, on the refuel, overall network fees are down 50% over the last two weeks. That's more than EIP 1559 is going to burn. Have you heard anything about that from miners? Have they said absolutely anything about that? No, they have not. You know why they haven't said anything about that? Because they know they can't control that.
00:29:05.934 - 00:29:30.332, Speaker A: And the thing is, they should know they can't control EIP 1559 going in or not at the end of the day. So it's just bizarre, and it really is. And I'm not gonna. I'm not gonna continue this. I know I've talked about it, talked to this to death, but I really wanted to kind of reassure people that have been asking me about this, that miners are not going to do anything here. They're all talk, you know, I I don't. I don't even think they're going to get to that 51% kind of hash rate on ether mine.
00:29:30.332 - 00:30:05.854, Speaker A: I think there's a lot of miners that support 1559 and are going to like, you know, not direct the hash power to ethermine. And I think if, if for some reason they do get over 51%, they're just going to basically, I think what's going to happen is they're actually going to force the devs hands, and instead of getting what they want, the devs might just say, oh, well, let's just do the merger. Let's just merge ETH one into ETH two. I'm just speculating here, but if you really want to play with fire, well, you're gonna get burned, basically. And then they're left with nothing. Then their profit goes to zero because no one's gonna want to stay on the ETH one proof of work chain, right? They might try to continue it on, but they won't have the ETH ticker. They'll have like the ETH classic.
00:30:05.854 - 00:30:35.848, Speaker A: Classic ticker or something, right. Or the ETH power ticker. And then they'll have to get exchanges to list them, which they probably won't because exchanges won't want to be in that mess. So, yeah, it just throws the whole thing off. So the mine is doing this very short term ism. It's not something I would worry about, but I am very disappointed and kind of like, pretty upset about it, if I'm being frank, that we have to deal with these kind of like, people that and these, and these kind of like, groups that think they know better than the rest of the community. I think they know what's right and what's best, and they're threatening us with this kind of crap.
00:30:35.848 - 00:30:54.094, Speaker A: And, yeah, I'm going to stop there before I go on an even further rant, but, yeah, just something to keep in mind, but that. I think that's it for today's episode, everyone. So thank you again for listening and watching. Be sure to give that video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the YouTube channel. Subscribe to the Daily Grey newsletter. Join the Discord channel, and I will catch you all tomorrow.
00:30:54.094 - 00:30:54.574, Speaker A: Thanks, everyone.
