00:00:02.080 - 00:00:23.806, Speaker A: Hello. Hello everyone. Good afternoon. A pleasure to be addressing this room today. We have a very exciting panel with very exceptional professionals. I have the pleasure to work with many of them for over three years now. The panel is going to cover specifically the chief of tratfi investors to both CeFi and DeFi.
00:00:23.806 - 00:00:38.574, Speaker A: And before we jump into the exciting questions we have prepared for you today, we will. I'm going to allow my fellow speakers to introduce themselves, their companies, what they do and how are they impacting the industry at this specific moment in time.
00:00:39.874 - 00:01:07.312, Speaker B: Thank you, Michela. Adriana Bertini, head of strategy and product Ledger Enterprise. How many of you know Ledger? Otherwise, you were in the wrong conference. Ledger Enterprise is the enterprise army. We manage about double digit billion under security using our technology. We like to emphasize that we're not a custody provider. We are a security provider.
00:01:07.312 - 00:01:14.244, Speaker B: So we are a software as a service. And we'll be excited to speak to you about DeFi and CFI today.
00:01:16.424 - 00:01:51.576, Speaker C: Hi everyone, my name is Frederick Volpin. I run the institutional sales effort for binance in Europe. Binance for the one who don't know, it's as of today, the largest crypto exchange by trading volume. It was founded in 2017. We usually forget that it's actually a young company. As of today, we have over 180 million users and it's obviously well known for the exchange, but it's actually a whole ecosystem. We on the side also run the BNB smart chain where we have Dapps also that are being built on it.
00:01:51.576 - 00:02:05.724, Speaker C: Currently it's the fourth largest Defi platform. And then we have several other products like Binance Pay and. Yeah, many things else that I'll happy to be discussing after the conference.
00:02:08.704 - 00:02:38.304, Speaker D: Good afternoon, my name is Marcus, I work for Signum Asset Management. I'm actually heading the liquid strategies part within asset management, which covers basically everything except for venture capital. For the ones who don't know Signum, we're a bank in Switzerland and a service provider for crypto asset services in Singapore as well. And we're basically a full value chain service provider within the crypto asset space.
00:02:40.404 - 00:03:10.514, Speaker E: Thanks. My name is Alan and I'm responsible for the european business development and sales at GSR. GSR is the oldest and probably the largest market maker out there. What's a market maker? We ensure basically that every time you want to buy or sell some tokens or new project, we make sure it's possible. At the same time, we also act as a corporate venture. So that means across from seed to late stage, we invest in different kind of token projects.
00:03:16.614 - 00:03:45.814, Speaker A: Excellent. We will start right with the first question of today's panel, and that's going to be, what approaches are traditional institutional asset managers employing to incorporate exposure to CFI and Defi strategies? I want to make a distinction here in the panel. We do have companies that are acting in Defi and many others directing only in c five, so they will provide their approaches with a distinction. Adriana, perhaps, or Fred, we'd like to start.
00:03:49.234 - 00:04:16.522, Speaker C: Yeah, so I think it's. I think everyone is at different stages in their crypto journey. I joined Binance two, three years ago, and I'd say most of the trading firms we're dealing with were mainly crypto natives. And obviously now the space is growing. We're not at the adoption phase, but more to mass adoption now. Crypto ETF, spot ETF now has been approved. So, yeah, it's pretty much accessible to everyone.
00:04:16.522 - 00:05:25.284, Speaker C: So we're seeing a lot more institutional firms joining the space. And for the ones that were not trading, they were actually watching from the sidelines, preparing on how they can trade crypto, what would be the best venue? So there was a lot of due diligence that was done before. And usually they tend, for traditional asset managers mainly, they tend to take a bit of time before starting really testing the matching engine. If they were looking to trade on binance, see how long it would take for the trades to go through, how they can have a proper setup, segregating their clients asset to themselves, ways to reduce counterparty risk. And all this takes a lot of time for the more traditional ones as well. They're looking to do what they do in the traditional space, so they'll be looking to manage their capital more efficiently, reproduce the same type of trading strategies that they do in traditional finance on binance. So through the years, we've been able to enhance and produce new products that would allow them to do that on with us.
00:05:31.264 - 00:07:17.794, Speaker D: So maybe my view is starting a bit, you know, also in the past, but if we look at the ecosystem, it was a fully crypto native ecosystem when it started. Right. And I think in the last couple of years, we have been, we've seen much more dominance coming in from the needs and requirements from the traditional asset space. And that has shaped a lot the way how CFI and DeFi is accessed nowadays compared to a couple of years ago. And with that awareness, I think, and it's also about not just from c five to DeFi, it's also, to some extent, from DefI to CFI, what happened in the last months and years the way you can access is basically today almost the same as you would think about it in traditional asset, but just with new technologies to some extent, but also with very known ways of approaching and investing and accessing the space. So I think while maybe a lot of traditional play is still say, you know, it's very early stage and a lot of things are not around to cater for professional and institutional needs, I would say the more you're into the space and the more you know about what's actually out there and how you can engage, you figure out that a lot of the needs and requirements can already be covered today. And therefore, I don't really see as an inside out view, maybe too much difference and a lot of speed and pace towards really covering also the last angles of institutional investors already in that moment of time.
00:07:22.014 - 00:07:59.764, Speaker B: Yeah. So at Ledger, we basically always have like a technology point of view. As you know, we've been the longest standing out there about the eight years plus and counting on the enterprise, about five years. And what we see toward the ends of 2022 is really like a shift in the market. Yeah. Counterparty risk, as Frederick mentioned, is one point. What we have seen is also a shift in terms of the way trading is conducted and the trade life cycle, and how we can use cryptography and cryptographic method to ensure each step of the way that assets don't get lost.
00:07:59.764 - 00:08:29.390, Speaker B: So entering 2023, we really focus on reducing counterparty risk, but also providing solution that reduce cost of trading and cost of trading. You can measure in two ways. One, transaction cost, including on chain cost, as vendors usually are quite expensive. But second also on speed to trade. So every time you need to reallocate trading, that is time consuming. So we come out with solutions that address that. And today I hope to speak more about this.
00:08:29.390 - 00:09:09.014, Speaker B: But on the macro level, you see old sale asset manager sweeping the market primarily to offer easier, more less friction products like ETF or ETN to traditional investors. But I would not undermine, and I think we still have a lot to see on exposure to the underlying. There is still a very strong demand on the underlying bitcoin, specifically the stock to flow is reaching the same level of gold. So I think we're up for a ride and I think the underlying crypto will still play a significant role. And very excited to discuss this today.
00:09:12.154 - 00:10:12.584, Speaker E: Yeah. To add something for my part, on the geosore side, we like, I would say, a bit between CeFi and DeFi and Tradfi. I mean, I think it gives you a lot of edge or opportunities if you basically can move between regulated and unregulated space. And then at the same time, if you can move between, let's say, C five players and more, let's say, crypto native players, and I think the easiest way to break it down, I think a lot of the trad five players, especially with capital market backgrounds, have a very good understanding about the consequence of the fragmentation we have in the defi space and what kind of opportunity that exists. And they want to attack it and they want to trade it sometimes, and I would say it's not even the technology or the access or the understanding. I think that the biggest block is really the regulatory, or the lack of regulatory clarity, how to access, especially the DeFi space. And I think the most interesting, let's say, v diagram or overlap space we're seeing is really like the AP role in ETF's.
00:10:12.584 - 00:10:44.414, Speaker E: Besides, if you think about, you have ETF, which is the most retail product, you need to source it. So you have on, it's listed on a stock exchange or a security exchange the same time as AP. To hedge, you basically need to be able to deal in the underlying crypto bitcoin in that case. And so when you basically can access not only the CME future to hedge, but also direct venues like binance and other ones, it gives a lot of opportunity. So we see ourselves a bit as like access and solution facilitated for all the people that want to play in one or the other domain.
00:10:47.794 - 00:11:41.214, Speaker A: I would like to follow the road of solutions, and each forum presented in this panel do provide their own solutions in different ways. But. But the point I wanted to make here was specifically with the first steps that triat five firms make or need to make when they jump into the space, what procedures do they usually follow in order to start using your own solutions? And that first step is usually the hardest. It's usually that takes the most amount of time, the stage between, okay, I want to use this solution and I'm ready to trade or I'm ready to utilize your services. How does that frameworks look like that set of steps for their own different firms and ventures? And how do you convince them to pass through those stages faster or help them to pass those stages faster?
00:11:42.074 - 00:12:24.472, Speaker B: Yeah, I guess I can start. So from our perspective, we launched link, which is our new, let's call it off exchange product. But it's really like a middleware that connects multiple off exchange solution out there in the market. So in our case, we have seen a very disperse and not clear path for the traditional investor and client, because each one is trying to basically replicate a different method in order to onboard such client. Now, what we propose is to have a unified method. So in our solution, you know, because we're not custodian ourselves, you can use Signum, you can use any other custodian out there, Binance, Cephu, like, we're very open. So in our solution, the client will just need to onboard with the custodian.
00:12:24.472 - 00:13:14.062, Speaker B: So once he's onboarded in the custodian, what we do is basically allow them to use our solution to pledge assets that then will be reflected and mirror at the exchange, like binance. So the experience will be seamless for the end client. The steps required in terms of being ready to trade is simply getting an account with a custodian, moving assets from a reserve account to a collateral account, and once he's there, being able to pledge assets and avid mirror at Binance, or any other solution out there. So the steps are quite simple. I think what we have right now is a very dispersed market with different solution out there, and we need to find cohesiveness and having one single middle layer or middleware solution. And it's a technology solution. He's not a new custodian.
00:13:14.062 - 00:13:29.074, Speaker B: He's not going to be the solution that will allow them to have the same experience, the same ux, potentially across multiple platform. And that, I think what is the missing point, the missing part of the mosaic? I don't know if.
00:13:30.574 - 00:14:22.314, Speaker C: Yeah, so when a firm wants to set up again, it really depends on what type of firm it is, and if it's a traditional firm, probably what they'll be looking at first is not necessarily if the exchange is the largest exchange in the world, but rather it's security. So they'll be very concerned about, again, counterparty risk. So, yeah, they'll be looking at ways to reduce their exposure. So whether it be through ledger, through Sifu, which is the institutional custody partner of Binance, and that allows them to trade on binance with their assets sitting off exchange. So this is something that they're really looking at closely, security rather than liquidity for the most traditional firms. But other than that, binance also, we try to provide, we're a centralized exchange, but we try to provide as much transparency as we can. So we have our proof of reserve out there.
00:14:22.314 - 00:14:51.874, Speaker C: You can see that every client's asset that are on exchange can. If tomorrow everybody wants to redraw, then you'll have them. So you can follow that on the website. We have our Cephu fund, which is our insurance fund fund as well. So if, you know, if anything were to happen, we have, last time it was valued, it was valued at $1 billion. We have an interest fund for futures. So it's a combination of things that institutionalized managers look at.
00:14:51.874 - 00:15:01.314, Speaker C: And it's, yeah, it's security, but it's not only solutions to trade off exchange, but also being comfortable with the exchange they trade on.
00:15:07.574 - 00:17:18.781, Speaker D: So I mean, for me, the way I look at that is basically, you know, to decide which way you want to go. And you mentioned that Mikhail, at the beginning is probably the most important step at the beginning. And therefore I think you need to know what purpose you're trying to fulfill and what do you want to offer your client or what do you want to have as an investor, as a direct investor for yourself in terms of market access, in terms of security, in terms of technological integration, in terms of your own effort and resources needed for that part, once you know what your objective is, and maybe also what your investment objective is, is it just you want to have a direct exposure to bitcoin or do you want to have just a bit of exposure to the broad market, or do you want to be able to, to yield farm? Do you want to be able to invest in early token projects that maybe not everyone can custardize, you know, therefore, I think you need to be aware of what you're aiming for, and then that allows you to take a decision on what your needs are and then maybe also to decide whether you're going to go for a make or buy approach, because depending on what you want to achieve as well in terms of brand positioning or in terms of flexibility, you might have your own way of doing that, or you might work together with service providers. And then when it comes to service providers, I think, and that's the way we look at it, it's, for many of the traditional players, it's about trust against the counterpart is they're working together, and then it's about technology. And technology means what can I do, how safe it is, but also how can I integrate with that and make sure that my processes that have been proven for many, many years and my clients are relying on can be covered in the future as well. Right? Not everyone is able to read positions out of on chain data, but you maybe can integrate an API, you maybe can use different types of technology, but you're maybe not using all the types on your own. So it's also a question of depth of integration.
00:17:18.781 - 00:17:40.593, Speaker D: And therefore, I think these are kind of the first questions you should ask before just jumping into finding a cool solution and investing, because otherwise you may be built a lot and finally don't end up in an open field, but rather than dead end, which doesn't really help you to progress into the future.
00:17:43.764 - 00:18:13.608, Speaker E: Yeah, I tried to add something that hasn't been added. And I think what Marcus just mentioned, really knowing what you do and why you do this is actually a very good starting point because sometimes people tell you want to have a crypto offering, but the crypto offering can be very broad. It's just going to be on one side. You just want to give access that can be done via an ETP or an ETF. So you don't even directly touch the asset or the commodity itself, which is very simple. You can implement that very fast. You like a trad five player.
00:18:13.608 - 00:18:55.724, Speaker E: Now, when you basically decide to interact with, let's say the asset directly, you basically have to think about two layers you need to put in place. I would say on one side it's a technology infrastructure. It can be something like you have electric just to store your assets, to put ease into a staking solution. And then probably another layer you need to solve is the liquidity. If you interact with it, you can use binance, you can trade with us on the OTCC, just making sure you can buy and sell that. I think that's a very simple and probably the more entertaining part of the job. If you have a tratfire player implement something the other one is a bit more cumbersome and challenging, is essentially make sure you're legal and compliant in whatever you do.
00:18:55.724 - 00:19:22.612, Speaker E: And that's going to be very tricky. And it's going to be depending on what kind of offering you want to provide. It's going to be much easier if you're just a bank and you say, okay, I just give exposure to bitcoin and ease, and it's a close guard. And it's very easy with AML and Kyc because there's not that kind of danger. If you're like, okay, we're going to offer our client defi and everything else. You're going to have token coming in and out. You probably need to be very good in what you actually do, otherwise you're going to end up having troubles with the regulator.
00:19:22.612 - 00:20:14.648, Speaker E: And I also think a bit on the asset management side, it's just like, yeah, numbers go up, market cap go up. So if you have any product with performance fee, it's probably a good bet. But the other thing is like, again, do you want to provide just a wrapper. Is it a question of access or you really want to develop competency? And then also on the competency level, there's like different things, because a lot of, let's say, fundamental, just trading related, there's enough exchanges that provide you an easy way, and it feels a bit similar, like what you have from the trad five space. If you go into the defi space, everything becomes a bit more tricky and even harder. So basically, understanding where you're on the spectrum is really helpful and you would be surprised. It seems to be a very simple question that you would expect most people to answer before they start a project, but hopefully they find it out much later down the road when they started to do some project stuff and obviously spend a lot of money on consultant.
00:20:14.648 - 00:20:57.864, Speaker E: And something else is also like, do you need to build all by yourself, or aren't there play like Ledger Binance, or signum, another bank in Switzerland that provides some, let's call it lego pieces, that you can put most of it together, because I think the most, most added value on the chatfy side is really like the education and the knowledge part that they could transfer just because people have some. Yeah, the human has a bit more, let's say, a tendency to trust. If they talk to a human banker, then if they have some weird D gen avatar that tells them how it is, even independent of the competence. But I think really understanding what you want to do, why you want to do, and especially also how you want to do, because a lot of the stuff is actually already available just for you, put together.
00:20:59.964 - 00:21:51.194, Speaker A: Great insights. As you can see, the depth that we can reach today is quite outstanding, and probably I will leave some space in a few minutes for questions, because I can see some of you taking notes, and it will be good for you to approach the speakers directly here today. So please, if you have questions, keep it at hand. I would love to make some specific questions to all of you based on your own personal experiences. And the first question will be specifically on the banking sector. And for that, I'm going to start with Adriana Marcus, just based on their experiences. Marcus, could you highlight a little bit on the role that banks will have in the next wave of crypto adoption, the solutions that they are already providing, and more importantly, how are they going to interact and work with the rest of the players in the ecosystem?
00:21:53.674 - 00:22:52.954, Speaker D: Yeah, thanks for the question. I think for us, as we are positioning ourselves exactly at the intersection of, you know, traditional finance and future of finance, as we call it, I think we see a lot of different angles where we, where we can be active. I think, you know, first and foremost, this always the question around what are you wanting to do again? Right. And a lot of people do have just very simple basic banking needs. It's about paying bills. It's about bridging investments from traditional space into decentralized or crypto assets. And I think that's also what we have seen just recently, that the crypto ecosystem is not a standalone, close circle ecosystem.
00:22:52.954 - 00:23:48.870, Speaker D: It needs and it should want to engage with the broader, to make real world use, but also to attract more activity to turn into a next generation of technology. And that's maybe a second thing. Right? Also, traditional banks have been fulfilling some services in the same way for quite some time. And we see ourselves, and therefore we also have technology know how in house, in different fields. We also see us as a technology bridge to allow people to engage with DeFi, with c five, with investing into projects. And I think there's also a big role to play for us, not just staying around and do payments as it was done for years or offer same financial products. It has been done for years.
00:23:48.870 - 00:24:21.258, Speaker D: No, we're also looking into on chain solution. We're trying to make much more engagement. We're running validate the notes. We're doing things to just be, you know, because a bank is basically, if you look back, you now know, in Wild west, you know, you wanted to have your assets in a safe place. And that's basically, that hasn't changed the trust in having your assets in a safe place and managed and handled in a safe way. That doesn't really change. With Defi and crypto come into play, that's still a big need.
00:24:21.258 - 00:25:08.144, Speaker D: And I think that's a role where we can play. And then also the regulatory landscape is something that is quite complex and quite broad to handle. And we're going a fully regulated path. And with that, also support a lot of clients and prospects on how to approach and how to integrate with certain technologies or use certain services in a compliant way and just push the frontier in that area. So I think that's where I see also our role in technology and compliance, in trust, in safekeeping, but also making services, bringing services to the next level. I would say.
00:25:10.084 - 00:25:49.364, Speaker B: Yeah, just in line to what you just mentioned on my side, I spent about 1415 years in banks. So I've seen on the technology front how things develop. And what I witness is through time, the core competency of banks, they keep it in house and everything else is vendor provided. And the reason is simple. Obviously, there is high maintenance cost on keeping technology in house, and if it's not your core expertise, probably you will not do it in the best way. So the opportunity cost is very high. What you mentioned is exactly right.
00:25:49.364 - 00:26:48.664, Speaker B: Banks are there for simple purposes, first of all, costing your assets. So the same is true for crypto assets like bitcoin or ethereum or any other assets. So we are going to see, and we are seeing from ledger side banks being more and more interested in giving basic service. But I think the most interesting part, which will go hands in hands with the regulatory landscape changing, is banks start offering more interesting product on the trading side, going back to they can hold the assets and then use a service like binance for trading. So that's something that it's a little bit far away yet, like probably a few months or even a year or more. But we already see in the rear mirror kind of coming because it makes natural sense. Banks will go to get as much market as there is available at any given point.
00:26:48.664 - 00:27:31.804, Speaker B: And the bitcoin market and the crypto market in general is becoming more and more relevant as the price of bitcoin keep rising. And as I mentioned before, as wholesale asset managers start to sweeping the available supply. So to summarize, I would see cost of the business being the first step they're going to enter. We have a lot of conversation already, and we're going to see more sophisticated use cases on the trading side for which we expect a vendor solution, perhaps a combination of vendor solutions bundled together as what they will use in order to access this market and offer service to their end client. I don't know who else wants to.
00:27:33.584 - 00:28:23.458, Speaker E: I mean, you can add something for the banks a bit from our perspective. I think as we mentioned before, banks are somewhere to safely store your assets on average compared to self. I mean, yes, you can say we can do self custody, we can all going to be big boys or big girls and going to write down our seed phrase and do all that stuff. But if we just look at the numbers, how many people that have significant value in crypto still just store it on an exchange, which can be just from a risk management perspective, considered to be a bit like, yeah, not the smartest approach at all. And also, I think when you think about like, okay, you're going to have kids, you want to give them the crypto. So just having proper custody. And then the other thing is also the counterparty risk, especially after 2022, where we all had these centralized entities that were basically acting as some kind of banking entity.
00:28:23.458 - 00:28:43.922, Speaker E: With a banking license. I mean Celsius, Blockfi, they all fucked over everybody else. Just having an asset with the bank just takes away that risk. Yeah, they can blow up like a credit Swiss, but as a custodian you're still going to survive and they're not going to steal your asset. That's very valuable. And then the other thing is just being able to move the money around. You want to do that through a bank.
00:28:43.922 - 00:28:48.634, Speaker E: Yes, you can do a lot of funny payments with crypto to crypto, but it still is less.
00:28:48.674 - 00:28:48.826, Speaker A: So.
00:28:48.850 - 00:29:08.634, Speaker E: I really think it's like we don't need the bank with the current technology they have, but we for sure need banking. And with the incorporated, I just hope the old generation in banks goes into pension, embraces the new one and then we actually going to have the best one. We're going to have like the human trust. So the trust in the entity of bank on actually a nice technology layer.
00:29:10.614 - 00:30:10.580, Speaker A: Thank you, thank you for those approaches. And my last question for the two remaining speakers before we open the space for questions, it's going to be specifically on the systematic side of crypto trading. And again, it's another for me to, to be sharing the panel with Fred and Alan because they do already work with some of the biggest firms in the space on this front. So we'll try to wrap up three questions in one. Apologies for this, but they were too much interest for me. The first is what is the current status or current pace of adoption among tratfi, systematic hedge funds and high frequency trading firms? How are the most conservative high frequency trading firms jump in the space? Has this pace accelerated after bitcoin, ETF and pre having expectations or it has pretty much remained the same. And then the last question is how binance and GSR work with systematic firms.
00:30:10.580 - 00:30:12.784, Speaker A: Alan, Fred, the floor is yours.
00:30:16.204 - 00:31:04.526, Speaker C: Yeah, so I think we all agree that, well, adoption, mass adoptions come in with seeing record volume, I mean everywhere, but I'm speaking about binance. Over the last quarter we registered 7 trillion of transactions across spot and futures. That's record volume we've seen so far. And on the daily average we see over 8 billion orders going through the exchange across all products. So it's definitely adoption is here, it's going mainstream in terms of firms. So high frequency trading firms, more traditional firms. Again, as mentioned, we have several products, trading products for them to trade on exchange, to replicate trading strategies that they had in traditional markets.
00:31:04.526 - 00:31:58.998, Speaker C: So we have portfolio margin that allows traders to put their collateral to open positions across spot margin and futures. To be more capital efficient. We have a whole set of features to segregate their trading strategies through several sub accounts. We put a lot of resources into developing our report center as well, which is to respond to any audit obligation reporting obligations. Hedge funds have nav to report as well. So we have this portal which, which works as a self service, and they can literally just download statements and send them to their auditors with binance stamp on it from a binance authenticated email address. All these type of things are needed for traditional firms in order to operate.
00:31:58.998 - 00:32:11.914, Speaker C: And so with a lot of feedback, we've been able to enhance the products that we had develop new products to cater for this new, new traditional firms coming into the trading on the exchange.
00:32:16.134 - 00:33:15.492, Speaker E: My colleague already said a lot. From an exchange standpoint, it's probably the best one. And I would just say like, I think most well known, not well known high frequency trading firm is probably active in crypto in one form, another one, I think it probably started out being prop shops first moving in that just because if you deploy your own funds from own, from your own balance sheet, you basically have the most clarity what you can do and how you can do it. The more you go into hedge fund and managing third people money, everything becomes a bit more complex. But we saw it, and the example for binance and the other exchanges, the products and the instrument they're building up, are getting more and more to the standards we see in traditional markets. And then the other thing is basically, if you look at the maturity of the market structure itself, we're still 2030 years behind of the tradfi market. So there's actually a lot of way that, let's say strategy that could have been employed ten years ago in traditional financial markets.
00:33:15.492 - 00:33:38.564, Speaker E: They don't work yet anymore. There can still easily be deployed and restarted in crypto and actually make money. And then the interesting stuff, when we look at crypto, I mean, yes, we have to centralize the spec, but we have within crypto an additional fragment into the DeFi space. And the more inefficient or the more fragmented the market is, the more money there is to pick up for strategy like prop and high frequency trading.
00:33:40.544 - 00:33:56.084, Speaker A: Great, well, that ends the set of questions we prepare for you. But that opens the q and a. So I wonder, is there any questions in this room for the panelists? Any questions? Yeah.
00:34:01.164 - 00:34:27.784, Speaker F: That are trying to educate regulators about crypto and about use cases about private laws and things like that. I was just curious if you guys looked at the NMICA regulation in Europe and how Europe is quite far behind the US. And if there's any sort of hard effort made in educating people about crypto and privacy and private hosting law and things like that.
00:34:27.944 - 00:34:28.644, Speaker A: Thanks.
00:34:32.544 - 00:35:13.883, Speaker B: I can take that. I guess even though we are the one that have the least contact with regulators, as you're a bank, from our perspective, what we have seen is opportunities to be honest. So with Mika coming toward the beginning of next year, we're going to see a lot of clarity on the regulatory side, which will open up business in Europe. So we're looking at that as an opportunity. More than anything else. There is some clarity that needs to happen around what you call private wallet. I guess you're talking about on the retail side more than institutional.
00:35:13.883 - 00:35:59.192, Speaker B: That's an issue. And we have different way. We are lobbying and pushing for regulation to go in the right direction here in Switzerland as well as around Europe. But that's the extent that we can operate from a ledger perspective. We really need all the industry to be aligned with, you know, pushing back on regulation. That doesn't make first of all economic sense, but second, you know, not being in line with privacy value. So we are there like ledger.
00:35:59.192 - 00:36:25.860, Speaker B: Among everybody else, probably the most vocal about. We've been speaking quite aggressively. We have our GC in Washington. Very often we have our GC around Europe, like speaking. If you go on YouTube, you'll find many of these, you know, speech and discussions with different regulators. But that's the extent that we can operate. I don't know if he answered your question, but anybody else wants to.
00:36:25.972 - 00:36:50.750, Speaker E: I probably just would add a bit more positive spin. I would say, like, I mean, compared Europe and you mentioned Mika. I mean Europe. And I think there's two levels for business or market. It's always bad to have uncertainty. So to have less uncertainty or more clarity is always going to be better. So if we look at Europe with Mika, we actually have a framework that gives at least people that want to.
00:36:50.750 - 00:37:14.822, Speaker E: I mean, it's not perfect and it's not finalized yet, but at least it's more than to the US because yes, the US is a bit ahead, but it's also like a big talent pool. It's a bit more scalable to approach to regulated in Europe, which is fucking fragmented. And at the same time, it's the biggest capital market on that side. So I would say Europe and also especially in Switzerland. I mean, we had the first two crypto banks in Switzerland. We had the Ethereum foundation. So we give clarity.
00:37:14.822 - 00:38:00.248, Speaker E: I mean, it's not helping that which is so small and Europe is still small. But I think it's more opportunity or more clarity for builders and people that actually want to do stuff in Europe than the US additionally on tap. I would also say if you do a misstep or something doesn't work out as the regulator liked in Europe, in Switzerland, you're probably going to have a discussion with the regulator. In the US, you're probably going to just outright face draconian punishment. So it actually gives you more opportunity to build on that side here. Now, the other stuff, what you mentioned with the self hosted stuff, with the privacy, I think that's a very philosophical discussion and probably much more in line with you, but I just think privacy is probably something, people like to talk about it, but most people don't really give a shit about their privacy, how they behave. So it's a bit like it.
00:38:00.248 - 00:38:13.952, Speaker E: Everybody talks about crypto security, but they keep everything on exchanges. It's nothing bad, it's just what people say and do. It's not always the same. So we need to take that a bit into consideration. But I think the privacy stuff will be gone. It's the same thing. There was like a thing in 17.
00:38:13.952 - 00:38:25.884, Speaker E: All the privacy coins at one point were very hot. Most of them just got kicked off exchanges. It's more access. So I think privacy is a privilege of humans. We're just losing everywhere, just at a different space.
00:38:31.924 - 00:38:35.464, Speaker A: Any other additional questions? Yep.
00:38:42.204 - 00:39:04.112, Speaker F: That'S exactly the point, isn't it? Which is self custodial ship of your assets and trading what you want with who you want freely. Really what we've heard a lot about is decentralized finance thinking to wealthy management. Okay. Entrusting those organizations with your assets. Last time I went to terms of business of signaling bank signal accepted zero.
00:39:04.168 - 00:39:07.008, Speaker A: Liability, loss of your assets and you.
00:39:07.176 - 00:39:29.944, Speaker F: Call your rights to privacy. You took action to recover your assets from. So, you know, there's a lot of talk about trust, and maybe we feel like we can trust large organizations, but should we, what are people trusting credit for it? Billions were lost, right? So it would be great if you have some more conversation around the benefit, actual self custodianship and defi.
00:39:30.604 - 00:40:07.612, Speaker B: Can I say something about this? And I think it's for you. But first I will answer just following up with what was just mentioned. So this industry exists because you're able to self custard your assets. Otherwise it doesn't make any sense. You can use any other financial product replicating the same behavior. And yeah, you can buy Tesla, right? So we believe in self custody, that's not your key, not your coin, is our motto. Now, it is complex and we're working very hard every day to improve the UX.
00:40:07.612 - 00:40:38.214, Speaker B: The UX still sucks. We have to be honest. Many of you here might do multi seq, might know how to do self custody in the proper way, but it's a very, very small percentage of the total. So you need to use service. If you're not, I mean, you don't need to, you can learn, but it's going to take time. So the easiest way, and the way it's happening right now is they're using services right now. When you're using a service, I would say 99.99%
00:40:38.214 - 00:41:08.972, Speaker B: of the cases, you're trusting them in some way at some level, right. So we have to be a little bit more pragmatic, understand what makes our industry, right. And second, how do we solve current problem? And we've been in the center of it, right. With recovery and everything else. Like we heard people and what they think, right. And most of them agree, right. Like we want people to be self sovereign, but there are people that cannot.
00:41:08.972 - 00:41:30.464, Speaker B: So how do you solve that problem? So to your point, you know, there is an opportunity here. How we're going to solve this and how we're going to evolve in the next year or two is the question. So just to kind of rephrase the point, but there's always some level of trust. So for signum, I'm not going to speak probably Frederick here better.
00:41:30.924 - 00:41:31.628, Speaker E: Yeah, sure.
00:41:31.716 - 00:42:44.106, Speaker D: I mean, I would like to maybe pick the point up, what you said, right. You know, it's always safety or trust has different levels, right. And if you trust to a service provider more to do some activities or services than if you would do it your own and even pay money for it, then you probably, that's probably meeting your needs, right. You could also say you can keep some of the assets in traditional space, also in pay performant at your home. Still, no one is doing it. Because the value of having access to a broader set of services, to have safety taken care by someone else, having also innovation taken care by someone else instead of yourself, then that's maybe just also linked to the need that people have. But over time, to have the option, to have the possibility to use both ends of the spectrum to safekeep your assets on your own or take someone else for that service, that's maybe also the beauty of that innovation that is happening.
00:42:44.106 - 00:43:58.314, Speaker D: And the question now is how will regulation and how will the whole setup together with regulators clients, service providers, how will that interact and build a framework that you can use in different ways and still be kind of part of the brother to benefit from the whole ecosystem and not be kind of, you know, in the unregulated, untransparent way. And then maybe you have issues with tax authorities or whatever. And on the other hand side, not just being reliable necessarily for a centralized service provider, but benefit from both ends. I think that's also why we see ourselves not just as a bank, we're a company with a banking license, but we see ourselves also as a technology provider to allow for different versions. For example, we're having our cold wallets where you have very segregated asset custody, not omnibus, so you have some sort of carved out more personalized safekeeping. We're also working on proof of concepts with on chain asset management solutions. So where we're just providing the investment insights and the logics, but not necessarily the safekeeping of the assets.
00:43:58.314 - 00:45:37.554, Speaker D: So you have transparency, you can interact with the smart contract, but using our knowledge with it. So we're trying to move towards that direction to allow and also push together with the regulator boundaries to have a sound and proper framework so we can offer it to clients in a way that maybe satisfies both needs. In a way, maybe, if that answers your question. Yeah, I mean, look, I'm not the legal specialist here on the, on the floor, but there's definitely a reason behind that. And we would maybe need to take that separate to answer. Yeah, I mean, but you know, even, even what you're saying, if that's the case, right. Then the question is still who takes, who makes use of such legal situations? And that's the level of trust you want to have, right? You maybe have some wording there, but the question is still, would someone use that or not? That's also if you have a technological solution, if you're using any on chain smart contract type of solution, can everyone read the code and make sure that you will not be treated the wrong way? Is that the same level of trust? Maybe you prefer to have it written and account party to interact?
00:45:39.614 - 00:46:20.250, Speaker E: Thanks, just a colleague. If I can ask something. I don't work at Xenon, but I think it's two level that we can say. I think, I mean, if you run a business, you want to have terms and condition which basically are completely asymmetrical for the company against the consumer. And that's basically, if you basically looked at the risk disclaimer with all your COVID vaccine or some other stuff, you can die, you can do shit, which is even worse than facing the money situation. Then I think the other point is very, I mean, can we live in a world without trust? Because what he mentioned is at least with signum they waive all the rights. You probably take a high paid lawyer, you become a bit loud, they're probably going to find some kind of middle ground, but at least you have the chance to have a discussion or go informed of court.
00:46:20.250 - 00:46:56.498, Speaker E: Now the question if you do some self custody, I mean wallets get hacked, bridge gets hacked, so a lot of money gets lost in that way. And so there at least you basically just trusting some random anon guy that is online. So I really don't know if you can navigate the space without trust because I for sure can't do it. Most people, one person at least I see can do it, but most people won't really understand what they click if they confirm a transaction on metamask. So we see it with all the phishing stuff we saw with the board ape. So I think there's almost in every kind of interaction some kind of trust. It's a bit different one, but the bank can sue with some unknown developer.
00:46:56.498 - 00:48:07.226, Speaker E: You can do actually nothing at all. Now what I basically see your argument very in and then you see that also on the use case, especially when we talk, we people being in the west, we're very spoiled and privileged because we're completely overbanked and we have very good for functioning services. But you see much more defi usage in like you say, Turkey, Nigeria and some other country which really have no viable alternative to that. But I believe that if they would have a more trustworthy banking system and basically working monetary policy, a lot of the people move over just for convenience and some other stuff. And then I think the most important stuff is like if the UX gets better on the self custody stuff, I think there's going to be more people using that or less fuckups. But I think at the end of the day we're still going to have probably 80% that going to outsource that kind of stuff because why not? You cannot be an expert in technology and your wallet and finance and then have a day job that's just really not working, I think. But I think just having an option that you legally can move your money out of the fiat system into an alternative just changes a lot how the dynamics work.
00:48:07.226 - 00:48:13.614, Speaker E: So I think just having that option makes it very powerful, even if most people will never ever use it.
00:48:15.034 - 00:48:39.750, Speaker A: Thanks Alan. Unfortunately the time has come to draw the cordons of this great session. However, there are two possible options from here. One is you connect with those incredible speakers. After this session, I'm sure they're going to be around. And secondly, they're also super active on LinkedIn, so please do go ahead and connect with them directly, if that pleases you. Thank you so much.
00:48:39.750 - 00:48:42.854, Speaker A: And yeah, hopefully to the next session. Till next time.
