00:00:00.170 - 00:00:15.120, Speaker A: Panel. Kartik is going to be moderating a panel with Linda G and Jesse Walden. Linda is from Scalar Capital. Jesse is from Variant, two of the sharpest investors in the space, so this should be a good one. I'll let you guys take it away.
00:00:16.850 - 00:01:28.140, Speaker B: Thanks, Ashley, and want to welcome Linda and Jesse for joining us on this panel. So we've kind of been doing a lot of these summits every Friday here, and a lot of them have been around showcasing a lot of the projects that are building cool things in the space, especially today, where we get to see a lot of what's happening in DeFi. And we really wanted to take a tiny slot here to talk about the other side that's also betting on the future. And that's some of the investors that are not only just in this space and have been in this space for quite some time, but also the ones that are also participating in these things from the other side of this market and really kind of talking about what's interesting to them. So what I wanted to do was kind of make this a very sort of casual conversation. I have a handful of questions that are like really specific ones, but overall I think this is more about just all of us, just kind of sharing some of the things that we've noticed in the space over the past few months, but also over the past few years. And what I'd like to do is start off by kind of asking Jesse and Linda to introduce themselves and just kind of talk about who you are, how you got to where you are, and a little bit about your fund.
00:01:28.140 - 00:01:31.626, Speaker B: So I'll let Jesse take it from here.
00:01:31.728 - 00:02:18.482, Speaker C: Okay, cool. Hi, everyone. I'm Jesse, the founder of Variant Fund, which is a new crypto venture fund I started earlier this year. Prior to that, I got into the space as an entrepreneur. I started a project in 2014 called Media Chain Labs, which was frankly a little bit too early, probably, but we were aiming to build a developer platform that would enable people to compose media Legos like people are composing DeFi Legos today. That was the idea. And after working on that for about three years, the company was acquired by Spotify, and I led Blockchain R and D there, and shortly thereafter I joined Andreessen Horowitz and helped launch the crypto fund there in early 2018.
00:02:18.482 - 00:02:38.350, Speaker C: So spent the last two and a half years prior to Variant with a 16 Z, ran a 16 Z's crypto startup school fairly recently and then decided to spin out Variant to focus on early stage investing. So Variant is a $22 million fund that's sized for precede and seed stage.
00:02:40.930 - 00:03:27.440, Speaker A: Hi, I'm Linda. I'm co founder of a crypto fund called Scalar Capital. We invest in both early stage and also late stage, but our specific focus is on Tokens. I think that's something that's really exciting about the crypto space and having people from all over the world being able to participate in various networks. I first joined the crypto space in 2014 when I joined Coinbase, had a bunch of different roles there from working with regulators and law enforcement and later was a product manager working on compliance and fraud systems. I'm just really passionate about crypto, and I've just done a lot of writing in the space as well. So once I got deeper into that, I wanted to kind of start a fund and get to explore more of what's happening in crypto and get to talk to really amazing.
00:03:27.970 - 00:04:17.374, Speaker B: Yeah, that's awesome. So this is a DeFi summit, so I do have a lot of stuff that I want to talk about with DeFi, but actually before that, what I want to do is maybe just kick it off with a question around just how things have evolved from your perspective. So, Linda, you started Scale Capital nearly three years ago, if I'm not mistaken, and Jesse, for you, variant was fairly recent, as in this year, and kind of having sort of seen a lot of cycles in crypto from your perspective. Linda, I'm actually curious if you're able to share some of your insights on what the experience was like raising a fund back then and three years ago when people were just still getting used to what crypto is and kind of how that evolved moving forward. And then maybe, Jesse, you can sort of compare and contrast what this was like earlier this year and we'll kind of go to the D Five questions after.
00:04:17.572 - 00:05:07.726, Speaker A: Yeah. So when I was raising in 2017, this was pretty fresh off like the whole ICO craze. So I think there was a lot of people who were skeptical about crypto back then and rightly so. But I think a lot of my conversations within Silicon Valley were really positive and people understood the innovation and just like, long term potential of crypto. And so I found those conversations really fun and really engaging. I spent a lot of time also talking to kind of more traditional finance folks, like pension funds and endowments and that kind of crowd, and the conversations were a lot more difficult. And so I, over time, was iterating on my conversations there, and mostly at one point was just like, yeah, Bitcoin is digital gold, and that was my main focus.
00:05:07.726 - 00:05:50.490, Speaker A: And one part that they did find really interesting was there was a lot of conversation about price volatility during that time. A lot of the traditional financial folks were just really concerned about how volatile things like Bitcoin were and whether that was a good digital gold. And so I would talk about that concept of a decentralized stablecoin and I would explain what Dai was to them, and a lot of them found it really fascinating. That was one thing that really stuck with them. And I think that that was kind of their exposure into learning more about DeFi and that was kind of my Trojan horse into having those conversations. So, yeah, very different worlds and it's improved a lot since then. But back then there was a lot of skepticism.
00:05:52.450 - 00:06:33.260, Speaker C: Yeah, I guess my experience has been pretty varied. I would sort of rewind the tape further back. So not just fundraising for variant, but fundraising as an entrepreneur trying to build sort of a blockchain startup in 2014 was incredibly difficult. There was literally at that time there were no dedicated crypto funds, that's for sure. And for the most part there were no traditional venture firms touching the space with the exception of the USV and Andreessen Horowitz. And both of them actually ended up investing in my company, media chain Labs. That's how I came to sort of know the team at a 16 Z.
00:06:33.260 - 00:07:30.060, Speaker C: But I remember back then, the way I started that fundraising process was just jumping into the comments on USD's blog because they were talking about dark Web marketplaces and how it was so interesting that when one would get shut down, a new one would pop up the next day and all of the sellers were there with their identity and reputation intact. And that of course was because identity and reputation was tied to public keys as opposed to centralized identity. And so I got in the comments and was like, wouldn't it be cool if you could do that, that same thing, but instead of for guns and drugs, you could do it for any piece of media on the internet. So make creators discoverable through their work anywhere it was distributed. And anyway, that got us a meeting and got us seed funding. So that was sort of very serendipitous. But trying to convince other investors at the time that that was going to be the future we would all live in was extremely difficult.
00:07:30.060 - 00:08:27.920, Speaker C: And then I guess fast forward to Variant today. Well, I started fundraising sort of right on the back of crypto startup school and that was in March and April, which was also when COVID hit. So you can imagine trying to fundraise at that time was also very difficult. But I think the fact that crypto bounced back pretty resiliently from Black Thursday actually ended up being tailwinds for the fundraise. And so what started as a very slow fundraising process ended up picking up a lot of momentum as people saw that, yeah, crypto really is resilient. So I think Linda, to your point that you are having to convince people in 2017 that Bitcoin is a reasonable store of value and that crypto is going to be around and stablecoins are going to be a thing, I think that's pretty well understood now and was just reinforced by how things bounce back.
00:08:28.690 - 00:09:17.520, Speaker B: That was great. I'll kind of do a quick follow up to Linda's comment and I want to see if you both have any different opinions on it from your experience. But Scalar Capital is set up as a hedge fund where you are in a way a bit more heavy on the liquid investing side, but both of you are and Jesse, your fund structure is a venture capital fund or VC fund and you are able to do equity and Tokens as well, but different priorities. So I guess as you talk to your potential investors, do you sort of see any themes or sort of different preferences where they really don't want to stay too tied to Tokens because volatility or whatever reason, but they are still interested in crypto because they're betting on companies in the space. How does the long term versus trading sort of differ for each of you?
00:09:19.890 - 00:10:30.280, Speaker A: Yeah, for the hedge fund side, I think when people hear the word hedge fund they have these impressions that it's maybe more trading focused and maybe there's more hedging involved. So I think that having conversations as a hedge fund with a long term focus doing really early stage investing and liquid coins as well, I think that was a little confusing for some people at first. To really understand the concept behind that, and especially among the more traditional financial folks, they wanted the liquidity of a hedge fund. So being able to come in and out of the fund, whereas when we were presenting them with these quite long lockups and withdrawal periods, I think they were really thrown off by that. So that was like a more difficult conversation. But in Silicon Valley people kind of treated it pretty normal because at the time polychain was one of the main examples and they were structured as a hedge fund so it was pretty common to just be like oh yeah, okay, so it's a crypto hedge fund. But nowadays I think that as long as you have the right structure and terms in place and you're attracting the right LPs, you can really be long term focused with either structure, but definitely like pros and cons to both.
00:10:31.450 - 00:11:30.026, Speaker C: Yeah, variant is structured as a venture fund but it does also invest directly in Tokens and all the LPs in the fund are on board for that. And the expectation is that most all of the equity deals that we do usually done with a warrant for Tokens. So the assumption is that and thesis for the fund is that many crypto startups will plan to exit to their community of users and that is likely best accomplished through a Token. So the expectation is many of the equity investments will become Tokens over time and so while the portfolio may start more equity heavy, it will almost certainly end very Token heavy. And all the investors committed to Variant are locked up for ten years minimum. And so by default it self selects for LPs that are long term oriented and sort of viewing this as a game that's going to take a long time to play out.
00:11:30.208 - 00:12:12.870, Speaker B: No, that's extremely insightful. So it's going to actually segues right into the question I had for both of you, which was we are clearly seeing a trend in ownership distribution, like people exiting to their communities, people wanting to get their communities involved. And it's taken multiple forms, kind of just token sales in general. Like DAOs, we've had just protocols switch into these types of models. Jesse, since this is sort of one of the primary thesis behind the fund, I'd love to kind of get your take on what this means to you and sort of how do you think this kind of rolls out to a larger scale over the next few years? And I'll have Linda join in for any additional comments.
00:12:13.210 - 00:13:30.510, Speaker C: Sure, yeah, I think what's happened in the last, I guess six months or so in DeFi world is you've seen a bunch of projects that have established some early signs of product market fit, launch tokens and effectively give those tokens to people who actually use the product. And that is what I call sort of progressive decentralization. I think Compound was probably the first to sort of execute this playbook earlier this year and now many others have followed suit. But I think if you zoom out and look at the bigger picture of crypto as a whole, this same pattern has been playing out for some time. Where Bitcoin and Ethereum were the first examples of projects that were built and now are operated by a community of users that are rewarded for doing so by having a direct ownership stake in the network that was either earned or bought. But that incentive alignment I think is a very powerful new tool that crypto sort of exposed and we're now starting to see that economic model applied to more verticals starting with DeFi. But I expect over time the same model is going to become manifest in other kinds of marketplaces that are perhaps more consumer facing.
00:13:30.510 - 00:13:33.780, Speaker C: And so I'm really excited to see that happen.
00:13:34.790 - 00:14:25.610, Speaker A: Yeah, I completely agree. Really excited about that. I think one thing though that I would like to see more teams iterate on is looking at the past examples of ownership distribution and really seeing how effective they were and trying to improve from there. So I think you're starting to see the start of that where people are adding more vesting on the rewards, giving past user distribution so you can't just have only speculators. So I would love to see just more people experimenting there and taking lessons learned from that. And then one thing because I talked to a lot of teams where they are like, oh yeah, our plan is to just add liquidity mining or our plan is to just distribute these tokens. And I think my only thing there is just to make sure that this is something that would actually really be good for your product.
00:14:25.610 - 00:14:40.662, Speaker A: Because once you exit to the community, as Jesse says, you can't really undo that that easily, because now you have everyone owning your product. And so making sure that it's the right time and is also the right reason you're doing this, I think, is really important to think through as well.
00:14:40.796 - 00:15:45.740, Speaker C: Yeah, absolutely strong agree with both of those points. I think one thing to just add is each time a team has done this in the last six months, there's been a lot of iteration on the design. And so I'd say where we are right now, maybe by analogy is sort of like, I don't know, in the early two thousand s the web is just starting to become a mainstream thing and there's no best practices around growing network effects. But PayPal stumbles on this thing which is like, hey, if we give $20 to each of our users for signing up and then we do this referral program, we can grow the network really quickly and then that sort of becomes like a best practice and many other startups sort of follow suit and riff on that model. I feel like we're in a similar spot right now where we're starting to see the best practices emerge but we haven't really sussed out exactly what they should look like yet. So that's both the challenge and a really exciting opportunity that I think we're going to figure out in the next couple of years.
00:15:46.670 - 00:16:31.100, Speaker B: No, for sure. Maybe this is something that I guess I hate to be on the spot, but I feel like this is worth digging into. But it's one of those things where do you kind of foresee this as a way for us to now represent what we already know works in the web two side or just how people think about customer acquisitions? If you're running a SaaS business or any other website to the PayPal example you gave and just porting those exact models to crypto? Or do you think this also enables a lot more unique kind of either impossible or unheard of ideas back then because of the lack of technology that are just not uniquely enabled with crypto or tokens? How do you feel like that sort of converges? And if you think it's going to be something new, do you kind of have any ideas on what that may look like?
00:16:31.710 - 00:17:18.460, Speaker C: I definitely think it's going to be something new because tokens, I see them as like packets for value, right? Packets are standard way of moving data and tokens are a standard way of moving value instantly to anyone anywhere in the world. So I think PayPal enabled electronic value transfers, but it's sort of constrained by the legacy financial system and so it was impossible and it's still impossible today for web two companies to easily distribute ownership value of their product or services to users. Like you can't paper equity contracts for people all over the world at internet scale, but you can move tokens in that way. So I think that technology unlock will lead to sort of organizational and business model unlocks as well.
00:17:19.470 - 00:17:38.320, Speaker A: Yeah, completely agree. I'm really excited and part of why I'm joining Crypto is because I'm really excited about all the unique use cases and ways of ownership that happen only with something like having a token where anyone in the world can actually own and participate in it. So I'm hoping that it's going to be completely new.
00:17:39.090 - 00:18:27.120, Speaker B: Absolutely. I think one thing we haven't seen effectively in Web Two yet is community operating a project at scale. Co ops have existed for centuries and we've seen social networks exist but they kind of just tend to become smaller groups that kind of exist in their own universe. But I guess how do you kind of think about measuring when a community is ready to sort of take ownership or be more active? Do you think it just ends up becoming a hierarchy again by default where you kind of trust some people to kind of own something or do you think we can actually get to a world where like hundreds of millions or thousands of people are just kind of contributing to make a decision or making something better?
00:18:29.970 - 00:19:24.500, Speaker A: So for myself I feel like there are definitely decisions that are really crucial to the protocol that I think should have a really high quorum for actually getting changed through this process. So I wouldn't necessarily say those kind of decisions should be made very quickly by a community, but I think that there are smaller decisions, maybe day to day or treasury management at a smaller scale that I think would be awesome to have the community involved. It's really hard to say when they're ready but I think generally going through phases and being able to prove some concept would actually be really valuable. So doing some votes where the ramifications of it are quite small if something goes wrong and then seeing how that goes with the community and then kind of increasing the thing at stake over time and just kind of gradually decentralizing the project.
00:19:25.910 - 00:20:43.094, Speaker C: Yeah, I think I always like to sort of reference the organizational model of successful open source projects where generally there's a core maintainer or a group of core maintainers who are responsible for a lot of the heavy lifting. And then there's sort of a longer tail of contributors that sort of add value on the margins but don't commit changes that drastically change the code base. So I think it's probably likely that that's where community owned and operated networks end up too. I would go so far as to say I think protocols that have sort of strong leadership will be sort of most effective at making impactful decisions. But the key difference between a community owned network that has that kind of leadership and say like a Web Two platform that has leadership through a CEO and a board is that the users actually have recourse in a community owned network. So if the leadership starts to work against the will of the community, there's something that users can do beyond just stopping use of the product. They can actually remove those leaders and put in new folks.
00:20:43.094 - 00:21:16.130, Speaker C: So I think that's sort of the model that we'll likely get to. And right now some of the challenges around that are figuring out how to incentivize the leadership to do the work, because it is work to have an informed opinion about how these protocols should evolve. And it may not be enough to simply say that while you own tokens, you should participate in a vote every Tuesday. People may need to for that, just like CEOs and people on boards get paid for their expertise.
00:21:16.470 - 00:21:56.290, Speaker B: Absolutely. Now these are some super interesting perspectives and I think this is kind of the first time we get to see these things get executed at scale. So that definitely excites me at least. So switching Grace to DeFi so kind of taking from the investor perspective, how do you each think about investing in this space as investors? Is it more about you kind of looking at what people are excited about and then seeing what's kind of the best thing in that space and sort of investing in those companies? Or do you maintain an active list of problems that you like to see solved, independence of those answers? What's kind of exciting for you that you're either thinking about or would like to see more of in this space in DeFi?
00:21:58.470 - 00:23:09.506, Speaker C: So personally, what I would say is I definitely look to entrepreneurs to tell me what the opportunities are. I don't try to forecast sort of where the market need is, so I'm definitely looking for people who understand where the opportunity is and have a clear idea of how to capture it. I guess in terms of what I'm interested in, I think one thing that was just talking about earlier today with someone was it is pretty remarkable how everyone's still using MetaMask. And so this is not DeFi specific. This applies to all crypto and it's like MetaMask is great, it's been around for a long time, but it really hasn't changed all that much. There's a few new cool features like swapping, but it's been pretty much mostly reliable and status quo for a while now. But meanwhile, DeFi has changed so much and so I feel like there's a huge opportunity there to sort of move with the times and make DeFi more accessible.
00:23:09.506 - 00:23:13.580, Speaker C: So that's something I'm excited about and I think others are too.
00:23:14.910 - 00:24:30.722, Speaker A: Yeah, I similarly, I don't have a hard list of things that these are the only things I'll invest in. I think that especially in crypto, if you do something like that, you're going to miss out on a lot of the really creative innovations that would never be on a list. I have a broad sense in that I do think that pretty much every product within traditional finance is going to be ported over to DeFi in a more non custodial decentralized way. But then there's going to be a lot of things that get created that we have never seen before and that's the part that really excites me and something that I have been really excited by is the idea of being able to have lending protocols be able to lend to people who don't have large amounts of capital. So right now there's just large collateral requirements for these lending protocols and rightfully so because the assets are normally quite volatile. And so to make DeFi more accessible to people who aren't just whales, we definitely need more solutions to that. So that decentralized identity and reputation systems but we also invested in a project that's doing a web of trust model so being able to start small and having people delegate their credit to someone else is really exciting to me.
00:24:30.722 - 00:24:50.060, Speaker A: So that's kind of an area I want to see more expansion of and then just also generally really excited by porting over assets from something like Bitcoin to DeFi and also tokenizing other areas real world items and being able to move that within DeFi and being able to exchange it as well. So yeah, a lot of really exciting opportunities right now.
00:24:50.670 - 00:25:20.260, Speaker B: No, absolutely and maybe kind of just similar to that then, I guess. Do both of you agree that for DeFi to really be successful, it has to be in the hands of billions of people? Or do you think it still is a metric of need and a problem it solves, but only for a handful of people because we maybe measure total value in the system or the amount of money being traded in and out? Or do you think it has to be consumer for this to really kind of be effectively called that this is working and is a bigger need?
00:25:22.150 - 00:26:39.254, Speaker A: So I'm not sure if mine's contrarian in the space but I definitely separate what I want to see versus what I think can happen for it to be successful. And I think that DeFi can actually be very successful if it's not reaching the hands of billions of people and is actually just significant improvements to the traditional financial system on a more decentralized way. People aren't getting their funds stuck in all these accounts, there's a lot more transparency so we don't have another situation where we have all these CDOs and CDSs floating everywhere and people have no idea what's going on. So I do think that it can be very successful, although the part that excites me is when we get in the hands of people who have been traditionally excluded from the financial system and so I want that to be the case but I don't think it has to be for this to happen. And it's kind of similar to how I view Bitcoin in that in the early days I actually joined Coinbase in 2014 because back then it was like, oh, payments, like everyone's going to be paying for their coffee with Bitcoin. And then over time, as that became less and less feasible, people kind of more talked about it as digital gold and now more of the kind of large institutions are using this for their capital balance sheet and you're seeing less of that payments use case. But I think that Bitcoin is still really successful in this manner.
00:26:39.254 - 00:26:45.182, Speaker A: It just doesn't necessarily reach what we had initially thought. So I kind of separate those two in my mind.
00:26:45.316 - 00:27:31.146, Speaker C: Yeah, I think about it. Similarly, I think it's very likely the case DeFi has a ton of room to grow, one just serving as like a speculative casino to potentially getting to a point where it is servicing financial professionals with a better sort of infrastructure. But I think where it gets really interesting is when it does touch end users or consumers. And that's because to point you made earlier, Linda, I think there's going to be a bunch of financial instruments that are sort of net new that traditional finance types are not going to be the ones to invent, but consumers will invent because they have these new tools that make it 100 times easier to.
00:27:31.168 - 00:27:32.790, Speaker B: Create something like flash loans.
00:27:32.950 - 00:28:24.382, Speaker C: Flash loans? Yeah, I think NFTs are sort of an early example in this category, right. Finance, I think, exists not in a bubble unto itself, but to serve an economy of real goods and services. That's the point of finance, at least initially. That was the point. I think traditional finance can move onto these new rails. We can have a very large casino speculating on crypto and using these new instruments, but when there's a real economy of goods and services also running on the same rails, I think that's when DeFi will really shine. And so maybe to sum it all or tie it all together, I would say I think these are going to be three distinct phases and each of them point to it being bigger and bigger than the one that came before.
00:28:24.382 - 00:28:31.454, Speaker C: So I think it's going to be enormous and it's going to take time. But, yeah, I'm very excited about it.
00:28:31.652 - 00:29:09.100, Speaker B: I think this is really good positioning because it's not about a single end goal, it is a transition into that much bigger opportunity and vision. So thanks for kind of pointing that out. So we are almost at time. So I have two quick questions I'd like to ask before we end this thing. So, Linda, you recently tweeted about just kind of all the activity that's happening on the L2 ecosystem. And I'm curious, what are your thoughts on how L2 sort of just gets introduced in the space and also how that integrates into DFI? Anything you kind of learned from that research and just kind of going through all that material on what's happening in layer. Two.
00:29:09.950 - 00:29:56.300, Speaker A: Yeah, I'm really excited by what's happening on L2. I have been using some of the different solutions. So sent TPTC using VK sync, it was almost instantaneous, it costs only a few cents, so it's pretty exciting to see that. And then I've been using XDI for playing Dark Forest, so there's all kinds of solutions out there and for me it's like you really only need one or a few to actually be successful and work to have scaling and DeFi. So I'm very excited by a lot of different solutions and it seems like with optimistic and ZK rollups that kind of is at the forefront right now. They both have their pros and cons and I think that both will be used for different use cases and what the entrepreneur prefers. So I'm just happy to see there's so many options and there's not just like, oh, this is the only thing we have.
00:29:56.910 - 00:30:59.578, Speaker C: Yeah, same here. I like using analogies, so apologies for if they're imperfect, but the early web was a layer of protocols or a layer cake of protocols, right? And there was a time, Mark Andreessen recalls that where people were saying HTP was going to expand and take on all this functionality and sort of scale up throughput and all these new privacy and all this stuff, but that's of course not how it happened. There's http and IMAP and Pop and SSL and all the rest. So I think to your point, Linda, I think there's a bunch of different solutions. Each of them are probably best suited to certain kinds of applications that require those features. Like if you're optimizing for privacy, you probably want zero knowledge proofs and optimistic roll ups are more composable at L2. So I think different trade offs for different applications and likely all of them will play a role.
00:30:59.578 - 00:31:16.418, Speaker C: And right now it's a fascinating time to see what will happen and sort of where the different projects land. I don't try to take a view on one of these winning out over the next. I think I'm excited to just see sort of the best teams compete on their feature set.
00:31:16.584 - 00:32:10.390, Speaker B: Obviously, I think in some of these cases, most of them are actually complementary and adjacent to each other too. And it's one of those things where we realize what actual features you get to add on as part of being connected to more than one of these systems. And not also a perfect analogy here, but I think the thing that we're seeing in crypto right now is sort of an amplification of the Unix velocity and just doing one thing really well and getting that out as a product, and then it being composable enough that we get to integrate and pipe things into a different thing. So kind of like the early internet where protocols were just really low level interfaces, this is a low level full experience and that's super exciting. So last question before we kind of end this panel, any advice you'd like to give to the founders that are starting companies in DeFi? I'll just leave that very open ended.
00:32:13.450 - 00:32:49.730, Speaker C: Yeah. Okay. So I'm going to run with the progressive decentralization playbook. I think over the last six months, there's been a lot of, I don't know, confusion or questions about how and when to launch a token decentralize your community. I think I stand by my original post on this subject, which is it's really hard to make decisions by committee, especially decisions to do with finding product market fit. Like, you need to be able to iterate fast. And I think that's best achieved by being as flexible as possible.
00:32:49.730 - 00:33:10.600, Speaker C: And so I would encourage founders to really map out a path to product market fit first before launching a token. And so that's why I've started a very early stage venture capital fund to help founders get there and thereafter think about the best way to exit to the community.
00:33:11.210 - 00:34:17.882, Speaker A: Yeah, I think that's a fantastic post that you wrote, and I sent it to a bunch of entrepreneurs. So I really think if you haven't read it, it's definitely worth reading. Yeah, just to add on to that, I think that there have been so many projects and kind of waves within crypto that we really should look at past kind of projects and what they did well, what they didn't do well. And iterate from there I feel like sometimes I do see a lot of teams kind of build and complete silos without looking at this is how it went for another project that did almost the exact same thing. So I think just making sure to look more at just previous experiences, obviously have your own originality and do it yourself in the way that you think is best, but really take some lessons learned. And then the other thing, there's also just a lot of capital in the space that kind of still wants to get rich quick. So when you are raising from investors, if you do decide to raise from investors, just making sure that they are very long term aligned with you, I do see some entrepreneurs fall into the trap of just like, quick money and subsequently those investors might just sell off the tokens immediately.
00:34:17.882 - 00:34:25.410, Speaker A: So just being really careful about who you bring into your community and making sure they're long term aligned, absolutely.
00:34:25.480 - 00:34:59.510, Speaker B: No, thank you so much for that. I think just even if, whether you're an investor or a founder, your reputation is your biggest assets. So it does matter how you think about it actively because that's something you can't just change quickly or flip. So whether it's progressive decentralization or being short term in your decision making is just not going to be helpful to the rest of the community and just everybody else that you are building things for. So great advice. With that. I'd like to thank both of you linda and Jesse for being part of our panel today.
00:34:59.510 - 00:35:14.480, Speaker B: I think we still have a handful of questions that are coming in the chats. If you have time, I'll encourage you to kind of join live eonline.org and just kind of reply to some of the people. But with that, we'll move on to our next talk, and I want to thank you again for giving us your time.
00:35:16.370 - 00:35:17.790, Speaker C: Yeah, thanks for having us.
00:35:17.860 - 00:35:20.410, Speaker A: Yeah, thanks for having us. Bye.
