00:00:02.440 - 00:00:32.950, Speaker A: Also, in a dystopia, you are most likely not safe. You have to watch out. You are the prey. Every step that you take, every action that you do, you have to strategize about not to be the victim of someone else. So, in dystopia, there is a ton of friction. You constantly pay the cost of things being hard and you being exposed. Now, this is exactly what we see today, or the story that we hear today, right? And a lot of that is true.
00:00:32.950 - 00:00:59.850, Speaker A: We know that we are constantly exposed to NAD. Lp's are exposed to Ldr. They're supposedly not making any profit or very little profit. It's supposed to be rational. To be in LP in any form of on chain liquidity. Information flow control is very hard. Everything that you do on chain is visible to everyone else and can be abused by Mev bots, by HFT firms.
00:00:59.850 - 00:01:41.696, Speaker A: We even see the people who are protecting us, like Methblocker and Jitto and meth protect fighting every day. Very hard to keep a trusted supply chain together. So if you haven't seen these fights, Mav blocker is issuing dummy transactions to trap frontrunners, to find the moles who are amongst the validators and amongst the builders who are front running people. It's a constant fight. So on these fronts, we really are in a dystopia, and it really is difficult. And these are not the only fronts. We also all know how taxing it is to do anything on chain, any transaction.
00:01:41.696 - 00:02:13.390, Speaker A: I think if I do a transaction on chain, it takes 5% of my daily energy. If it's like anything of significant size, it stresses me out for at least ten minutes before and ten minutes after. And not even talking about cross chain, which is a total disaster. Or if you want to do like, if you go to one of the most sophisticated amms today, arguably, and I'm not picking on anyone in particular, I think they all look very similar. This is what liquidity provisioning looks like today. This is like. It's like a rocket launch panel.
00:02:13.390 - 00:02:49.040, Speaker A: What do I click and what do I know? It's definitely not easy. So this is, in many ways, the world we live in today. Basic things are hard and how do we get out of there? I think I hear in many discussions, even from people who are deep in industry defeatism again and again. Oh, yeah, no, it's just gonna go like Tri five. We're just, we're just gonna give up on non chain liquidity. It was a nice pipe dream for a while. Liquidity incentives got us here, but now that they're gone, the liquidity is gonna be gone.
00:02:49.040 - 00:03:38.970, Speaker A: I highly disagree with that, of course. Wouldn't be having this event otherwise. I think the path forward that I've seen to be more successful is to challenge our assumptions. We have so many simple looking assumptions that if you look closely, aren't holding up. I'm just giving you a few examples, because I think many of the speakers today, and the panelists, they will, through their answers and their solutions that they're building, give you more examples of how they're challenging the current assumptions. One of the assumptions that we all hear a lot is that vertical integration is inevitable, that solvers will collaborate with. They will become searchers, and then they will become builders, or world builders will become solvers.
00:03:38.970 - 00:04:28.832, Speaker A: There will be one large, giant, vertically integrated organization that will take, obviously, most of the flow, because economies of scale, because that's how it is in stratify. However, if you look closely, we are actually in a very different position. A lot of people are complaining about order flow deals. I think there are, to my knowledge, a total of around five, five order flow deals with builders today. And I think seven months ago there were two or maybe zero. That's not a high degree of vertical integration on the most centralized part of architecture. If you look at another place like the solar competition, we have actually zero integration, technical integration.
00:04:28.832 - 00:05:35.880, Speaker A: There is today not a single solver, not a single strong competitive solver in console that is doing both their own liquidity and on chain routing. They either have their own liquidity or they do on chain routing. And the on chain routing solvers are currently beating the own liquidity solvers, and they're doing it by composedly working together with the strongest market makers. So today we're already living in one of the most competitive fields, where two years, after two years of competition, the equilibrium today is solvers focusing on routing, and market makers focusing on providing quotes and having an open interface. Much of it goes, for example, for Bebop, a hashtag to collaborate. And this is beating the integrated ones since day one. Another one, I think an assumption that I find quite tricky is that tradfi order books, meaning price, time, priority, order books are the market structure for all exchanges.
00:05:35.880 - 00:06:14.998, Speaker A: I think there's a tremendous path dependency of how these are order books develop, and there is a tremendous friction to changing anything about them in trad five. So the argument that there were 50 years of innovation, I think, falls flat. They weren't actually. There were maybe a few opportunities, innovation, but not many more. And so we see that play out in DeFi as well. The exchange, arguably with the highest growth rate in the last twelve months, is a batch auction cowswap. It keeps getting market share against all predictions of batch auctions don't work.
00:06:14.998 - 00:07:18.770, Speaker A: Nobody wants to wait, all the books will take over. It's not what we are seeing. So the same for LP in being irrational, right? We have strong frictions between we see it actually happening, which is that there are LP's and they consistently stay even without liquidity incentives and what we believe to be the rational choice, which is with these returns, you shouldn't be an LP. All of this points to us really not understanding yet exactly what the market structure is and what people's preferences are. There are different explanations, for example, that LP's are actually buying a portfolio and they want to have a particular portfolio and the provisioning to v two or v three pool gives them this portfolio preference, or that they are going after long term alpha, so forth and so forth. I don't have the answer. I'm saying we clearly don't understand our users very well and so we can't expect to have the ideal market structure.
00:07:18.770 - 00:08:27.354, Speaker A: However, in some cases we do have a key understanding of the problems and today we will see many of the teams who are building novel solutions to these problems. These in particular are Meg and Ldr. I think there are very good solutions on the way and my personal bet would be that a year from now we will have an order of magnitude less of each. There are also very good solutions to cross chain composability. Until only recently, the saying was you cannot have, you cannot surpass finality, you always have that risk. We're now seeing solutions that are challenging that directly, and we will hear many of them later today. And two weeks ago Tina asked me what is on chain liquidity? Why is on chain liquidity important and what does it mean to me? I think on chain is a sort of utopia where complex things are easy.
00:08:27.354 - 00:09:25.714, Speaker A: Now bear with me for a second. By Dystopia said, the basic things are hard. In a utopia, complexity is hidden and the complex things become easy to be more concrete. The market participation of trading an asset between me and you, of providing liquidity, of launching your own protocol, should all be easy. Once we have that, once market participation is easy, we will no longer see economies of scale to investing in sophistication. If you don't have economies of scale of investing in sophistication, that means there's no additional payoff to investing. A lot of effort like building an HFT for Earth.
00:09:25.714 - 00:10:57.146, Speaker A: If there is not this additional effort payoff from this effort, then you will not have a centralizing force of teams that are building towards that to prey on other participants in the system. This also means that the participants can cover all the functions of the system. Today, we assume that some functions of the system have to be taken by sophisticated actors like Markovic. Is however, you can definitely build systems where the participants can cover all the functions of the system. And once that's possible, the system no longer depends on economies of scale, but can outsource all of its functions to all of the participants, such as incorporating signal into the market or providing liquidity to an amm. And these are the basic necessities for a decentralized system, because only if all the participants with little effort can provide and provision all the functions of the system, can the system be decentralized. So on chain liquidity means building the systems that hide the complexity such that all of the functions of the system can be provided by the participants, meaning there are no longer second order participants that have high sophistication.
00:10:57.146 - 00:12:07.630, Speaker A: There are only first order participants who provide the basic services. And once we do have that and we hit the complexity successfully, we have on chain liquidity and we have a stable and robust decentralized system, meaning we have a system that is robust against centralization and the corruption that comes with centralization eventually, and the resulting friction that we all now see today. And systems where you have decentralization. So if you want a utopia where complex things are easy, we need a system that is free of friction. To have a system free of friction, we need a system where participation for all market functions is easy, including liquidity provisioning. Hence, I think we can only have a functioning long term stable defi ecosystem with on chain liquidity. On chain liquidity means anybody can provide, and it's easy to do, and there is no additional rewards to putting additional sophistication into the liquidity provisioning.
00:12:07.630 - 00:12:15.450, Speaker A: Does that make sense? Okay then, yeah. Happy for any questions from the perspective.
00:12:15.490 - 00:12:42.960, Speaker B: Of the liquidity provider, is is there an implicit trade off between protecting yourself from that roster? It's kind of the thing you would, because if you're provisioning liquidity on chain and a market maker is really good, they might be hyper perspective. They are losing your money, essentially. So wondering for the liquidity provider if you have to make the same choice between maximize the yield by trusting people.
00:12:45.750 - 00:13:02.570, Speaker A: I didn't fully understand, but let me answer what I think I heard. Yes, I think there will always be some payoff to additional effort, but this level of payoff that you can get has to be within the reach of the average participant.
00:13:03.710 - 00:13:08.650, Speaker B: I guess I'm saying instead of being decentralized, I just trust, like SCP, it kind of looks like they're.
00:13:11.230 - 00:13:31.950, Speaker A: Well, the argument goes, right? This kind of power, long term, the incentives are not aligned with the user, right. If you have a single entity in charge of the provisioning, eventually you will, because the incentives are just aligned that way, the friction will increase.
