00:00:04.000 - 00:00:31.757, Speaker A: Hey guys. So I'm here to present Mantis. So what is Mantis? We're a Solana Network Extension L2 focused on processing user intents. So when you sort of think about what does the actual apple of crypto look like? The non custodial apple of crypto. You need three main components in our opinion. You need a solid application layer where users can express themselves. That's what we call intense.
00:00:31.757 - 00:01:04.305, Speaker A: You need a processing layer and you need a settlement layer. So for us, our architecture has all these different components. We have the Mantis Rollup which has solvers directly plugging in. It's completely segregated from the Solana mempool, but everything that occurs on the Mantis rollup settles to Solana. We also have the Mantis protocol. So solvers directly tap in and are able to process these intents and come up with different solutions. And then we also have the Mantis application.
00:01:04.305 - 00:02:11.985, Speaker A: So a little bit about the Mantis Rollup. What is the Mantis Rollup? It's a natively IBC enabled SPM rollup on Solana. Its sole purpose is to ensure that users are processing, are able to submit intents from both Ethereum and Solana and serve as a processing center for those intents. So simultaneously users are able to bridge this roll up and have a Mantis account and directly earn native yield. This yield is a bit similar to how people earn yield on blast Solana staking and also lending protocols primarily margin fi for stablecoin yields. So I'm just going to show later on that the Mantis rollup is live and producing blogs and we also have this native IBC connection already. Why is IBC important and what is IBC? It allows for interoperability between the Solana L1 and the Solana L2, but also with Ethereum and other ecosystems that we've connected over ibc, including the Cosmos ecosystem.
00:02:11.985 - 00:03:19.545, Speaker A: So what is the Mantis protocol? So for us, an intent is if a user wants to buy Solana every Friday for the next eons and eons, that's an intent. And so you can get as sort of general as you'd like and you can submit these intents from Ethereum or Solana. The first use case that we're focused on is sort of like the Uniswap x Cowswap experience, which is on Ethereum and currently processes billions of of dollars of volume. And how we're facilitating this is we're able to tap into our network of solvers that either can come up with solutions to the two routes. So Routing a bit similar to Jupiter, they can come up with cows. So matching orders between different chains and on the single chain and also coming up with their own solutions where they directly solve these solutions themselves. So all these different solutions are provided to the Mantis rollup and auctioned in the Mantis rollup through the Mantis protocol and then settled on these different chains.
00:03:19.545 - 00:03:57.995, Speaker A: So I'm just going to show a quick demo of how that actually works. So just like this, let me just reload. So this is similar to what the application would look like. So connect your backpack. You already have integrated the mainnet connection with backpack. You want to swap a specific amount of Slurf for usct. And so now I've submitted my intent, I'm signing.
00:03:57.995 - 00:04:45.905, Speaker A: It's going to V find a solver that's able to solve this solution. The solver has picked up the solution and is now executing the transaction. Should wrap up in a second. And then there it is. So that's kind of like the simple UX that we imagine, where people can literally just click these different buttons and copy trade people and instantly be able to get things done in a single click. So, just going back to my presentation. So where are we at right now? Users can directly deposit into the Mantis pre fund your account phase the applications.
00:04:45.905 - 00:05:19.815, Speaker A: This already sort of gives you a good overview of what the application is going to look like. From there, we'll be introducing mainnet and people will directly be able to start swapping across these different chains from day one. So like I said, the rollup's already live. I've already demoed it and looking forward to putting this into mainnet production over the next few weeks. Please head over to our booth for any other information and feel free to scan this QR code and pre fund your account to await the Mantis launch. Thank you so much.
