00:00:04.480 - 00:00:55.425, Speaker A: Hey everyone, Forged is a free to use software platform for blockchain builders to execute on all essential pre TGE and post TGE activities. So as a blockchain builder, you can use the platform for things like designing tokenomics, engaging market makers, managing your cap table, tracking token unlocks, monitoring liquid, and so much more. So when it comes to launching a token, I think that we can all agree that crypto has no shortage of thought leaders and experts. They like to lecture us on things that we should and shouldn't do. They do this in the form of long form tweets, publish blog posts, things like avoid low float, high fdv. Don't get screwed by your market makers. Five Tips for a Successful Fundraise the list goes on.
00:00:55.425 - 00:01:31.275, Speaker A: Some of this advice is valid, but it's all about execution. Talk is cheap. So amidst all of the noise, who do you trust? Is it the one off advisor with 40 projects on their LinkedIn profile? I think not. I think that as long as you're equipped with the proper tools and data, you can actually operate as the subject matter expert. And that's where Forge can help. We help support all essential pre TGE and post TGE activities. We are free to use and most of the tools are do it yourself.
00:01:31.275 - 00:01:56.557, Speaker A: So let's check out some of what we have to offer. Starting with Token Designer. This is an end to end software toolkit for all things tokenomics related. So if we zoom out, tokenomics are really just a fancy phrase that describes how value is shared and distributed within a decentralized ecosystem system. It's just a matter of supply and demand. So we offer you software to build that supply and demand out seamlessly. Starting with the supply.
00:01:56.557 - 00:02:35.043, Speaker A: It's your pie chart. It starts with who's going to receive tokens and at what rate they are going to receive those tokens. Then we move on to the demand drivers. This is an exercise in modeling out who's going to buy and hold your token. We allow you access to software that will help you quantify estimations of demand based on your protocol's unique utilities and mechanisms. Where it gets really fun is we help you simulate post TGE performance based on these inputs. So if simulated post TGE performance sucks and your price is going down, only you can adjust the inputs and optimize for a more successful launch strategy.
00:02:35.043 - 00:03:03.813, Speaker A: Once you finalize your tokenomics, you can publish a whitepaper with just one click directly from the platform. Once you finalize the tokenomics Use us for engaging market makers. We have integrations with over 30 major market makers. On our platform, we have an automated RFQ process. We have software that allows you to seamlessly analyze the engagement proposals and make sure that you have a fair partnership. Next up, we have support for exchange listings. Historically, this has been a black box within the ecosystem.
00:03:03.813 - 00:03:42.359, Speaker A: We allow you access to tools to actually track historical performance on listings, get access to what listing fees are, and even assess formal due diligence process in order to get listed on centralized venues. Now, once you launch your token, forge transforms into a command station, giving you full transparency on all things token related. It starts out with monitoring your market maker. Now historically, when you engage a market maker, you might get some transparency on trade activity. Usually it's in the form of a static PDF, doesn't provide much value. What we do is we integrate directly with your market makers. We consume data related to their trade activity and consolidate that data to a centralized dashboard.
00:03:42.359 - 00:04:16.817, Speaker A: You can use this dashboard for tracking things like does your market maker represent a meaningful percentage of global liquidity and volume? What do their loan utilization ratios look like? It's all about maximizing the engagement, getting the most bang for your buck. Finally, we can take a look at token unlock monitoring. Where you track inflation, monitor sell pressure, see correlation between them. I don't know about you guys, but my opinion price is sort of like the ultimate in crypto ux. If your price goes down, only your community hates you. They're going to tell you you have busted fundamentals. If price goes up and to the right, everyone loves you.
00:04:16.817 - 00:04:53.409, Speaker A: They believe that your token utility is amazing. So if you're seeking to optimize for price performance, you need to track inflation. You need to counteract that inflation with demand drop. This is a tool for doing just that. What's more, as we overlay historical unlocks with price performance, so you can see the correlation between the two of them and prepare for future unlocks that may be potentially bullish to your community. So zooming back out, if you are set to launch a token at some point in the future, there is a ton of noise in the ecosystem. Equipped with the proper tools and data, you can operate as the subject matter expert.
00:04:53.409 - 00:05:09.345, Speaker A: And that's where Forge can help. We are free to use for blockchain builders within the Solana ecosystem so that you can forge your own path. Thanks so much everyone. You can create a free account today or reach out to me. If you're a service provider or a market maker and you're looking to get integrated with the platform.
