00:00:00.170 - 00:00:48.090, Speaker A: In thanks for tuning in to this week's news. Recap elon Musk's purchase of Twitter has repercussions for crypto Elon Musk's acquisition of Twitter has firmly grappled the attention of the crypto community. The billionaire founder of Tesla announced plans to charge $20 a month for the Twitter Blue Checkmark, which Twitter has long used to verify public figures on the social media platform. But that move attracts in a lot of criticism, most prominently from horror writer Stephen King. Musk later lowered the price to $8 a month and added a few additional benefits. The crypto community still wasn't happy vitalik Buterin tweeted Musk's idea could damage the Blue checkmark's antiscam role. Indeed, for a while, Scammers would take over verified accounts and use them to nefarious purposes.
00:00:48.090 - 00:01:42.414, Speaker A: However, Musk's purchase of Twitter will have a more tangible impact on specific players in crypto. The block reported that FTX founder Sam Binkman Fried's stake in Twitter would give him the right to receive $50 million to $100 million based on Musk's purchase price. Speaking of crypto, exchange CEOs Binance's Changpang Zhao, who is a minority investor in Twitter, said he would join Twitter's board if invited by Musk, though he mentioned that he is not dying to take up the opportunity. Coinbase misses revenue estimates but increases interest income Coinbase, the largest crypto exchange in the US. By trading volume, announced its Q three earnings late Thursday. The company reported a decline in monthly trading users, but the number came in higher than expected. Additionally, analysts were projecting quarterly revenue of $641,000,000, but the exchange reported revenue of only $590,000,000.01.
00:01:42.414 - 00:02:27.498, Speaker A: Notable item in its earnings was the interest income. Jeff Roberts, the editor of Fortune Crypto, pointed out that the interest income from USDC tripled since the last quarter, surpassing the 100 million dollar level. USDC is a stablecoin that Coinbase owns through a consortium with circle the issuer of the token as users deposit US. Dollars to mint USDC, the two companies use those dollars to buy highly liquid interestbearing assets like treasury bills. Roberts highlighted that the income derived from USDC, especially in a rising interest rates environment, could help Coinbase navigate the crypto winter. Following the earnings release, the company's stock Coin first dropped by 4%, but then recuperated the losses to trade at 3.5% higher than the closing price.
00:02:27.498 - 00:03:07.362, Speaker A: Alameda's balance sheet stirs unease Alameda Research Sam Bankman Fried's trading shop held $14.6 billion worth of assets as of June 30, according to a private document reviewed by CoinDesk. It's unclear if this represents all of the company's assets or just a portion. However, if it is a complete representation, the largest asset on the company's balance sheet is unlocked FTT, the token issued by Bankman Fried's Crypto Exchange FTX. CoinDesk reported that Alameda holds $3.66 billion worth of unlocked FTT and $2.16 billion worth of FTT collateral.
00:03:07.362 - 00:03:49.990, Speaker A: That so much of Alameda's holdings were issued by its sister company raises concerns. Corey Clifton, the CEO of investment platform Swan Bitcoin, said it's fascinating to see that the majority of the net equity in the Alameda business is actually FTX's own, centrally controlled and printed out of thin air. Token surajit Chatterjee steps down as Coinbase chief product officer. Coinbase's chief product officer, Surajit Chatterjee is stepping down during the company's latest restructuring. Chatterjee will be leaving on November 30, but will continue to advise the crypto exchange until February 2023. In a filing, Coinbase said that it is grateful for Mr. Chatterjee's contributions throughout his employment at Coinbase.
00:03:49.990 - 00:05:15.166, Speaker A: Jeff Roberts, author of Kings of Crypto, a book on Coinbase, tweeted this guy was hired for $646,000,000 exclamation point and most memorable thing he did was bungle. Coinbase's NFT launch crypto lender Hoddlenot reveals a $190,000,000 loss in Terra USD Bloomberg reported that embattle crypto lender Hoddlenot lost about $190,000,000 when Doe Kwan's Terra ecosystem collapsed in May. According to Bloomberg, officials appointed by the Singapore High Court claimed that Hodlnot's directors downplayed the extent of the group's exposure to Terra and Luna around the time of the Coin's collapse. Speaking of troubled lenders, the creditors committee for bankrupt firm Celsius Network is investigating whether the crypto lender was a Ponzi scheme after customers raised concerns about how the company had used their money. A lawyer for the committee said that it hadn't determined whether the company was a Ponzi, but noted flags that came up. Doe Kwan said to be living illegally in Europe as investors sue KBS, the South Korean national broadcaster, reported that prosecutors obtained a chat log in which Kwon directed an employee to manipulate the price of Terra. A prosecutor's office official told KBS, I can't reveal the details, but it was a conversation history where CEO Kwan specifically ordered price manipulation.
00:05:15.166 - 00:06:13.342, Speaker A: Prosecutors have also ascertained that he is living in Europe as an illegal immigrant, but because his passport has been invalidated, he cannot legally travel between countries. Additionally, the Wall Street Journal reported that a group of 350 Terra investors who lost $57 million when the stablecoin imploded are suing the founder of TerraForm Labs. The lawsuit claims that quan made fraudulent misrepresentations about the stability of UST. The group, working with a top Singaporean law firm, wants Kwan to reimburse them for their losses plus pay aggravated damages. Whether Kwon was responsible for Terra's collapse is still hotly debated. Some argue that the Korean co founder committed fraud, but others say that he's not guilty because the code was open source and everything was public. Vitalik shares his opinion on crypto regulation in recent weeks, Sam Bankman Fried sparked a heated debate after he suggested that regulations apply to DeFi Frontends or websites.
00:06:13.342 - 00:07:16.230, Speaker A: Vitalik Buterin, the creator of Ethereum, tweeted especially at this time, regulation that leaves the crypto space free to act internally but makes it harder for crypto projects to reach the mainstream is much less bad than regulation that intrudes on how crypto works internally. While the debate rages on within the industry, securities and Exchange Commission Chair Gary Gensler defended the agency's actions against crypto companies during a speech in New York City. Speaking about the cases against Coinbase and BlockFi's Savings accounts, Gensler said that companies that fail to properly register as security or register as investment companies violate the securities laws, regardless of the form or name of the securities involved. The SEC is getting some pushback from big names in the crypto industry over its case against Ripple Labs over an alleged sale of unregistered securities. This week, industry lobbying group the Blockchain Association filed a letter to the court in support of Ripple. Coinbase, the largest crypto exchange in the US. Asked the court if it could file a similar brief.
00:07:16.230 - 00:08:20.640, Speaker A: Coinbase is not alone in supporting cases in the crypto ecosystem. Also this week, major venture capital firm A 16 Z, said that it is looking to join the ongoing Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or CFTC, lawsuit against UGI Dow. The VC firm says the CFTC should serve individual members of a Dao rather than targeting the Dao as a whole. Instagram to become an NFT marketplace Social media platform Instagram announced it will support a polygon owned NFT marketplace that lets creators mint and sell NFTs within the platform. Disclosure I write a newsletter for Meta's Bulletin initially, this new end to end toolkit will be tested among a limited number of creators, including artist Amber Vittoria and photographer Drifter Shoots, among others. Furthermore, Meta, Facebook and others partnered with Rweave, a decentralized storage network, to store the digital collectibles from creators on Instagram. Rweave's Token jumped 50% following the announcement and is trading at around $15.
00:08:20.640 - 00:09:18.618, Speaker A: Fidelity expands Crypto offering to Retail Investors Fidelity Investments, the third largest asset management company in the United States, has opened a waiting list for Fidelity Crypto, the firm's retail product. The offering will enable no commission trading of BTC and ETH, but there will be a 1% spread in the trade execution price, according to the block. The move, in combination with the recently announced crypto offering for its institutional clients, shows Fidelity's increasing interest in cryptocurrencies. Moreover, Digital asset platform Backed Holdings announced it would acquire Apex Crypto for up to $200 million to Bolster backed's cryptocurrency product offering. Apex Crypto offers regulatory execution, settlement and custody solutions. BACCH will initially pay $55 million in cash and an additional $145,000,000 in stock and seller notes dependent on financial metrics. Goldman Sachs is on a similar path to Fidelity.
00:09:18.618 - 00:10:25.838, Speaker A: The banking giant partnered with index provider MSCI and crypto data firm CoinMetrics to develop a crypto classification service to help create an easier framework for institutional investors. Web Three companies struggle to maintain their employees Popular Web Three studio Deborah Labs laid off 22% of its staff, citing market conditions. Roham Garretgoslu, founder and CEO of the company, said, These reductions are the last thing we want to do, but they are necessary for the long term health of our business and communities. While recognizing that Web Three and Crypto represent the future, he acknowledged that the macroeconomic environment doesn't allow them to be in control of the timing. Mike Novogratz's Galaxy Digital could also reduce the size of its team by 15% to 20%, according to a Bloomberg report. As the company has 350 employees, this reduction would mean approximately 75 lost jobs. Over 1000 Salana validators go offline cloud service provider Hetzner blocked all Salana network activity on its servers on Wednesday, resulting in over 1000 validators of the Salana blockchain going offline.
00:10:25.838 - 00:11:07.410, Speaker A: As a consequence, more than a fifth of Salana stakers stopped earning rewards. Anatolia Yakovnko, cofounder of Salana Labs, the entity behind the blockchain, urged users to move their stake to validators that don't use Hetzner as a service provider. The issue raised concerns not only Solana but other blockchains as well. Hetzner is a provider for validators on other networks, such as Cosmos, Ethereum and Cardano. On Monday Crypto derivatives exchange derabit suffered a $28 million attack. Hackers obtained access to Derabit's hot wallet, stealing $28 million worth of crypto assets, but the company did not disclose the compromise until Wednesday. Derabit assured that all user funds were safe and that it still has solid financial ground.
00:11:07.410 - 00:11:51.230, Speaker A: On a related note, the hacker behind the exploit on DFI Protocol team Finance returned $13.4 million from the $15.8 million they stole, keeping $1.4 million as a bug bounty. Time for fun Bits what's on Alameda's balance sheet? While people were processing just how illiquid Alameda's balance sheet was, leave it to Jordan Fish, aka Kobe, to comment on just how shitcoiny it was. Screenshotting a bit of the CoinDesk article on Alameda's holdings. He tweeted the funniest part of this to me is not the insanity of Alameda owning almost all of the float of FTT, but it's that significant assets on their balance sheet include Maps, Oxy and Fida.
00:11:51.230 - 00:12:08.210, Speaker A: Thanks so much for joining us today. To learn more about Bitcoin Mining, Nick and Luxor, check out the show notes for this episode. Unchained is produced by me, laura Shin without from Anthony Yoon matt Pilchard juan Ivanovich Sam Sriram Pama Dar Shashank and CLK transcription thanks for listening.
