00:00:05.120 - 00:01:08.664, Speaker A: Hello, everyone. My name is John Lee, and I'm here to talk to you about bringing commerce object into web3, the Shopify journey. So I am currently the head of blockchain ecosystem at Shopify, and I just wanted to give you a sample of what we've worked on, what we're doing, and how we're going to get there. But before I get into that, I just want to talk about a little bit of a story about what commerce is. I'm sure you've all heard the stories about the seashells being used as money to the grindstones and all of those. That's typically what people talk about when they talk about commerce. But the thing I want to focus on is actually the relationships and the stories that commerce brings about commerce is really about how you create relationship between two people, that is the seller and the merchant and the buyer, and what money or what cryptocurrency in this case is, is the medium by which that story gets told.
00:01:08.664 - 00:01:48.260, Speaker A: And it's really, really important to think about that. There is effectively two people at either side of that story to kind of make that happen. Without the people, commerce doesn't happen. So we can think back in history, and the history that I hear about, less so than seashells and grindstone, is really the stories of civilizations that's kind of grown up and gone away. So there was the Romans with Cisterce that you can still find all over the place. And how the Romans conducted their commerce is still to this day. Things were discovering because of what they've been able to do.
00:01:48.260 - 00:02:42.310, Speaker A: Same thing with the Mongols and same thing with every major civilization in the world. So the reason why I want to have that conversation is as the head of blockchain for Shopify, my role is really to bring about web3 conversations into the commerce sphere. Shopify has been a platform around for about 16 years already. We have millions of merchants on platform and we do hundreds of millions of transactions. But the web3 conversation is such an important one that we've actually created an entire team to support and have this conversation. So what do I mean by building better commerce through stories and through conversation through relationship. So when you think about commerce objects and what they are, they're really the primitives that you use to engage another person.
00:02:42.310 - 00:03:58.924, Speaker A: Let's be honest, without a relationship, commerce doesn't happen. And one of the things that we've often thought about within the web3 space was this really, really hard focus on trying to make the financial side very easy. But we've never really talked about how do we engage the counterparty in a transaction, in a conversation? How do we actually create communities within those commerce activities? And that's really what I want to focus on, because we very much believe that for commerce to succeed in web3, we need to take all the lessons learned from existing commerce platform through the millennias of what commerce is and bring all those forward into the web3 space. And we actually would love to work with partners. The entire shopify system is a platform that is meant to be engaging with partners to bring things forward and to make web3 features available for everyone. So a good example is let's maybe take ETh Denver itself as a really good example. One of the things that is always interesting is when we talk about things like NFT as a ticket, if we were all able to get, we all talk about it.
00:03:58.924 - 00:04:47.272, Speaker A: It hasn't happened yet. There hasn't been any major conferences where the ticket has been an NFT. But imagine if that was the case. If we all received an NFT for attendance of this conference, then you could leverage that NFT to go on the SWAC store and actually gate experiences where certain merchandise is only available to those people with certain nfTs. And that becomes really powerful because you're taking what's happening in the web3 space and defining what the constellation of NFDs are in somebody's wallet, but bringing it into the real world. Because Shopify is an ecommerce platform, we do things like fulfillment, we do things like fiat payments for certain things. And let's be honest, not everyone wants to use a crypto.
00:04:47.272 - 00:05:35.852, Speaker A: That's just the reality. Crypto has not been used for commercial activity in a long time, although there is some people who do that. But the reality is a lot of people would rather hoddle than they want to participate in active liquid markets with the crypto they hold. Now imagine if beyond just what that means is that we're now able to have conversations about the conferences that we attend. Not this one in Denver, but future conferences we attend. If we have that NFT, we can actually start having those conversations when we go somewhere where you know, that you needed a gated access for a merchandise, and when you see somebody wearing the merchandise, first thought that comes, you know what? They belong. They're part of my community.
00:05:35.852 - 00:06:41.006, Speaker A: And I'm sure you run into this walking around with people wearing certain sweater, certain t shirt that, you know, it's providence, you know, that certain sweater was only available at a conference five years ago and that was the only time they ran it. You have one, you know, that person belongs in a tribe. And that is really what engaging in commerce means, because that is what's going to drive adoption. That's what's going to drive people having conversations about this. So when we're talking about commerce objects, I really refer to what currently exists within the space. So we at Shopify already have a lot of definitions on a commerce object, things like carts, the ability to build a cart, the ability to do a checkout, the ability to control inventory, the ability to do taxes. The reality is we've solved for a lot of those issues already, and we would invite a lot of the blockchain community to come and build on that.
00:06:41.006 - 00:07:41.678, Speaker A: By using web3 principles we already make access through our entire platform through a set of APIs, and signing up as a partner is dead easy. So it's a really interesting conjunction of what we have with the existing market and existing merchants that we have who want web3 features, and a set of developers and partners who can really provide some underlying function to them. And there's some really interesting concept when you think about that. A great example I want to bring up at this point is I did mention a little bit a bit ago, but NFT gated commerce is really an interesting area. We all talk about, oh, the NFT space. There's things that's been happening where we're gating environment, gating parties, gating merch. The reality is that when you can start building ad hoc communities, leveraging the composition of your wallet addresses, that's when it becomes really powerful.
00:07:41.678 - 00:08:28.066, Speaker A: I just mentioned the concept of going back and thinking back of somebody who attended a previous event. Now imagine that you could actually look at that contract address, know every single wallet address that has that NFT, but also look at what are the constellation of tokens in that particular wallet. It is a blockchain. All this information is already available and you can actually build ad hoc communities that can interact with each other, talking about commerce and interacting with each other. And that's a really comparing way of storytelling. So maybe think of it another way. Think of all the wonderful sponsors and people with Booth here.
00:08:28.066 - 00:09:17.300, Speaker A: A lot of them have tokens, some of them are dows, some of them have other kinds of tokens. Now imagine if the merch store that's running downstairs could be set up in a way that nobody really needs to all have t shirts on their desk. Realistically, it can go through a centralized merchandise repository, and the way to do that is log in, do a wallet connect. Once you wallet connect and you have an ecommerce platform in the background. The ecommerce platform can decide. We will present you this set of merchandise because we know what the composition of a wallet is, but not this set. When you order and you check out, it provides you the ability to really hone in on those really granular communities that make really interesting things.
00:09:17.300 - 00:10:16.830, Speaker A: So this is a really important thing to talk about because these communities and these stories that pervade throughout is not just a conversation about us as the web3 community. And I say that I've been in the space since about 2014, so I've seen the up and downs. I know what's going on, but I say us because it really is that conversation about making ourselves more accessible to bring on board the next 100 million net new users. There's been several speakers, like between this stage downstairs, everywhere else, adoption, adoption, adoption. We always talk about adoption. Now imagine within the Shopify platform where we make it available for all of our merchants to offer blockchain products and for people to be able to purchase it without really having to purchase cryptocurrency. Because that's kind of what we've done with NFTs.
00:10:16.830 - 00:11:15.618, Speaker A: The way that we've kind of set up our NFT to address the issue of adoption is a merchant and a buyer can actually transact in an NFT where the buyer can purchase an NFT for the merchant without either the merchant or the buyer ever having to purchase cryptocurrency. We are using our existing credit rails to do that, but it is sometimes a very scary thing for people to figure out. How do I buy crypto? Granted, there's a lot of great things out there that makes it very easy. But when you care about a brand and your relationship is with that brand, you don't want to then have to go off and figure out what else you need to do. You want to stay with that brand. And part of doing that is relaxing all of the complexities that exist in trying to onboard into the blockchain ecosystem. So I realize my decks are very meme heavy and that's on purpose.
00:11:15.618 - 00:12:14.214, Speaker A: Part of it is because I like to talk, so I'm just going to talk a lot. And I do want to bring up some use cases around this because whiteboarding use cases around this is extremely important. And that's part of the conversation we want to have with the community about there's a lot of commerce based use cases that blockchain projects have built out, but they've never really had an outlet where they can either acquire merchants or really put it into practice. And we want to invite all those projects to come to us to have the conversation with us to see if we can actually make it an offer for all of our merchants. But I do want to go specify into very particular use cases which I think would have some amazing effect. Consider perhaps a creator, a music creator, somebody who actually creates music. The concept of creating music and dropping it as an NFD is known.
00:12:14.214 - 00:13:15.214, Speaker A: People have been doing that. But there's some really cool mechanics you can do when it comes to web. Three good examples of that are locking up an entire set of NFD within a smart contract, and only when the sale of those NFT reaches certain threshold to release the entire album for that creator to be able to engage with their fans what that creates. You've created a commerce gamification within the smart contract itself and there's nobody that's required to determine, hey, should we actually release this? Should we not release this? All of this can be controlled strictly by the smart contract that actually overrides all of those music content. And that becomes really powerful because we all know that code can really extend, and this is a really good way to extend out what you can do in commerce. Another interesting concept is creator attributions. Like attribution is something that pretty much everybody has to deal with.
00:13:15.214 - 00:14:49.178, Speaker A: But when you consider social media content creators right now, they are spread out over so many channels, but all they can tell you is the analytics that either that channel gives them, or aggregate social media channels that can tell them things. It doesn't compile down those to a single metric that they can compare apples to apples, an audience member on a TikTok to an audience member on Instagram. However, if you were able to drop NFT to your audience and then track what is the commercial relationship they have with you, there's a lifetime value of that particular engagement that can really come out through the metrics of that analysis. Finally, an interesting concept is like really building out those communities, because we've been allowing people to sell nfds on platform for about seven months now, and we've already seen a massive engagement on how people do commerce in web3, which is significantly different than how brands do it in the regular world. And part of that are leveraging a lot of ecommerce mechanics, things like leveraging our flashshell techniques. So most of the NFT drop that we've seen have operated in a flashshell environment where as soon as it drops, the number of transactions just shoot through the roof. The reality is blockchain is not the most scalable particular architecture to handle that.
00:14:49.178 - 00:15:59.272, Speaker A: That's where we as an ecommerce platform, can handle a lot of that oversight and auto scale where needed while allowing for the blockchain to catch up when things are happening. And these are kind of the collaborations we're asking about and asking the question of how can we work together? That's a site where you can go and you can become a partner. And the blockchain email is actually my team who actually has been created specifically to support web3 developers to engage and to come on board to Shopify to help our merchant. So I have time to answer a few questions, I believe. So I'm going to open the floor to see if there's any questions. How do you make a decision between developing things in house versus bringing partners on board? So the way that Shopify operates, especially in the blockchain space, is we want to collaborate, we want partners. So there is very few things that we're building in house.
00:15:59.272 - 00:16:30.992, Speaker A: A lot of our activity is through partnerships. And quite frankly, we've taken a stance to be blockchain agnostic. So we want to operate at every single blockchain that wants to work with us. And that means there's no way that we at Shopify can build everything. Let's be honest, let's just look at this conference of everybody here. We know this and having been in this space for a while, I also very much believe that harmonization across all blockchain is extremely important. So we will always make the room for somebody to come in and to work with us through partnership and that's what we do.
00:16:30.992 - 00:17:19.806, Speaker A: So we prioritize our partnership within the blockchain space. Any other questions? How do you envision the NFTs unlocking physical and digital content within Shopify's ecosystem? So we've already done that. In fact, we already had about five drops that happened of physical merch like sweaters, things that required an NFT in order to purchase. So that's already been implemented. We have partners who enable that within our platform. And really easy way to do that is just do a wallet connect check against the contract that the merchant has defined. Does that wallet address is that listed against the ownership list for that NFT? If it is, allow them presentation of that and go through checkout.
00:17:19.806 - 00:17:49.820, Speaker A: It's a very easy way to gate. Gating is a simple thing to do, but communicating and actually interacting and having the storytelling to your community so that they appreciate what it means, that's the difficult part and that's what merchants are great at doing. Right? Awesome. Any other questions? I think we're running out of time. I'm really looking forward to actually having more conversations with you, and thank you very much. You so.
