00:00:00.280 - 00:01:01.324, Speaker A: Do you want to know why token unlocks have such a huge impact on token price? Traders who have focused on token unlocks have made huge profits and in this video well cover what affects token unlock using real life examples. So by the end youll know how to analyze projects and their unlocking schedules, which means you can recognize when a chart is more likely to do this or this. So why are tokens locked in the first place? Well, when a token is publicly launched, project teams are allocated a significant amount of tokens and VC's and angel investors have already invested at a lower price. So to align incentives with the community, their tokens are locked to stop them from dumping their bags immediately, and eventually all locked tokens will become unlocked. If the demand for the unlocked tokens is more than the amount of tokens unlocked, the price of the token will go up. And if there are more unlocked tokens than demand, the price of the token will go down. There are four factors that affect token unlocks the size of the unlock, the liquidity, perpetual futures and tokenomics.
00:01:01.324 - 00:01:35.780, Speaker A: Number one, the size of the token unlock. If the amount of tokens getting unlocked are large compared to the circulating supply, theres going to be more sell pressure. Story time on October 15, 2021, flow started the day worth $18 per token and a circulating supply of nearly 70 million tokens. During the day, 300 million flow tokens were unlocked, meaning $5 billion of cell pressure. The token dropped to $9 as investors were still up 100 x on their investment, they could just keep selling. Number two, liquidity. So firstly, we have the OTC market.
00:01:35.780 - 00:02:12.460, Speaker A: If the team or investors want to sell their locked tokens, they can OTC. If there has been an active OTC market, the price of the locked tokens will be closer to the public price. So investors are sitting on less profit and the investors buying locked OTC tokens are likely to have more conviction in the project as theyre taking on more risk. This together means tokens are less likely to be immediately sold after they unlock. Or another thing projects can do is generate market liquidity. They do this by creating positive narratives just before an unlock to provide temporary demand to offset the impact of selling. These are called liquidity generation events.
00:02:12.460 - 00:02:53.776, Speaker A: These sound complex, but are actually very common. It could be a chance to swap your tokens for an NFT in the future, or to stake your tokens to earn a yield or even the creation of an ecosystem fund. This means before the unlock, the token is likely to pump. This gives investors and the team exit liquidity so they can sell their tokens number three is perpetual futures. Now, perps are interesting because private investors can use them to hedge their locked tokens. Secondary buyers can hedge their exposure before an unlock and traders can can short a token hoping for a market dump after the unlock. So basically, if a perp is available, the market can better price in the sell pressure from an unlock let me give you an example.
00:02:53.776 - 00:03:48.676, Speaker A: In September 2022, over $100 million of apecoin was due to be unlocked. Apecoin had already gone down 26% in September and 9% in the 24 hours before the unlock, but the day of the unlock, the price jumped 40%. How? Well, imagine if investors had partially hedged their locked tokens by shorting a theyd then unwind their shorts as they received their unlocked tokens, meaning less downward pressure on price. Those following the downtrend would then be forced to close their shorts, which would allow price to rebound like it did. Finally, we have number four, tokenomics. Tokenomics is a really broad topic, but generally it refers to token distribution, the tokens utility, the amount of lock tokens, and the tokens emission schedule. If there's a project with a lot of locked tokens and a small circulating supply, it's a low float project, which is why you see projects with a high fully diluted valuation and much smaller market cap.
00:03:48.676 - 00:04:42.122, Speaker A: But if there's a project with not many locked tokens and a high circulating supply, it's known as a high float project, where its fully diluted valuation and market cap are similar. After understanding of project tokenomics, you can start looking at things like emission adjusted revenue. Now, emission adjusted revenue is a metric that can be used to gauge the demand for a token, and token utility can provide that demand. Looking at GMX, which is a decentralized perp exchange, it has a two to one revenue to emissions ratio, and this suggests an active sticky user base. And stakers of GMX also get 30% of the projects revenue, which provides token holders with real token utility. So this is an example of how well designed tokenomics can provide sustainable demand for a token, which is different to the temporary demand from liquidity generation events we were talking about earlier. So understanding what affects price action during token unlocks means you can do your own research to analyze projects and their unlocking schedules.
00:04:42.122 - 00:05:00.154, Speaker A: Token unlock schedules are set in advance so you can find the unlock amount, dates and token distribution in a project's documents or their whitepaper. If you enjoyed this video, give us a like and subscribe and click the link in the description below to check out the full written research report. This video is based on. Our next video will be out soon.
