00:00:00.650 - 00:00:33.010, Speaker A: All right, so I've made a big deal out of the fact that the vicory, or second price auction is a truthful auction. So let's actually see why that's true. Let me just sort of write down the property again at the top of the slide, just for our reference. Now, remember what it means to be a dominant strategy. That's a strategy which is sort of a no brainer strategy. Always in your best interest, always maximizes your payoff. Doesn't matter what the other bidders are doing.
00:00:33.010 - 00:01:07.784, Speaker A: So, just so we're clear, let me remind you about what was the payoff of a bidder in a vicary option. This is just copied from a couple of slides ago. So there are really two cases in the bidder utility. So first of all, you might lose and then you don't have to pay anything either. So their utility is going to be zero. It doesn't matter what your valuation was, you don't win anything, you don't pay anything. Utility is just zero.
00:01:07.784 - 00:01:54.724, Speaker A: If you do win the item, how you feel about it is going to depend on two things. So, first of all, how much do you want it? So how high is your valuation? V sub i? And secondly, what did you have to pay? What was the selling price P? And we're working with sort of the simplest imaginable model, although the same arguments would hold more generally. But just to keep it simple, let's assume that a bidder cares about sort of the amount of value left over after it's paid the selling price. So it's maximum Williams to pay v sub i, minus whatever the selling price P is that it had to pay. So this is the expression we're going to assume that bidders want to maximize. So when we talk about truthful biding being a dominant strategy, what we mean is that it maximizes this utility no matter what the other bidders do. Now, the proof of this is quite short and it's going to fit easily on this slide.
00:01:54.724 - 00:02:46.040, Speaker A: But before we do that, maybe I can also just give you kind of an intuitive argument about why it does seem like the vicary auction should be truthful intuition, which is maybe going to be easier to remember down the line. So basically, what's going on is, in a vicary auction, you're delegating sort of your bidding to the auctioneer, to a third party, and the third party is promising to bid optimally on your behalf. To see what I mean, imagine we weren't doing a second price auction. Imagine we were doing a first price auction where you had to pay your bid. So how should you bid in a first price auction? Well, you'd love it if you had sort of X ray vision or clairvoyance and you simply knew what all your competitors were going to bid. If you knew what all their bids were and say you knew that the highest bid was going to be $20, you could say, well, if my valuation is less than $20, forget it. I'll just let them have it.
00:02:46.040 - 00:03:17.360, Speaker A: If my valuation is more than $20, now, remember, in a first price auction, I have to pay my bid. So higher bids means higher prices. So if I have a valuation higher than $20, my optimal bid is to just beat $20, just beat the highest bid by somebody else. That maximizes utility. Because I win, and subject to winning, I get it at the cheapest possible price, given the competitors bids. Now, of course, in a first price auction, you do not know that $20. You do not know what your competitors are doing.
00:03:17.360 - 00:03:55.004, Speaker A: You have to guess when you place your bid. But in a second price auction, or any sealed bid auction, there is someone who does know what all the bids are, which is the auctioneer, which is the third party. So in a second price auction, the auctioneer is promising you. Look, if you happen to be the highest bidder, I promise I will charge you as if you bid the minimum amounts necessary to beat out all the competition. So I'm going to be as nice to you as possible, subject to you still winning, subject to you beating out all the competition. So that seems like a pretty good bargain, right? So you don't know what other people are doing. The auctioneer does know what other people are doing.
00:03:55.004 - 00:04:20.432, Speaker A: You sort of delegate your bidding responsibility to them and they promise to do it optimally on your behalf. So that sounds like a pretty good idea. So that's the intuition. Now, let's actually give kind of the two line mathematical argument for why the Vic re auction is, in fact, a truthful auction. All right? So we need to show that a truthful bid is always the best idea, no matter what. So pick your favorite bidder. Like bidder number seven, they have some valuation.
00:04:20.432 - 00:05:00.630, Speaker A: We're not going to care what it is, they have a valuation. Maybe it's 83 or whatever, and then the other bidders, bid whatever they bid, maybe they bid truthfully, maybe they didn't. But whatever the other bidders bid, whatever they did, 42 over here, 68 over here, 17 over here, and so on. So fix all of those numbers, the bidder we're talking about, the valuation of that bidder and then what the competition did, the argument is going to have two cases, both very short, and which case we're in will depend on the competition. So it'll depend on whether the highest bid by somebody else is more or less than bidderized valuation. So a little notation. Let's use capital B to denote the highest bid by somebody else.
00:05:00.630 - 00:05:48.458, Speaker A: The next thing to notice is that while there's an infinite number of different things that bidder, I could bid, really, there's only two different outcomes that are going to ensue. So either bidder I bids, so maybe capital B is 68. Either bidder, I can bid something less than 68 that'll result in it losing and getting utility zero or bidder I can bid more than 68. And it doesn't matter what it bids more than 68. Any bid bigger than 68 will trigger the same outcome. It'll trigger bidder I being the winner. And it will also trigger the selling price to be 68, the highest bid by somebody else, which is exactly this, capital B.
00:05:48.458 - 00:06:36.342, Speaker A: Those are the two possible outcomes that, bitter I can cause to happen. So now let's look at the two cases depending on whether bidderi's valuation is above capital B or below it. And let's just check that in each of the two cases, the better outcome for the bidder is the one that transpires from a truthful bid. First, suppose that bidderized valuation, its maximum length to pay, is at most the highest bid, capital B, by somebody else. Well then, if we look at the two outcomes that could transpire, right, one of them and one of them, I, loses and gets utility zero, and the other one, I, wins and gets utility VI minus capital B. And in this case, because capital B is at least as big as V sub I, that second case is even worse. So that second case, you're generally going to have negative utility.
00:06:36.342 - 00:07:14.680, Speaker A: So neither of these options are so attractive for the bidder. But if it had to pick between option one, losing in utility zero versus winning and getting negative utility, it's going to pick the first one it wants to lose, given that the highest bid by somebody else is bigger than its valuation. And guess what? If it bids truthfully, that's what happens. Its value is less than the highest other bid. So if it bids truthfully, its bid will be less than the highest other bid. It's not going to be the winner and it will, in fact, get utility zero, which, again, in case one is the best case scenario for this bidder. Let's look at the other case where the bidder's valuation is at least as big as the highest other bid, at least as big as capital B.
00:07:14.680 - 00:07:56.654, Speaker A: So in this case, once again, there's just two different outcomes that bidder I could possibly find itself in. Either in the first case, where it loses and has, as usual, utility zero, or the second case, where it wins. And this time, its utility in the second case is going to be at least zero, generally bigger than zero, because its valuation is bigger than the highest other bid. So in this case, the bidder actually prefers the second case over the first one. It prefers to win rather than lose, given that its valuation is bigger than the price it's going to have to pay. Moreover, if the bidder bids truthfully, that's exactly what's going to happen. If it sets its bid equal to its value, because its value is bigger than all the other bids, its bid is going to be equal to all the other bids that'll result in it winning.
00:07:56.654 - 00:08:43.170, Speaker A: And indeed, being in the second case and getting the utility of VI minus capital B, I should say I'm being a little sloppy about the edge case, where the valuation is exactly equal to capital B, and that's because nothing really matters at that point, right? So that means basically, either bidderI is going to lose or it's going to win, but pay a price that exactly cancels out its value. So it has utility zero either way. At that point, the bidder literally doesn't care whether it wins or loses the auction. So the interesting case is where VI is strictly more or strictly less than the highest of the bid, in which case it strictly prefers the outcome it gets from truthful bidding compared to the other possible outcome. And so that's the entire argument. That is why, formally, the vicary auction is a truthful auction. Why bidding truthfully is always a dominant strategy.
00:08:43.170 - 00:09:03.738, Speaker A: You don't need to care about how many other bidders there are. You don't need to care what their valuations are. You don't need to care if they're truthful or not. Does not matter. You should always bid truthfully in a second price. Or vicary auction always is the course of action that will give you the max possible utility. So that's definitely the most important thing to know about a vicary auction, this truthfulness property.
00:09:03.738 - 00:09:46.594, Speaker A: While we're sort of talking about properties of vicary options, I do want to sort of mention one other sort of obvious, but still important property that they have, which is that the item goes to the person who wants it the most. By wants it the most, I mean the bidder with the highest valuation. Okay, technically, when I say that I'm assuming that bidders are bidding truthfully, that the bids are equal to the valuations. Given that truthful biding is a dominant strategy, that's not that strong an assumption. And if all of the bidders bid truthfully, if they all bid their true valuations because the vicary auction awards the item to the highest bidder with truthful bids, that's going to be the same as the bidder with the highest valuation. So that's a very nice property. Whoever wanted it the most is the one who winds up with the item in the vicary auction.
00:09:46.594 - 00:10:42.210, Speaker A: One way you can think about this is, in effect, what we wanted to do is take the maximum of bidders valuations. We wanted to identify which bidder had the maximum valuation, sort of the rightful winner of the auction. And if we had telepathy and we just sort of knew everybody's valuations, we could dispense with the auction, walk up to the person with the highest value, and if we didn't care about revenue, we could just hand the item over to the bidder with the highest valuation. So what's remarkable about the vicary auction is we actually get exactly the same end result as if we had telepathy and knew people's valuations even though we didn't. Even though we knew nothing about bidders valuations before. After the auction has been run, it's as if we knew them all along and identified the bidder who was the worthy victor in the auction for this item. That completes what I wanted to tell you about single item auctions, and specifically about second price or vikri auctions.
00:10:42.210 - 00:11:03.580, Speaker A: So what I want to do in the second half of this module is build on single item auctions to tell you about how auctions really work in online advertising. And specifically we'll learn about the auction format that Google uses for sponsored search auctions, something known as a generalized second price auction. So we'll pick that up starting with the next video. I'll see you there.
