00:00:00.200 - 00:00:33.694, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Delegway refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Cesarno, and today's the 13 April 2022. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So Vitalik put out a tweet today, basically asking, or he said, what are some decisions or trade offs in Ethereum protocol design that you want to see explained better? Now, there are a lot of good responses to this with responses from Vitalik himself. My thing was basically replying with probably everything got to do with why the gas fees are higher at layer one. You know, what the gas limit is, how it works, why there's a fee market, why this is needed to maintain decentralization, et cetera, et cetera.
00:00:33.694 - 00:01:23.578, Speaker A: Unfortunately, Vitalik didn't reply to my tweet there. Maybe he's going to write a blog post about it, because I really do think that we need kind of like more and more education around that. I mean, obviously I do plenty of it on the refuel and in my newsletter, but I think that there's still a lot of people out there who just have absolutely no idea why the gas fees are higher at layer one and what, you know, the roadmap that Ethereum is taking in order to scale as well. And then there was a bunch of other kind of people asking questions, getting replies from Vitalik with links to previous work that he had done, which is, which is really, really cool. I mean, I just wanted to hire this because I highly recommend jumping into this Twitter thread and basically checking out all the questions and answers. Basically an AMA with Vitalik, right, live on Twitter here. And one thing that actually stuck out to me was this one where someone asked, you know what? How did the number 32 ETH come to be to be a solo stake or a solo validator? And I've spoken about this in a discord channel before.
00:01:23.578 - 00:02:12.704, Speaker A: But basically the reason it's like this is because it's based on this logic in this blog post, which you can read, but if the deposit size was higher, then fewer people can participate, obviously, right? Risking centralization. But if the deposit size is lower, then the chain suffers a higher cost of verification, quote unquote, overhead. In the blog post that Vitalik wrote, risking sacrificing decentralization differently. So basically, I've kind of like said this before in the Discord channel, where I said if it was lower than it would, it would basically, it could lead to destabilization of the beacon chain because there'd just be too many validators now, as it kind of gets better over time, as the beacon chain gets better over time, we may be able to one day lower that amount. Obviously, 32 ETH is a lot these days, right? Like, I think when this was written, it was. I think 32 ETH was, was a lot cheaper. I'm just kind of, like, scrolling up to the top here.
00:02:12.704 - 00:02:49.438, Speaker A: But, yeah, I mean, when that decision was made, I'm pretty sure ETH wasn't, like, pretty sure ETH was still in the triple digits and probably low to mid triple digits at that point. So, yeah, obviously, 32 ETH wasn't very much money then, and no one expected ETH to go as crazy as it did. Like, as fast as it did. I honestly, like, obviously, I'm super bullish on ETH, but I never expected ETH to go that crazy. I mean, we went from $80 in March, $2020 to $4,400 in May of 2021. So just over a year, we went like 40 plus x. No one, no one saw that coming, right? Especially because everyone thought the world was ending when, when COVID first kind of, like, came to be.
00:02:49.438 - 00:03:13.198, Speaker A: So, you know, it can kind of, like, be forgiven for thinking that 30 tweet was, quote unquote, cheap or relatively cheap back in the day. But as I said, it wasn't. The 30 tweet wasn't chosen based on the kind of, like, dollar amount of ETH. It was more like chosen. Sorry. It was more chosen based on what the protocol could handle at the time. And as I said, as time goes on, as the protocol gets better, we may be able to lower that because, because it can handle more validators there.
00:03:13.198 - 00:03:38.350, Speaker A: But, I mean, I highly recommend reading this whole thread from, from Vitalik here because he links to a bunch of different great things you can read. I mean, you could spend all day on this with all the stuff that he linked to, all the rabbit holes, you can basically go down. There's so much documentation out there around a lot of this stuff. So I highly recommend giving that a read there. And also, I mean, just keep scrolling down because, like, there's so many comments and answers from Vitalik. Like, it's crazy. It's just buried in, beneath, underneath.
00:03:38.350 - 00:04:16.304, Speaker A: And there's also answers from other people, too, to some other questions, which I thought was really cool. So, yeah, it was just basically like an impromptu ama that, that Vitalik did on Twitter here. All right, so Tim Biko put out a tweet today that I found interesting, that I wrote a newsletter about today where he said, having multiple client teams for Ethereum definitely adds complexity, but boy, does it ever increase the amount of brainpower we have going into this thing. I don't think it'd be possible to get so many super smart folks working on the protocol with a single implementation. And then Tim continues by saying, same thing for doubling down on rollups instead of execution. Sharding no way we'd have half the teams we currently do working on scaling with a more centralized roadmap. So I want to focus on the first part of the, of the tweet here.
00:04:16.304 - 00:05:09.076, Speaker A: Ethereum currently has nine different clients being developed, but across the consensus and execution layers, or quote unquote ETH one and ETH two, if you want to call them that. And each of these teams varies in size, of course. But if you were to kind of like add up all the people working on Ethereum core development today, it would be, I think, 150 to 200 people that are like actually working on Ethereum core development across the client teams, in actual engineering work and research work and testing and all that sorts of stuff. It's about that right now. If we only had one client, like if we only had geth, for example, I think that that number would be a lot less. It would probably be less than 50, probably even way less than that, right? Maybe less than 20 people. And we wouldn't be able to attract a lot of the people that we've been able to attract because of the fact that everyone would be just basically working on Geth and not working on other clients in different kind of like languages and doing.
00:05:09.076 - 00:05:41.364, Speaker A: Doing things their own way. For example, Geth is written in the go programming language, or whereas something like Lighthouse is written in rust from memory, right. Prism is written in go, but it's a different thing. It's on the consensus layer, right, instead of the execution layer. So there's always kind of like things that add up. And I think that, I completely agree with Tim here that obviously this is added complexity, but the trade off, which I think is a very good trade off, is that we've managed to attract a lot more brain power into Ethereum, which is what Ethereum needs. Ethereum can't just get by with a handful of people working on Ethereum, requires lots of.
00:05:41.364 - 00:06:20.164, Speaker A: Of super smart people to work on it, because Ethereum's roadmap is very ambitious. It's not like bitcoin, where it's basically finished, and they add an upgrade every four years, which basically, you know, is very, very minor upgrade. Ethereum adds upgrades, ideally like every six months, right? And they're major things. And Ethereum has, as I said, a very, very ambitious roadmap. So there's no way that roadmap will be able to get executed on if we only had a handful of people working on it. So I really love that Tim kind of like brought this up and also, you know, he brought up roll ups, right, and the L2 ecosystem instead of what's called execution sharding, which was the original charting roadmap. And I think this is good as well because it means that we can have like, you know, a thousand roll ups blossom on top of, of layer one ethereum.
00:06:20.164 - 00:07:27.992, Speaker A: And each of those have their own team, have their own funding, have their own knowledge and specializations, building their own, you know, technology. And then, and then we get like what we have today, which is, you know, 1020 roll up roll ups live right now. You know, some of them are forks and that, but like there's five or six kind of like front runners, like big teams that have got massive amounts of funding valued at billions of dollars from their latest funding rounds and working on absolutely amazing bleeding edge tech that actually has a lot of implications for layer one ethereum as well, and helps with layer one there, too. So if you add up everyone working on layer one and L2, you are going to get to 500 plus people. The L2 ecosystem has a lot of people working on it, and maybe not on the core protocol itself, but if you were to count the people working at the L2 teams that are working in community and marketing and business development, and which I think you should count those people, yeah, there's easily like 500 plus probably people working across layer one and L2 in kind of like getting adoption to, to go up there. So that's very, very cool to see. And I thought this was just a great tweet from Tim because, you know, there's been talk about Ethereum being, you know, overly complex or too complex lately.
00:07:27.992 - 00:08:06.152, Speaker A: And I kind of like gave my piece on that a few weeks ago where I said that I think Ethereum has actually gotten simpler over time. But in terms of the amount of moving parts there is on the social side, it's definitely grown a lot from where it was, but that's just an inevitability because as the Ethereum ecosystem gets more adoption, it's going to grow and grow and grow. There's going to be much more people involved in it. And they go, you know, some people will be involved in core development, some people will be with Defi, with Daos, NFTs, people will pick their poison. And that's just how things happen. Like, we can't just remain a small ethereum network forever. Like, Ethereum wasn't just going to remain a bunch of, of degens basically playing around with the same sort of money all the time.
00:08:06.152 - 00:08:44.657, Speaker A: Ethereum has grown to what it is today, and it continues to grow. So very, very awesome to see that, of course, but also awesome to just kind of reflect here and see that, yes, Ethereum may have gotten more complex on the social layer over time, but that's actually a good thing because what we've been able to do by doing that is attract all these super smart people to the ecosystem. So I thought that was really cool. All right, so Superfizz shared a new kind of, I guess, look at client diversity today, basically showing that prism is at 46% now. Now this data I don't think is accurate. Superfiz followed this up and set. You know, this is maybe dirty data and this is the data that's coming from Megalab.
00:08:44.657 - 00:09:19.704, Speaker A: So you can actually kind of like toggle it here. And it's actually even been updated. And now it says 60% for prism from mega Labs. And then you got Sigma Primes block print, which is the thing that Michael Sproul was working on, which shows that at 51%, look, it's hard to tell, like, you're never going to get like a certain kind of percentage here. This is just going to be an estimation. But if we take, you know, Sigma prime and Mega's kind of like figures and put them together, we can safely say, you know, that prism's at around 60% right now, which is lower than it was the other day, which is obviously really, really awesome to see. Client diversity is objectively getting better.
00:09:19.704 - 00:09:47.524, Speaker A: No matter, no matter about this exact percentage here, it is objectively getting better. And Prism just being below 66% is already a huge win, as I've explained before. So very, very cool to see this. But I do wonder why. You can see here Mega Labs's data was, was updated and now they're at 60%. But Sigma Prime's data is at 51%, which is lower, which is just, you know, slightly higher than, than what this was here. It's, as I said, like, I don't know, it's hard to kind of, like, get the accuracy here.
00:09:47.524 - 00:10:08.932, Speaker A: But as I said, like, I think we can have relative, certainly that Prism is about 60% right now and falling from there, which is really cool. Now, speaking of client diversity here, this is on the consensus layer side. This is on the kind of like quote unquote ETH two side. If we move over to the quote unquote ETH one side, it's not looking too flash hot either. Geth is at. No, I shouldn't say either. It's just not looking too flash hot.
00:10:08.932 - 00:10:49.484, Speaker A: Geth accounts for around 83% of the network there now as it exists today. This isn't like a do or die issue. It obviously isn't ideal, but it's not a do or die issue. Post merge, from what I understand, the execution layers being this kind of like. And get being this dominant is actually just as bad as prism being, you know, or a lighthouse or wherever else on the consensus layer side having that, that 66% plus because these clients basically talk to each other and are going to be one post merge. So we need another push to basically get Geth below 66%. Now, I don't think this is going to happen before the merge.
00:10:49.484 - 00:11:20.996, Speaker A: I don't think it's, you know, as critical because Geth is obviously much more battle tested than any of the consensus layer clients by far. Client diversity on the execution layer side has been a bit hit and miss because we've had teams, you know, fall out. Like, parity obviously was building their client for a while, then they fell out. That became open Ethereum, and then open Ethereum is kind of like, I think it's still being worked on, but not, not in a major way. Then Aragon came onto the same, which is second here at 8.8%, but. And obviously there's nethermine and base who as well, but they're not near as mature as, as geth.
00:11:20.996 - 00:11:40.262, Speaker A: And a lot of people don't, don't kind of like really trust running these other things just yet. But they're all good clients, don't get me wrong. But I guess like we're going to need another push around execution layer client diversity sometime soon. I don't know when that's gonna happen. Maybe it happens before the merge. Maybe it happens after the merge. But yeah, that's definitely just as important.
00:11:40.262 - 00:12:02.046, Speaker A: So if you are running a geth full no today, switch over to something else to help client diversity here. You can switch over to Aragon, open, Ethereum, nethermine, or base, who all good clients for you to. For you to kind of like check out and run there. But this website that I'm looking at is client diversity.org, by the way, so you can go check this out. There's links to everything you need to know about client diversity here, which is, which is really, really cool. To see.
00:12:02.046 - 00:12:34.360, Speaker A: And speaking of client diversity, Summer ESat has put together an introductory article for a series of guys that he's working on to help existing Ethereum stakers migrate from the current majority client prism to one of the minority clients. So this is going to be cool. I think this is going to be really cool when, when he's kind of like done these articles, you can see them here. There's an introduction, which is this article. Then there's going to be four separate ones from migrating from prism to Nimbus, take you lighthouse and lodestar, and then obviously a conclusion there. So I just wanted to give you guys a heads up. You should definitely go follow summer Esat's work.
00:12:34.360 - 00:12:56.604, Speaker A: He's been doing a lot of great guides for Ethereum staking for a long time now. You can see here he had some of the first guides for Ethereum staking all the way back, I think when the before the beacon chain even came out. You can see here November 2020. So that was before the beacon chain went live a few days before there. And those kind of guides hold up to today. So definitely go check out all of his work. I'll link it in the YouTube description.
00:12:56.604 - 00:13:59.724, Speaker A: So poly now put out a really, really interesting tweet thread, I think just after I recorded yesterday's refuel and that I really want to cover here. So he starts off by saying, does ERP 4844 impact decentralization? That is the cost of running nodes, yes, but not materially so. Now background AIP 4844 is the EIP to reduce core data costs in order to give roll ups more scalability so it increases sustained hard drive requirements. In doing this, note, hard drive not SSD by around 200 gigabyte and bandwidth requirements by about eight megabits per second. The overwhelming bottleneck for Ethereum is still going to remain state growth. So he goes on to say, you know why this is the case? Why? You know why you already need kind of like terabytes worth of SSD, kind of like storage for state and all that sort of stuff when running consensus and execution layer clients here. And then goes on to say, yes, 4844 is, is definitely a block size increase, but it's a relatively mild one, and even that is temporary and mitigated soon after his dank shading, dank sharding rolls out as well.
00:13:59.724 - 00:14:31.680, Speaker A: Remember, 48 44 history, unlike state, will expire straight away, but doesn't have a long term burden on the consensus network here. Sorry, I should say I get sometimes confused with these numbers. I think 48 44 is the, the state expiry kind of AIP here. If I just quickly look at up 40 EIP 4844. No, AIP 45 44 is the proto. Yeah, proto dank sharding EIP, with, which is the, the blobs of data. Sorry, I should say not the, which is going to allow kind of like roll ups to have cheaper fees here.
00:14:31.680 - 00:15:01.348, Speaker A: There was, there was another one was a 48 88 or something, or there was another. The numbers were so similar and I kept getting confused between, between the two. But yeah, 48 44 is the blob transactions that I've spoken about before, which is code named proto dank sharding. So that's what Polynara is talking, talking about here. But I, I think this is always good to kind of like reflect on these sorts of things. Like, yes, it's going to, this is, this goes back to what I was talking about with trade offs. This will marginal, I mean marginally kind of not really, not materially.
00:15:01.348 - 00:15:29.866, Speaker A: So as Polynar says here, affect decentralization. Yes, it's going to increase the cost of running nodes, but in return we get massive scalability for L2s. I think that's a pretty awesome trade off, right? If you just increase the, the cost of running a full node or a validator or a consensus kind of like node or anything like that, by a non material amount then. And to get that kind of like extra scale layer too. It's just a no brainer to me. Like, I don't see a negative to this. It's kind of like.
00:15:29.866 - 00:16:19.244, Speaker A: So for example, going with the gas limit, right, if we were to go from like a 15 million gas limit to 20 million gas limit, I think that would impact decentralization a lot more than what 48 44 would do. And you wouldn't get anywhere near the amount of scalability gains you would with kind of like increasing the gas limit that you do with 48 44. So I think taking that into account, it's a good trade off to have. But definitely check out this, this tweet thread from polynyar. I'll link it in the YouTube description. It's pretty good to kind of like get across this sort of stuff because this is going to be the main stuff that's talked about after the merge. I believe it's going to be all about that Shanghai upgrade and all about getting these aips in help with L2 scalability as part of, I think the surge is what it's called on Vitalik's roadmap, which is basically getting, you know, all that scalability for L2s in order to finally get those fees down to subsent transactions.
00:16:19.244 - 00:16:54.440, Speaker A: All right, so arbitrum retweeted Ku coin or Kucoin today and said deposits and withdrawals on Kucoin for the arbitrage. One network are now live, so another exchange is now live with deposits and withdrawals. I used to use kucoin in, back in the day before Dexs had a lot of liquidity and things like that. So I'm not sure who uses them these days. I used to use them to trade shitcoins, which you can now do on uniswap. So you don't need to use the centralized exchanges. But if you are on there and you're a regular user of them, you can now use Kucoin to deposit and withdraw ETH, USDC, and USDT to the arbitrum one network, which is always a good thing to see.
00:16:54.440 - 00:17:20.884, Speaker A: You guys know that I'm all for centralized exchange bridges into L2s. They're critical to the L2 future, and it's exactly what we want to see. So definitely go check this out. If you're a Ku coin user. I keep switching between K coin and Kucoin. I'm just going to say Kucoin. All right, so Maple Finance, which is a project I've spoken about before, but they basically do institutional kind of like grade loans, and they basically build themselves as an institutional crypto capital network.
00:17:20.884 - 00:17:51.416, Speaker A: And obviously they're on Ethereum, so you can kind of like, see today they've announced a partnership with Maker and they're kind of like calling this partnership a way to scale the digital economy. So this partnership would see makers d three, M module and Maple's pool, delegate model and smart contract kit combined. So this is more on kind of like, I guess, the developer governance front here. And you kind of like, see how this is all going to work and how this kind of like, can work with, with Maple and how they can all work together. I'll let you guys give it a. Give this blog post a read here. But this is very cool.
00:17:51.416 - 00:18:07.204, Speaker A: I like these synergies between defi protocols. Like, I'm always a big fan of them. And I think, you know, Maple finance in particular, which is a project I remind you guys that I'm a seed investor in. So just to disclosure then. That's why I've been following them so closely. But they announced the other day that they're actually profitable, which is crazy. Like, I forgot to cover this the other day.
00:18:07.204 - 00:18:51.398, Speaker A: But yeah, in this blog post, they said maple turned a profit in q 120 22 attributable to the increased appetite for undercloralized lending from you and old borrowers across all pools. And you can see kind of like the details of this here in the treasury report. There are not many DeFi protocols out there that are actually profitable, like net profitable. You know, there are some that will say they're profitable, but they're actually paying for that through kind of like token inflation and things like that and massive kind of like token inflation. But you can see here the maple Dows quarterly profit and loss is they made $226,000 of kind of like profit in, in Q one here, whereas like all these other quarters here, you can see that they didn't make anything. Like that's in brackets means that they, they kind of like lost money there. I think this is super cool.
00:18:51.398 - 00:19:41.062, Speaker A: Like, I think we need to be encouraging teams like this and we need to be supporting them because at the end of the day, a lot of these defi protocols are businesses. I mean, pretty much all of them are businesses. And if they can't turn a profit, well, I mean, and if they've subsidizing growth of their token, their token is just going to go to zero, like over the, over the long term. And I spoke about this yesterday about how this is another thing you have to kind of like factor in when evaluating a token is like, how is the protocol paying for growth? Are they just paying out their token and putting sell pressure on their token in order to subsidize growth? You know, are they profitable? You know, do they have long term sustainability? Is it sustainable without token rewards, without liquidity mining, all that sort of stuff there? So that's something I forgot to covered the other day that's, that's relevant to here. But I definitely recommend giving this post with Maker and Maple a read to see what this is all about. I think it's very cool. And as I said, I've been a big fan of Maple a long, for a long time seed investor in them.
00:19:41.062 - 00:20:08.608, Speaker A: You know, the funny thing is, like, I remember meeting the Maple founders in Melbourne for a coffee. It would have been early 2019, I think, while I wasn't even working in crypto at that point. And I was just crazy. Like, they were talking about it back then. So they've been hard at work at this for a while now, and their protocol has been growing so well lately and kind of like they're doing a lot of really cool things and they're profitable. Yeah. Maple is one of my favorite projects, and I haven't spoken about them in a little while on the, on the refill because I don't like to shield the projects I'm invested in too much.
00:20:08.608 - 00:20:39.054, Speaker A: I don't want to basically, because they have a token. I don't want to basically say, hey, go buy the token or anything like that. But yeah, Maple is one of, one of the things that I'm most excited about because they're definitely serving a need on the institutional side of things. You know, I don't know if you'd call them, like, true defi because they'd like, with institutions, they're kind of like acting as a, as a, as a kind of like a bridge into or service with the, kind of like the rest of defi. But, you know, they're definitely doing a lot of good work. So secures to them, but definitely give this blog post to read. I'll link it in the YouTube description.
00:20:39.054 - 00:21:35.424, Speaker A: All right, so Nomad, which is a cross chain communication protocol, announced today that they have raised a $22 million seed round led by polychain with participation from one KX ethereal and hack vc here with, you know, a bunch of kind of like funds and angels participating as well. Now, the reason I laughed there when I said $22 million seed round is because this means their valuation, from what I saw, is like $250 million or something for a seed round. Now, for those of you who aren't familiar with funding rounds, a seed round is like, normally one of the first rounds that is done there are like, you could have pre seed and like friends and family, but seed round is usually kind of like that big thing. Like, you might get a pre seed round for just as kind of like, to get a bit of money in just to prove out the concept. And then you go and raise a seed round. And seed rounds normally are not $22 million and 100% definitely not usually valued at $250 million. So that's crazy there.
00:21:35.424 - 00:21:52.496, Speaker A: But I mean, congrats to them on raising this. I mean, that's an amazing amount of money to raise for a seed round. And I'm not picking, I'm not trying to pick on them or anything. There's been plenty of really ridiculous rounds in crypto. I've participated in some of them as well. So I'm not one to talk, but it's just funny how, like, these valuations are so high in the private market. They're still high.
00:21:52.496 - 00:22:13.896, Speaker A: I thought that would come down by now, but they're still high. But enough about that. Nomad, as I said, it's another cross chain, kind of like communications protocol, another bridging protocol. I believe they're working closely with Connext on a few different things, which is. Which is really cool to see. Obviously, their goal is to make it. Make, you know, cross chain stuff as easy as possible, doing, you know, cross chain exchange message passing, all that sort of stuff there.
00:22:13.896 - 00:22:49.270, Speaker A: You can read more about their raise in their blog post, of course, in terms of, like, their tech stack, I'm not sure how much they've. They've kind of, like, put out on their tech stack. There's been one blog post about the design philosophy, which I probably highlighted on the refill back in the day, so you can give that a read as well if you're interested in learning more about Nomad. But, yeah, I mean, it seems like all these VC's and angels and things like that are very confident in. In kind of like in Nomad in their technology. And at the end of the day, like I've said before, that I'm really bullish on bridges in general, maybe, I don't know, cross chain. I'm more bullish on multi chain stuff, which is basically a theorem and the l two s.
00:22:49.270 - 00:23:14.480, Speaker A: But regardless, you're still going to need that bridging infrastructure and things like that. So, you know, that applies to L2 as much as it applies to other networks and things out there. So cool to see them raise this round to continue building out their. Their vision for what a cross chain world can look like. All right, so Polygon announced today that they have gone green. So they've unveiled something called the Green manifesto, which is a smart contract with planet Earth, apparently. And you can see all the details here.
00:23:14.480 - 00:23:38.588, Speaker A: I believe they've partnered up with Klimadao for this and kind of, like, working with them, and they've pledged up to $20 million to take immediate steps to offset the ecosystem's environmental footprint entirely. So, this is the blog post here where you can read what this is going on about. I believe that. Yeah, I saw Klima was in here somewhere. I'm not. Maybe I'm. Maybe I'm blind here.
00:23:38.588 - 00:23:55.716, Speaker A: Yeah. Klimadao. Yeah. So. So, Clement. I was gonna be working with them to kind of, like, do stuff like analyzing the polygon networks energy footprint and supporting its emissions management and mitigation strategy, which is very, very cool. I mean, I think this is just really overall cool because polygon, I mean, already is very environmentally friendly because it's a Pos chain.
00:23:55.716 - 00:24:44.180, Speaker A: It's not POW chain. Right. It doesn't use mining or anything like that, but they want to go further than that and they want to offset basically everything, or as much as they possibly can across everything that they're doing, which I haven't seen any other proof of state network do or kind of like attempt to do or speak about. So I'm hoping that polygons kind of like initiative here actually pushes this forward. Right, and starts a trend here, because that's just, yeah, super, super cool that they're doing this. And the way they're doing this is that polygon is buying, or this is the first step, is buying $400,000 worth of high quality and traceable BCT, which is the carbon credit tokens from Klimadao and carbon credits as well, are the equivalent of roughly 90,000 tons of CO2 emissions. Polygon will then selectively retire the offsets with the carbon token pools that meet the highest standards for additional additionality and positive environmental impact.
00:24:44.180 - 00:25:10.188, Speaker A: Very, very cool. I love this. I know Klima, I spoke about them a while ago and I did warn against people getting involved with their kind of like token and stuff because it was like an Olympus fork and the token did what I thought it was going to do, which was kind of like bleed out. Unfortunately, that's not a comment about the project itself. I think the project's doing a lot of great stuff. But, yeah, at the time there was so much hype around it and everyone's like, oh my God, this is going to be the next thing. And then obviously Olympus collapsed.
00:25:10.188 - 00:25:30.414, Speaker A: Still there, but the price went down a lot. And then treasure and wonderland, all that sort of stuff. Not treasure, sorry, Wonderland collapsed and things like that. So, yeah, I don't make any comment about kind of like the token price, what that's going to do anything with Klima. But the project itself, I think, is still very, very cool. They're still kind of like committed to their mission. They haven't gone anywhere.
00:25:30.414 - 00:26:00.708, Speaker A: It's not like it was a, was a scam or anything, or a rug pool. And they're working with Polygon now, which is just really awesome to see. So definitely check out this full manifesto, this blog post, if you want more details here. And you can check out the website as well. Both will be linked in the YouTube description. All right, so Nifty island has announced something today called Palmdao, which basically is a dao that's going to be acquiring the best nfts, but putting them in and putting them in the hands of the community and creating game ready assets around them and playable in Nifty island and other game worlds. You can see here Palmdale.
00:26:00.708 - 00:26:34.260, Speaker A: There's just kind of like a splash, splash screen here or I guess coming soon website here with a bit more details. You know, what is, what is Palmdale? They describe it as something to push the metaverse forward by collecting the best NFTs and Dow members are able to utilize those assets in Nifty island and in other game worlds. Now, the cool thing about this is the way it's kind of governed is by palm holders. So there's these kind of like nfts that they, that Nifty island issued called palms. I own one of the neon ones. Very, very cool. And the kind of like palm holders basically get to get to govern this and get to kind of like play around with it and things like that.
00:26:34.260 - 00:27:20.342, Speaker A: So very, very cool that this kind of like, came out today and very cool it was announced today. I really like that they're trying to push the kind of like space forward here with NFTs, Nifty island. Like, you guys know, I've been a fan of Nifty island for a while now, but yeah, if you want more details on this, definitely go check out kind of like the side and the Twitter thread. And these are the projects that they're supporting right now. Obviously, you know, the board, ape yacht club, the idols, which is one that's becoming very popular, I believe, stuff like MfS, tubby cats, you know, cool cats and milady's, which Twitter blew up about for some reason, and I didn't get it, but yeah, and then a bunch of others. I mean, these are all pretty high quality NFT projects, I think from, from what I can see here, these are the ones that I see talked about a lot, especially obviously bored apes and stuff like that. Regardless of what you think about them, they've got massive communities.
00:27:20.342 - 00:27:49.834, Speaker A: They're doing a lot of stuff. They're actually executing on their roadmaps, maybe. I don't know about me bits, though, because me bits is obviously a lava labs thing. And it's curious that cryptopunks is in here, man. I don't follow NFTs much, but it's funny how quickly cryptopunks fell out of favor because of the fact of lava labs not doing much with it. And then lava labs sold to Yugalabs, which was the people behind bored Apex Yacht club. And yeah, I haven't really heard much about crypto punks.
00:27:49.834 - 00:28:11.538, Speaker A: Like, I'm not saying I'm bearish on punks or anything like that. But it's just funny how they kind of for now, have lost, lost the cultural kind of like attention war in the NFT land. I think that's for a number of different reasons, but I'm no expert on NFT, so I'm not going to bore you with, with the details. They'll bore you with my speculation. But yeah, just finding to see that they aren't on this list here. Maybe they will be in the future. But, but yeah, anyway, definitely check this out.
00:28:11.538 - 00:28:30.312, Speaker A: I'll link it in to the description. All right. Lastly here, my second talk that I did at Blockchain week is now live for you to kind of have a, have a gander at. So this was my one with Kane Warwick. We basically talked about, mostly about Defi and Ethereum and things like that. It was, it was quite a fun talk. It was the last talk of, of the Melbourne event here.
00:28:30.312 - 00:28:44.424, Speaker A: So if you're interested in that, you can definitely check it out. It'll be linked in the YouTube description, but I think that's going to be it for today's episode. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give your thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
