00:00:30.250 - 00:02:25.360, Speaker A: That I've only used this site. Our main product offering is first built around staking platform. Being able to trustlessly stake with our tokens. And you know the first point, this is always fine, everything that they're doing. We also do a more of a consultancy and manage. So this is more for higher net worth individuals or enterprises to their own nodes or build concepts. So the first product offering I want to go into is our staking platform.
00:02:25.360 - 00:03:04.560, Speaker A: A few iterations with them, with revamped and revamped. Granted over the months, the test version is totally alive. Middle of last year. Try it out for yourself. Fully trustless. You never hand over trustee authority. The main point of staking and why you sort of set out in smart contract build it the way we have done.
00:03:04.560 - 00:03:59.230, Speaker A: We're talking to stimulus ourselves as we call. We don't really run our own. Gaining a lot of collateral to be able to provide very few nodes. Extremely high collateral amounts to be able to service any contracts, whatever it may be. The staking app itself has been built from the ground up to itself. Doesn't have typical delegation like you get on other projects like Tedos for example. We needed to make sure that was very user friendly.
00:03:59.230 - 00:05:24.170, Speaker A: An exciting point about staking, something that I'm going to go into more today is more partners and user same thing without transferring over to. This is something that we talked about prior in like a single screen. I've never really spoken about it properly, but because we built a smart contract platform that allows trusted staking, then that means that we can open it up to other third party nodes as well. We have to guarantee that even a bad actor also wanting to spinning up the node with the intention each end user because smart contract, like I said, there's no end user risk. No one can take the tokens even if they try to, for example, lethal ourselves as the first part. And we cannot, even if we try to, we cannot take the token from. The only possibility of tokens being taken is through the penalty protocol.
00:05:24.170 - 00:06:45.674, Speaker A: That's also something that covering for. We are looking for full blown insurance, full coverage disaster or any gaming within the network different third parties about. And I think the discussion of insurance, especially smart contract insurance, is interesting. It's a critical topic to especially typical insurance providers where insurance falls in the more typical insurance offerings. In terms of third party safety, we want to make it as much of a free market as possible. There might be a slight, but it's completely up to each and every node operator to be able to define their fees. So for example, you have a control panel within the app and it says this is your node.
00:06:45.674 - 00:08:57.390, Speaker A: Then you'd be able to set your percentage of what you take from your node. We take a small fee of between one and a half and 3%. From an overall point of view, our contract platform is going to be professionally audited and we're going through multiple audit companies and everything's verified and transparent by the node itself is listed would be front and center within the staking app. For anyone who has seen and looked at before. It's not really online, especially on main net, but for robster your nodes would be listed on the main entrance, would be able to go in and stay focused. Launched earlier this month, the market is something that has taken our primary course for pretty much all of this year. It's one of our last builders to list everything they build and transparent information network is end user to be able to build their connection as of right, the myths which is what double just over a week ago, which is really the community themselves, especially when people with listing process authority.
00:08:57.390 - 00:10:07.058, Speaker A: I find that very exciting. I think in the future, especially with the amount of nodes and what you can do within the trading network. Even though the market is something that we developed, deployed and we maintained, we built it very much to be a completely free market. We want the community to take hold, list everything and just run with it and be able to flesh out and just keep a listing and adding everything that they want to do show what they've done on the channel. So some of the features, if people have seen it, you can check out the link and explorer. So you go on, you do your notes, you can see how many runs we've done, we can see the live updates and any requests are mainly ongoing. Essentially allows everything to be built out without a central point of authority.
00:10:07.058 - 00:11:16.780, Speaker A: So we have no manual say when people list their nodes we do not filter them, we do not accept or decline. We have an on chain verification process that uses chain link and if the node passes that verification process then it might be listed on the page. So we have no saying it even though we own it. We do not interfere with people. The version that we released now is the MVP process in terms of features and functionality. I think there's a lot, lot more that can be done within the market. Something I'm going to go into first time I'm talking about we as the lutheran team have been talking about over the past month where we want to take the market.
00:11:16.780 - 00:12:36.710, Speaker A: The first one is and the reference there is essentially an expansion of what is being done already now on the chain network. So at the minute, if you're in the community and you've been keeping highlight the main traffic of the Ethereum price and the reference data between the node operators who are reviewed as well. Like the new node operators are feeding their price into an aggregate contract. And I think at the minute there's around eleven or twelve people on there. So we want to expand on that and create a market of reference data with the new market that may look like people haven't been able to fit and trade in terms of support, for example, of the different types of data supported within the market. So at the minute, if we've got four to four nodes, we will reference data contract just like each person on the marketplace would then be able to go into their profile and add their node to that reconciling contract. So that means you are getting usage.
00:12:36.710 - 00:13:59.622, Speaker A: People can see the request room for your node and actually you're actually going to be seeing traffic and you see your node being utilized rather than just being growing sales on the market and being listed and never really being used. From a contract creator's point of view, I think this is absolutely critical because if we double the nodes to 44 nodes in over a week on the marketplace, then you can imagine when there's more traction and then months down the line. So for example, if we're providing the price of link to Ethereum or the price of Ethereum to USD, then you've got over 100 nodes or 200 nodes, for example, providing that data to that same contract that can be utilized by stablecoin projects. It can be utilized. People who are building derivative platform, even if we provide it like commodity that represent data is critical. I think being able to provide three digits worth in the future for that is very exciting. For example, maker only has around mid 20 oracles providing their pegs Ethereum price.
00:13:59.622 - 00:15:27.670, Speaker A: If you've got over 100 or 200, then you can argue that you are less likely to have problems caused by central hyperical machine learning as well. So this is something that we are looking using. So the minute the searching functionality marketplace is pretty simple, we want to take that level and provide machine learning integration to where you'll get more natural tools. You'll put in, say I want the price of a bitcoin, it'll just be a lot smarter. So for example, when the marketplace grows and grows and they start going into the value, it becomes a lot simpler and a lot easier for PNG contract creators initiator support. So this is something I don't really think many people know about. So from a development point of view there is a push that initiator support within Shelley and by initiators I mean being able to create requests from different networks.
00:15:27.670 - 00:17:21.146, Speaker A: So the initiation of a request at the minute, the only possible way to create a chili request is either via API call or by Ethereum block or by like a certain in the future that will be expanded by different networks just like it requests from different from different networks. From a market point of view that will look like the adapters and then you'll be able to search on how you want your request to originate from. For example, a plan some use cases that you might want to create a chain link request where certain bitcoin wallet has been deposited with five bitcoin for example triggers. The internal API call request functionality is quite powerful. You can expect how that could sort of snowball link over different networks and possibility explorer people are familiar with the market. At the minute it's only the officially reviewed nodes that are added to the chain link Explorer. At the minute admin credentials on the chain link Explorer.
00:17:21.146 - 00:19:02.990, Speaker A: So that's something that we'll be proud to support. When for example you list your node, you'll get verified and then bring it along badges and leaderboards as well. So this is something that such a wide variety like an achievement system, like getting a fight, for example, certain achievements. Then you'll start getting like badges, whether it's you facilitate request or you got your node officially reviewed by the change team, or you got tbase verified, for example socializing, you'll start seeing like little badges and then you'll be able to see like readable search the nodes that fit your criteria more precisely rather than just at a minute where it's strictly based on the amount of runs that you'll notice. Talk about our consulting and managed branch a bit more. So from the start we've been consulting to provide specific solutions to different teams, whether that's individuals or companies. Everyone's welcome.
00:19:02.990 - 00:19:44.286, Speaker A: We're open to any proof of concepts or any use cases that people want to discuss. At the minute we are pretty much people wanting to sign up and spin up a note. But we don't just want to spin up as many nodes as possible because then it's problematic as a first party, as a center party. We don't want to spin up too many chains because it's problematic at the minute. We've got six nodes live. We will be providing more visibility on the marketplace for which nodes they are. So those nodes that currently listed on the marketplace but there is no option to actually manage by us.
00:19:44.286 - 00:20:46.926, Speaker A: So that's something as well we're going to be doing in the future. As a business, something that we do is outwards. The different providers and enterprises share best practices on implementing chainlink and running a chain link. Everything around Chainlink and just real life learning exercises and getting people familiar with it. It's very encouraging and pretty exciting to speak to a lot of teams who are, as soon as they sort of get the gist of what chili, it's like a light bulb moment for them. And people can see how Chainlink itself can optimize and you can get large efficiency games and essentially save a lot of money by implementing chainlink into typical business flows. I think watching in general and smart contract, I think a lot of people focus primarily on Dapps and being able to provide little collapse on the blockchain.
00:20:46.926 - 00:21:56.274, Speaker A: But personally, I think overall, a lot of what smart contracts and chain link will do and primarily useful is on chain settlement and very important transactions that involve a lot of money and need to move a lot of money between businesses. Verified we've got nothing fully announced today. As soon as we do, we have working use cases. We'll be expecting to speak a lot about it and show it off. Especially the engineering work that we're doing for different things is exciting when you start building it out and thinking about it, it does get very exciting because then you can start thinking about how this works for different businesses and how people and companies can generally save a lot of. And yeah, we're hiring. So linkable itself was born in 2017.
00:21:56.274 - 00:23:06.302, Speaker A: We did a crowd sale in 2018, and we're getting to the point now where we need to seriously expand. So we're looking, and it's not really limited to front end developers, back end developers, operational engineers, and small contact developers. But yeah, it's not limited to any of this. We are open to talking to anyone really who has the skill set and are interested in watching technology. I think it's exciting and especially in the years, we're going to start getting quite interested, especially with what people are going to do with change. So thanks everyone for listening. And does anyone have any questions? Yeah, how are you finding the insurance? Just for anyone who didn't hear, it was how we was finding the insurance side, especially with typical insurance providers, it was very much a big learning exercise for a lot of these people.
00:23:06.302 - 00:24:21.970, Speaker A: And what we typically found is the smart contract insurance and offering insurance on large collateral amounts, it usually falls under cyber insurance. So like typical insurance, like break ins in typical system, like taking down infrastructure, it usually falls under that same category. But even still, when you're approaching an insurance provider and saying, oh, listen, we may have around 30 40 million usd, especially for smart contracts and staking clashes for different networks. They've been very open and effective in terms of the staking pool, even though there's a service and our managed offerings, we want to be able to provide insurance to these people. I think it's. If it's not there on launch, it's something that we're always going to. It's.
