00:00:08.220 - 00:00:45.444, Speaker A: Here we go. My name is Peter, co founder and CEO, and we are a data provider. And we are, I think, the latest member of the Shailey community because we are going live right now. I hope so. I first want to explain what we do, what our data is we are providing, and what you can do with it using Chainlink. And there's also a second use case you might be interested in. Ask if you're running a chainlink node because we might be helping or be able to help you with monitoring your node.
00:00:45.444 - 00:01:15.840, Speaker A: So first of all, e vent is a data provider. As I already mentioned, we are indexing all publicly available Ethereum blockchains. That's currently about 15 Ethereum Mainet Testnet Energy web Foundation. You can actually get the list on our website. We are also available as a virtual client. And the most interesting part is we are not just using the data from the blockchains, we are also translating them. So we translate logs to events.
00:01:15.840 - 00:02:04.800, Speaker A: So you can actually do math. For example, you can use basic data functionalities like mean leverage data, timeline, whatever you want on blockchain data. For example, Ethereum Mainet classic example would be get the maximum amount that came into this account. For example, of some token, there's documentation, it's all there, it's live. And you can actually create an account for me right now. So why should you use us? For sure, we would use project cost, reduce cost of operations, deliver more value faster, and you can actually reduce project risk because the data is there. Currently quite a lot of scientists are using us because the data is there and they don't need to grab from the load and create their own database.
00:02:04.800 - 00:02:43.248, Speaker A: As an example, now to some features, we are super fast. So if there's new blocks, say on Ethereum Mainnet, within half a second it is translated and it's propagated to, for example, the SQL database. We are also very reliable and we are actually to provide service level agreements to someone. That's also our business model. And also we are reorganized. Most of our competitors pay a certain amount of time for some blocks propagate and then they call it final. We mirror the blockchain as it appears in real time.
00:02:43.248 - 00:03:21.630, Speaker A: So if the block vote to remove a block, we also remove the block and all the translate and associated with us. So we are exactly in the same state as the blockchain in our geography. If someone is really interested, we could also introduce different geographies. Currently it's not. We also include internal transactions. As I mentioned, we translate a lot to events and we have standard burning languages. If you're familiar with SQL and take any language the SQL has not used, for example Python, you can use those out of the box.
00:03:21.630 - 00:04:14.456, Speaker A: We are very comprehensive network and actually they're very interested. We are about to get hung next week and then we have many many more chains. As I mentioned, currently they are all human based. We are also interested in bitcoin, stellar for example. There's many more. So what can you do with us? First of all, the most obvious one we can use as development tools for design time, observation, runtime. Since we are using Sven and API for example for say mobile applications and these are standard query languages, you can actually use us with existing tools.
00:04:14.456 - 00:04:48.520, Speaker A: I mentioned two here, tableau. They are common available in enterprise environment. You just have to point them to us and you are able to use your tools. Tableau actually also discovered another one is application monitoring. We understand the smart contract on a blockchain just as another application within hopefully an enterprise environment. So currently most of our customers just monitor the node with us. You can actually monitor the smart contract.
00:04:48.520 - 00:05:23.280, Speaker A: Another nice thing, since we are so fast, we are also bringing alerts. So if you have conditional say send me an email if the bound is higher. Ten tokens that coming in or going out of the address. This is currently available in beta as an API. So modus of notification the website and you have the locks on website. Two use cases. One of this was Daos.
00:05:23.280 - 00:06:27.320, Speaker A: We created a dashboard for them with actually just wanted to show some value that you get an idea what can be done with it. We have seen what we did for them and another one was for the NHweb foundation. We helped them deploy a bridge in Ethereum, Mainnet and their four network. And we also monitored that bridge essentially on the left side was going in and on the right side it was going out and below that screen is another screen which goes in the other direction. So you see the token flow. Now what are we doing with Oracle, especially with chain link? This is very exciting for us because it just happens as I mentioned, for sure you can use us as data source as well. So you can use us as an oracle, for example, historical data, single data points, best functions as I already mentioned, and actually pretty much pre configurable conditions.
00:06:27.320 - 00:07:40.784, Speaker A: And now as I already said, it's available chain link mode. So you can query our adapter for example for transactions, block hashes, the block number and even the locks get exposed as far as I know. And we offer it for Coban and Ethereum mainled right now and on the right side you actually see the whole list of all available networks, but they are not available as chain link nodes or chain link oracle. If you're interested in something special, please contact me. So on the right side there's a code example that's actually from the chain link page and that's what it does, for example validate transaction hashes and confirmations. And this is the query or the request that goes out. So these are the more specific details, our origin and the job ID.
00:07:40.784 - 00:08:36.590, Speaker A: The drive is as I always zero one link and this is the URL for the documentation. And we are very interested in chain link and I think you provide way more data if there is demand even quicker. I suppose. The last thing I would like to mention, you can also use us to monitor your chain link node since smart contract on a blockchain, you can actually look at that and we created a dashboard. These are essentially all of them that are currently available now. We added our service like about an hour ago, and this is the link to this dash port where you can see basic information about the current changing some of the nodes. Thank you very much for having me.
