00:00:00.160 - 00:00:33.276, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deli Gwei refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Zosano, and today's the 28 July 2022. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So we have the official girly Praeda merge announcement today. So Praedar, which is the I guess, copy of stake chain that Girly is going to be merging with, will run through the Bellatrix upgrade on August 4 and merge with Girlie between August 6 and August 12. It's a wide window there, but basically, obviously it's based on TDD. If you run a nodal validator, this is your last chance to go through the process before Mainnet.
00:00:33.276 - 00:01:20.888, Speaker A: So as you guys know, girly will be the last public testnet to go through the merge transition before we do it on main net. You can read this kind of announcement post for full details here, along with client releases for both the consensus and execution layers, with an faq as well to remind you of basically what you will need to do for the contestant and what you'll also be needing to do on Mainnet as well. As I mentioned before, that there is that merge readiness checklist. Make sure that you're familiar with that. Make sure that if you're a solo staker, you are upgrading your kind of like nodes and your validators and you're, and you're kind of like doing the other things on that list, such as optionally running mev boost if you want to take advantage of that, but also doing things, doing the other things on that list as well. And there's a reminder in this kind of blog post that you can check out too, but you can go check that out. And yeah, as I mentioned, the clients are out there too.
00:01:20.888 - 00:01:45.008, Speaker A: So the geth kind of like releases here as well. So this configures the merge TTD on the girly testnet and fixes a few regressions. So very cool to see the I guess quote unquote official announcement. We already knew it was coming at this date, but yeah, it's kind of like being be confirmed here. As I said, last public testnet to run through the transition. I mean, I feel like at this point we're just running through the motions, guys. Like it's, I think girly is just a formality at this point.
00:01:45.008 - 00:02:17.792, Speaker A: I think we're pretty much ready to merge main net. We just got to go through goalie and then obviously get to September and do the main net merge hopefully in the week of September 19. I don't see any reason for it to be pushed back at this point in time. Like, honestly, I mean, I've got a kind of like an update here about the Shadow fork ten, which is main net shadow fork ten. Everything seemed to go very, very well. You can see here this update comes from parathos where he said they didn't notice any client incompatibilities with the transition, which was awesome. I mean, we sometimes see this, right, with these kind of like shadow forks or a lot of the time see this, but we didn't see it on Mainnet.
00:02:17.792 - 00:02:41.200, Speaker A: Shadow fork ten. Some bass nodes are running. The older version needed an update resync that had explained almost all of the missing participation rate. The node should be done resyncing soon. The participation rate should go back up. We notice lodestar Aragon pair having trouble fetching a block, but this is most likely attributed to the shadow fork peering setup rather, rather than a real issue. So again, a bunch of non merge related issues, I guess like only a couple there, which is amazing.
00:02:41.200 - 00:03:13.432, Speaker A: I mean, the fact that there's no client incompatibilities with the transition at all between all of the kind of production ready clients on the execution and consensus layer side is awesome, I think. I don't know the date for Mainnet shadow fork eleven yet, but I'm sure that's going to be coming soon. But I mean, at this point, it's just kind of like we know what to do. We've done it so many times, it works well. We know what can go wrong, how to recover from things that go wrong, like a drop in participation rate due to configuration issues. We know how quickly that we can recover from them on testnets. Probably going to be quicker on mainnet because there's real value at stake.
00:03:13.432 - 00:03:50.496, Speaker A: No pun intended. Or pun intended. And then, yeah, I think that it's all pretty much kind of like tested out at this point. As I said, formalities from now, I don't think the testing that we're doing now is really anything than kind of like, I guess like triple checking, quadruple checking, quintuple checking. Our work, essentially, and girly will be that final public testnet, and then we'll move on to the main net. So very, very cool to see that. All right, so I saw a bit of discussion today on Twitter around something related to the merge, and I basically put a tweet out where I said, you know, I'm seeing influencers and miners shilling a possible Ethereum proof of work for today.
00:03:50.496 - 00:04:19.774, Speaker A: Now people are free to fork Ethereum at the time of the merge and continue it as a proof of work chain. But basically everything on that chain will break, especially defi. But hey, I won't say no to dumping proof of work ETH for more ETH. Now the reason why people were talking about this is because I can't, I can't remember his name. I think his name is Chandler Gu. He's basically a big miner with, was responsible for or a big part of the Ethereum classic fork. Announced today on Twitter that they're planning to do a kind of like pow, only fork of Ethereum, you know, once the merge happens.
00:04:19.774 - 00:05:00.374, Speaker A: I've talked about this on the refill before. I've talked about it for a long time, actually. And I mentioned that I believe there was a high chance this would happen because there's money to be made. Right. Look, you might think to yourself, well, who's going to be buying the forked, kind of like ETH tokens here? Who's going to be buying the proof of work fork ETH tokens? Look, guys, I don't know how long you've been around for, but these markets can be really dumb, and not just dumb. If there is enough people kind of buying into this narrative, buying into the trade, then you're going to have the speculators, you're going to have the everyday traders jumping into this as well, which just adds more liquidity, adds more kind of like buy pressure. And yeah, this thing could obtain some kind of value, right.
00:05:00.374 - 00:05:24.126, Speaker A: But the thing is, is that this isn't like a bitcoin and bitcoin cash fork from 2017. This, that was definitely an ideology thing. This is more of a kind of like, let's see if we can get free money thing. And also bitcoin is very, very different to Ethereum in kind of like forking. When bitcoin cash forked off, you know, instead of BTC on bitcoin cash, you have BTC, bch. And that was really it. There was nothing else that needed to be kind of like worried about.
00:05:24.126 - 00:06:06.958, Speaker A: But when you fork Ethereum, you have to worry about basically everything else on the chain. Now let me use a clear example here for deFi. The clearest example I can use to illustrate my point is stable coins, right within kind of like defi, even just stable coins in general. If you have the Ethereum proof of stake chain, which is the canonical chain, it's the one that we're all using. It's one that everyone agrees is the real Ethereum, and then you have this proof of work chain that has basically everything Ethereum had before it merged to proof of stake. While the stable coins on that proof of work chain logically are going to go to zero, like especially the centralized ones, because circle and Coinbase, the issuer of USDC, are not going to honor the USDC tokens on the proof of work Ethereum chain. They're going to honor them on the proof of stake Ethereum chain.
00:06:06.958 - 00:06:44.142, Speaker A: So say there's $50 billion of USDC in circulation, there's only $50 billion in cash backing that up. There's not 100 billion. So they can't basically cover their, I guess, like I ou, so to speak, on the proof of work Ethereum chain, which means that USDC on that chain should logically trade at zero, because it's, it's, it's worthless, right? Same goes for tether, same goes for any centralized stablecoin. The decentralized stable coins get a bit murky. I mean, if you talk about something like Dai, the ETH backing the dai would be worth the proof of work ETH, right. Would be worth a lot less than real ETH, would be worth whatever the speculators are kind of like making it worth at the time. Same goes for all of the tokens out there.
00:06:44.142 - 00:07:11.100, Speaker A: So it's not like when the fork happens, you're going to be able to get, I guess, like all this free money. You're going to like double your money. No, that's not how it works at all. You might get like a, a fraction of what you get for your real tokens, right? For example, maybe you get 10% of the value. I mean, I don't even think you'll get that, to be honest. Like, maybe depending on how much hype there is around this, butting how much speculation is around this, it's just, it's impossible to tell. But the proof of work ethereum chain, everything's going to break on there.
00:07:11.100 - 00:08:12.270, Speaker A: There's going to be no oracles supporting it either, because the oracles are kind of like set up to support the Ethereum proof of stake chain post merge, right? Because that is the canonical chain. There's going to be a lot of people kind of like selling into these liquidity pools and trying to get out. There's going to be a shit ton of Mev happening as well on the chain. Like, honestly, it's going to be like, you know, that the whole thing's going to blow up, but there's going to be so many people probably trying to get out, right, and get the money out and try and make money and try and dump all their tokens as fast as possible, that the MeV stuff is going to be incredibly lucrative, and it's going to, you know, jump a lot of attention, and there's going to be a lot of speculation around this. So I do want to give fair warning here is that there, as I said, as I've said before, there is a high chance of this happening, but it doesn't mean that this chain is worth anything or is legit. It just means that the speculators trying to make money or what they perceive to be free money. It's kind of like how a theorem classic has gotten value over the last few weeks, because there's some narrative around it that all the miners are going to move to a theorem classic and then people are going to use a theorem classic or whatever, like some, some bizarre things that I'm seeing.
00:08:12.270 - 00:08:47.458, Speaker A: It's like, okay, well, no, that's just people pushing this narrative because they want to trade it leading up to kind of like the merge and, and they want to make money. And, you know, so far it's, it's worked, I guess, for people who are trading this, but traders, investors, as I've discussed before, very, very different timelines, very, very different sets of people. And also, I want to say when, if this fork was to happen, it's similar to kind of like the theorem classic fork. It's not like you're going to get airdrop to the proof of work ETH tokens on your main Ethereum wallet on proof of stake. Ethereum, that's not how it works at all. The proof of work chain is a completely separate chain. It has nothing to do with, with the Ethereum chain.
00:08:47.458 - 00:09:13.524, Speaker A: That's going to be proof of stake, right. The economical chain. So you would have to, as you do with basically L2s and other network, other EVM networks, you would have to change your network in metamask. And you would want to make sure that you're on the right network as well. You want to make sure that you can actually push transactions through. That's another thing as well. Like if Infuria or alchemy or any of these service providers don't have a way for you to push transactions through because they don't have the nodes set up for it, then you're, you're going to probably have to run your own local node to do that.
00:09:13.524 - 00:09:47.194, Speaker A: And as I said, the MeV people are going to take full advantage of this because they know exactly what they're doing. It's going to be quite wild to watch play out. But essentially, if you want to access, access those forked coins, you would have to change the network and then your balances would change to what you have on, I guess, like the Ethereum power fork. And obviously the dollar value of those coins would be worth a lot less than that would be for the real coins on Ethereum. So yeah, it's going to be messy if it does happen. As I said, I think there's a high chance that it happens just because there's money to be made here for the people that want to make it happen. But it's going to be a completely worthless and kind of like irrelevant chain.
00:09:47.194 - 00:10:09.628, Speaker A: It's not going to basically have any activity on it. I doubt any developers or applications are really going to embrace it, especially the major ones. And it's going to hurt a lot of people because people are not going to understand what they're doing. The MEV people are going to understand what they're doing. They're going to extract so much value. The people that kind of like know that basically everything on that chain is going to zero are going to get out first. Right.
00:10:09.628 - 00:10:34.684, Speaker A: Even if it pumps up a little bit. Like, this is something I think a lot of people miss, is that say the kind of like fork happens and then the ETH on the proof of work chain is worth $10. I'm just throwing out a random kind of figure there, and then you sell it all at $10 and then it goes to $20 because of some speculation. Like that doesn't mean anything, like etc. Did the same thing after the fork and that was actually a completely different fork. Mind you, it was based on an ideological thing, kind of like the bitcoin. Bitcoin cash fork.
00:10:34.684 - 00:10:53.922, Speaker A: But just because it's gone up in value doesn't mean it's going to stay there. Like once the speculation on hype phase is over, it's going to just trend to zero. Like look at bitcoin cash against bitcoin, like, not against USD, but again, I mean, even against USDA, it's pretty wrecked. But against bitcoin, it's just like obliterated. Same with all the other forks. Like bitcoin Sv, bitcoin gold, bitcoin diamond. They were all just.
00:10:53.922 - 00:11:27.822, Speaker A: I mean, I think bitcoin gold and diamond are basically scams, but basically they're all just kind of like sold off to get the real tokens because no one cares about these things. They want to stack BTC, they would want to stack ETH right. So if these, this happens, I'm 100%, like I'm gonna be completely transparent here. I'm selling everything that I get the day that I get it, and for more ETH. Like as I said, I'm not going to say no to free eat just because some people wanted to make more money here. And at the end of the day, if people are buying this and speculating on it, that's not my fault. Like I'm, as I've said before, I'm giving warnings, I'm telling people that the chain is going to blow up.
00:11:27.822 - 00:12:03.134, Speaker A: Like this is not going to be a good thing for anyone. Um, but the thing is, if I can stack more ETH with it, then so bad. I mean, I'm sure a lot of you guys would take advantage of this as well. But I, as I said, I do want to warn that it is not just a clear cut thing. Like you're going to have to kind of like consider the fact that you basically have to have some way to relay your transactions, whether that be through a third party or your own node. And you'll have to also have to consider the mev consequences, the fact that everything's going to blow up, you know, all that sorts of stuff. In saying that as well, I do want to note that it's not going to affect anything on the main Ethereum chain, on the, you know, the canonical chain.
00:12:03.134 - 00:12:28.896, Speaker A: That's all going to be well and good. All the value of your tokens will be what they are. I mean they'll be obviously based on the market price, but that's the real kind of like tokens, right? And Defi will continue to work fine. So I, that's kind of like a note there, because I know some people might be thinking, oh my God, you know what's gonna happen to my stuff if there is a fork and it's contentious and all these sorts of stuff. Well, I mean, nothing really. And also on top of that, because, because they're two different consensus mechanisms, right? One spirit of work, one spirit of stake. There's no hash wars.
00:12:28.896 - 00:13:09.080, Speaker A: I remember in the bitcoin, bitcoin cash war, there was a hash war where miners would just keep changing between the two chains. That can't happen with, with this, because obviously they're two completely different things, right? So that's another thing to bear in mind. So nothing to stress about. Maybe you'll make some free money, maybe you won't if this happens. But do keep in mind that it's not just a clear cut thing there are consequences for these sorts of things and kind of like, depending on what you do on the, on the fork chain, right? If you're going to speculate, if you're actually going to buy, like, selling is fine, but if you're actually going to buy these things, just be kind of like, just completely understand the fact that it's pure speculation. You're not actually buying anything based on fundamentals. You're buying it all based on speculation.
00:13:09.080 - 00:13:23.344, Speaker A: And you're allowed to do that. Don't get me wrong. Like, feel free to do that, but I think I just want to kind of put that warning out there that it, it may not end well. Right. There's no guarantee you're going to make money from that. But, yeah, anyway, leave it at that for today. Let's go on to the next update.
00:13:23.344 - 00:14:02.192, Speaker A: So I saw this interesting tweet from Kyon, who's the co founder of Monad here, where he said lots of EVM fud on the timeline lately. And there has been, right, like, everyone loves to hate on the EVM, loves to hate on solidity, all that sorts of stuff. But then Kyon kind of continues and say it says EVM is a powerful bytecode standard that has stood the test of time, will continue to evolve with new opcodes and feats, has multiple great high leverage languages such as solidity and Viper, and will get much more performance. And they're working on that at Monad. So if you don't know what Monad is, is basically a kind of a team that's accelerating the EVM ecosystem for world adoption. That's what they're saying here. I'm going to follow that account now.
00:14:02.192 - 00:14:24.864, Speaker A: But, yeah, guys, like, I, I've talked about the EVM dominance before. I mean, I think I talked about it recently. So I'm not going to get too kind of, like, into the weeds here, but, like, I think we really need to encourage people to, or not encourage, but, like, make people aware. The fact that the EVM is going nowhere. So solidity is going nowhere. It's going to keep growing, it's going to keep dominating. Even the people and the ecosystem that say that the EVM is shit and solidity shit.
00:14:24.864 - 00:14:47.016, Speaker A: They have their own EVM chains. I mean, it's just hilarious whenever I see that because the EVM such. Has such a large network effect that actually makes sense for them to do that. So it's easy for apps to port over and all that sorts of stuff. So, yeah, whenever you see EVM Fud or anything like that, just know that it's actually fud. And yeah, okay, the EVM isn't perfect, but it can be improved over time. And it has such a large network effect that it's worth improving it.
00:14:47.016 - 00:15:31.604, Speaker A: Like, it's very worth improving it. And as I've said before, we on L2, we're going to have the EVM compatible and equivalent stuff, but we're also going to have other ecosystems like stocknet that aren't EVM at all. And there's going to be other L2s that also aren't EVM and that have their own virtual machine, their own languages, and that's fine, but I guess you can have that and not fudge the EVM at the same time. Right? So yeah, I just want to mention that I think there's a couple more tweets here and some discussion in the thread. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to check out. All right, so speaking of, I guess, like languages, there is this new language that was released today called Huff, which is, I guess, claiming to be the most gas optimized smart contract language to ever touch the eVm. Huff enables you to optimize your contracts by up to 80% compared to other languages like solidity and Viper.
00:15:31.604 - 00:16:04.838, Speaker A: Very cool for the developers out there. Like, as I said, guys, EVM just going to keep getting better and better. Now we have another new language for this based on kind of like gas optimizations. You may think to yourself, or why do we need gas optimizations if we're moving to L2s? It's the same thing, right? Layer twos, EVM compatible equivalent L2s still use the concept of gas. So anything we can do to reduce those costs there at the smart contract language level was going to just reduce the overall cost of those L2 transactions and get them like really, really, really cheap. So very, very cool to see. I think this is made by the, someone at aztec protocol, one of the co founders of Aztec Protocol, which is really cool to see.
00:16:04.838 - 00:16:43.424, Speaker A: But yeah, if you're a developer and you want to learn more about this and kind of like how you can get involved in a construction using it, you can go to huff sh. But yeah, I mean, I guess like for non developers out there, it's probably not interesting to you, but I thought it was worth mentioning in the context of the EVM stuff that I just talked about. All right, so this came out yesterday and I didn't see it until after I recorded yesterday's refuel. But basically, another update here from rocket pool on their Redstone, I guess, like protocol upgrade that is coming. So this update is called the merge and node operators. And basically what it does is it goes through how things are changing for, I guess, rocket pool node operators here. So you can read the full blog post for what's changing on Rockerpool side.
00:16:43.424 - 00:17:31.240, Speaker A: There's actually a lot of changes, and I think I've gone through this before, there's naming changes, changes with the engine API, which is actually on the Ethereum protocol side, fee recipient. So that's again on the Ethereum protocol side. But you're going to need to set your fee recipients if you're a solar validator or if you're kind of like a rocket pool validator and node operator here, Mev Boost, as I mentioned before, it's an optional extra, but definitely something you want to take advantage of. And then there are other sections, you know, how do I prepare for the merge and kind of some things that are rocker pool related as well here. So if you fall into that camp, definitely kind of check out this blog post for the details. I like this little graphic that they have here, basically showing us kind of like where we, where we're kind of like moving to with the merge and kind of like how it released the rocker pool down the bottom here. So yeah, I mean, this is kind of like similar, I guess, little graphic compared, I guess I compared to what Trent Van Epps has put out prior.
00:17:31.240 - 00:17:56.930, Speaker A: I think I've showed that on the refill before, many times actually. And there's kind of like a little timeline here as well, which is very, very cool. So yeah, just more merge related stuff this time. Got to do with rocker pool, which you guys know I love. And also speaking of Rockerpool, there's another update here that 1000 ETH was deposited today in rocker pool, which is very cool to see. And I didn't even know this website existed, but there's a website called Rocketscan IO, which I guess is the rocket pool kind of explorer here. This is really cool.
00:17:56.930 - 00:18:29.096, Speaker A: I didn't, as I said, I didn't know this existed. I don't know how I hadn't seen this before, but it has all kinds of metrics and stats and kind of like different kind of things you can keep track of here, which I think is very, very cool. And on this page it basically shows the deposit pool and you can kind of see the kind of like 1000 ETH that was deposited here into the rocker pool protocol. I think this is going to keep going, guys. Like, I mean, rocket pool is making those big kind of upgrades that I've talked about before. They're lowering the barrier to entry for people. I think more and more people are learning about it through the bankless kind of like ads that they're doing.
00:18:29.096 - 00:19:01.948, Speaker A: Obviously, I talk about it on the refill a lot, too. But yeah, I'm loving the fact that rocket pool is just getting more and more usage here. And I was actually looking at Lido's dominance just before on Hill, Dobby's Hill WC Doon analytics dashboard. I'll bring it up over here for you guys so you can see what I mean. But Lido's market share was what, 33.5, almost 34% or something like that. And as I said before, its market share can't actually go down from kind of like with people withdrawing out of Lido because the ETH is still staked on the beacon chain because there's not withdrawals available.
00:19:01.948 - 00:19:24.612, Speaker A: But their market share can go down if other validators or if other kind of like services come online to dilute their market share. So Lido's market share is down to 31.4% now. So it's dropped by about two, 2.5%, which is, which is cool to see, obviously a slower drop because as I said, people can't withdraw out of Lido directly. But, like, we want to get this down as much as possible. Rockerpool is obviously working on it.
00:19:24.612 - 00:19:44.260, Speaker A: There's a bunch. Yeah, so many people doing staking these days. I mean, not just kind of like these lsds or liquid staking derivatives, but also the exchanges and other services and things like that as well. So that's cool. But, yeah, I don't know, I'm kind of. I always get into this debate with people about kind of like what this number is going to look like. This, I guess, like stake through Lido number is going to look like once withdrawals are enabled.
00:19:44.260 - 00:20:13.104, Speaker A: And I do firmly believe that people are going to reshuffle their stake. I know I've said it and I'm going to probably keep saying it until withdrawals are enabled. But, you know, as I said, there's only two ways for the market share to go down, and we could probably have a double whammy where the market share gets withdrawn from Lido. But at the same time, a lot of people are staking their ethan, they're not going through Lido. They're going through another provider such as rocket pool, which would be very cool. Obviously, I don't want rocket pool to just replace Lido. And then we just kind of got the, you know, hey, it's the new boss, same as the old boss sort of thing going on.
00:20:13.104 - 00:20:39.936, Speaker A: I do want a very distributed kind of like beacon chain and a very decentralized beacon chain. You can see here what the kind of like breakdown looks like right now. Lido number one, a kind of like Coinbase, Kraken, binance, have a large share here. Not as big as. As kind of like as I thought, actually, which is, which is cool to see. You have an others kind of, I guess, category here and a bunch of other categories as well. So if we could just keep shrinking each of these down, like enough.
00:20:39.936 - 00:20:59.584, Speaker A: Because right now, I mean, you know, you kind of like put Lido, Binance, Kraken and Coinbase together, it's a pretty hefty kind of like share of the network. I mean, that alone is over 50%. Right. So if you kind of like put them together, not great. But Lido isn't just Lido. It's obviously distributed among kind of different staking providers. I think they have like 28 different staking providers now.
00:20:59.584 - 00:21:18.764, Speaker A: So there's that aspect to it as well. But getting each of these down to maybe like. I don't know, I want to say we don't want any one entity to have over 10% of kind of like the stake. Right. And I don't think that's actually too hard to achieve. Like it may seem like it's, it's difficult to achieve. Right now we have two entities over 10%, Coinbase at 14.6%,
00:21:18.764 - 00:21:56.846, Speaker A: lido at 31.3%. But post withdrawals being enabled and more and more competition coming online, more and more staking service providers coming online, I think we can get there. I really do. I know people have a different view on this, thinking that especially people who are bullish on Lido, they have this thesis that it's all just going to centralize within lido because of liquidity effects and all that sort of stuff. And I actually understand that point of view, don't get me wrong. But I really don't think that it's going to end up like that. I think that people who thinking that kind of like absolute term, kind of like a bit short sighted, I do think that the Ethereum community cares enough about kind of like keeping the beacon chain stake decentralized and distributed.
00:21:56.846 - 00:22:19.682, Speaker A: And I also believe that the competition is going to get so fierce that there are going to be different incentives, you know, for different kind of like providers. And once withdrawals are enabled, people can kind of like stake, restake, do all these sorts of things. I know there's a queue, right? It's not like you can just cop in and out all the time. There is definitely a queue to. To stake and unstake. But I don't think that Lido is going to stay at 31.3% dominance.
00:22:19.682 - 00:23:07.904, Speaker A: Right? I really don't think so. I mean, I think it could be below 30% easily by the time we get too big in chain withdrawals being enabled, because, you know, other providers have just gotten more stake within them. But we'll have to see how that shakes out. But, yeah, as I said, I don't think this is something of a kind of like, long term concern, but I'm really, really happy that people are still shouting it out and still kind of like making noise about it because at least keeps the awareness up, keeps it on top of people's minds, just like we did with client diversity. I think the client diversity drive proves that we can, we have the muscle to do this and we have the kind of like, ability to do this. Obviously, it's not apples to apples because of the fact that client diversity and, you know, who you stake with is probably two different things, but it just shows that the social layer can enact, you know, grand change when it wants to. And I was looking at this the other day, and I posted this in the Discord channel the other day about Coinbase and Kraken.
00:23:07.904 - 00:23:34.306, Speaker A: They were using, I think, over 90% prism at one point. Now they're at like 45% or something like that's half like. And prism being the majority client. What was the majority client? The super majority client, I should say, on the beacon chain. And that changed within a few months. So it really does show the power of the social layout, which I think can definitely be applied to staking. And I hope that the people that have been kind of like shouting from the rooftops about liquid staking, derivative centralization, especially around Lido, continue to do so.
00:23:34.306 - 00:24:06.782, Speaker A: Even if I disagreed with some of the tactics, like making lighter self limit, I still disagreed with that tactic. It's obviously not going to happen, but that's fine. I think even making noise about it in that context was still good because it made people more aware of the issue and it probably got people to rethink if they were going to stake with Lido or they're going to stake with a minority provider or something like that. So, yeah, as I said, I still think it's important. I still think it's something worth talking about. So kudos to those people that talked about that. All right, so the snapshot for the gh oh proposal, which is the kind of like are they stable coin here is now public.
00:24:06.782 - 00:24:28.006, Speaker A: You can go check this out on snapshot link will be in the YouTube description below. I think this is gonna pass. Don't foresee people voting against this. It seems like a good idea. I don't know if we need another stable coin, but we'll see. I mean maybe we do need another decentralized stable coin to compete because we just kind of like don't have many of those these days. So yeah, if you're kind of like an ave token holder you can definitely go vote in this.
00:24:28.006 - 00:24:59.286, Speaker A: But even if you're not, you can kind of like just keep tabs on this, keep kind of like keep a kind of like pulse on what's happening in the other community with regards to this. I'm definitely keeping a close eye on it. I think then the ticker should definitely be changed. Gh oh just, it does, doesn't look good as a ticker, especially if it's something like a stable coin which is obviously going to be used more than a regular token. I think that should change the ticker. Maybe they will before it goes live, but that's the only feedback I really have on it. I'm just curious to see how this kind of like kind of another decentralized stable coin experiment is going to play out.
00:24:59.286 - 00:25:29.866, Speaker A: So I'm definitely excited for that. But yeah, just wanted to mention that the snapshot is now live. But I do think that this is going to go through with no kind of no drama here. Alright, so Jacob Horne here from Zora put out this I guess like really important image that I really, really liked. Where on, it's kind of like a spectrum here. On the left side of the spectrum you've got the top kind of label being protocol and then under that saying forkable. And then on the right side of the spectrum you have brand and then unforkable.
00:25:29.866 - 00:26:00.594, Speaker A: And I think this is a very simple way of showing that taking for an example etherium and the EVM, very easy to fork it, right. Everyone has done it. You know, people have made money off it. There are so many chains out there that have done at this point it's, it's, it's easily done because it's all open source and it's kind of like, it's kind of like a, an everyday thing that people do at this stage. And then you have brand which is unforkable just because you fork Ethereum and the EVM doesn't mean you've forked the Ethereum brand. Like, all you have is the technology. You don't have the brand.
00:26:00.594 - 00:26:19.034, Speaker A: You don't become a theorem just because you forked it. Right? And this goes back to my earlier discussions in the episode about kind of, like, the proof of work for. Right. You don't get any of the legitimacy that Ethereum has. You don't get any of the social gym. You actually probably get negative legitimacy because people view your chain and, like. And kind of like, okay, well, you're just a fork of ethereum, just a fork of geth.
00:26:19.034 - 00:26:46.340, Speaker A: It's kind of, like, worthless. We have too many of these, you know, who cares about that, right? You don't get any of the, I mean, maybe you get some of the community, maybe, but, like, most of them don't come over. Maybe you get some liquidity during, like, a bull market because people want to make money. But really, at the end of the day, like, the brand, the Ethereum brand does not come with you. You're just forking the technology. And even if you have, like, the EVM, which is obviously stands for the Ethereum virtual machine, it doesn't matter because your EVM is not the EVM. Like, for example, and it doesn't just go for a theorem.
00:26:46.340 - 00:27:00.632, Speaker A: It goes for everything else in crypto, especially uniswap. How many times has uniswap been forked? The. The protocol, I should say. Sorry. The brand? Definitely not. I mean, the funny thing is, like, we had this massive war between sushi swap and Uniswap. Susie, swap is basically irrelevant these days.
00:27:00.632 - 00:27:37.102, Speaker A: Uniswap is dominating. Like, absolutely dominating. Then you had pancakeswap on BSC, and then you had a bunch of others on other kind of, like, chains that just forked uniswap. All of them are very, very small compared to Uniswap, because Uniswap has that incredible brand, that incredible kind of, like, awareness around that brand and. And kind of like all the goodwill, kind of like all the social legitimacy and all the technical legitimacy as well, right? Like, if you fork the code, there are changes you can make to it as well. So even if you fork kind of like uniswap and you don't change anything, there's no say, there's no kind of like, I guess, like a guarantee that you won't change it in the future. Maybe you added an admin key to it and everything else stay the same.
00:27:37.102 - 00:27:59.974, Speaker A: Well, now it's kind of like, okay, well, you might change it. You're not uniswap at all. You're something completely different now, right? I guess, like, you're not Uniswap. The protocol, obviously not the brand. It goes for everything. I mean, I can give a million examples here, but I think you get the point. And I think this is something that especially kind of, like, newcomers to crypto completely miss, is that they think that because everything is open source, you can just kind of, like, fork something and take its value away.
00:27:59.974 - 00:28:21.848, Speaker A: You know, I mean, maybe temporarily, there might be some kind of, like, war that goes on between a couple of protocols, like the uniswap sushiswap thing. But long term, you don't take any value away from the original. The original stays dominant. Unless it's like. Unless the original is. Is kind of, like, crappy already, or unless the original kind of, like, failed already and you think you can do something better. There's not that many examples of these.
00:28:21.848 - 00:28:47.962, Speaker A: Obviously, there's been a lot of forks, but the original always seems to win out. I think maybe an example of this might be steam. What happened with steam where Justin sun took it over, and then they kind of, like, forked off into Hive? I think Hive got all of the steam users and has much more legitimacy. But in terms of, like, forks overall, it's usually the original that retains its value and retains its social legitimacy because of that brand. Right. Not because of the technology. And, you know, the brand kind of, like, carries that technology.
00:28:47.962 - 00:29:16.450, Speaker A: So I just thought that was a great graphic, and I just wanted to kind of, like, give my view on it there. I finally here, I just wanted to highlight this kind of tweet from David Hoffman. So this is a list of all of the eTHCC interviews that he did. And this is a pretty stellar list, if I. If I may say so myself. So the first episode, I think, is out already, which is the Vitalik episode, but then he has a bunch of different guests on his came from synthetix, has Uri and Eli from Starkware, Mahalo from Polygon. I think this is sunny from.
00:29:16.450 - 00:29:40.938, Speaker A: From osmosis, Moses. The cosmos ecosystem, Hastani from Ave proven authority, which I believe is Evan from disco and a walkie, and Austin here a walkie from Gitcoin and Austin Griffith are from a bunch of different kind of, like, things within the Ethereum community. He's definitely one of our top builders, but, yeah, I mean, I can't wait to listen to all of these. I haven't listened to the Vitalik one yet. Apparently it's really good. So I'm definitely gonna listen to that soon, but yeah, just a killer lineup here, obviously. All on bankless.
00:29:40.938 - 00:29:53.054, Speaker A: Wanted to highlight it for you guys so you don't miss it. But on that note, I think that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter, join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
