00:00:00.570 - 00:00:50.486, Speaker A: Perfect. Well, hello, everybody, and welcome to another live stream here. This is basically going to be kind of a fireside chat, really giving Stani and the CEO of Ave here an opportunity to really increase awareness about some of the cool things they're doing about the Chainlink integration and where you can kind of find out more resources and information if you'd like to kind of take a deeper dive into sort of what both, both teams are doing. So first off, I just want to thank both the Aave chainlink and blockchain community for joining us today. In addition, I want to thank Issa, who always does a fantastic job of helping us kind of arrange all this stuff behind the scenes. So special shout out to her. The main goal of the Q A really is really just to allow the community to learn more about the integration, learn more about Ave, learn more about Chainlink, and really exploring kind of deeper into what makes this collaboration so useful.
00:00:50.486 - 00:01:33.154, Speaker A: So this is going to be for about 30 minutes, going to be sort of a fireside chat structure. Well, basically I'll be asking Conestana some questions that we've kind of gathered from both the community and some basic ones, and then really allow him to sort of explore on kind of what Ave is building and some of the cool stuff you can likely expect to see down the road. We'll also be adding any sort of links to the descriptions to the YouTube video once completed. So again, if you want to join the Ave community, they have a thriving one on discord. If you want to kind of send something to their Twitter account, we'll be supplying really all that information. So if you want to learn more details, you can follow any of those links to learn more about each one of these projects. So first off, I'd like to welcome again Stani Kulichov, the CEO of Ave, if you wouldn't mind.
00:01:33.154 - 00:01:40.800, Speaker A: Stani, just kind of maybe sharing a little bit about yourself, maybe a little background and just a little brief intro onto what Ave's kind of created and is continuing to create.
00:01:41.410 - 00:02:53.550, Speaker B: Yeah, sure. Thanks, Orient. It's pretty amazing to be here and especially big fan of your community and being quite long supporter of Chainlink and the project. So I think it actually touches a bit base, what you guys are doing, how we kind of got started ourselves. So I think the very rough idea about Ave started a few years ago, I think it was 2016, we wanted to create basically decentralized financial transactions, not just typical Alice sends funds to bob and basically that kind of things, but actual financial instruments and trying to make it as trustless as possible. So basically we did a first iteration called, I mean, smart contract iteration called it land, which was the first lending protocol on Ethereum a few years ago. And this was basically the time before the kind of like pool model liquidity that Ave has and Uniswap and whatnot.
00:02:53.550 - 00:03:57.710, Speaker B: And before ages that we had actually stable coins on the Ethereum blockchain. So the only thing in terms of stablecoins was there was USDT, which was on omni blockchain. So kind of like the challenges that we had is that there was low liquidity and kind of like getting the prices of those different kinds of assets was very difficult because there wasn't any kind of decent oracle system that you can put a place on and actually have decentralized node structure. So that kind of was one of the key challenges in our project in the very beginning. So what we wanted to do back then is basically a proof of concept. So we did that. And we noticed that there is pretty interesting kind of like protocol product market fit there because we had, I think, roughly three and a half million locked value in our smart contracts before the kind of like stablecoin era.
00:03:57.710 - 00:05:05.530, Speaker B: And we noticed that there was like, in DeFi that was like, period before DeFi was called at all like DeFi, and it was like transforming into more liquid marketplace and a marketplace, or like an ecosystem where actually you have stability via stable coins. And everything boils down to the oracle system. So basically, where Chainlink's mission is to feed the data, our bread and butter is more or less the collateral management in different forms and shapes and features on top of that. So it's kind of like the oracle system and Chainlink is pretty much which feeds our current baseline, which is the collateral management as a product. So that was how we got started. And roughly, I think a year ago, we started to kind of improve the model that we had. I mean, we gained a lot of experience in smart contract development, a lot of financial experiments and whatnot.
00:05:05.530 - 00:06:20.438, Speaker B: And basically we started to create more pooled model and try to basically create a product and assets into one single protocol which you can lend out, deposit, earn and borrow against collateral and also flash borrow. So kind of like trying to put everything in a package. But I think what's more important here is that actually not the features itself, but the actual risk involved, and kind of like having a risk profile in our protocol with different assets. And that's where the integration of chaining comes to play, to actually get those price feeds and ensuring that we have the right data. Because you're good as your data is accurate, and that's very important for us. And I think that's kind of like what started the whole discussion with you guys for a longer period and how we make this integration to happen and basically what's the value proposition for us. And I think that the coolest thing about here is that we have one field that we are focusing and we don't need to take care of oracles and we understand the system works.
00:06:20.438 - 00:07:27.690, Speaker B: And when others are basically joining the same kind of like mindset and decentralization, we can lower the costs of oracles and have more secure networks of oracles as well. So that's like how we got here. We launched our protocol January, which is I think three months from now, roughly we have 30 million locked value in the smart contracts, the market size, including the borrowing as well, it's roughly under 40 million. So we had like very exponential growth in Defi and that's something that we're very happy about it. And also we have interesting flash loan volume. I think there's like 20 to 30 flash loans per day currently with different sizes and different use cases in the DFI field. So that's like where we are coming from as a project and basically where we are now in terms of after the launch.
00:07:28.590 - 00:08:11.690, Speaker A: Awesome. Well, yeah. Thank you so much for that very detailed explanation. I think I know with our community, some of them were familiar with Ethland kind of sort of the previous iteration of this, but I was always personally impressed by the fact that you guys have actually kind of were doing defi things before there was even the term defi. And you were already experienced in kind of the fields of peer to peer lending, saw new opportunities as the technology continued to progress, and then obviously have created something that is maybe you're not surprised by the growth or maybe you're not surprised by the success. But I know for myself, seeing just how quickly people were interested in what your team has built has been pretty amazing to watch. And I'm really excited by what the future of that is going to look like as well.
00:08:11.840 - 00:09:04.234, Speaker B: Yeah, and I think one of the things we got a lot of kind of support from your community. It seems like a lot of chain link community members are actually actively participating in our markets. Obviously we have link that can be used as a collateral and they're basically using the protocol. And that's nice to see. I think those are very defi centric users. I really think it has been very good pathway and I kind of see this DeFi user starting to emerge. Many times we are saying that we need more users into defi, but somehow we forget that we also need to kind of grow those defi users as well.
00:09:04.234 - 00:09:39.960, Speaker B: So, I mean, if you are a user that basically lends or borrowers on your trades and provides liquidity somewhere, you could do all of these things, or three out of five, and you could actually grow your financial self. And I think that's also kind of like things that we need to understand and focus and not just thinking, okay, we only focus now, just getting more users. I think more users will come when they see that people are growing in Defi, and then other people want to come and grow. So that's very nice to see how users between communities are interacting and participating. That's pretty awesome.
00:09:41.210 - 00:10:10.942, Speaker A: Absolutely. And I think that's really the ultimate goal with everything, is that it's this big group of individual communities which essentially create this one overall community, which really pushes the space forward. I know in some of my conversations with Sergey, with the chain link project, half 50% is community, the other 50% is technology. And we really try to live by that as saying, without the community, it doesn't matter what you build, because nobody will know about it. At the same time, if the technology is not there, it doesn't matter how big your community is.
00:10:11.076 - 00:10:55.070, Speaker B: Exactly. That's the thing. You kind of need both. But the interesting part is, if you fail on the technology, and I don't mean fail as basically that you have a broken system in terms of your incurred risk. But I think, let's say if you don't find product market fit, you're easier accepted to pivot and trying different kinds of things. And that's kind of like a very interesting ecosystem compared to, for example, if you are funded by DCS or some other kind of formation. So I think, besides that, I think communities understand what's important for the project, and they're very forgiving to try new things and pivot.
00:10:55.070 - 00:11:46.240, Speaker B: That was one of the important things about Aave is that we basically understood that, okay, that the DeFi industry is moving into kind of like a more liquidity pooled model, as the liquidity is the web tree kind of like network effect. So we kind of understood that and basically communicated to our community and said that, okay, now we just want to expand what we have, and we have the tools and resources and the partners to basically do this. And people pretty much understood and kind of supported. And I think you gain more value when you do this kind of decisions and kind of do brave decisions, but also kind of like you're not afraid to actually do these things. Your community can actually work as a feedback element and support you to make those kind of moves. So that's very nice effect.
00:11:46.930 - 00:12:16.246, Speaker A: Awesome. Perfect. Well, thank you again for sharing kind of your thoughts there. When it comes to the integration with Chainlink, I think a lot of people don't really understand kind of the ongoing nature of sort of these things. So could you maybe just talk a little bit about. Obviously there's step one where you first start talking, but I know from my perspective, because I can see it, that it's an ongoing process. Can you just maybe talk a little bit about sort of what that process kind of looks like?
00:12:16.428 - 00:12:59.278, Speaker B: Yeah, definitely. In overall, if you think about the price feeds that we have now in office. So basically the whole integration, we have the integration, we have the price feeds, but what's important is to maintain the price feeds. And that's interesting because we have so many different kinds of layers. We have the market risk layer where actually the asset prices changes. Because the price data that actually chainlink provides is very critical. I mean, it's asset price mainly now like the cryptocurrency assets and dollar price and so forth.
00:12:59.278 - 00:14:15.598, Speaker B: But those are basically financial assets. So the ability to provide these assets with the high availability is very crucial. So even if you integrate first, it's a process where you have to follow those assets all the time and how the node network works and what prices you're submitting. So, for example, we had kind of like a black Thursday event in terms of kind of like all these cryptocurrency assets losing their value 40, 50%. And what happened is that there was like a chain reaction where the network got so much congested and that kind of acts like stress test and kind of like figures out your resilience. So those kind of events is where we need to prepare, and where Chainlink also needs to prepare, and where we actually prepared in these kind of moments and actually overcame those issues that we saw that actually, this is the current market price where gas is paid on Ethereum network. And something that might be realistic will be as a high gas will be this higher.
00:14:15.598 - 00:15:39.526, Speaker B: And eventually the only solution for us to basically make the network resilient, I mean, the protocol resilient was to basically submit high gas prices. And one of the interesting thing is that we pretty quickly were able to have a meeting with Chainlink and basically figure out that, okay, now we just need to submit very costly transactions, but we need to do it to keep the protocol safe and we basically did that, and because of the result, we suffered least injuries from the Black Thursday, which was pretty cool because it was a stress test for all defi space. But I think for us it was even more important because we launched a couple of months before that. So I think that was interesting part, and also the other part about the ongoing process is that we have different kinds of markets, different kinds of assets. So we are looking always adding new assets. And I will probably share a bit about the updates that we have in asset wise, but also it's kind of like thinking how and what kind of price feed should look like in the future. So price feeds are not just basically taking some piece of data from one source and broadcasting it into smart contracts.
00:15:39.526 - 00:16:23.686, Speaker B: It's actually not that. It's actually thinking about how the data should look. So we can't just take data from, let's say, Coinmarketcap. We need to think about how we make this data accurate for the end user and that they don't need to trust too much that the data is correct because we want to get rid of the trust. And that's kind of like the thing where the ongoing process is even more important. Like how do we innovate in terms of price feeds? And it always requires not just chainlink itself, but also participants like us to understand what's our product and ask and understand with you together, like how we can make better prices in the awesome.
00:16:23.788 - 00:17:04.050, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah. Thank you. So I think it's always interesting when people can see that you have one conversation and then it's kind of done. But as all these different protocols, as Ave continues to grow, there's always got to be additional steps that each team needs to take to make sure that it's secure and stable and excited that we get to continue that relationship. Perfect. Kind of moving on to sort of a bigger kind of overall picture before we get into some of the cool things that Abe is doing. What are some kind of trends or what are you excited about? Kind of maybe defi in the next six months to a year, what are some things you're really looking for to really kind of signal that things are headed in the right direction?
00:17:05.210 - 00:17:46.482, Speaker B: Well, I think many people are always betting, like, new users and like I said, basically institutional users. You hear this all kind of like, it's not like a story, it's more like a meme that institutionals will come. But honestly, I think what's the coolest part? What's happening, like the next month is the DeFi user growing. So there will be super users. There will be users who are doing multiple things on Ethereum, and that's like the coolest part. And that will not exist without cool people building things. So let's say, as we have, for example, the other protocol, there is someone building something on top.
00:17:46.482 - 00:18:38.830, Speaker B: For example, stablecoin swaps, for example, the curve finance I earn and that kind of things, or just basically token to token swaps, like the one inch exchange. And so, and there's super many things that you can actually do on defi. And once we get more and more this kind of super users, it kind of pulls a gravity people together. Like, okay, I'm trying to do these things and there's different levels and strategies and I think that's the kind of additional adoption that we will see in the future. And of course, cool people building nice things, and that's pretty awesome. And it's not like if you build something on defi, you will benefit from it. I mean, people are building things which are cool and probably not like financially successful because of obvious reasons that there's too many costs, smart contract audits and whatnot.
00:18:38.830 - 00:19:04.540, Speaker B: But end of the day, people are putting a lot of effort and they make the space and without them we will not be here and there will not be super users. So I think those two elements that there's a lot of building going on and there is a lot of usage going on for this particular user group. I think that's like, we will see more like layers in the next 612 months.
00:19:05.310 - 00:19:27.650, Speaker A: Awesome. Yeah, very cool. I'm amazed by when you watch the DFI telegram chat or kind of any of the cool conversations there that it seems like multiple times a day people are talking about something new that they've built. But the really intriguing part is it's usually using some existing protocol where they've thought about some new way of kind of stacking all of these things together and making some new product that's useful to people.
00:19:27.800 - 00:19:54.730, Speaker B: Exactly. I really love the fact there's a lot of discussions and places to participate. And that's the very interesting part. You can actually talk about this and be in straight contact with people from different kinds of project. But the thing of course, is that time is getting more and more limited and there's too many cool things try out. But I think in one way it's like being in a candy store. You have so many interesting stuff and strategies.
00:19:54.730 - 00:20:50.810, Speaker B: I think I wanted to being able to swap my collateral on the defi. For example, if I have makerdao vault and I have bat and I want to swap my collateral to eth without returning my die. And I basically brainstormed about this with Mariano Conti from maker and asked in Twitter, like, can someone build this thing? And some guy just built the thing and said that I just wanted to do that. And he used basically flash loans to make the swap so that the end user does not need to return the asset. So that was pretty cool thing. And what's even cooler is that, end of the day, that person participated in Eat London, a hackathon where we were as well, and we ended up hiring him, and now he's building cool things for Ava. So that's so interesting how the whole space works and how many cool things there are.
00:20:50.810 - 00:21:01.840, Speaker B: And still there is so many things to build, and I think we'll see a lot of interesting stuff. And of course, you need always, like, the price feeds and everything. So I think there's a lot of supportive things here.
00:21:02.450 - 00:21:33.466, Speaker A: Absolutely. I think that's truly, when open source, I think, really shows its kind of strength, is that this kind of permissionless system where someone's built a tool or someone's built a protocol, and then someone else can come sees it in a completely new use case, someone puts out a tweet on Twitter, and next thing you know, you have someone that's actually working for a company in the space because they took the initiative to build something. So that's always very interesting to see how all that works and how quickly things can go from an idea to something that's usable in sometimes a matter of days.
00:21:33.648 - 00:21:34.780, Speaker B: Yeah, for sure.
00:21:35.550 - 00:22:01.060, Speaker A: Perfect. So let's talk a little bit, as we transition, let's talk a little bit about kind of ave and sort of what you guys have built recently. I know I've seen some kind of recent announcements about some things that you've kind of worked on. They're now in place. So maybe kind of the first question is, can you talk about what you've sort of built recently that people can sort of play with now and then maybe, what, six months to a year or whatever you can share with your roadmap? Kind of some things that you're looking to add in the.
00:22:01.670 - 00:22:02.178, Speaker B: Definitely.
00:22:02.264 - 00:22:02.514, Speaker A: Like.
00:22:02.552 - 00:23:00.802, Speaker B: Like, in terms like asset prices. And so, like we recently added BUsD, which is the binance USD and so forth, kind of wanted to expose an arbitrage opportunity. So there's like, centralized exchanges might offer higher arbitrage yields temporarily. So let's say big yields or yield disparities doesn't exist for a long period. So we wanted to make this opportunity possible so that people can arbitrage, so they can borrow against their collateral and take care of the arbitrage opportunity. In terms of aur stuff, I would say one cool thing that we are now building is the possibility to liquidate loans from the user interface. So basically what we are releasing is an interface where you can go and just liquidate by hand loans by yourself if you don't have any kind of bot.
00:23:00.802 - 00:24:10.422, Speaker B: So normally all this kind of liquidation activity, which is very important when the market goes pretty down and all the bots get stuck if they can't send expensive enough transactions into the network. So what is cool about it is it's actually a measure to secure the network itself and secondly, to kind of decentralize a bit, not just the profit making, but the kind of like securing the network. So that's something we're going to release pretty soon. We have done a lot of improvements in the user experience, so we have constant feedback loop back and forth with our users, with our partners, and adding new interesting stuff. There is a lot of secret stuff that we are working upon and that we are going to launch within a few months. But kind of like more public stuff is that we're working now on the kind of governance and the albanomics. So we're working on the ability to vote with our token and then participate in the governance of our protocol.
00:24:10.422 - 00:24:35.460, Speaker B: And there will be a governance paper in a few weeks from now. So that's like what our main focus now is as a team. And besides that, it's improving basically the current product. So making it more secure, making it more stable, and focusing on integrations mostly. For example, you can now access aave through my eater wallet, which is pretty cool as well.
00:24:36.550 - 00:24:49.178, Speaker A: All right, very cool. Well, thank you for sharing that and looking forward to the time when some of those secrets are revealed. That being said, if people want to follow the progress of what you guys are doing, what's the best channel for them to typically do that?
00:24:49.344 - 00:25:53.738, Speaker B: Yeah, I think our telegram is pretty cool, basically. Avesom and of course, like Ava.com Discord, that's a pretty cool place to actually, especially if you need development support. And if you want to develop some stuff, I recommend to go to developers, Ava.com, and of course follow us in Twitter. We're pretty active in different kinds of defi groups and so forth, and trying to be active as possible, but we also need to work at the same time. But still as a project, as a team, we're very reachable and kind of like we're very eager to receive any feedback, especially if there's anything in terms of how we can improve the stuff that we are doing with Chainlink, future improvements on price feeds or the way we manage prices in the app or the protocol.
00:25:53.738 - 00:25:59.680, Speaker B: We're happy to hear about that and improve things. That's even more important to us than anything else.
00:26:00.690 - 00:26:18.200, Speaker A: All right, perfect. Well, thank you so much. First off, I just want to say I really appreciate you taking the time to be here. As you mentioned, you guys are building all the time and building a lot of cool stuff, so I know your time is valuable, so thank you for spending it kind of with the chain link community here today. Is there anything else you'd like to add, kind of, before we wrap everything up?
00:26:20.090 - 00:26:42.220, Speaker B: Nothing special. I mean, I really admire what you guys are doing, Rory, and also want to remind that I'm also a link holder. I think there's going to be a very interesting period in terms of asset pricing and Oracle. So I'm very interested to see how things are going to evolve from here.
00:26:42.590 - 00:27:05.958, Speaker A: All right, perfect. Well, thank you so much, everybody. That kind of wraps up our video Q A for today. Again, I want to give special thanks to Stani and Issa for kind of setting all this up and devoting their time to this. We're looking to do more of these in the future. So again, make sure to subscribe to our channel for more great content. Thank you again, Stani, best of luck with you and your project, and we look forward to kind of doing more together other in the future.
00:27:06.124 - 00:27:07.926, Speaker B: Awesome. Thank you so much.
00:27:08.108 - 00:27:10.930, Speaker A: Thank you. Have a great day. Bye.
