00:00:03.120 - 00:01:12.574, Speaker A: Welcome back everybody, and let us continue discussing Leonard chains generated by continuous functions. So, as we saw before the break, two things. On one hand, every good chain generated by a curve has driving function. On the other hand, opposite is not quite true, as we saw from primarily and que serum, there is a necessary and sufficient condition for lurch chain to be generated by a continuous function, which is not fortunately equivalent to it being generated by a curve. But we will need curves later on will again, we'll try to create curves out of generating functions later. So let us try to see what can be done, what additional conditions we can maybe impose. And for the first one, I want to relax the definition of curve.
00:01:12.574 - 00:02:14.863, Speaker A: So for me, the curve for the next few minutes would be a right continuous curve. So again, luvner chain, as in the case of just continuous curve, would be component of the complement of the right continuous curve. And then we can say something. So, suppose that we have l chain continuous generating function. Then the slow nerve chain is generated by curve, if and only if for all t, these compacts are locally connected, meaning this is the same microservice area that corresponding riemann map ft is extendable up to the boundary. Okay. Of course, it would be very nice to just be able to say it for general curves.
00:02:14.863 - 00:02:51.344, Speaker A: So rather not general, rather continuous curves, but to distribute. Right, but we cannot quite do it. So let me give you a simple example. So this would be my right continuous curve, omega t. So what it would do, it would go this purple part almost by circle, almost up to the end. Then one here return, go a little bit. One the here return at the time t minus epsilon.
00:02:51.344 - 00:03:40.200, Speaker A: Capital t minus epsilon, do this, and then by the time t, it fulfill everything. Here. This is definitely not left continuous at time t, right. There is no limit when epsilon goes to zero, but at every moment at t minus epsilon. Let's see what you have is locally connected object. So, for this theorem, we really need to generalize icarus a bit. But on the other hand, the proof that I would give essentially would also prove another thing.
00:03:40.200 - 00:04:29.456, Speaker A: It's not an if and only if statement. That's why I am not putting it here. If this limit exists faulty and continuous, then the lie of nerve chain generated by continuous curve. Okay, so locally connected wallets, a stronger condition. It means that such limit exists not only at lambda t, it exists at all points when r goes to one, when you plug in any point. But if you just assume that the limit exists, but you impose the conditions that continuously, then you are generated by continuous curve. So you don't even need to assume local connectivity here.
00:04:29.456 - 00:05:36.244, Speaker A: That would automatically follow. That would automatically follow because if you're generated by a curve, you're locally continuous, locally connected. Okay, so let's do it. So why would one imply two? Well, that's obvious. If you are generated by right continuous curve, then you are locally connected because you are just component of this complement and this right can locally connected. So that's not too interesting. Now let us prove the interesting part, that local connectivity for every tea implies that you are generated by a right continuous curve.
00:05:36.244 - 00:06:55.094, Speaker A: So first thing first, you are locally connected. So this limit exists, right? Because this again limit exists for if I instead of lambda t, I plug in ionic sign, the limit would exist. In particular, it would exist at the point lambda of T. By Marienki this limit is right continuous. Again, because when you approach from the right, when you go this way, so when you approach from the right, there are shorter and shorter crosscuts of small diameter which would separate what is added from zero. And again, there is local connectivity, things separated by short crosscuts from 00:10 to zero in diameter. So again, here we combine local connectivity and Pomeranian to get that this thing is right continuous.
00:06:55.094 - 00:08:22.016, Speaker A: So the limit exists and right continuous. Now again, here would be the unified proof, which would show that you are generated by this curve gamma of T. So if initially you would assume that this limit exists on continuous, you could already say that you're also generated by this curve gamma of t, which is not continuous. Okay, but again, we are proving slightly more that if this limit is right continuous, even if it is just right continuous, then it's enough to say that you are generated by corresponding curve. So for this, all you need to show is that there are no extra points on the boundary of omega T. You need to show that every point of the boundary of omega T either belongs to the unit circle or belongs to the closure of gamma of zero t. Because of course then since omega t contains zero, it would mean that omega T is exactly the component of zero of this gamma of zero t.
00:08:22.016 - 00:09:18.234, Speaker A: Using this, sorry. So omega t would be component of zero. So this implies that omega t component of zero of g minus gamma of zero t. Okay, so let to prove this, let us do the following observation. First, look at the semicross cuts in omega T. So semi crosscut, by definition, it's what you expect. It's a map from zero one to the closure of omega ties that up to time one you are inside the formula T, and then at one you earn the boundary.
00:09:18.234 - 00:10:04.338, Speaker A: And suppose that sigma one belongs to kt minus union of all kss before t. Then sigma one is actually mw. So every crosscut, semi cross cut rather, which is which ends at the point which is outside of all the previous guys, has two length at Lambda of T. This is very important. Let's look at the pre image of this under the map of T. It's semicross cut and D. Remember, pre image of cross cut is cross cut.
00:10:04.338 - 00:11:41.974, Speaker A: Pre image of semi cross cut is semicroscope, this length at the point of t, and this point should be at the prime end corresponding to kt minus union of these cases, right? Because again, when you approach to the boundary, you land at the point which corresponds to the corresponding prime end. But there is only one such prime end. So that's only one such point and that's this limit and one point in this primary. And the way to see this by Palmyra and Quesadilla, okay, so you could see it by local connectivity. Of course, local connectivity immediately implies that each prime end on omega T is one point. But I want to use here, I want to gain, I'm giving also a proof of this fact about continuity. So just by Pamiri and K theorem, the prime end corresponds to Lambda of T.
00:11:41.974 - 00:13:11.610, Speaker A: Because remember, there would be short crosscuts which would separate what happens after the time s and kt from zero. And then you can make this cut smaller and smaller. And they would just correspond to this one point. So the sigma would land at t. Okay, so this is again well defined by local connectivity, but you could also see it by parallel. Okay, now let z be a point which is outside of the unit circle and on the boundary of and fix positive epsilon and let C prime would be the first time you hit this ball of radioception. Okay, so now there is some point on the intersection of b of the epsilon valve.
00:13:11.610 - 00:14:37.124, Speaker A: Okay, so here's print close b of zapp's and omega t prime, right? So that, because again, ks finally hits it. So there is a point there. So p prime belongs to this intersection of kt prime and b of the epsilon. And so let us draw a segment from point. So from point, okay, there is a misplaced here, again from z to p prime, which is in sum k t two prime, sorry, in kt prime itself. So we draw just a straight line from z to p prime. And then this z two prime is semi cross cotton omega t prime.
00:14:37.124 - 00:15:55.224, Speaker A: So this point p double prime is lambda t prime. By just previous remark, and we have that for every epsilon we found point lambda t prime with epsilon close to zero. So z indeed belongs to the closure of gamma of zero t, which proves our. And indeed, really to, not to use local connectivity, but to use continuity, just need to slightly modify the circumstances. Okay, so we have a criterion, but it's not very nice. So we're saying that curve gamma is generated by continuous curve if the driving function is continuous, and this limit exists on continuous. Well, this is somewhat disappointing, because you would want to say, okay, maybe if curve lambda itself was nice.
00:15:55.224 - 00:17:29.054, Speaker A: Sorry, not curve. If driving function lambda itself was nice, then maybe, just maybe, you would be guaranteed that you are generated by gamma. And indeed, there are theorems which go back to Kufariv, which says that, for example, this analytic, then gamma is indeed a curve, and it is analytic. And the strongest result and precise result here in terms of smoothness, belongs to John Lin. And so far, as far as I know, this is the sharpest deterministic result which says, if lambda is smooth enough, then you are generated by a curve. So, more specifically, if John's result is the precise result, if your driving function is one holder, so, if it satisfies this inequality, lambda of t minus lambda of s is bounded by constant times s minus t to the power one half, and c is less than four, then kt is actually generated by a curve. But on the other hand, this condition, c less than four, is precise.
00:17:29.054 - 00:18:19.456, Speaker A: If there exists driving function here such that this is true, lambda of t minus lambda of s is bounded by four, s minus t to the one half. But kt is still not generated by a curve. So this is the strongest deterministic result. So it doesn't say that if you have a non smooth curve, a non smooth driving function, rather, then you would not generate a curve. No. In fact, we will see that brownian motion itself is not one half, barely not one half. But it's bad enough not to be able to apply this theorem.
00:18:19.456 - 00:19:31.584, Speaker A: Yet you would still get a care form, surely. But in terms of smoothness function, this is the best result. So if you just want an intrinsic result relying on smoothness of lambda, this is the best you can get so far. And again, one of the reasons why I wanted to present all of this at this program is that maybe there are other smoothness conditions of which I'm not aware, but people at this program are, which would imply the fact that l equation generates a curve. It generates by a curve. Okay, so anyway, let us now continue to slightly different model of Leonard evaluation. So, what we discussed so far is growing system of compacts in the disk we were growing from the boundary of the disk to zero.
00:19:31.584 - 00:20:23.396, Speaker A: And this corresponds. Well, remember, we want to be conformal invariant in the domain. It corresponds to growing from boundary of the domain to a point side. Now, in lots of the applications, as you probably remember or don't remember from the first lectures, our curves go from one point on the boundary to the other. And to model this, we need chordal evaluation. So this was the luovner evolution which was reintroduced by that schramm. So the story is that actually adet reinvented all this technique, and then he realized, well, with the help of us, that actually it was known, and even was known to him.
00:20:23.396 - 00:21:20.758, Speaker A: He, of course, knew about Leonard revolution from his graduate status, but somehow didn't connect the dots. But anyway, so this is yet another setup which is very similar. So here I mostly give definitions. There will be some fine moments, which I will discuss, but I will mostly say, oh, everything is exactly the same. So, as I promised, the model here is upper half plane, and we need the notion of compact hull here. So, well, one of the first definitions I saw of this was it is a compact subset of h. Well, that's definitely not what we want.
00:21:20.758 - 00:21:52.900, Speaker A: What we really want is a set such that the closure of it is compact. A itself is intersection of the closure with h. So a itself is not compact, but its closure is. And its closure only contains some points of the real line. And this is the main thing. H minus a is simply connected domain. So there are no holes inside, and a itself is not a hole.
00:21:52.900 - 00:23:02.244, Speaker A: This is actually, if you would say that a itself is compact, one and three are not compatible. So that's an easy topological theory. So that's what always, and again, my example would be exactly the same as before. We have, we take a curve from gamma to infinity, and it generates family of halves, namely, aft would be such that h minus aft would be a bounded component of h minus gamma of zero t. So if gamma is self touching, then we fill in all the holes, which are eliminated, not connected now to infinity by self touching. And so this would be a growing family of holes. And now, before I even talk about families here, since the setup is slightly non standard, we need to talk about normalization.
00:23:02.244 - 00:23:39.584, Speaker A: So, remember, for l chain, we had very simple normalization. We just looked the derivative at zero. Here we need to normalize it infinity. And this is given by this hydrodynamic normalization. So there exists unique map from which kind of unzips a. So it's mapped from h minus a to h conformal such that infinity j of Z behaves like z. So limit, when z goes to infinity of j, of z minus z is equal to zero.
00:23:39.584 - 00:24:33.844, Speaker A: So by Riemann serum, of course, you can map h minus a back to h. And you can also do it such that g of infinity is equal to infinity just by maybe rotating the inch. Then this is extendable to the map of the whole complex plane. Extend complex plane where you just remove closure of a and a reflected. And this maps rtor. So again, we use reflection, and we can look at expansion of this map at infinity. This is a z plus b plus.
00:24:33.844 - 00:25:05.184, Speaker A: So on, where a and b belongs to r. Because you map r to r, look at the higher order terms and get a contradiction. So a and b are just real parameters. So we can just normalize. We can subtract b and divide by a. And again, also here we see uniqueness, because now this map was uniquely defined by this map. And also, if a and b, again, there are no other parameters to play this.
00:25:05.184 - 00:25:38.848, Speaker A: Everything is done. So that's your hydrodynamic normalization. And now the analog of derivative at infinity would be half plane capacity, which is just the limit. So remember, this goes to zero. So you just multiply it by z and let z goes to infinity. Let's play with this notion. So, I'm not saying that it's finite, yet.
00:25:38.848 - 00:26:31.514, Speaker A: I don't even know if it's positive. But one thing which is very important is rescaling capacity of racial is r squared times capacity of a. So if you multiply your risk, rescale your compact half by r, then your half chlorine capacity would be multiplied by r squared. This would be crucial for us later. Well, this is trivial. Just follows from the fact that g array of z. Well, how do you map, if you know map two a, how do you get a map to array? You just consider r times j.
00:26:31.514 - 00:26:57.392, Speaker A: Sorry, sorry. Because this is inverse map. So you just get this j of z over. That would map array back to us to h. But now normalization at infinity, instead of behaving like z, you behave like z over. So you just multiply bar. Here you go.
00:26:57.392 - 00:27:46.224, Speaker A: So you get r j of the l of r. And then if you write this limit here, there will be a factor of r squared. Okay, so let me do some examples. So, suppose that a is just half disk, closed half disk. Then j of z is Zhukovsky map z plus one over z. And you see that half plane capacity of a is equal to one. Then you can see this one here, j of z minus z.
00:27:46.224 - 00:28:45.034, Speaker A: And so h cap is this just this coefficient in front of one over z? There is no free term because of hydrodynamic normalization. So half plane capacity of the disk of radius one is one. So half plane capacity of disk of radius half disk class of radius r is, by this notion is r squared. What about segment from zero to I? Well, j of z is very simple map with square root of z squared plus one. So that's something we teaching normal complex analysis classes. And so when you expanded it infinity, this is z plus one over two z. So plus higher terms.
00:28:45.034 - 00:30:03.950, Speaker A: So half length capacity of interval from zero to I is one half. Okay, so first thing first, let us prove that half plane capacity of a is non negative. And then we'll actually see that when a is non empty, it's really positive, but it's a non negative number. And finally, for this, we consider this exciting map, imaginary part of z minus j of z goes to. When z goes to infinity, v of z is equal to zero. On real line, it's positive, right? Because again, j of z just unwraps a. So let me actually write it slightly more precisely.
00:30:03.950 - 00:31:04.754, Speaker A: So this is v of z is big or equal to zero. Well, we defined on r union with z. So by maximum principle, v of z is actually positive on upper half plane. And so now let us write down what this is. So, we know that this is just the limit of z minus j of z times z. And now we plug in y on the imaginary axis iy. And this thing just becomes limit of iy, v of iy.
00:31:04.754 - 00:31:51.780, Speaker A: And so this is minus y y v of iy. So this is a minus minus here. So this is a non negative number. And we are done. So again, the fact that it's less than infinity comes from the fact that it just normalized third term of the expansion of this map. Gt. If you expand this map at infinity and divide it by, well, that would be a coefficient.
00:31:51.780 - 00:32:27.574, Speaker A: And now we just proved that this is a limit of positive numbers. So it's non negative. And as before, we assume that fa is the map in the upper half plane, which is j inverse. Now, I want to prove that actually what I promised to you, that half plane capacity is positive if a is not empty. To prove this, we first assume that a is locally connected so that everything is extendable to the boundary. So this is our motivational picture. This is our a.
00:32:27.574 - 00:33:41.588, Speaker A: It might have a few components. Then map j goes this way, and this part j of a fa goes in that direction. And I will be minimal interval containing j j of this. So that is now intersect something for this real line. Okay, so j of this is just in this picture, these two blue intervals, and I would be the minimal interval in the real line containing them. So by local connectivity, f can be extended to this interval. Remember, by Carseido ethereum, if you map to a locally connected domain, the correspondent map is extendable up to the boundary.
00:33:41.588 - 00:34:40.844, Speaker A: So f is extendable up to the real line. And now we even extend f to c minus I by usual reflection. So the usual thing we do. So this would be f star of I. Okay, now let's just do very simple cache tricks. Let us write the value of function at some point w, the value of function of star as hash integral over half disk of radius r plus hash integral of f star of I. Now let's be very careful what happens here.
00:34:40.844 - 00:35:44.234, Speaker A: When you integrate a y value, you integrate here and then back. So you write that it's fa of x, the limit minus fa of x bar. So this is just twice imaginary part of fa. Okay, so again, we just write for w somewhere outside if r is bigger than w. This is a precise formula. Now let's try to see what happens with this integral. First, when r goes to infinity, well, this becomes f star of z is z minus half plane capacity divided by z.
00:35:44.234 - 00:36:41.914, Speaker A: So this whole integral here would be the same as the limit of the integral of z over z minus w. This is just two PI. That's it. So let's take this limit when r goes to infinity and we get that f star of w minus w. Well, that two PI factor which comes here disappears. So what is left? Well, okay, there is also an I here, of course, if we want to be precise. So there is an I here, and we get that right hand side is actually one over PI, imaginary part of fa divided by x minus w over I.
00:36:41.914 - 00:37:44.618, Speaker A: Now, let us multiply all of this by w and take the limit from w gets to infinity. Left hand side. Okay, sorry, I am experiencing technical problems. Okay, it's over. Left hand side would tend to have plane capacity of a right hand side. Well, we just, when w tends to infinity, we simply tend to imaginary part of fa of x, one over PI. And so, because again, this is w divided by x minus w.
00:37:44.618 - 00:38:27.624, Speaker A: So it turns to negative one. But then, yes, but then, of course, this tends to minus h capacitive. Anyway, so this formula is correct. And half plane capacity is just integral imaginary part of x. In particular, if a is not empty, of course, this imaginary part, well, it's bigger than zero. Somewhere because somewhere you have to go up a little bit. So if a is not empty, then half line capacity is positive if a is locally connected.
00:38:27.624 - 00:39:35.936, Speaker A: Now we have a chain rule. If a is subset of a prime compact house, then half plane capacity of a prime is half plane capacity of a plus half plane capacity of j of f prime minus a. So that's the picture. So half capacity of a prime can be obtained exactly by half plane capacity of a plus half plane capacity of what you get after you unzip a. And the proof is trivial. Just the corresponding map is obtained by first unzipping a and then unzipping j of a minus a composition of two maps with hydrodynamic normalization as a gain a map with hydrodynamic normalization. So this is j prime, and then you compare coefficients at infinity and you arrive to exactly this formula.
00:39:35.936 - 00:41:21.754, Speaker A: In particular, since this is non negative, capacity of a prime is bigger than capacity of a half plane capacity. So now we are ready to state that if a is compact hull, half plane capacity of a is positive, all you do, you simply insert locally connected subset, non empty locally connected subset in a, and you are done, because as you know this, we just proved half flowing capacity is monitored. Okay, so this was a new concept, half plan capacity. But other than that, everything that would happen, I will just say, okay, everything is essentially the same, except for one very important twist. First, remember cars had already convergence. It's the geometric condition which is equivalent to convergence of the crisp incremental maps on uniform and compact subsets. Here you want a convergence which is the same as convergence of the convergence of corresponding maps in hydrodynamic parameterization uniformly on compact subsets.
00:41:21.754 - 00:42:16.498, Speaker A: And here is the you just look at c hat and you consider the convergence of these sets a reflect a and then add this little interval. If they conversion in normal crusade sense with respect to infinity, then you have the uniform convergence of mapping hydrodynamic parameterization, and vice versa. The proof is trivial. You just look at the definition of hydrodynamic parameter normalization. Okay, so this is easy. Now, to do l evolution, you need class p, remembering that it used to be the condition, but for the plane rather for the disk, we simply could normalize at zero. Here we need to normalize at infinity.
00:42:16.498 - 00:42:58.644, Speaker A: And that's the right normalization. Zp of z is equal to one. Her gloss parameterization is actually much simpler here. It's just over t minus zero for some. So for any function from class p has this parameterization with some probability measure which is supported on the set where actually on the boundary, you are not mapped to the boundary. So when you're this t such that when you shift away. So essentially, if it's locally connected, it means that p of t does not belong to the real line.
00:42:58.644 - 00:44:04.560, Speaker A: And chordal Leonard chain is simply a collection of domains. And alternatively, maps in hydrodynamic parameterization where aft is continuously growing family and it's normalized such that capacity of 80. Capacity of 80 is two t. Okay, so why is it two t and not t? So because essentially the length of the circle is two PI. That's the best explanation because then you can. One parameterization goes to the asset. Okay, so again here it's in formal definition, I'm missing the conditions of crossadory continuity.
00:44:04.560 - 00:44:57.362, Speaker A: I'm missing the conditions that infinity should belong to the closure of the union. But again, this is the idea. Now, ljovner differential equations, or rather Ljovnir Kufriff form, is exactly the same as you would expect. And again, they are slightly simpler because her gloss form is simpler. So again, same thing. And for curves, this is our differential equation with. I am just writing it for our function ide for the invert function.
00:44:57.362 - 00:45:37.050, Speaker A: So the dt is just two over gt of z minus lambda t. So again, slightly simple, while lambda of t is continuous driving function. So exactly the same as in previous case. In riddle case and analog of pamiri and caesarium. Causes and crosscut should be separating not from zero, but of course from infinity. Remember, everything is now normalized at infinity. So again, exactly the same model with exactly the same proofs as in Ridgl case.
00:45:37.050 - 00:46:48.062, Speaker A: But there is another bonus. And this bonus property is brownian scaling. So you'll see in a moment why this scaling is related to brownian motion. Okay, let's rescale our compounds. So let me be consistent. It's not kt, it's eft now. And now, as we already know, the corresponding map is alpha g alpha t over the alpha, and the capacity of alpha t is alpha squared t.
00:46:48.062 - 00:47:59.606, Speaker A: So the time needs to be changed. And so the driving function for e scaled compact for a scaled Leonard chain. So you just multiply by alpha. You have to multiply the time by alpha squared because what used to be t, now alpha squared t. But you have to divide lambda by alpha again because of this. Well, so what follows from this is that alpha square root of t, it is deterministic function, which satisfies this condition. So just plug in alpha here, and you can actually plug in any beta here.
00:47:59.606 - 00:49:03.230, Speaker A: Anyway, alpha square root of t generates something which is invariant under rescaling. So the only deterministic thing which is invariant under scaling is a straight line segment from zero. So this curves, alpha square root of t, they generate. So rather, this driving functions, alpha square root of t they generate straight line segments coming from zero. Okay, so that's. So, as we'll see, brownian motion also satisfies this environment. So when you rescale brownian motion, when you rescale time by alpha squared and divide by alpha, you get something which is, again, brownian motion.
00:49:03.230 - 00:49:56.404, Speaker A: It has the same distribution. So this is very suggestive of the fact that we need to really consider this brownian motion driving function, and that would be really helpful. Okay, so what would happen next is the following. I want to talk about sramjavnervaluation. Fortunately for this, we will need some solid background in metacalculus to even define things. So I will. Starting with the next hour, I will introduce various concepts in metacalculus, martingales and quadratic creation and proof, various inequalities and convergence theorems for them.
00:49:56.404 - 00:50:07.804, Speaker A: And then maybe after a couple more lectures, we'll switch to, finally to SrAm Levner valyush. After, we'll have all the background, but for now, let us take a break.
