00:00:00.810 - 00:00:21.690, Speaker A: Before we jump into this episode, quick reminder that everything said on Bell Curve is a meme, and nothing said on Bell Curve is financial advice. Enjoy the all right. All right. Going to be talking about mev. Mev. Miles, want to give us a little synopsis of today's episode?
00:00:21.850 - 00:01:06.130, Speaker B: Yeah, absolutely. So very hot topic along with the general app chain thesis is mev. But I think the two concepts are very interconnected because something we've teased a little bit on other episodes. But the ability to capture more value from mev or the ability for applications to recapture some of the mev that they generate is one of the big tailwinds of this app chain thesis. And so, yeah, today we'll be speaking to some folks across many different parts of the mev value chain who operate in general purpose blockchains as well as app chains to get their perspective on where things are heading and how mev plays into the app chain thesis.
00:01:06.710 - 00:01:25.880, Speaker A: Yeah, absolutely. All right, well, without any further, just let's just hop right into it. All right, everyone, welcome back to another episode of Bell Curve. I'm joined, as always, by my co host, Miles, and we've got Nitesh, Magnus, and Xavier On to join us to talk about mev. Welcome, guys.
00:01:26.490 - 00:01:27.622, Speaker C: Great to be here.
00:01:27.756 - 00:01:28.646, Speaker D: Thanks for having me.
00:01:28.668 - 00:01:51.978, Speaker A: Yeah, excited. So we've got a round robin of folks on the call today, and we're going to be going really deep in the subject of mev in the cosmos ecosystem. Maybe just to kick it off, could each of you do a super quick round of we can just do a super quick round of intros. If you could just give 30 seconds on who you are and kind of where you are in the mev space, and maybe I'll just call it Natesh on you since you're first on my screen. Then we can go clockwise.
00:01:52.074 - 00:01:52.526, Speaker C: Perfect.
00:01:52.628 - 00:01:52.942, Speaker E: Yeah.
00:01:52.996 - 00:02:12.630, Speaker C: So I'm the founder of Dflow. It is a protocol for order flow markets. So basically we're building infrastructure that allows order flow from various sources to trade at sort of a supply demand market price, and then also build some infrastructure around things like best execution and reputation tracking of market makers.
00:02:14.010 - 00:02:15.814, Speaker A: Excellent. Magnus, you want to go next?
00:02:15.932 - 00:02:16.600, Speaker B: Sure.
00:02:16.970 - 00:02:36.960, Speaker E: Magnus I'm a co founder of Skip protocol, skip money. We build mev solutions for cosmos app chains. Our thesis is around sovereign mev, so basically providing appchain developers and validators the tools to construct their own mev markets and customize them to sort of best serve their application.
00:02:39.170 - 00:03:18.010, Speaker D: Yeah. I'm Zave so I'm the chief investment officer at chorus one. So I've been now at chorus for two years, and chorus one is one of the largest global node operators in the world. I-E-A validator. So, yeah, we do a lot of work looking into mev, how it impacts the node operating space and chorus one is quite often at the forefront of some of these topics and staking, so we were quite early with liquid staking a few years ago and yeah, we actually released a sort of white paper about Solana mev last week. So we're always sort of in the weeds and what impacts validators. So yeah, glad to represent the node operating side and the podcast.
00:03:19.550 - 00:04:00.642, Speaker A: Awesome. So just to kind of kick it off here, I think to frame this episode for listeners I think we really want to be getting into sort of the nitty gritty differences of the approaches to mev in the app space sort of environment as opposed to the generalized layer one sort of environment. But before we do that, with a subject as complicated as mev and little Esoteric, if you're not kind of directly involved with yourself, I think it's good to just sort of set the scene for viewers. What is sort of like the mev value chain, so to speak, or who are all the major players or actors that are involved in mev? And Xavier, I know you've done a lot of work on this. Maybe I could kind of kick it over to you. Can you just kind of explain who are sort of the key stakeholders right when we talk about mev?
00:04:00.786 - 00:04:50.306, Speaker D: Yeah, I'll do my best. Meg and Nitesh can chip in here if I've got any parts wrong because it's not as religious for me as it once was in terms of the chain itself. So a validator like chorus one we'd be at the sort of very end. So a validator is the one proposing the block at the end and everything that happens sort of before the block in terms of ordering of transactions and everything that goes in the block itself in the recent past has been sort of modularized in a sense. So in Ethereum right now they tried sort of separating the difference between the proposer like us at chorus one versus the builder, the one who's inserting the transactions and building the block to be proposed to chorus or to a validator. But it goes even before that you sort of have a searcher sorry, I'm working backwards because I'm a validator so it might be a bit confusing for people. But yeah, so before the builder you have searches.
00:04:50.306 - 00:05:46.970, Speaker D: So quite often these are sort of people looking for arbitrage opportunities and then before that you might have something like a broker, for example, which in this case in sort of the decentralized finance world might be like a wallet and then before the wallet you have a sort of user creating their transactions. And what's sort of interesting which we might touch upon in this podcast is mev is a topic and the value chain of mev is quite well studied in Ethereum the last two or three years. And the value at stake in Ethereum and the value that sort of impacts users is quite great. Chorus one sort of released some research that as much as like 60% of mev in ethereum right now is from front running, whereas in Cosmos, for example, the users aren't so impacted at the moment because volumes are a bit smaller. But, yeah, I'm sure Mag and Natesh can touch a bit more on sort of their specific role and the different types of actors in that mev value chain in the cosmos.
00:05:50.590 - 00:06:13.140, Speaker C: Yeah, I can jump. So I thought that was pretty spot on. Maybe the only thing worth adding there is just that a lot of this does depend on the ecosystem that you're part of. So the value chain is slightly different on Ethereum versus Cosmos versus Solana and new ecosystems are popping up too, but high level. I think that's spot on.
00:06:14.230 - 00:07:03.730, Speaker E: Yeah. One thing I would add too, though, I thought that was pretty accurate, is that value chains seem to be very correlated to power dynamics. So ultimately, for example, on Ethereum, proposers or validators have sort of like the ultimate power over the ordering of blocks and so necessarily they're paid all the money. Right? Whereas in other ecosystems there does seem to be a difference in power dynamics. Right. So when you come to an app chain world, I think because the app chain is really built for a specific application, the dev team takes a much more active role and the community takes a much more active role sort of in the direction of the chain. And therefore that's sort of disrupted the supply chain in some interesting ways that we've been experiencing and has affected our product roadmap significantly.
00:07:03.730 - 00:07:17.910, Speaker E: So, like, for example, in Cosmos you've seen, for example, delegators choosing or Validators choosing to give more of their money back to Delegators versus in Ethereum, where it's a no brainer, you just take it all right? So that's the big difference.
00:07:17.980 - 00:08:10.514, Speaker D: There maybe just one thing to add from anyone sort of listening from this from an Ethereum perspective. So one major difference in Cosmos, especially in app chains and Cosmos versus Ethereum, is that in Cosmos it's delegated proof of stake. So at the end of the day, a lot of these delegators are users themselves and they'll sort of vote with their stake in a sense. So it's a much more complex topic in the cosmos compared to Ethereum, where there's not so much delegation. So even if you think of Lido, you put one Ethereum in and you get staked ETH, but this is going distributed evenly to all the validators behind that and you don't really get to choose who your sort of validator is. So it's less important in the cosmos as a validator. Like Chorus, one mev is a huge topic for us because it can actually be a way to differentiate and try to capture more stake in a network and earn voting power from delegators.
00:08:10.514 - 00:08:32.240, Speaker D: So what Mag just mentioned before and what's really interesting and in fact now chorus works quite often with Skip through some of these problems is how different is this in a delegated proof of stake system versus like a pure proof of Stake system. Like Ethereum, where there's a cap and there's not so much delegation and Stake doesn't move as much. It's not as free. So yeah, that's quite a big difference in that ecosystem as well.
00:08:35.670 - 00:09:46.242, Speaker B: That's great. And I think we're talking about mev here because it can be an application's best friend or worst enemy depending on how it's treated. Right? Think about the issues that the economics of mev can cause is around potential risks of network centralization with a few validators, really owning all the mev and getting all of the network stake. And then there's the user side in terms of users that are getting front run by Searchers or Sandwiched, right? So we have this public mem pool which allows this to happen and the two of those things can really stymie the entire space, I think. So that's why all these solutions that folks like yourselves are building have popped up and are really interesting. And so maybe just to talk about what the perfect world solution would be, I think about it covering three main objectives that it's solving for, it is protecting mitigating the risk of network centralization. Number one, it would protect users from harmful mev like front running or Sandwiching.
00:09:46.242 - 00:10:22.450, Speaker B: And third, it would actually allow the applications that generate the mev to capture that value and determine internally how that value should be distributed. And so maybe to get into some of the solutions that are being built right now and thinking about which of those three or all three they solve for, I kind of bucket it into off chain solutions, on chain solutions and order flow solutions. So maybe I'll kick it to you. Meg, could you speak to kind of some of the off chain and on chain solutions that you're working on at Skip?
00:10:22.790 - 00:11:27.266, Speaker E: Yeah, sure. So first of all, I sort of agree with those three framing, right? So like reducing centralization obviously important in decentralized networks and then also sort of giving chains the ability to express and then I would say as part of that giving chains the ability to differentiate by saying okay, this is a domain where you don't have front running, right? So Osmosis was founded sort of as the mev resistant Dex. So to give them a solution that makes all their users front run is probably not going to be in the best interest of them or their users and would be fought against. So we support two solutions, right? So one is an off chain builder, we call this Skip Select. It's basically an implementations of a flashbots like builder that has a lot more preference expression. So meaning the chain can choose sort of minimums and maximums in terms of payment. The chain can choose to disable front running and Sandwiching by sort of we do that on the ingress side by looking at transaction signing.
00:11:27.266 - 00:12:13.010, Speaker E: And then chains can also sort of basically choose how much of the validator set can adopts it and validators can sort of make their own decisions about these things. The other side of what we've been building, which so far have only launched on Osmosis is a fully on chain builder. So this actually relates to a lot of the research that's been done by course one in terms of having sort of like side by side builders that sit next to the validator that basically build its own block. I just lost a light. Okay, back. So basically what that means is that the protocol itself will try attempt to capture mev. This is basically like impossible in Ethereum, right, because you have generalized transactions.
00:12:13.010 - 00:12:51.090, Speaker E: There's so many forms of mev. Whereas on a place like Osmosis, what do you have here? Swaps. Right? That's the only thing you really have. And swaps are very backrunnable. Right. It's very easy to understand how to backrun them. And so when we observed that all the mev on Osmosis was essentially back running, we were like, why can't we just build this into the chain? I think an interesting design space for us at Skip and where we're moving next is how does that generalize, how do you have the properties of an in protocol builder or an on chain builder that generalizes to something like auctions? So you can allow for a searcher ecosystem to also participate.
00:12:52.710 - 00:13:16.154, Speaker B: That's great. And the benefits of that is that it leaves the control with the application itself. Right. And the application can be ultra opinionated on what type of mev it allows and how that value is distributed. Maybe I'll kick it to nitesh. You're taking a slightly different angle at this with building, I would say more of an order flow like solution. Right.
00:13:16.154 - 00:13:42.340, Speaker B: And your primary customers are not chains like Mag, but actually wallets and other sort of applications that basically any app that is not its own execution environment like a Dex. So I'd love to just kind of hear your angle at solving for mev and which of the dream solution one through three it is solving for.
00:13:42.950 - 00:14:37.826, Speaker C: Yeah. I think it's difficult to look at this problem and try to come up with solutions without, I guess trying to identify who the users are that are generating this MEB. At the end of the day, generally this falls into two buckets, retail and non retail. So institutional and that can sort of include prop trading firms or just anyone who's sort of a sophisticated model building type swapper or transaction sender. And so that's sort of where we've started. That's one thing we've looked at when we've began designing how we approach this problem is identifying who the users are. And then with that backdrop, we have really positioned ourselves sort of at the application layer rather than the validator layer.
00:14:37.826 - 00:16:04.000, Speaker C: So I think a lot of mev type applications operate really close to the validator layer and we like to insert ourselves as close to the entities that are actually generating these transactions. And so that ends up being wallets with that backdrop basically of one, being able to identify who is sending the transaction and two, like operating close to the application layer, we get some really, I think, attractive benefits in terms of the design space. One of those is that we're able to now provide really strong guarantees about mev to the users who are generating those transactions that cause mev. And in particular with retail traders, which is sort of where we specialize, we want to build this infrastructure to be best for retail. We're able to do stuff like give them 100% of atomic mev for swapping immediately without the transaction ever touching a validator. And this is sort of a really powerful paradigm that I think flips a lot of the question upside down and then sort of that second segment which is sort of institutional prop style mev that gets generated, which it does get generated. If you're a quant trading firm and you're trading on a decentralized exchange, you're still generating mev, but we don't care about that.
00:16:04.000 - 00:16:22.920, Speaker C: And when I say we, I mean the deflow protocol because you're sophisticated, you know how to set up validator nodes yourself, you know how to send transactions in a way which protects your interest. It's just that for that other group, Retail, we've basically designed our systems to protect them as much as possible.
00:16:24.890 - 00:17:33.740, Speaker B: That's really interesting and I think you're definitely coming at it from the wallet level, which makes the solution a little bit more generalizable to any sort of blockchain architecture. But we've seen when you're building at the validator level or other parts of the chain, the architecture of the chain really does make a difference in terms of what you can do. And so maybe I'll kick it to know on Solana this is a general purpose chain and typically the only solutions we've seen on general purpose chains have been off chain PBS solutions. Right, but I thought it was a really interesting piece that course One published, I think it was last week, about potentially moving some of this to the actual validators themselves on Solana. So I'd love if you could kind of give a perspective there about maybe these general purpose chains are not limited to just off chain solutions or something like a wallet based solution like Dflow and yeah, I would love to hear a little bit more about that.
00:17:34.190 - 00:18:29.226, Speaker D: Yeah, no, thanks for bringing it up. So, yeah, at Chorus we were sort of researching this for the last twelve months and also maybe for the listeners who might not be familiar. So Salana is a chain where of course there's very low fees and then as a result especially Arbitrages really spam the network when there might be an opportunity available for them. And at the well, Jito created a sort of version of Flashbots in Solana, but the way mev works in general is on Ethereum. It's quite even you have sort of Validators now and searches or builders and it's quite 50 50. So maybe the Validator takes half of the revenue that the searcher would take. If there's an opportunity there in Salana, it's really the other way around where it's more that a searcher will take almost 100% of an Arbitrage opportunity because there's very little competition there's something like less than 1000 bots or something like that and also a very low fee.
00:18:29.226 - 00:19:01.586, Speaker D: So a Validator and Salana will capture very minimal. And at the time Salana had an ecosystem of quite a lot of volume which is also something that we might be able to talk about today, like the volume and cosmos. So the volume in Solana was there but Validators were taking nothing. And I guess at the time we were quite big in Solana. I think we were the number one node maybe or something like that. And we sort of assumed that mev would become quite a hot topic in Solana. And yeah, we decided to research this and sort of build it's sort of like what Skip has, where it's like in sort of network mev for Osmosis.
00:19:01.586 - 00:20:00.298, Speaker D: But we just decided to do this actually in the Validator itself. So essentially when it's our time to propose a block, we have these algorithms already sort of pre created and generated and it'll search for opportunities, just really simple Arbitrage opportunities on Radium or some of the Solana decentralized exchanges. I think a really important point here though is that so we actually open source this and we published the White paper and you can feel free to check it out on the Chorus One website. It's called breaking bots. But an interesting point here is that in terms of an app chain versus like Solana, which is general purpose so one thing we talk a lot about at Chorus is sort of searching and building sort of a bit as well, especially when it comes to app specific chains. So an app specific chains you have a lot less opportunities as in everyone sort of knows it's just Arbitrage or something that exists on Osmosis, for example. So in a sense the actual searching is a bit of a commodity because even someone at Chorus is a researcher could do it themselves.
00:20:00.298 - 00:20:49.498, Speaker D: So if you're looking at Solana or Ethereum as general purpose which means there's a lot more long tail mev and by this I mean it's not just Arbitrage transactions and you're trying to capture extra value by back running or front running there might be some, you know, going live on some day, which is huge. And then you sort of want to get your transactions in first or mint all of them before everyone else and then resell it on the secondary market or something like that. So these are quite clever long tail strategies that exist on Ethereum and Solana. Whereas versus an app chain like Osmosis, which Skip is on right now. It's quite well known the types of strategies that you can use to capture the mev. So I think it's a really interesting topic, I guess, when it comes to sort of mev and where the value lies. So we heard from Nitesh that maybe it's at the very start between users and brokers, for example, which I think is actually super interesting in general.
00:20:49.498 - 00:21:46.058, Speaker D: And then you have someone like Skip, which is a slightly more well known model, which is sort of but also new in a sense, because they're sort of capturing it for Osmosis itself. So Osmosis Cosmos decentralized app chain specific came out and said that they don't really want bad types of mev and they don't really want searches, they didn't want malicious mev in the network, which is quite a bold statement for a network to take. And so they partnered up with Skip. And Skip's done an amazing job sort of neutralizing the mev, almost, where it just captures the most obvious mev and distributes this back to Stakers and then Validators in Skip have a sort of cool option where they can choose the commission on mev being taken by Skip, sort of. And this is a way someone like Chorus can differentiate, but sometimes we might run into sort of questions, open questions that we have as a node operator. Because if you think as a Validator, we're at the very, very end of the sort of value chain in MUV. And so for us, you could argue that Validators, like searching in some networks as well, could also be a commodity.
00:21:46.058 - 00:22:44.894, Speaker D: So a question that we always have, any Validator will have this question is how do we differentiate? And clearly a way to differentiate can be through mev. Why? Because if you distribute back more mev to your delegators, you're giving them more yield, you're earning more delegations, you're getting more stake, there can be arguments for like, is this a centralizing factor? So I'm personally on the fence of like, I think it's really hard to neutralize the sort of centralizing force at any stage of the supply chain. So if you take it away from Validators, it's going to move one down. If you take it away from builders, it's going to move on down. If you take it away from brokers, it's going to move on down. So also recently, I've seen quite a lot of solutions that are focused on actually returning mev back to the users, not just sort of so they pay no fee s, like maybe a deflow or some sort of payment for order flow protocol might have, but actually, probably they will earn revenues from sort of creating the mev. So I guess what I'm saying here is that I personally think this whole space is really early.
00:22:44.894 - 00:23:26.906, Speaker D: Funnily enough, you might argue that someone like Deflow, someone like Skip, someone like Chorus, it's sort of push and pull with who's capturing the mev and where it's going and who can do what. And, yeah, it's super early, but I think it's one thing about Cosmos as well, just in general. And you have a Cosmos maxi in the podcast. I hope no one minds if I shield Cosmos a bit, but one nice thing about Cosmos is that infrastructure, it's really easy to build infrastructure in the cosmos, which fundamentally mev can be a security issue on any network. So I think you're seeing a lot more experimentation and innovation at this sort of infrastructure layer in mev and Cosmos. So what you're not seeing is volume. Volume is really poor compared to Ethereum.
00:23:26.906 - 00:24:32.990, Speaker D: And now we're also talking at chorus about sort know there's a lot of building going on in Mev and Cosmos, but now it's about sort of how can we get the volume there? Because you sort of in a sense, you have to attract some of these searches to your network. And right now a lot of them is in Ethereum. So a question I'm sure Skip and also Deflow and maybe some others are sort of asking, like, where does this value come from? And how can we sort of bring them in? So I might just quickly mention as well, there's another mev sort of protocol in the cosmos not represented in this podcast called Fairblock, which is sort of focused on Mitigating front running in the cosmos. So then the question there is, like, I'm a big personal fan of this solution for this problem, but then the question is, is this the actual problem in the cosmos right now? Because there's a lot more flexibility because Skip might already be removing a lot of the front running, but then you have something like dYdX, which you also haven't talked about yet, which maybe we might talk about in a second. So dYdX is a network, of course, a lot of volume on Ethereum. This could completely change the game in the Cosmos. Then the question there is, who's going to capture that mev and the order books there are in the Validator.
00:24:32.990 - 00:24:54.170, Speaker D: So is it the Validator that has the control here or does someone like Skip come in and maybe they offer to capture it sort of in protocol and distribute it back to stakes in dYdX? So it's really unique how every network would take a different approach. And super interesting as well, because you're sort of always on your toes about not knowing what to do next. And that's why we're frequently in conversations with each other about this topic.
00:24:55.630 - 00:25:40.002, Speaker B: That's great. Yeah. And I could not agree more with those points. I think just how app chains are interesting because the design spaces for mev is somewhat limited right to the application itself. You don't have thousands of apps creating this huge long tail of so, you know, you can internalize some of the mev that is generated. Maybe Mag quickly just would love for you to share a little bit about what the protorev module is on Osmosis that will be going live. To me, I think the big difference is that you are not at the mercy of the Validators trying to differentiate through kicking this back to their delegators.
00:25:40.002 - 00:26:07.970, Speaker B: This revenue is actually going to be controlled by the Dow who can let it accumulate in their treasury. They can distribute some to stakers. And to me I feel like this is a big differentiation because it makes this more of a viable business model for apps. And so maybe before going any further, would you just give a quick overview of what the protorev does and how it will benefit Osmosis?
00:26:08.790 - 00:27:14.694, Speaker E: Sure, but also I am in favor of validator differentiation. And so protorev wasn't designed to remove that by any means. Basically what protorev is, is an in protocol backrunner, right? So similar to what Zay was talking about, because all you have on Osmosis are swaps, it has the ability in protocol to detect sort of like what the price changes by any individual swap would be and then to cyclically backrun it right afterwards. So we launched this thing called Satellite Skip Money, where you can sort of like see over time also shout out course one has a great mev bot on Osmosis you should follow, but it basically records the amount of cyclical arbitrage both do. And we realized it was quite substantial, like $7 million since Osmosis started. And so basically what it does is it monitors every single transaction. And then at the execution stage, when it's going through the actual processing of the state transitions, it looks and says, oh wow, this would move these pool prices this way, let's arbitrage it back.
00:27:14.694 - 00:27:49.566, Speaker E: And it does that per every single transaction. So it doesn't insert it as new transactions. It actually happens in the processing of a single transaction. So every single swap you ever do on Osmosis going forward will have like perfectly balanced pools by the end of it. So there won't be arbitrage opportunity afterwards. Or maybe there's be a little bit because we'll miss it, but for the most part there won't be. I think it's worth noting though that this solution is somewhat dependent upon already existing inefficiencies.
00:27:49.566 - 00:28:48.550, Speaker E: Right. So when you think about the routing of Osmosis, when you think about sort of why there even is a backRunning opportunity, you could argue and this is sort of in favor of a Dflow like solution, that there should be matching or there should be built in back running at the front end level so that it wouldn't make it to the actual so the execution wouldn't create it. Sort of when it got to the execution stage, I think that's eventually sort of like where we want to start collaborating and thinking about going forward. Because so far what we've really focused on is, okay, searchers were getting all this revenue. It wasn't even a question of validators. Getting it or users getting it, searchers are getting all of it. How can we distribute it back to the network since the network really can do it themselves? And then how do we make that like a governance driven process where, of course, Validators have a say? So I expect Validators will receive some compensation for it, but then also users and individual delegators.
00:28:48.550 - 00:28:58.620, Speaker E: But I think a big focus going forward is really starting to think about the order flow side of mev in Cosmos and what that looks like.
00:29:00.590 - 00:29:55.660, Speaker A: I want to maybe just kind of bookend this part of the conversation before we move on and give listeners one sort of takeaway for a difference in between an approach to mev kind of from the ETH framework or mindset, and then from kind of like the full stack app chain mindset. And Magnus, I kind of heard you say something that stuck out to me at the beginning of this episode, which know wherever value sort of accrues in the mev value chain on Ethereum land, it's kind of based on market forces, right? And then there will be some kind of leverage and push pull between that different value chain. But one of the differences in like a full stack app chain sort of environment is it's a little bit, to borrow a phrase, actually from Miles is you can have more of an opinion on it, right? And there's kind of a more holistic approach for how do we kind of give some of this mev back? Do we have an opinion on what sorts of mev are good mev and what sorts of mev are bad? Is that like a relatively okay generalization to make?
00:29:56.430 - 00:30:41.130, Speaker E: I think so, yeah. I think it's like a big part of it is also what Dave said, right, where it's like Validators are, first of all, public and a lot more beholden to their delegators in Cosmos, right? There's only 150 slots. So if you fuck up or you do something that is evil, then you're going to lose your delegation and it's going to go fast. So I think there's generally a sense of like, okay, the chain founders are saying this is good for the protocol. Why would I go against that, right? And sort of like users are saying they want this, why would I go against that? I think there's definitely more voices at the table versus how I think it is in Ethereum, where I think it's just a different set of power dynamics.
00:30:42.590 - 00:31:14.660, Speaker A: So then I guess I'd like to get maybe just open question to everyone on the call here but in sort of the perfect solution that Miles laid out right where you mitigate risk of centralization protect users against harmful types of mev and then kind of the third one being allowing the application to capture some of the value that's generated from mev. How would you prioritize? So let's just say you can't have all three of those things, how do you think those are going to get prioritized? Zay you look like an answer. I'm calling you, man.
00:31:15.830 - 00:32:35.342, Speaker D: I'm not sure I've got an answer because I think there's no answer yet and it might sound cliche but it's quite interesting because first of all, it's a very tough question which one out of the three you want to prioritize the most. But if you look at Ethereum right now you can already argue that one of them, they're deprioritizing and that's front running, like I mentioned earlier in this episode, some ridiculous amount of capital is being taken, quote unquote, from sort of users with no retribution for sort of what they've done or anything like that. So I think networks like Cosmos, for example, clearly this is a major prioritization, especially for Osmosis, which I'm pretty sure right now is the biggest know. They've come out and said that we don't want bad mev and so they want to avoid front running and they also want to sort of reduce centralization. You can sort of reduce centralization in a sense because if validators struggle to differentiate, let's say it's a bit harder to say like stake with chorus, okay, you can differentiate with governance and stuff like that as well. But in a sense potentially it makes the validator game more even because say chorus one is a more advanced validator, we might be able to capture more stake and you might be able to argue this is bad decentralization. So Osmosis here is sort of prioritizing decentralization and also bad mev and also in a sense it's capturing itself.
00:32:35.342 - 00:33:20.790, Speaker D: So I would say they're doing all three when it comes to like uniswap or something like that. On Ethereum, they're not prioritizing removing front running because that's just not a thing for them right now in terms of the actual sort of centralization or decentralization of it. You can't really even compare to Osmosis here, for example, because they're not a chain yet, which I'm pretty sure they will be at some stage, but that's another question and topic. But it's hard. And I think another way of thinking about it is it's not just those three things. It's also about how can you keep every actor in the chain happy? Almost because someone's going to be kicking and screaming if they're not getting enough. And I think that's the beauty of mev right now because there's always going to be someone kicking and screaming somewhere.
00:33:20.790 - 00:34:25.730, Speaker D: And it's interesting because I could sort of imagine potentially in the future, maybe even one network goes we want to use deflow and skip. That's so cool and also pretty crazy and you'd never be able to do that on Ethereum, for example. You're sort of restricted to something like just flashbots maybe it's like a fair block and a D flow on a skip and there's like five different mev solutions and you're like plugging and playing and then it goes hell modular and then it's a party. So, yeah, I think right now it's sort of about preferences of the network, especially in the Cosmos. And Skip, I think, here as well, does a really good job at it's sort of like a product in a way, where they're going out to these networks and asking them what are your needs and what do you prioritize? Instead of Skip saying like, we prioritize this or even deploy, for example, saying we prioritize this, it's going out to dYdX or Osmosis and saying, what's important for you? And how can I build around that? There's a question maybe there of does that scale? This is a great question and problem to have. And if you can sort of solve this, I think this is a great sort of possibility and potential opportunity for who can do that in the Cosmos.
00:34:27.350 - 00:35:22.318, Speaker E: One quick thing just to add to that is just like to dive into one of the points that you said, Dave, which is, like, I do think there's going to be two markets, right? There's going to be a market for block space and then there's going to be a market for order flow, right? And I think those markets are not, in my mind, they're not necessarily superior. It's like there's going to be markets for tenants and there's going to be a market for apartments for them to live in, and there's going to have people representing both saying, well, my tenants need this, this and this. And then people say, well, my apartments are going to require this, this and this. And I think there's going to be auctions and ways of sort of obtaining both. So if you're a searcher, you're going to need the flow to actually backrun and then you're also going to need to land it on the chain. So on both ways, I think you're going to have to participate in both auctions. And so I'm very excited about order flow solutions coming to Cosmos.
00:35:22.318 - 00:35:24.100, Speaker E: I think they're a big missing piece.
00:35:26.790 - 00:36:19.574, Speaker C: To add. One thing I think Mag is pretty spot on. The right way to think about this is to separate these two high level markets out into their own distinct things as you try to reason about them. And one of the reasons I think that's so important is because something that pretty much no one really talks too much about in crypto when it comes to this question of, like, what are, you know, what are the priorities among those three things? Is what actually leads to true institutional crypto adoption? And I think right now, the number one thing that leads to that is fair infrastructure for liquidity providers. I think liquidity providers, market makers are providing a service to the community and that service is providing liquidity 24/7. Obviously they're collecting a spread, and if they're a good market maker, they collect more of a spread. But they are providing a service.
00:36:19.574 - 00:37:10.840, Speaker C: And in a situation where they have to compete with other takers such as Searchers that have like handshake under the table deals with Validators. It is impossible for a market maker to profitably make markets and provide that service to the community. So until we get to a point where market makers are able to make markets fairly without getting run over because they don't have some sort of under the table deal, we're not going to see true institutional crypto adoption. And so I think back to Mag's point, which is once we're able to separate these two things out order flow markets and block space markets, we're able to create, I think, more efficient infrastructure for both parties, both market participants in these two types of markets. So that's what I'm kind of most stoked about in 2023.
00:37:14.730 - 00:38:18.810, Speaker B: That's really interesting, especially hitting on the separation there because I think no one's really attempted this so far. And so it's hard to kind of visualize what it would feel like for a user at the app level. But maybe just to transition a little bit here. The whole season we've been talking about a spectrum of app chains or app spaces, going from full stack app chains on one end of the spectrum, Ethereum L three S that settle to a common L two on the other end of the spectrum and something like sovereign roll ups built on Celestia falling somewhere in the middle. And there's a lot of different flavors there. And so I think we've talked about today we've just general purpose L1s and full stack app chains. But in this future that we see, is Ethereum and Cosmos on somewhat of a collision course in that apps on Ethereum will be wanting their own app specific or sector specific roll ups.
00:38:18.810 - 00:39:07.210, Speaker B: And so I would love to get into kind of what the mev space looks like for the roll ups. Right now there's pretty much no mev because all these roll ups are run by a single sequencer, right? And so would love to hear maybe I'll kick it to Mag because I know you've been working with the Celestia team a little bit, would love to hear what sort of solutions you are thinking about for roll ups. In particular, whether these are coming from shared sequencer networks and just trying to start to tease out just how opinionated, say, a roll up can be about how it treats mev versus a full stack app chain versus an app built on a general purpose L1. So, yeah, kick it to you, Mac.
00:39:08.030 - 00:41:03.326, Speaker E: Sure, I can take a shot. But I mean, full disclosure, this field, I would say, is very early. If you think about roll ups on a shared DA, which I guess you can also put all the L two S and Ethereum in the same categories and say use Ethereum for their DA, there's a question which is sort of like when do you post the data, right? Can you coordinate somehow between the different roll ups so that you could say, have cross chain atomicity rules so that when you actually have the posting stage, could you sort of combine that together and give traders down at the rollup level some kind of increased preference expression over doing that? One design that invite anyone watching this to take a look at is Evan Forbes'shared sequencer model. So in this model, basically you have a set of nodes that does sequencing that sit on top of a bunch of roll ups and then they all post their transactions and the shared sequencer is in charge of basically ordering each one while also sort of extracting mev and even doing cross domain extraction between them. I think when it comes to the sovereignty question, we come to this idea of fork choice rules, right? So this is the concept that basically a roll up can decide to selectively choose forks based off of some set of preferences, right? So let's say you had 20 sequencers for a specific roll up and then they all posted a state route and then they returned back and they each individually said, okay, this is the state that we individually think should be next. The roll up can say, okay, well, that one's based off of Front running, that one's based off of Sandwiching, and that one I know is good because they're from, let's say, a trusted sequencer that follows the rules that I want to. So I'm going to choose that one.
00:41:03.326 - 00:41:24.294, Speaker E: And all of you guys just paid for data, but we're not going to include you on chain. So I think in sovereign roll ups you still have the opportunity sort of to have roll ups make decisions via fork choice rules about how they want to sequence their transactions. I think this space, though, is very early, right?
00:41:24.412 - 00:42:07.160, Speaker B: And so it does feel like the value capture there is still away from the application or app specific roll up and more happening at the actual shared sequencer network level. And I think it just will depend on how competitive these networks of shared sequencers are because then they will actually have to offer maybe more of that value flowing back to the roll up side. Maybe I'll kick it to Zave. Could you speak to a little bit about what the role of the sequencer is here and how it differs from the validator side and if that's something you guys are exploring at chorus one or not?
00:42:07.770 - 00:42:53.454, Speaker D: Yeah, it's a good question. So I have a sort of opinion here on what it could look like in the future, which I think is potentially not thought of so much right now. And it's somewhat related to the work that chorus has already done on this sort of invalidator mev. So I've spoken with a few execution layers in the past who have been sort of interested in potentially utilizing, let's say, like a validator that takes all the arbitrage itself, which in this case, the validator is just the sequencer. So you have like the L2 here, and then you have a sequencer here, and then the sequencer posts everything back to the layer one. And quite often in Ethereum right now, there's just one sequencer. And theoretically, it's actually okay to just have one sequencer, just censorship.
00:42:53.454 - 00:43:29.402, Speaker D: Resistance is a problem here because it's somewhat reliant on them actually doing the right thing, even though if they do the wrong thing, you can always prove it. But it's better right now. It's a topic in general of do you even decentralize these sequences? So even for us at Chorus, we're not even running any L2s right now. So it's so early that we're not even running the L2s, let alone thinking of like mev here. But I think what you could start seeing is this sort of idea of let's say there's one sequencer, and let's say it's an app specific L2, and it's just an app. Osmosis has a L2 on Ethereum, just theoretically. So we all know the opportunities.
00:43:29.402 - 00:43:55.986, Speaker D: Skip knows all the opportunities. So in the sequencer itself, almost, you could just have like working with Skip sequencer is there. They take all the opportunities and then X percent goes back to token holders. And this is actually what token holders want. And then maybe Skip takes a cut and maybe the sequencer takes a cut. So it's like 10 10 80 split. So realistically, what a lot of these applications want is a split of they just want to return some value back to token holders.
00:43:55.986 - 00:44:46.470, Speaker D: And I know on Ethereum right now, this is a massive question. In fact, I feel like every week I'm getting pinged a bit more about like, oh, this is happening in Cosmos or Solana, how can we implement this in Ethereum? So they're becoming a bit more experimental, but I don't think in this really L2 MEB space, it's going to be the same as just a pure builder or something like that. I think if you're just going to have one sequencer right now, then I think it makes sense, especially if it's as specific. The problem space is less as I mentioned before. So you know, the opportunities put it in the sequencer. Then there's a question of like, okay, how do you create this deal? And is this deal off chain of like, the X percent split going to token holders versus validators versus someone like Skip who's doing the sort of building itself? This is another question. Perhaps it's like Osmosis where it's like a Dao vote or something like that.
00:44:46.470 - 00:45:53.558, Speaker D: But I do think a major difference here, and Mag sort of mentioned it before, and we haven't mentioned it that much in this podcast is like the community of the cosmos is different to the Ethereum community, for example. So if you want to implement a strategy in Cosmos of like 10% 10% 80%, you take that to the community and you're going to have a political fight for like a week or two about if you should be 10% or 5% or 1% or whatever, you're just going to be on the forums all day, all night. In Ethereum, I feel like a lot of it is sort of not under the table, but it's not as obvious. So if there's a protocol app, specific L2, they want to introduce X percent fees. No one's going to really discuss that that much or protest against it, let's say. So what I guess I'm saying here is that in Ethereum you have a bit more leeway, I think, to implement new solutions without pushback from the community because they just want value to their token. A lot of Ethereum token holders and led to in Cosmos, it's this ethos of like we really want many, many chains and the community has a loud voice and then validators have to listen to their delegators, as we mentioned at the start as well, because it's delegated proof of state.
00:45:53.558 - 00:46:10.340, Speaker D: So it's harder to sort of manage all the parties there, I guess is what I'm saying. So it's super early, it's sort of confusing response. But I do think one takeaway here is that it'll look a lot different in Ethereum versus Cosmos and it's like when Celestia is out and L2s are sort of arriving Cosmos this year.
00:46:11.670 - 00:46:49.630, Speaker B: I think that totally makes sense and it's pretty easy to get excited about some of these solutions when you can. Part of the benefits is that all of this value that was being captured by only one party is now being recaptured by the application and then sent to users, maybe for Nitesh, because you are taking a different angle here. Could you speak to, I guess, some of the benefits that users will see even if they have no idea that they are sending an order flow through Dflow and what the value prop is there for wallets on behalf of their users?
00:46:50.930 - 00:47:54.594, Speaker C: Yeah, I think the biggest value prop is that these wallets who want to provide a good user experience for their users and also monetize without necessarily slapping fees onto the order flow. The benefit there is that they have a really simple mental model for how they should think about order flow monetization with Dflow because we abstract away the actual infrastructure where transactions go and settle. To us, any blockchain is identical because we have isolated common properties of each one and just interface with that interface that we define. So for wallets that's probably the best benefit. Obviously this system, it has a trade off which is that we can only reason about a certain transaction type. It just so happens to be that the transaction type that we reason about and that we specialize is market orders from retail traders, which is also like 99% of all transactions that have MEB. So I think we solve the problem.
00:47:54.594 - 00:48:06.630, Speaker C: We don't aim to be a general purpose solution, but we are specializing on a class, which is pretty much the entire category. And so for wallets, it becomes really simple with a solution like Dflow.
00:48:09.310 - 00:48:46.390, Speaker B: That's great. And I think we've touched on it a couple of times here. But if we are moving to this app specific world app specific chain world either app specific roll ups or these Sovereign roll ups or full stack app chains, there's going to be a need for these cross chain mev solutions. And so we've learned a little bit about what Flashbots is building with Suave, and some similar ideas have been introduced on the Cosmos side. First in the atom. 2.0 paper with the interchange scheduler.
00:48:46.390 - 00:49:10.960, Speaker B: But yeah, I would love to kick it to Mag again. Here to talk about what is the purpose of something like a cross chain priority block space marketplace? What are some of the use cases that can be solved for for the applications that cannot be solved with these intra chain solutions and kind of teasing out, I guess, where this side of the space is going.
00:49:12.130 - 00:49:47.734, Speaker E: Yeah, Definitely. Crosschain mev is very complex. I think it's like something that is easy to understand conceptually, but when it comes down to actual implementation quickly becomes almost seemingly impossible. At least on Cosmos, where you have a bunch of separate L1s that don't have any communication baseline except for Asynchronicity. So basically, there's no way to coordinate. Like, okay, you do that and then I'll do this. You can't say that.
00:49:47.734 - 00:50:03.970, Speaker E: Atomically. Whereas in some place, like intrachain or let's say on ethereum, you have that kind of composability. You can say do this, then this, then this. Otherwise, don't do any of it at all. Right? And that's what we call, like, atomicity. And it's as simple as a transaction. In Cosmos.
00:50:03.970 - 00:50:42.758, Speaker E: You can have multiple messages, right? One might be a swap one might be a flash loan and so you have that natively which enables a lot of this mev. That looks like Arbitrage. Right? So if you don't have that, how do you even start to reason about mev? So the simple answer is, okay, I can keep a lot of money here and a lot of money here. And then sorry about that. I can basically arbitrage between them by taking Swaps on either side. Right. Another way I think you can think about it is you can sort of go more of like this suave and then don't want to butcher Dflow.
00:50:42.758 - 00:51:24.306, Speaker E: But I think they're thinking about it this way, which is like some sort of general cross chain market making. Right. Where you can aggregate the order flow and then give it to market makers and then they can do the crosschain mev in a way that's actually good for the ecosystem, like arbitrage in a good way. I'd say in terms of solutions that I've seen for crosschain mev that potentially really would work. The scheduler is one. But it's quite a bulky solution because you have to buy the right to be the proposer in multiple different chains over a synchronous period of time. So it's like what if I just want one transaction? Why do I have to buy the right to build everything? And then also sort of like these preference matching solutions.
00:51:24.306 - 00:52:24.540, Speaker E: So like suave I think the shared sequencer and then anything that sort of deals with cross chain order flow, I would say. One other thing to note is that I think generally most cross domain mev is not really between chains, it's mostly between decentralized exchanges and binance or centralized exchanges. And I think one thing that we've discovered over time coming in very excited about cross chain mev is like wow, this is not really happening because the price discovery is all happening on the deepest liquidity pool of them all, which is the centralized exchange. And so I think in the short run, the way these play out in my mind is there's going to be a lot of sort of like, sex to decks arbitrage tools versus sort of like decks to decks, given sort of the complexity of that, as well as the fact that it's just not where prices are being discovered. Right. Yeah, I'll say that much.
00:52:29.070 - 00:53:29.646, Speaker A: I don't know if anyone has any response to that, but I want to kind of conclude actually with sort of a discussion of even within sort of the cost. I want to talk a little bit. I mean, there's a lot of discussion in mev around kind of they've got a lot of really great points from kind of the validator perspective on this call. But I'd love to talk a little bit about kind of the role of middleware and maybe specifically wallets. So one sort of metaphor or idea that we've sort of drawn on kind of time and time again throughout this series, this idea of like the proximity to the user is ultimately extremely, extremely important in terms of leverage right, over an entire value chain. And if the ultimate kind of capture or lock in for the user ends up being at the wallet layer, you could see them having an enormous amount of control when it comes to mev and maybe even dictating what makes good mev versus bad mev, which is kind of an interesting philosophical discussion in and of itself. So maybe Nitesh could kind of call on you.
00:53:29.646 - 00:53:41.620, Speaker A: Is there kind of some future state where there's like a wallet super app right, which ends up having an enormous amount of sort of control? I just love to get your sort of thoughts on that.
00:53:42.070 - 00:54:49.740, Speaker C: Yeah, there is definitely a future state where maybe a single wallet or a handful of wallets have so much user activity that they sort of dictate ecosystems and it's a really dangerous path for crypto because of that power yielded to some centralized group of people that operate these wallets. And I think really the only solution to this is creating economic incentives that basically prioritize the decentralization of order flow over the centralized distribution of order flow, which is, I mean, coincidentally in the name of Dflow, that's kind of what we try to do is create economic structures that decentralize order flow. But really this is quite a big problem and creating these economic incentives is definitely, I think, the number one priority of infrastructure projects in crypto, or at least it should be. Happy to talk about how I see that playing out, but wanted to pass it on to anyone else who has thoughts as well.
00:54:52.030 - 00:55:51.226, Speaker A: Yeah, I would love to get everyone's thoughts because even to maybe just compound Natesh on what you're saying for how this might be able to play out. It's like one of the dynamics that's made this so difficult in web two to kind of point at kind of our web two giants and say, hey, what you're doing is anti competitive or not good is because they keep doing things that are ostensibly good for the customer. If you take a look at one of the super apps being like Amazon, they do things that are very good for the consumer, right? Like you can return anything on Amazon for a while, you can do this, right? No pictures, no anything. But who's getting squeezed on the other side of that? This is kind of their network of vendors that have these really strenuous sorts of terms and they're exerting their enormous leverage kind of down the chain. And you could see a similar dynamic there happening with mev. So I don't know Mag or Zave, if either of you guys have thoughts on this, or if you just want to close with a philosophical discussion of what is good mev versus bad mev, I'm sure you guys both have thought about that quite a bit.
00:55:51.328 - 00:56:18.258, Speaker D: Maybe just before we move on to that topic, I just have a quick point on the wallet side. And when you think about the chain here again, so at the start it was miners and they were capturing all the mev. Then the builders and Surges came in. They were capturing the majority of mev. And then now it's like pushing down again. And maybe it's like the wallets that end up being the ones that are centralizing force and they're capturing the mev. And it's like, at what stage of the chain or what new at somewhere it's going to get clogged up, I guess.
00:56:18.258 - 00:56:46.202, Speaker D: So I do really like deeplow's solution. And actually I was going to mention as well back to Max point before on this cross domain mev. So here potentially is where even a deep low or something like that could integrate cross chains maybe. And maybe this is sort of the way and that's how it works in Cosmos. And maybe Skip specializes in just like a chain by chain sort of basis and they sort of. Work together. So yeah, again here I think just super early and really interesting and then maybe to close on the good versus bad mev.
00:56:46.202 - 00:56:59.460, Speaker D: I think the fact is Cosmos is about choice and all networks have the choice and sovereignty to choose if they want bad mev or good mev or if it's a topic at all. And this is the beauty of the cosmos in general.
00:57:03.990 - 00:58:04.120, Speaker C: Yeah, sorry. I was just going to make a quick point on what Michael and Zeve just said, which is I think it's really important to note that in this future state where these wallets have been yielded so much power. It's important to understand with the Amazon comment that what they're doing is not in effort of trying to be nefarious. It's in effort of trying to give their users the best experience. It just so happens that right now the way things exist today, the best experience for users is to under the table sell their order flow to some centralized thing which will guarantee great execution, but is also a centralized enforce. So I think, yeah, that's maybe one of the big things that we're trying to work on is just how do we get something that's better for users UX than like a really tight knit, but ultimately centralizing, under the table deal with quant market maker or something like that?
00:58:05.450 - 00:58:07.170, Speaker B: Sorry. Go ahead, Mike.
00:58:07.330 - 00:59:05.530, Speaker A: That specific example is a really interesting one, by the way, because even if let's just give Amazon the benefit of the doubt and say the reason they do that is to protect the interests of their users, their customers. It ends up kind of very indirectly not being good for customers though, because what ends up happening is in this terms of service, right, if you're a merchant that signs up with Amazon, the price that you sell on Amazon cannot be different from the price that you quote anywhere else. And what the retailers say is, well, I don't want to give up 30% of my margin. Sometimes that's more than their entire margin. So what they do is they just mark everything up so that they can sell on Amazon and they had the same margin as before, but now they're selling on Amazon. So basically what you've just done is you've marked up the entire internet and then even though these users think that they're getting a deal, actually nobody's getting a deal and it's just more expensive everywhere. So just like it's a funny example of how even if they are doing this supposedly for the right reasons, you kind of still end up screwing people too.
00:59:05.530 - 00:59:08.026, Speaker A: So it's just an interesting yeah, in.
00:59:08.048 - 00:59:38.950, Speaker C: The context sorry, I'll let Mag make his point because I interrupted him. But the last thing I'll say there is in this point about, I guess to tie it back to mev and Crypto and not sway too much to the Amazon. Part of it really the important part here is to allow market makers to provide liquidity efficiently and that's ultimately the driver that will make sure that none of these centralizing forces are able to accumulate and snowball into something that's pretty terrible.
00:59:41.450 - 01:00:41.530, Speaker E: Yeah, I just wanted to say my philosophy on these things is sort of like three big things that sort of go through my mind these days. One is we don't really know what the right solution is. We're all trying to figure it out and presenting sort of different ways of structuring the market. And ultimately I think the worst thing we can do is be like this is the way, right? Or PBS is the way or Suave is the way or Skip is the way. Whatever it is. I think making sure that there's chance for exploration about how these markets work is really important at this stage and sort of not stifling that innovation. I think the second thing is there's also like a legal conversation around a lot of this stuff that I don't think we got into here but we recently talked to a lawyer and they're like you might become a money transmitter, right? Or Flashbots might be a money transmitter, validators might be I don't know dave, what are they saying? You might be something scary.
01:00:42.510 - 01:00:45.770, Speaker D: Fortunately not. We try to avoid this conversation.
01:00:46.830 - 01:01:54.980, Speaker E: Okay, cool. Well anyway, there is some conversation about how these things work and a far version of this might be that users are required to be given best execution which is how it works in traditional financial markets and everybody sort of works around that sort of baseline. And then I think the third thing is I think mev's history is not yet written in terms of how it relates to user experience. I actually think the most interesting things I've seen mev is how it affects the basic user in terms of using their chain. There's like a good article written about this that invite everyone to take a look at by presswich about mev wallet or sort of like using mev to put yourself up to the top. But I think what we're going to see is an explosion of sort of understanding the connection between sort of the user experience, whether that's refunds or free transactions or whatever else it is, or atomicity or prioritization, and then also mev sort of how those things fit, which I'm very excited to sort of see a lot of solutions for.
01:01:57.110 - 01:02:58.360, Speaker C: I want to make a quick point here before we get too entrenched in this though, which is on sort of the regulatory thing that Mag was talking about in terms of best execution. It is a very crypto thing for us to basically discuss redistribution of mev in a sense where a percentage of the atomic mev goes to someone who is not the retail trader. The analogy in traditional equities markets would be Citadel gives you terrible execution and keeps some of that spread against the best market price and it is, in my opinion, obviously not a lawyer, but incredibly unlikely that when the SEC comes to look at mev and how these swaps are getting executed, that they'll be like, okay, cool. 80% goes back to the user. No, they're going to hand on table, slam their fist down, and say, 100% needs to go back to retail. So, yeah, it's super weird. Crypto is crazy.
01:03:01.450 - 01:03:07.160, Speaker A: Yeah. Maybe the conclusion is Gary is coming for us all, so we best all be.
01:03:09.610 - 01:03:10.360, Speaker B: Yeah.
01:03:11.070 - 01:03:31.182, Speaker A: Guys, this has been a super fun hour. You've given Miles and I a lot to digest from this conversation. If folks want to find out more about each of you, follow you on Twitter, follow your projects, and keep up with the good work that you're doing, what's the best way to do that for all you? I'm not going to call whoever's feeling bravest here, call it out.
01:03:31.236 - 01:03:44.900, Speaker C: Okay, I'll kick off. Dflow Net is our website and At Deflow Protocol is our Twitter. You can also follow me at Natashnath is my name and usually post mev type stuff there, too.
01:03:45.350 - 01:03:58.150, Speaker D: Yeah, and I'm zero Xav E on Twitter. And chorus one, chorus one is the website, and the Twitter is just chorus one with no spaces or anything in between, no dots.
01:04:01.470 - 01:04:13.840, Speaker E: I'm at Ox. Magmar used to be a Pokemon streamer, so that's from leftover days. And then the company is at Skip Protocol, and our site is Skip Money.
01:04:15.010 - 01:04:28.034, Speaker A: Wow, that's awesome. Meg. We definitely needed a couple of minutes to dig into that, but we'll save that for the next time we do a pod together. Guys, it's been a super fun one. You've been super generous with your time, so thanks a lot.
01:04:28.152 - 01:04:30.020, Speaker D: This was great. Thanks.
01:04:31.670 - 01:04:34.338, Speaker A: All right, partner. Great podcast. What do you think?
01:04:34.424 - 01:05:24.770, Speaker B: Yeah, it was a lot of fun. I thought it was great to have this conversation with folks across different parts of the mev value chain. We have Dintesh, who's really building kind of for wallets and really focusing on order flow, and then you have Skip that is building all sorts of block building software and solutions both on chain solutions and off chain solutions for app chains. Then you have Course one who is at the validator level and participates actively across general purpose L1s, app chains, and so they can see the full spectrum of approaches to mev that are being pursued here, and they can have a great perspective on kind of the trade offs that we're trying to tease.
01:05:25.110 - 01:05:51.490, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah, absolutely. I think one of the challenges of this discussion, you kind of kept hearing it from Magnus, is like, hey, we are venturing into new ground, new territory here. Hey, we're breaking new ground. Part of the reason it's exciting to be talking about this now is it's happening, but also necessarily, there are a lot of the sort of big ideas that I think you and I want answered. Sort of still sit in the realm of conjecture. So just kind of bears mentioning it's.
01:05:51.510 - 01:06:25.590, Speaker B: Very similar to a lot of our other conversations. We're talking about what sort of stacks work best, right? We've only seen the Cosmos full stack in action. We've only seen Ethereum and Solana in action. Same with mev. We've only seen really off chain PBS solutions in action at scale. And that happens on Ethereum and Solana to some extent. And we're only now beginning to see really what full stack app chains can do with know, Osmosis kind of leading the way in partnership with Skip.
01:06:25.590 - 01:06:44.430, Speaker B: And there's still so much that we spoke about today, but has not even development is in the first inning, right? Much less there's no usage of it yet, even it's not developed.
01:06:45.090 - 01:07:46.190, Speaker A: I thought it was pretty interesting to get Zave's perspective as a validator, right, talking about where value accrues and he kind of did it chronologically, which I've never heard it broken out. But first there were only miners, right? So all the value sort of accrued to them. Then there were the searchers and then the builders kind of the relay. And as each new kind of component cropped up, obviously there was less competition in the beginning, so an enormous amount of the rewards sort of sort of flowed to them. It was just interesting to hear it was almost like a Whack a Mole type description. And then obviously wallets haven't really had enormous amount of success yet, but there was a big question mark there and I think everyone, once we posed that question, had done a lot of thinking about that. It also is interesting to hear him say that all the validators, something they always ask is how can we differentiate? And not that this is necessarily the case, but it sort of rung a little PTSD bell for me coming from the world of consulting and a bunch of our friends are in investment banking.
01:07:46.190 - 01:08:06.920, Speaker A: I'll tell you something that investment bankers all ask how do we differentiate what's our value add? And usually when you have to start asking what the value add is, it's not quite as obvious. Not to say that, course one is phenomenal and on the cutting edge of all this stuff, but it was interesting certainly to hear that dynamic voice, right?
01:08:08.730 - 01:09:56.938, Speaker B: All validators are providing somewhat of a commoditized service in terms of securing the network and validating blocks. And so it's more about what else can you do for the network that makes you more valuable for your delegates and will attract more delegates, right? And I think part of what he said that was also interesting too is really just the difference in communities and what communities care about. Because I think for app chains, you're just dealing with a smaller community that is only cared about really prioritizes their own application and the user experience for that specific application. And so they can be much more opinionated, naturally more opinionated than, say, a general purpose chain that is trying to appease a community of thousands of apps and millions of users that all have different priorities and interests. And so there's the technical components of what is possible and not possible of an app chain and a general purpose blockchain. But then there's also kind of the social components of just how far an app chain is willing to go in order to exert control and influence over these questions versus how far the community that is trying to appease as many builders as possible will go. Right, because as soon as they start prioritizing one application or one sector of applications, then they've got all the other parties and stakeholders start to get upset, and that potentially leads them to move to their own environments, which decreases the value of all the mev being generated on that general purpose l one.
01:09:56.938 - 01:10:10.606, Speaker B: So just mev is so interesting because it does really intersect between technical and social, and there's a lot more to dig into here, but I thought that was interesting.
01:10:10.788 - 01:10:43.610, Speaker A: Yeah, me too. And I think we're a little biased here, I think, because we had the perspective of three people who spend a lot of their time in the cosmos ecosystem, obviously, but it did sound like just the nature of know many different layer ones, right. Kind of makes it a little bit more complicated, especially when it comes to this sort of cross chain mev domain right there's. Definitely like I think Magnus said it best in theory it sounds great, right? Like when you're reading the Atom 2.0 white paper, you're like this yes, huge value. I totally see it. This makes all the sense in the world.
01:10:43.610 - 01:10:50.640, Speaker A: But then when you get down in the weeds, like this is actually a very difficult boarding on impossible problem, right.
01:10:51.570 - 01:11:08.498, Speaker B: But they're building at the forefront, right? We know what we're trying to solve for in those objectives, and we're trying to find solutions that solve for as many of those as possible and unlock new use cases potentially as well.
01:11:08.664 - 01:11:44.682, Speaker A: Something that I wish we got into it right at the end, but I would love to have gotten more of their thoughts on on this is less of a technical, but more of a philosophical discussion about what constitutes good versus bad mev. And usually when that subject gets brought up, people are like, oh yeah, well, sandwich attacks and front running are bad and back running is good. But the reality is there's an enormous long tail, right, of other forms of mev that exist out there that much more fall in, kind of like a nuanced gray area. So I think I would have loved to get a little bit deeper into the weeds about what constitutes good and bad mev.
01:11:44.746 - 01:12:58.462, Speaker B: Yeah, I think that's fair. But it's also worth mentioning that that long tail is really only of material value on general purpose chains because part of why you can have a solution that is so opinionated and customized for an app chain is because there is a pretty narrow design space for mev that's possible. We used Osmosis as an example, but say 95% of mev generated on Osmosis is from potential back running or front running of swaps. Right. It's a Dex versus Solana, which has an enormous long tail. And so I think the difference there is from a practical standpoint is that Osmosis can build things like the protorev module that is basically a protocol owned ARB bot that is run on every validator and is capturing that. Lion's share of all mev generated, where if you were to try to build something like that on solana, there would be days or blocks where it's looking for what it thinks.
01:12:58.462 - 01:13:45.106, Speaker B: Know the most common forms of mev. But it's leaving enormous amounts of value on the table because there's no way it can possibly cover all the different sorts of long tail opportunities. And so I think that's what I thought was interesting about course, one's paper last week is that it's implying that there should be kind of a marketplace of searcher strategies that Validators can pick up and then potentially kick back a revenue share to those searchers. And that would allow the Validators to run some of these systems in protocol, but also be able to capture the longer tail of Mev and distribute it to the searchers that generate it, basically.
01:13:45.288 - 01:14:13.742, Speaker A: What did you think about Natesh's point at the end where he's like, it's all well and good so that we can say, hey, we'll have horrible execution, but we're going to kick back, like, 80% of this to users and that'll be fine. And the SEC coming in saying, hey, guys, we actually have rules out there about best execution, giving best execution to retail, and you can't just have bad execution and kick it a day. I know that's kind of a far off question, but what was your sort of thought on that?
01:14:13.796 - 01:15:38.562, Speaker B: Yeah, no, I thought that was interesting along with hibbs his point around really how we're going to there will be at some point a separation of mev between execution auctions and block space auctions because those two things can potentially fill very different needs. And I think it's unclear how this is all going to play out in terms of whether kicking back, say, only letting the user capture 80% versus kicking back some sort of revenue share with other providers, whether or not that will fly or not. But I do think that the point that's really interesting is that by separating execution from block space auctions, you could offer some pretty significant benefits to the users in terms of getting your trades done basically immediately and guaranteed at the very best price. To me. It raises some questions around if that's all being controlled basically at the wallet level. Is there a way for apps to also see some of that value as well. Maybe it's an app specific wallet that becomes available long after account abstraction is implemented.
01:15:38.562 - 01:15:56.160, Speaker B: So folks users not creating new seed phrase for every app specific wallet they use, but it would potentially allow something like that would present a different future than say five wallet providers or even fewer wallet providers really dominating the whole space.
01:15:58.610 - 01:17:13.906, Speaker A: Yeah, it's tough once you kind of have a there's a specific phrase for this bias but once you've seen a problem solved in a specific way, it's very hard to unbox yourself from that problem. And I have to admit I've been sort of red pilled on the analogy that Sonny gave us in the beginning of this series, which was how this sort of played out in web Two. And the power that apps that have close proximity to the consumer or the user, the natural tendency, the market force tendency for centralization and when I think about it, my heart of hearts, I'm like, okay, what do I think is most likely to play out here? Right? There might be these other solutions where apps want to control the wallet, right? And there's a beautiful full stack sort of synchronous there. But in reality someone is going to start a wallet that's pretty good. They're going to be phenomenal at distribution and marketing. They're going to grow that baby and as soon as you have that critical mass of users, which you can argue metabask is like close to having right now. But in the grand scheme of apps, it's still very early days, very few users and I just see that natural convenience being a huge factor.
01:17:13.906 - 01:17:19.878, Speaker A: But the little voice in the back of my head is saying that's a very kind of web two paradigm and who's to say it will play out like that again?
01:17:19.964 - 01:18:35.170, Speaker B: Yeah, true. I think we talked about this a little bit, but is the user relationship with the wallet or is it with the application? And I think there's probably strong arguments of both. But my hunch is that it's more with the application that really has the brand and it's been the reason you're a user of a blockchain application in the first place is because they're providing some service that you want and the wallet is just the middleman in between there. But yeah, I think it does definitely pose some big questions because even something like defla basically an execution environment is competitive with a lot of these applications that we're talking about, like DEXs. And so maybe Dex has become a thing of the past and all of this is handled at the wallet level with these different order flow routing solutions. I think that's probably a little extreme but yeah, it's definitely really interesting points raised that I hadn't thought about too much before this conversation.
01:18:35.750 - 01:19:21.742, Speaker A: And by the way, it's kind of played out differently in there are two different models, right? Like there's a great paper from Z Prime Capital that kind of used the fappening example, and what they're using as an analogy or inspiration is like kind of the super apps that exist in China. Right. But that doesn't really exist in the United States. There are lots of different small apps, right. There are some big ones, like Amazon is huge, but there's not one interface where you call Uber and Airbnb and et cetera. You have a relationship with each one of those apps where in China it'd be one super app that you do everything from. So I don't think it's destiny right.
01:19:21.742 - 01:19:25.714, Speaker A: That it plays out in one specific way. I don't know.
01:19:25.832 - 01:19:31.460, Speaker B: Yeah, exactly. And maybe just for the audience, the fapping refers to the flipping of.
01:19:33.350 - 01:19:33.954, Speaker D: Value.
01:19:34.072 - 01:19:40.434, Speaker B: From the L1 base layers to more value being accurate at the application layer.
01:19:40.482 - 01:19:49.160, Speaker A: Dan Miles it probably is good to provide that disclaimer. We'll link it in the show notes. It's actually a great read.
01:19:49.630 - 01:20:36.802, Speaker B: Yeah, exactly. It is. And what that gets into is these apps that start with one service and capture users and then eventually expand horizontally into lots of different services so that the user basically has one interface for anything they could want or maybe anything they could want within a certain sector. And then a question is, do they expand vertically up into the wallets? Do they expand down into their own app specific roll up or chain? And what is the sequence of that? Because, again, my hunch is that once you hit critical mass, you will want to expand one way or the other in order to capture more value and offer an even more differentiated product experience for your users.
01:20:36.946 - 01:20:43.458, Speaker A: Yeah, you bet. All right, buddy. I think that's all the time we have here, but this is a fun one. We'll see you same time next week, partner.
01:20:43.554 - 01:20:44.520, Speaker B: Sounds good.
01:20:49.610 - 01:21:01.690, Speaker C: You Sam.
