00:00:06.970 - 00:01:02.240, Speaker A: So here I just summarize these properties. So tether is the main stablecoin and they're backed by dollar reserves. So one important point to note is that not all of the dollar assets they hold hold our reserves. So there is some commercial paper and less liquid assets that tether holds. And so this is the subject of much concern, particularly for regulators. How liquid are these assets? Are these assets, say, vulnerable to sort of market forces? And then, so there's a lot of concerns about the backing of Teza. So if we move to the decentralized stablecoin, so Dai is the leader in this space.
00:01:02.240 - 00:01:45.550, Speaker A: And so in contrast to tether controlling all of the reserves, now individual investors deposit collateral and then issue Dai tokens off that collateral. So that's why it's a decentralized arrangement, because every individual investor is essentially an issuer of DAI. Right now, it's over collateralized. So in order to borrow one Dai token, you may have to deposit say 1.50 or $2 worth of ethereum collateral. And so it's over collateralized. The reason for that is because there's a chance that ETH may collapse in the future.
00:01:45.550 - 00:02:46.570, Speaker A: So you need to over collateralize your position as insurance against default, right. So this is a way to kind of try to ensure peg stability, is to increase the amount of collateral that you need to pose. But of course, if you are depositing a lot of ETH collateral and then borrowing only a fraction of die, then it's very capital inefficient, right. So you're not able to generate that much stablecoins if you have a very large collateral ratio. So algorithmic stablecoins are the third one, as I mentioned, they're typically unbacked. And the drawback is that if there's no reserves, then a speculative attack can lead to a collapse of the peg, right, because essentially the issuer does not have guinea dollar reserves to be able to meet redemptions.
