00:00:01.880 - 00:00:40.640, Speaker A: This is a great privilege. And yes, okay, so I'm 113. Some of you may know me from this project called Terraforms, the studio math castles. It's a dense iceberg of thinking. On Ethereum today, I want to talk about a notion of third arrows, and I'm going to talk about two. And this is just improvisationally as I pace around the living room and take care of the cat. Third era, one, I believe as of March this year, we entered a third era in the culture and technological possibility space of crypto.
00:00:40.640 - 00:01:15.850, Speaker A: And so it goes, in my mind, it goes, bitcoin, ethereum, and then this third era. And there's many terms. I think modular could be a good term, right? So maybe this could be seen as the modular era. Well, what does this mean? Okay, as an artist in 2014, considering this medium, I looked at Ethereum, and it tells me it's a world computer. And it's very interesting. It's like bitcoin, but rather than strictly doing this one app of value through Uxdos or UtxO. Yeah.
00:01:15.850 - 00:02:12.190, Speaker A: And so it's now computer instructions, which you could have done before you could have done smoke signal encoding and things like this through counterparty, et cetera, et cetera. But what Ethereum does is it gives you this kind of general purpose security, in a sense, for arbitrary, very small computer programs. But in my brain, I'm like, okay, so now my art practice has to become, what kind of world computer is this? Is it like a graphing calculator or a Game Boy? I can't really run intense programs on this. But what just happened in March is that changed so many artists. I think this lineage of larva labs, for example, taking seriously the constraints of Ethereum and then kind of exploring some possibilities there. This is very smart. And terraforms also represents this kind of taking very seriously the constraints of Ethereum with an artistic practice.
00:02:12.190 - 00:02:48.570, Speaker A: But now, in a very dizzying and kind of gigantic way, the potential for those constraints has just been lifted. And I think it really, this year, the first quarter of this year, represents the lift of that. So things like blob storage and Dancoon and these kinds of. And really just this whole ecology, it's art supplies. It's time for artists to take seriously. You have to start dealing with these terms like l two s or roll ups, but then you have to just melt them down. You want to understand them rigorously.
00:02:48.570 - 00:03:48.176, Speaker A: You don't want to be one of the charlatans who's a saying something is an l two and it's not. And this kind of thing. But you want to understand them as deeply and thoroughly as you possibly can technologically, the unique, specific technological affordances of this era of art supplies. Right. And then, as an artist, kind of seeking to discover or invent previously impossible, entirely new things in the context of these new affordances, that, in my opinion, can be one of the roles or callings of this role of artist and crypto, this culture where art and money and computers and the Internet have been kind of bursting in extremely exciting new ways, like a kind of artistic opportunity unlike anything I've seen in my lifetime. As a computing artist, one, who takes these constraints seriously might have an opportunity to, one, make drastically radical new kinds of art. Two, do so natively on the Internet.
00:03:48.176 - 00:04:19.686, Speaker A: So I'm currently geolocated in a city called New York, but as I understand it, I'm talking to you through the Internet, and the Internet is the Ark city, and it has been for 30 years, and you know it. So just throw your life out of that airplane already, you know, throw yourself into that volcano. Take the Internet more seriously already. I don't take the Internet and computers seriously enough, is the feeling I continue to find my life intensified into. And so it's not New York, it's not Berlin. These are potent culture hubs. But the art city of our lifetime, so far, in my opinion, is the Internet.
00:04:19.686 - 00:04:59.220, Speaker A: And so this Internet of value, claim or proposition from the cryptocurrency culture is now, like, I'm trying to say, the lid is getting blown off. This notion of, let's say, a world computer, or. And so, okay, I'm trying to talk about this third era, right. Bitcoin to ethereum to this third era. And, well, what is it? What's so different about it? Well, there's this new kit of parts, okay? So through these patterns, like roll ups that you want to learn, but then dissolve. Well, what are they made of? Okay, so you need to start thinking about things like zero knowledge, crypto gadgets. ZK.
00:04:59.220 - 00:05:09.982, Speaker A: Right. That sounds very scary and intimidating. Aha. It is not. Oh, that sounds very mathy and esoteric. It won't be in ten years when there's a. Okay, so there's a very good chance.
00:05:09.982 - 00:05:54.226, Speaker A: So ZK is a potentially world restructuring technology. I'm not saying that I know for sure that ZK will utterly restructure the world out from underneath us, but it's got all the kind of hallmarks of one that credibly could. And yes, there will be all kinds of nonsense threads and overzealous pronunciations of blah, blah, blah. But what this means also is there will be waves of funding and waves of kind of interest and belief, and artists have actually not just a professional opportunity, but a duty, because it is a world restructuring technology. I, for myself, these things I say, they're universally true, but only local to me. So if I'm saying artists have a duty, I'm just telling you about my personal practice, right? If this injunction doesn't serve you, leave it at the door, no problem. Right.
00:05:54.226 - 00:06:44.702, Speaker A: But, so, well, what's ZK? Well, is that has anything to do with privacy, right? Well, yes, it can involve, I'd say, like, compositions that think about knowledge asymmetry. Oh, that sounds so esoteric. Why would an artist do that? I don't know. How about Shakespeare? A dramatic irony, right? How about, how about, you know, a card game where, you know, okay, in the case of the stage, like, I know that the person on stage doesn't know that the other person knows, right? And so it's not necessarily secrecy and privacy, but composable information asymmetry in a way that's kind of too big for me to talk about. I can't put a little bow on it. I think it's a gigantic art and meaning side of art and meaning. And so that technology has appeared kind of in the midst of this, simultaneously.
00:06:44.702 - 00:07:34.530, Speaker A: It has this other incredible property, which is sometimes people call it compression. I'm not sure if that mental model is the best, but the point being, effectively, you've built an abstraction of a computer in a new context, and you get this side effect. And so what am I saying here? When one makes a program on top of this kind of ZK art supply stack, you get the second property that even if the program takes a really long time to run or is a really intense, complicated program, it becomes cryptographically, mathematically verifiable, that, for example, for a given set of inputs, an output was produced. So I'm talking kind of. I sound like I'm weaving all over the place. But if you recall what I said, in 2014, Ethereum appears and it says, well, it's a world computer. And I say, that's silly.
00:07:34.530 - 00:07:48.042, Speaker A: What kind of computer is this? It's a game Boy. So. And I think of it maybe like a city. So, okay, I live in the Game Boy city. I live in a graph and calculator city. Cool. But I, you know, so then I'm backed into this constraint of the minimal kinds of programs.
00:07:48.042 - 00:08:08.230, Speaker A: Like, okay, by the way, the medium is computer. So, you know, the computer program sorry. Ethereum is a computer. Sometimes I call it. If you look at this tweet I have, go to zero x one one 3d. On Twitter, you can find, you know, just. There's a little picture, I think, of Ethereum, kind of like a sculpture garden.
00:08:08.230 - 00:08:28.218, Speaker A: But the sculptures are systems or computer programs. And as an artist, you know, crypto has. You're supposed to hiss or have these kinds of, like, culture signals. They're not even opinions. You're supposed to say, ethereum is bad or ugly. I live in a culture city that's uncool to my friends or something, you know, or, oh, crypto, it's just. No, no, no.
00:08:28.218 - 00:08:53.150, Speaker A: Clear your mind. Okay. For the first time in human history, to my knowledge, there's a computer that's. That's running, and it's. Let's get it off over my headphones, there's a computer that's running. The first time in human history is a computer that's running in public, and anyone can read from it or pay to write to it. And I personally believe it's going to outlive me.
00:08:53.150 - 00:09:27.402, Speaker A: I could be wrong about that. But there's a credible belief of durability. And so if I take it very seriously and kind of assume that there's a very strong chance that this computer outlives me, it feels like I'm going to the botanical garden. But for computer programs in the art city, right, you can put a computer program that's a kind of sculpture or a kind of artwork in a different medium or context than perhaps the world is ready for right now, but it will inevitably arrive at. And that's where a system. And so it's a live, running computer program. So terraforms this project.
00:09:27.402 - 00:09:40.082, Speaker A: You know, it represents a runtime object, artwork, sometimes I tried to call it. And by that, I mean it's a program that's just always running. It's not. You download a program and run it somewhere else. It's running. It's already installed. It's installed in the Game Boy city.
00:09:40.082 - 00:10:07.744, Speaker A: It's installed on the sculpture garden that's going to presumably, or quite possibly could run beyond my lifetime. Okay, well, why am I talking about all this other stuff? Or what am I saying? A third era? Well, what we're seeing is these kinds of new technological patterns, and it seems like infrastructure. It seems like things artists shouldn't think about. Aha. But wouldn't you like to go back to 2015 and take Ethereum seriously and think about that? Right. Because it was hard to work with. It was technical.
00:10:07.744 - 00:10:49.650, Speaker A: All these things. But if you had, if you had just taken it seriously, then you'd be heralded as visionary and ahead of your time and yada, yada. And it's almost formulaic in a way. How kind of obvious in a way almost boring it is. So you don't want to just be doing checkbox formalisms or first post gestures with this. The goal or duty is then to do real work. So you have to immerse in this art supply of these tech stacks, dissolve what people think they are, invert things, flip them upside down, do things that are broken, think the new kinds of thoughts that this unique set of materials affords, and then I make a project worth doing you don't want, in my opinion anyway.
00:10:49.650 - 00:11:38.580, Speaker A: Like, you know, rather than just kind of being a CNET post or like, oh, it's great because it uses infrastructure ahead of other people and it's a first post. What's real serious art? And I don't even mean in the politics or culture of some traditional fine art world's logic. I mean, what are the most important pressing matters on earth, and how could artists respond to them using the very new and potent art supplies of this third era? So again, well, what are we talking about? We're talking about these patterns, like roll ups. So this term art chains, for example, right. The idea, you know, plenty have said this, a blockchain should be thought of as lightly as a smart contract. Smart contract is a terrible term, but, you know, a computer program, and so suddenly, what I'm trying to tell you is the sculpture garden, the Game Boy city. You can now fly.
00:11:38.580 - 00:12:10.846, Speaker A: UFo's around. Okay? You can fly. It's actually finally a world computer. And these patterns are young, right? They're not all perfect. They're not all currently manifesting as extremely decentralized, but there's a lot of good long term actors. And so the way I think of it is you've got things like, again, just the uses of ZK, then we could get even more. So if these are terms that are unfamiliar with you, spend the next, sometime the next week, just sit down at your computer or message me or join math Castle's discord.
00:12:10.846 - 00:12:49.600, Speaker A: I'll talk to you and try to help people navigate it. But things like fully homomorphic encryption, so being able to do computation on data that remains secret, or things like multi party computation, or this phrase that guilty gyoza and myself kicked around simulation markets. This idea that through the ability to compose this is just going to go too far. Anyway, come find me later. So through all this suddenly I know I'm talking all these words. Maybe sometimes they're unfamiliar. It's kind of so just for a second, hear this.
00:12:49.600 - 00:13:48.786, Speaker A: Computing art now has a market. There's a place for computer artists now, right? And this idea of world computer, arbitrary computer programs. There's a place for me. There wasn't a place for someone like me before you could try to play the politics games of the traditional art world that would kind of, you know, I always say I might as well just get a job at a paper mill. Like, spend all your life energy sinking your consciousness into a circuit that just devalued, takes away the time or intensity of what you need to be thinking about. And by the way, there's still these weird hierarchies, like these people, just on the whole, in a macro, just still are not. These institutions are nothing fit vessels or surfing computing and the Internet as they dissolve civilization or like recurringly, they're not honoring what their brands, their legacies or reputation should be on that particular matter.
00:13:48.786 - 00:14:03.372, Speaker A: And so the artists just have to kind of route around. Eventually these institutions will develop. I don't want these institutions to go away. They're very important. They do great work in many facets. They're not the leaders. You're the leader.
00:14:03.372 - 00:14:35.086, Speaker A: You're the one, you, person listening to this who understands that, you know, say these things are other kinds of opinions that maybe are equivalently heretical, but maybe different. Just, just do it already. Just make the work and try to make the good work and try to make work that you think responds to the condition we're in where, you know, so, okay, wait, so let's see. There's these three eras I'm trying to talk about here. Where did the paper go? Okay. Aha. Okay, right.
00:14:35.086 - 00:15:29.312, Speaker A: So maybe another way to frame it, you know, maybe net art, post Internet art, and then this third era of art. And so the third era of art would, to me, represent artists who take the Internet seriously as the main site for, for culture and for art. It's the art city. More serious than, like, it's just more important than the ones that are conventionally still somehow, 30 years later, basically believed to be, you know, most implicated in art. Also, there's money, so you can have a, you can have, you can live, you can eat food. You don't have to play Mister Beast games where you convert web two points through a non existent uniswap of who knows what kinds of, like, recommendations, you know, whatever, whatever, whatever the post Internet artists got stuck in, which was how do I eat food? Right. Ah, the gallery system still doesn't make stars.
00:15:29.312 - 00:15:46.312, Speaker A: It doesn't care about me. The competition is brutal. It doesn't understand anything that's going on here. And then monetizing web two, as we all know, or whatever, so. But now you, you don't have to do that anymore. There's, there's an Internet of value or an Internet of money. And to me, things like the credible durability and longevity of Ethereum.
00:15:46.312 - 00:16:16.922, Speaker A: It's like a yemenite. Ethereum is like a cultural settlement layer, right? It's a bedrock that you can grapple onto and then incredible works in it, in my opinion. Things like terraforms, I'd say autoglyphs is certainly, for me, it's a bedrock. And because of their stability, credible longevity, they're projects that exist for a reason, like they have an artistic vision or a purpose. They have new things to say technologically and culturally. And so they're going to stick around there potentially. Art, historic objects, let's talk autoglyphs.
00:16:16.922 - 00:16:52.160, Speaker A: Anyway, other people could figure out terraforms. And so because of this, you get this kind of like, I think of it like a really, it's a game Boy city and it's a really firm bedrock that you can build a career or an empire or new art worlds, right? And there will be people, whether you do this or not, we're gonna come do this. There are already a couple of us, and we're not going to follow the orthodoxies of what you're going to tell us. You know, art supposed to be. And because this comes from this trading culture, there's all these distractions. But just do your work. Like, set your eyes.
00:16:52.160 - 00:17:15.265, Speaker A: If you see where things are going to go, just go there already. The world will catch up to you. And this place is so overflowing with money, it seems. I mean, I'm just hand waving here. But I think artists have a credible shot at having a living. And I think the artists who do, who eventually do, over time, truly important art, historic work that cut open radical new ways of seeing. And they're.
00:17:15.265 - 00:17:45.610, Speaker A: And in computing, there's just so much computing. It's the most neglected thing on earth, right. Everywhere around you, it looks like people are super glued to what purports to be a computer, an iPhone. But I'm telling you, as an, as a, you know, the medium of computing is foremost systems. It's not pictures, it's not audio and video. Go read Marshall McLuhandhe, you know, via Alan Kay, we don't have the medium of computing yet. It's just we're so early, right? It's this gigantic kind of greenfield and artists have ceded this to things like Silicon Valley capitalism.
00:17:45.610 - 00:18:36.098, Speaker A: And I'm not anti Silicon Valley capitalism, I'm saying a monopoly on the thing that dissolves society, while artists are kind of often twiddling their thumbs claiming to make critical interventions. But actually like, you know, and it's not anybody's fault that, you know, I'm not blaming people here. It's this kind of malnourishment or it's discourse that's the problem. So I'm just trying to force this kind of other mode of discourse onto this, onto this possibility space. And so to me, this third era, from bitcoin to ethereum to things that can settle to ethereum or things like it, and things like modular patterns. So you'll get arbitrary new runtimes that can. So this idea of a chain like people will have this kind of, anyway, so you could think this term arc chains is a good place to put your feet down and then keep going.
00:18:36.098 - 00:19:20.296, Speaker A: So new computer programs, new runtimes networks, networks that express crypto economic patterns that can make radical new artworks that can coordinate things. I was going to talk about a bunch more. I think we should really talk right now, maybe about things like Terrazzero or I was going to talk about Brad Tramiel's work or, oh gosh, there was another I wanted, you know, oh, anyway, my brain is going, I think I'm at time. So, yeah. Oh, random darknet chopper. There have been these other intersections of art and crypto. Forget about nfTs, okay? You know, you're going to want probably some very long term, tradable, durable object, a unit, something, right? Something that people can collect or interact with.
00:19:20.296 - 00:20:06.510, Speaker A: And it lives in an incredibly durable way. But also, look, before nfTs, there's a history of artists who were thinking about intersections of art and crypto that I think could be a vibrant renewal as these art supplies, which are currently intimidating, they sound esoteric, but over the next five years these patterns will become more widespread. People are going to try to make them work and there'll be kind of easier ways for artists to conceive of them. So now is still a really good time to start processing this. Even if you just participate in this culture, you want to understand this technology. And to me it's just, it's so obviously this, like for anyone interested in art, art and something proximate to crypto, it's just, how could you not get absolutely rabbit holed by this new suite of art supplies. I think I'm at time, so I should probably just stop, but yes.
