00:00:00.280 - 00:00:48.222, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deli Grey refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Dan Denise Asano. Today, the 31 March 2023 alright everyone, let's get into it. So we have another all core devs call that was wrapped up and Tim Bico is on Twitter with the thread. Of course they discussed a bunch of different things, including shapala, which obviously is around the corner, EOF self destruct, el and cl, state access, local block building and verkultree. So seems to have been a bit of a packed core dev call and and definitely moving past withdrawals now, moving on to future upgrade things. I don't think ERP 4844 was discussed in this, in this call, but other things that are going into the next network upgrade, such as EOF was discussed.
00:00:48.222 - 00:01:26.026, Speaker A: So you can of course read Tim's thread about this, but great to see that progress. It doesn't seem to be slowing down at all, and we're already talking about vocal trees, which is of course part of the verge, part of the Ethereum roadmap. I don't expect those things to go live this year. I think next year is a pretty good candidate for that, but it's great to see them discussed, you know, already being just discussed on core dev calls here. And as I said, tim Bico has the thread to get you up to speed on all of that, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. And you can always, and you can also always check out the agenda here on GitHub, and the agenda comes out just before the meetings do so. You'll know what will be discussed there.
00:01:26.026 - 00:02:03.460, Speaker A: And there's also the recording available on YouTube if you want to listen in. Look, the core dev calls are pretty slow generally, so I don't recommend most people listen in. They're slow and technical, and you can get basically the meat of it from Tim Bico's threads. But if you are someone who just wants to put it on in the background or enjoys those more technical discussions, well, it's always there, it's always recorded, but I've tried to listen to a few of them myself. A lot of it is just a lot of back and forth about the technical stuff that I really don't have any context around, especially when it comes to core client teams talking to each other. You know, it's kind of all gibberish to me. So for me, I go off Tim Biker's threads.
00:02:03.460 - 00:02:54.224, Speaker A: I definitely like there are other people that do threads as well, and I look at people's recaps rather than watching and listening to the core dev call itself. But as I said, if that's something that you're interested in, you can definitely go. Always check that out on the Ethereum Foundation YouTube channel, which I'll link in the, in the description below. All right, so we have Schappeller going live very soon, and Danny Ryan has a thread, not a thread, a tweet where he said withdrawals is a great time to catalyze a redistribution of stake amongst pools for a more secure Ethereum. Just like stakers succeeded in making Ethereum more resilient by switching consensus clients, we can do so at Schuppella for pools. Do your part, switch to a smaller pool. Now this is, of course, just reiterating what I've been saying for many months now about the fact that, that we need to kind of do that great reshuffling of stake on the beacon chain.
00:02:54.224 - 00:03:40.638, Speaker A: Now, of course, as I've mentioned previous times, it's not going to happen straight away. It's going to be a long process, maybe a 612 18 month process of us seeing a reshuffling of stake. And of course, immediately after Schappeller goes live there, some of these services will be enabling withdrawals, such as Coinbase announced that we're enabling withdrawals within 24 hours, whereas Lido is going to be at least a month. Rocker PoOL I'm going to talk about in a little bit, but I believe they're going to be about a week, a week after, I believe, with the Atlas upgrade. So, yeah, it's not all going to happen at once, but that's why I say 612 18 months. We're going to hopefully see this reshuffling of stake, and we're going to see certain pools that have a lot of dominance, such as Lido and the centralized exchanges. We want to see their dominance come down.
00:03:40.638 - 00:04:18.798, Speaker A: And I was discussing this with another person the other day about that percentage of what we actually want to see as the maximum percentage per entity on the beacon chain. And I really don't think you can define it honestly. There is no objective kind of percentage you can give based on whatever facts you want to base it on. There's just not something that people are going to agree with and not everyone's going to agree with. So personally, I've said before, anything over 10% I consider to be just too much for any one entity to have. But there's a lot of nuance there, because if, for example, there were over 10% of solo stakers. I would prefer that then coinbase having 10%, for example.
00:04:18.798 - 00:04:41.386, Speaker A: Right. Because it's very, very different. The solo staker entity shouldn't be considered one entity because obviously they're individuals spread all out around the world. But it's also quite difficult to identify solo stakers. It's definitely not something that you can identify with any kind of hundred percent accuracy or anything like that. So there are, there are a lot of nuances there as well. And then same for something like a rocket pool, right? A decentralized staking provider.
00:04:41.386 - 00:05:30.460, Speaker A: I would, I would, I would be okay with them having more percent of a share than a centralized one because again, there's that nuance of it being decentralized versus centralized. But, and that's why you can't really have a flat percentage and say, okay, well, no provider can have over 10% or no entity can have over 10%. I mean, it sounds good on paper, but when you start thinking through the kind of consequences of that and thinking through the nuance of that, it doesn't really make much sense anymore. So I personally just want to see the more of a kind of spread out beacon chain right now. I think that we have a, I guess like there's like, what, three or four top operators on the chain right now. Top entities on the chain right now, obviously Lido being the biggest one. But I've discussed Lido before and how I, I believe that they're at least a lot better than a centralized exchange because they spread out the stake to various different entities around the world.
00:05:30.460 - 00:06:22.016, Speaker A: And most of those entities are not actually based in the US either, which is very positive. But yeah, generally I would love to see more solo stakers after Chappelle goes live, more rockapool stakers and more decentralized staking providers like stakewise v three with their vaults. That's going to be decentralized is going to be as well, launching as well. I would just love to see more decentralization in the stake than we have today. And as I've said before, the reason why this wasn't possible before Chappelle is because the only way any ETH could ever, sorry, any dominance could go down for any of these providers is if they didn't get new inflows and some other service got new inflows and their percentage share of the network went down like that. They weren't able to lose share by losing staked ETH in the beacon chain, which they obviously will be able to do. A post Shanghai Chappelle I guess I'm always going back between those two names, Shanghai Chappelle.
00:06:22.016 - 00:07:26.344, Speaker A: But I guess it doesn't really matter. Everyone knows what I mean. But yeah, just a great reminder from Danny here that if you fall into this bucket, if you're someone who staked with a centralized provider and you haven't wanted to get out via LSD's because you just wanted to wait and not take any discount and then maybe go spin up some mini pools with rocker pool or become a solo staker, just a reminder there that yeah, it is the path to do, if you're able to do it, it is the path to take post Chappelle here. All right, so speaking of beacon chain withdrawals, Xiao Wei Wang from the Ethereum R and D team put together a thread where she starts off by saying Ethereum beacon chain withdrawal technical intro mini thread. So essentially this goes through the technicals of beacon chain withdrawals, how it all works under the hood, the differences between full and partial withdrawals and how it works, I guess, like from a client's perspective, as you can see here in these images, and also the, the thread itself. And there is, I guess like a TLDR, which Terrence, I bring up Terrance's thread yesterday. That's the Tldr of Xiaoi Wang's thread.
00:07:26.344 - 00:08:29.390, Speaker A: But if you read Terrence's thread and thought, you know, you know what, I want more details about this. Well, you can read Shao Wei's a thread here, which I'll of course link in the YouTube description below for a more technical deep dive into a beacon chain withdrawals. All right. I also spoke about yesterday, the kind of adventure I had staking with my low powered Proteus device, and about how Ethereum on arm is bringing their Ethereum staking and running Ethereum nodes to. I can't remember exactly what it was called, but it's another low powered device. Well, today they put out another thread where they said, or another tweet where they said, look, a whole Ethereum universe running inside a home rack, one l, one node and plus three validators, geth and lighthouse arbitrum, one gnosis chain and Starknet L, two nodes, e swarm, ipfs and status, also running and all in under $1,500 of gear consuming less than 40 watts. And you can see here all the different terminal windows running.
00:08:29.390 - 00:09:03.104, Speaker A: This is very cool. And there's more details in this little thread here, but this is really, really cool. Not just because it's running on a ROK five B board, as you can see here. But the fact that you can run all these things today, right? Like, you can run all these things on a low powered device today and using less than 40 watts, which is incredible for, especially for people who want to watch their electricity bills. And it's nothing like proof of work, of course, but this is very, very cool. And as I said, it's all being done on a ROK five B board here, 16 gig version. And then the full specs are here of what they're using.
00:09:03.104 - 00:09:25.658, Speaker A: They're using a two terabyte SSD as well, which apparently is $140 us. So I forgot the price. I didn't realize, I didn't know what the price was yesterday. But they're so cheap. I mean, I remember when SSD's were first coming out and not even, just not, not the NVMe SSD's, but just the ones that, just the normal ones that use the, the SATA connection. And that was so expensive. It was crazy.
00:09:25.658 - 00:10:00.934, Speaker A: Like, you were like, you know, if you had an SSD and it was a decent size, you can put like a game on it. You were like, regarded as a God in gamer circles because you could load everything really quickly and all that sort of stuff. Right? But yeah, it's, it's so cheap now. Two terabytes for $140. And this is not some no name knockoff brand. This is crucial, which is, which is a pretty good brand in general, and also running on a rock five b board, which, as I said, has proven, at least for me, to be really, really reliable with my Proteus device. Even after I reimaged the device away from the stock image that came with it, everything has been running really, really well there.
00:10:00.934 - 00:10:42.128, Speaker A: So I just wanted to highlight this because, yeah, this is decentralization in a nutshell. Being able to run these things on low powered devices and being able to run just nodes in general, on low powered devices. I know people, some people will say and knock back at me and say, well, look, okay, yeah, you can run ethereum validator on a really low power device, but the thing is, you still need 32 ETH to run the validator. I'm like, okay, let's, let's break that down. Yes, you need 32 ETH to run a validator, but to run a solo validator, but you can run other validators. You can run rocket pool mini pools, right? And post atlas, you'll be able to run them for eight ETH plus 2.4 ETH worth of RPL.
00:10:42.128 - 00:11:42.680, Speaker A: That is collapsing the cost there by about a third right to buy about two thirds to a third of the cost, then you're going to have things like stakewise vaults, which will be able to run on these devices and pull ETH together and then run validators like that. There's going to be other solutions coming out around that as well. And then on top of that, you will also able to run these full nodes that don't require you to put up a stake of ETH or another token and contribute to the security of the network, and also use these full nodes as your RPC. That's what I think a lot of people don't, don't realize is that for each of these l two s for ethereum layer one, you can use your full node that is running on a low powered device as your RPC for to relay your transactions. So you don't have to rely on third party services, you don't have to compete with other people in that RPC. And if that RPC goes down, well, you've got your own and you're able to connect into the network using your own and it's just you using it. I mean you could potentially open it up to other people if you wanted to, but you could just use it yourself.
00:11:42.680 - 00:12:27.632, Speaker A: So there are so many benefits for keeping running theorem nodes on low cost hardware for so many different people, even if it costs, you know, to be a solid stake of 32 ETH, which is a lot of money right now. And you know, we obviously think it's going to go up in the future, so it'll probably be even more money in the future. But I think if you just look at that, you lose a lot of the nuance around that and you lose a lot of the, lose a lot of sight of what the actual benefits are. So yeah, I just wanted to highlight that for you guys. But yeah, you can check out Ethereum on arms tweet about this. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so as I mentioned before, Rocker Pool's Atlas upgrade is going live on the 18 April 2023 at midnight UTC.
00:12:27.632 - 00:13:03.546, Speaker A: And they just released a thread about this. So Atlas is ready for launch. And they also released version 1.9, I believe, of the smart node stack, which I just upgraded my Odao box to before, which comes with a bunch of different features. Obviously, you guys know some of the major features like being able to, it's been up a mini pool with eight ETH instead of 16 ETH. You can migrate your existing 16 ETH mini pools into there to eight ETH minipools and you can also migrate your existing solo validators directly into mini pools without exiting using Atlas as well. And version 1.9
00:13:03.546 - 00:13:57.414, Speaker A: of the smart node stack also enables the Chappella hard fork for everyone running it in docker mode. But the details about that are on the rocker pool discord channel. But yeah, this thread about atlas goes through basically all of the major features coming. It's just a TL doctor of what's happening there. There's a lot of, obviously ones that I've mentioned before, but very, very cool to see that this is finally live here. I think this is going to be such a huge boon to rock rocker pool as a decentralized staking ecosystem, especially post Chappella, especially because of that greater increased capital efficiency and people being able to mint these pools for basically half of what they've been able to mint them for currently, and also just lowering the barrier of entry for a lot of people. Uh, and making our e the more efficient token, especially because it's been trading at a premium for quite a while and that's hampered growth there.
00:13:57.414 - 00:15:01.478, Speaker A: And as I said before when I was talking about Danny Ryan's tweet, we want to encourage as much decentralized stake pooling as possible to combat the centralized stake pooling. And I don't think, you know, I think when the premium kind of collapses and it's basically zero, essentially, users can get a very similar experience, or pretty much the same experience as they can get buying other LSD tokens, right, buying Steth or Cbeth or beath with binance by just buying it on the open market. And they get exposure to the, to ETH staking, right? So it is very simple. It's the kind of same one two click access to staking there. Obviously, if you want to deposit directly into something like centralized exchange staking or a lido staking, it is still easier because you can just deposit directly and they'll handle everything in the back end for you. But it's centralized, right? Whereas with rocket pool you get to do it yourself and it's not, it doesn't have to be centralized. And you can do it with, with post atlas you can do it with eight ETH and 2.4
00:15:01.478 - 00:15:45.354, Speaker A: ETH worth of RPL, which obviously lowers the, the barrier to entry for decentralized staking there. And I do know that there, there are plans to get that eight ETH down to four ETH eventually as well. It's just a matter of developing this slow and steadily, making sure that it's secure, making sure that we aren't taking shortcuts and introducing risk into rocket pool. Because I think the single worst thing that can happen to any staking pool is them getting mass massively slashed for some reason or some other way that they lose their staked ETH. Maybe it's a smart contract hack or something like that. That is a single worst thing that could happen to a staking pool provider because I truly believe that that would actually be a death blow for that provider. I don't think people would want to use it after that.
00:15:45.354 - 00:16:19.236, Speaker A: I think that if it were to happen to any of the solutions today, that's, that's the end result. They would lose a lot of their stake and then people would just go elsewhere. Especially because there's going to be a lot more solutions available for them in the coming months. And the way I think about it, and the reason why I have that opinion is because look at USDC as an example. I know this doesn't map one to one, but it's more about, I guess, like safety and security here. So USDC, as I've described before, is fine, right? It did that obviously deep thing that it did, but it's fine. It's trading at a dollar now.
00:16:19.236 - 00:16:44.804, Speaker A: You can redeem it. Nothing's wrong with it. It's, it's the same as it's always been. Right? But because of that de pegging event, a lot of trust has been lost in USDC that needs to be rebuilt over time. And the USDC market cap has gone down considerably. I believe it's down almost $10 billion from its peak or from what it was before the deep. And a lot of that stable coin flow would have gone to other things like USDT.
00:16:44.804 - 00:17:25.348, Speaker A: Even though USdT has, has deep before. That happened quite a while, quite a while ago, and a lot of people aren't even aware of that or forgot about it. And it's gone to a few other stable coins as well. I believe there are some that are, that are currently growing off the back of that. Now, as I said, it's not a perfect analogy, but that's the same way I think about the staking providers. If there was a mass slashing event due to the staking provider stuffing up in some way, especially the centralized ones, with, with a decentralized version like Rocketpool, it's very hard for there to be a mass slashing event unless something was actually wrong with the software, uh, the smart node stack, or there was a bug in the smart contracts or something like that. Uh, because there are separate, um, and separate uh, node providers.
00:17:25.348 - 00:18:10.504, Speaker A: Right. Uh, whereas something like, uh, like a centralized exchange that may not be employing best practices could have a mass slashing event on their validators and lose trust from a lot of people and, and have a lot of outflows and it cost them a lot of money. Now thankfully, post Shanghai and post appellate, we're going to have solutions like network going live with their distributed validator technology, which is going to make it easier to have redundancy and security for running validators, whether you're doing it in a centralized or decentralized way. So that's going to help a lot as well. But yeah, that's how I view it. It's like the single worst thing that can, that can happen. So we obviously want these things to be developed at a slow and methodological pace and keeping security in mind, but also keeping pace with market forces.
00:18:10.504 - 00:18:30.810, Speaker A: Obviously that's always the, the challenge for any product within any industry, really. You want to make sure you're doing it the right way. You want to make sure that you're not harming your customers, so to speak, in any way, especially when there's money on the line, obviously. But you want to be able to do it in a way that is secure. Right. But, and also efficient. But yeah.
00:18:30.810 - 00:19:17.236, Speaker A: Anyway, you can check out Rocketpool's thread about Atlas. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so spoken about stakewise V three, a fair bit on the refuel and also a fair bit on this episode. Well, they have a thread out today where they're, where they introduce vaults, which is something that I've spoken about on the refuel a bunch of times before, but they describe vaults as representing non custodial mini staking pools that can be deployed by anyone to accept ETH delegations, run a staking business and access liquidity for your stake. So essentially what this allows anyone to do is become a lido, basically, right. Or become like a lido operator without having to go through the Lido governance process. Now obviously this, this, you know, you wouldn't obviously become a part of the Lido network doing this, but you'd be able to set up your own pool.
00:19:17.236 - 00:19:37.432, Speaker A: And as I've discussed before, I could, for example, set up my own vault and say, hey, hey everyone, like give, give your ETH to my pool. My vault. It's non custodial, by the way. So you're not giving your ETH to me, but stake your ETH with, with me. I'll run the validators, I'll run everything for you. I've got experience there, obviously, and I've got redundancies in place and everything like that. And then you won't have to worry about any of that.
00:19:37.432 - 00:20:40.920, Speaker A: But you still get the benefit of a much more decentralized stake, right? Much more decentralized a staking and helping the health of, the overall health of the Ethereum network, I should say. And on top of that, if I was to take a fee, I could direct that anywhere I wanted. So I, as I've said before, on the refuel, I plan to actually spin up a stakewise V three vault, take a fee, and then donate that fee to the protocol guild. So not only do you get to stake your ETH with, with a trusted provider such as myself, right, where it's non custodial, you're basically just trusting me to run the validators and run them correctly. But you get to help out core developers as well and help out public goods. So that kind of stuff is the stuff that excites me, and I know it excites a lot of you, but this is the first time that I will be able to do this, basically, and I'll even be able to run distributed validator technology as well. So what I could do is I could essentially work with some community members and say, hey, do you want to run these validators with me? And then we could all run them together and make it even more resilient and secure.
00:20:40.920 - 00:21:19.564, Speaker A: So really the, these things are going to be happening a lot over the next 612, 18 months. And this is this kind of stuff that's definitely going to lead to that great reshuffling event that I've been trying to push. It's not a guarantee that it's going to happen, I just want to highlight that. But I've been trying to push, and I'm trying to meme it into reality because we need it to happen for the good and the health of the Ethereum beacon chain. So yeah, I'll keep you guys updated on my progress with, with stakewise v three vaults here when they go live and everything like that, but this thread explains what they are as well. You can go give this thread a read. I'll link it in the YouTube description below and probably do a better job of explaining it than I did, but you can go give it a read, I'll link it for you below.
00:21:19.564 - 00:21:54.758, Speaker A: All right, so the results of optimism's retroactive public goods funding round two are in. Now, there were a lot of tokens given in this round, 10 million op tokens which is over $20 million worth, was given to, I believe. How many projects? I'm wondering if 195 projects were nominated and all 195 were rewarded. Now, they were part of different categories. There were three categories, infrastructure, education, and tooling and utilities. And they were all. They all got about roughly equal amounts of op for each category.
00:21:54.758 - 00:22:28.112, Speaker A: And then the category breakdowns are here in the blog post. You can see here in the education category, l two beat top down, and they got over $500,000 worth of op, which is. Which is pretty cool. There's a bunch of other projects here. Obviously, some names will pop out to you, like Zack XBT, who does a lot of reporting and calling out of scams in the ecosystem. He was given over $400,000 worth of op. It's really awesome to see Polly and I here for all the work that they've done in education, you can see that they've been given almost 100,000 op, which is.
00:22:28.112 - 00:22:42.240, Speaker A: Which is, I believe, over $200,000. And, yeah, you can keep going down this list and checking out all the names for yourself. Hill Dobby's here. For his dune dashboards. He got given 31,000 op. So the rewards here are quite lucrative. Guys like this isn't small amounts of money.
00:22:42.240 - 00:22:53.784, Speaker A: This is life changing money for some of these individuals here. I mean, I'm sure half a million dollars is. Is a lot of money for. For Zack. And I'm sure he's feeling very appreciated with that. Same with Polonia. Same with Hill Dobby.
00:22:53.784 - 00:23:07.756, Speaker A: Like, this is the kind of stuff that I go on about when I say that sticking around in a bear market present so many opportunities. Like, you could be on here as an educator. Right? And maybe you are on here. Maybe. Maybe someone that's on this list is watching the refuel. I know there are a few of you out there. I know.
00:23:07.756 - 00:23:19.700, Speaker A: I know Hill Dobby is a refuel watcher, and I believe Paul and I are. Is as well. But maybe you're in here. I don't even know, you know, who you are, and you were rewarded here. Well, this is what I'm always preaching. This is what I'm always saying. You stick around.
00:23:19.700 - 00:23:39.086, Speaker A: Not only do you get opportunities via investing, but you also get opportunities like this. This, which, as I said, is potentially life changing money for. For certain people here, which is really, really cool. But that's the education category. There was the infrastructure category with the protocol guild topping with. They got over a million dollars worth of op. They got a huge share here.
00:23:39.086 - 00:24:18.370, Speaker A: And then coming in second place, was, was go Ethereum or geth getting over I think, $600,000 worth of op. And you can see here basically like all the core dev teams are here, a lot of the stuff that we all, we all use and a lot of developers use, such as ethers and Viper. And I mean, gnosis safe is here as well. And the beacon chain website too. Like this is really awesome too to see infrastructure getting a lot of funding here as well. And then you can see in the tooling and utilities a section open zeppelin top tier with defy llama coming second and a bunch of others as well, which, which you can check out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below.
00:24:18.370 - 00:25:11.716, Speaker A: But this feels like a really like supercharged git coin grants round to me because these kind of numbers and terms of dollar numbers per project could only be dreamed of in a Gitcoin grants round. And the reason is, is because the dollars that are going to these people aren't actually dollars, right? It's op tokens. Now, these op tokens are given a value by the open market, whereas in Gitcoin grants rounds you could donate any token you wanted, but most people would donate like ETH or dollars and it would come directly from the people themselves, whereas the op tokens are coming from the pre minted op that was generated at genesis of the op token. So it was basically money printed out of thin air, really. But when you think about it, the only reason why it has value is because there's demand in the market for op. And right now the market is rating op over $10 billion, fully diluted value. That's why these dollar values are so high here.
00:25:11.716 - 00:25:37.816, Speaker A: Even though it was a very small, a percentage of the total up op supply. As I said, the 10 million op tokens, which is a tiny percentage of the supply, believe that the, the op supply is what, like 7 billion or something like that. Seven. I can't, I don't know, maybe, maybe 4 billion or something. I want to look it up quickly because I don't want to give out the wrong information here. I'm just looking up on my other screen. So I believe the total supply is, yeah, sorry, 4.2
00:25:37.816 - 00:25:52.504, Speaker A: billion. I don't know where I got 7 billion from. 4.2 billion. So only 10 million tokens of that 4.2 billion was given out in this round. And there is a lot of tokens, I believe 800 million tokens allocated towards these retroactive public goods funding rounds.
00:25:52.504 - 00:26:19.890, Speaker A: So there is plenty of opportunity here, plenty of money to be made for providing value to the ethereum. Crypto optimism, ecosystems, L2 ecosystems generally. So just really great to see this. I'm super pumped for this sort of stuff because you guys know I'm a public goods maximalist. And you can check out all of the recipients and their, the amounts that they got for yourself. I'll link this in the YouTube description below. All right, last up here is a tweet that I put out today.
00:26:19.890 - 00:26:52.156, Speaker A: It's a little bit political, but I'm not going to get into the politics side of it. I just wanted to talk to it a little bit. So I tweeted out by saying, being anti crypto is sadly the popular stance in the quote unquote normie circles of the world and will win Elizabeth Warren many votes. And I should give some context here that Elizabeth Warren has a new campaign right now where she's basically running on an anti crypto campaign. That's part of, that's literally part of her campaign. So that's why I put this tweet out. But I continued and I said what we as an interest industry need to do is work to change the attitude of regular people towards crypto.
00:26:52.156 - 00:27:44.578, Speaker A: One of the ways we do this, do this is by building products and services that regular people can get value out of. Instead of telling them bullshit like BTC is going to $1 million and the USD is going to hyperinflate in 90 days, we also need to do much better to call out Ponzis like terror and frauds, like SBF deifying these people, deifying the people running these projects did enough damage to make being an anti crypto politician a popular stance. Now, as I said, I don't want to get into the politics side of this sort of thing, but what I do want to do is expand on what I've said here. So for the last year, all the mainstream non crypto people have heard about crypto has been all the shit, right? Terror collapsing, FTX collapsing, all the funds collapsing, the prices going to shit, right. That's all I've heard, really. And to them, and I don't blame them if that's all they've heard. They think crypto is a scam.
00:27:44.578 - 00:28:23.170, Speaker A: They think literally all of it is a scam because all they hear about is this shitty stuff. Because that's what the mainstream media reports on now. Now, of course they should be doing better research than just defaulting to the mainstream media, blah, blah, whatever. I'm not here to debate that point. What I'm here to say is what the reality is, right? The majority hates crypto, and it is a very popular platform to run on right now in the US because of that, right. Especially for someone like Elizabeth Warren, whose platform has traditionally been like anti banking, right? Reining the banks in, going against Wall street, all that sorts of stuff. The crypto resonates with that same base because that same base believes that crypto is a scam, right? It's all a grift.
00:28:23.170 - 00:28:48.560, Speaker A: It's all just money being made for already rich people and, you know, screw those guys, blah, blah, right? Screw the rich, so to speak. That's. That's the kind of base that Elizabeth Warren already has. So this will appeal to that existing base. And then, of course, it'll. It'll also appeal to moderates who may have, may hate crypto, right. And they're looking for a politician that will do something about crypto because they feel like it needs to be reined in, just like the banks.
00:28:48.560 - 00:29:17.452, Speaker A: And that's exactly who she is appealing to. Um, but, but yeah, just generally, when you think about what the non native crypto crowd thinks about crypto, just everyone else out there, they either don't think about it at all. I mean, that's obviously a. Stands for many people, or they hate it and want it to be either banned outright or reined in or limited or whatever, for whatever reason. That's. That's the stance of a lot of people. And that's just the unfortunate stance of a lot of people.
00:29:17.452 - 00:29:40.190, Speaker A: Now, as I said before, can I blame them for this? Not if they hear. If that's all they're hearing from mainstream media. Not if they're not paying attention. And can I really put all the blame on mainstream media? No, I can't. Because without this crappy stuff to report on, they wouldn't be reporting on it. Right? Like people within crypto, they deify do Kwon. They pumped up terror.
00:29:40.190 - 00:30:22.902, Speaker A: And I'm not talking about just random shills and reply guys on Twitter. There were plenty of legitimate quote. I'm doing the air quotes, right? Legitimate people and funds and, and, and smart money that all got into terror and all pumped the shit out of it, even though it was one of the most obvious Ponzi's that existed in crypto. Right? And then with SPF and FTX, to be fair, it wasn't as transparent. Well, nowhere near as transparent as terra. But there were red flags everywhere with, with SPF and FTX. And people ignored that because obviously they were making money, right? And then all the other shit that came out last year, again, people ignored Celsius, blockfi, all that sorts of shit, right? People ignored, like, oh, you know, I'm getting really high yields when interest rates are basically 0%.
00:30:22.902 - 00:31:00.926, Speaker A: No one really questioned that. It's like, well, I mean, why is the yields that high? Well, a lot of the time is because of token incentives or a lot of the time it was because of crypto leverage, where funds were all borrowing from each other and paying a premium to do that. And then that premium was getting paid to customers, getting passed down, the customers whose assets were being lent out to these people. And then we saw what happened with three arrows capital, with the alleged fraud around them and everything like that. So, you know, we can't really blame people for having this anti crypto stance right now, because all they've seen is all this shit, and that we haven't actually developed any products that the regular people will get. Get use out of, at least right now, because it's still very early. And I'm not.
00:31:00.926 - 00:31:28.398, Speaker A: They're not particularly blaming us for not developing it because it is so early. Uh, but I just wanted to explain and expand on this tweet, because that's how I think about it. That's the logic I'm going off. And that's why you see all this anti crypto rhetoric from a lot of the politicians, because it's a very popular stance to take right now. Now, I'm hoping that these kind of stances aren't rewarded at the poll, not the polls, at the. At the election booths, right? I'm hoping that. That these kind of things aren't emboldened.
00:31:28.398 - 00:31:58.032, Speaker A: But the problem is, is that someone like Elizabeth Warren, from my understanding, she's in a pretty safe seat, and she stands a pretty good chance of getting reelected. Now, she could get reelected for nothing good to do with crypto at all, right? You could just get reelected for other policies, but she'll take that and she'd be like, wow, okay. People resonated with that. I'm going to keep clamping, keep attacking crypto, keep clamping down on crypto. And we need both politicians that fight the other side for us, which there are some. I've mentioned some before on. On the refill, like Tom, Emma, and things like that, but.
00:31:58.032 - 00:32:15.600, Speaker A: And I'm just talking about their crypto stances. I don't know, their policies and anything else. I'm not an american, so I don't even really bother looking into that because I can't vote anyway, right. I can't vote in us elections anyway. But that's that's kind of like how I view these things. And as I've said before, I think the US political sphere towards crypto is not friendly right now. It's not great.
00:32:15.600 - 00:32:39.748, Speaker A: The regulatory actions are also not great. Regulatory side of things is just pretty, pretty bad, especially compared to other places around the world, which are much more progressive. But yeah. Anyway, I just wanted to expand on that. You can go read the replies to my tweet if you want. I read a few of them and lost bit of faith in humanity because people started getting into fights about politics, like us politics. And I try my best to avoid that.
00:32:39.748 - 00:33:00.388, Speaker A: But I knew that was gonna happen when I put this tweet out. So I actually just muted this tweet when I put it out. Like, nope, I'm not reading that. I just want people to realize that this position of hating crypto is actually a popular one to run on. It is not unpopular in mainstream circles. It's only unpopular within crypto. And to be honest, I don't think Elizabeth Warren gives a shit about any of us at the end of the day, right? She doesn't like us.
00:33:00.388 - 00:33:19.016, Speaker A: She wants to use it as a way to get herself more power. And that's just the way it is. But anyway, I'm not going to talk about the politics anymore. I'm going to end that on that note for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter, join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all next week.
00:33:19.016 - 00:33:20.504, Speaker A: Thanks everyone. Bye.
