00:00:01.240 - 00:00:30.536, Speaker A: What is up, guys? Taki here. And today I wanted to make a state of Defi report video because I know I haven't made any videos recently, but I've been moving. I have had some minor health problems, but now I feel better. And, you know, just because I haven't made any videos doesn't mean that I'm not doing any research, right. I'm spending. I'm basically dedicating my entire life to this space, you know, as of now. So there's a lot of knowledge I want to cover.
00:00:30.536 - 00:01:14.040, Speaker A: However, you know, some of the stuff I do, it's not really worth making individual videos because, like, it's kind of a waste of my time. Like, what's the point? So I was like, you know what? I have a lot of content that I've been making, so I might as well compile it all into one long ass video. And if you don't like it, you know, you can click out, but I'll go through. I'll go through the trouble of adding timestamps, so you can skip through whatever section you want. But basically, the purpose of this video, and hopefully in the future videos, is long videos where you can kind of get a grasp of what's been happening in the space. Because I know price is bad. It might seem on the surface that nothing is happening, but if you look under the hood, there's a lot of things happening.
00:01:14.040 - 00:01:40.292, Speaker A: Hopefully through the video you can learn and keep up with the space. And hopefully through my channel, even though price is down bad and it's hard to keep interest, maybe this is a good way for you to engage with the space just so you can remain interested. Even if that means, like, you know, you don't buy anything, right? I mean, yeah, so this can be the end of the video. I have a lot of things to cover. So, yeah, like I said, timestamps below. None of this is financial advice, of course. I have no idea what I'm doing.
00:01:40.292 - 00:01:58.802, Speaker A: I do want to make some token disclosures. These are tokens. I hold more than 1% in my portfolio. I own other stuff, obviously, because I farm and whatnot. But. And, you know, all these tokens, I've talked about my channel, so I don't think it's a surprise. But, you know, just for transparency reasons, I own bitcoin, Eth, GMX, FXS, exmon gains network and CVX.
00:01:58.802 - 00:02:18.450, Speaker A: So let's do a little bit of a macro crypto update. And this isn't macro in terms like, you know, like, you know, like interest rates and whatnot but, you know, just like the macro crypto environment. Right. Just to give a brief update on that. So this is the top eight ecosystems in terms of TVL. And I've been pretty adamant in the. For the past couple of months that I think, you know, all Del ones are going to suffer.
00:02:18.450 - 00:02:59.178, Speaker A: And I think Mainnet and Dell two s, their tVO dominance relative to the entire defi space is only going to appreciate or, you know, just, I guess, gain ranking. And you see that number eight has Solana. Solana used to be in a top five for a very long time, but recently there's been the mango markets exploit. It's not really an exploit. I mean, it kind of depends on how you look at it. But basically they enabled mango token as collateral, right, which is this illiquid token, and someone just bought a bunch of. And borrowed a bunch of assets against it, you know, because it's a money market, and because the mango token crashed in price afterwards, there's a lot of bad debt in the ecosystem.
00:02:59.178 - 00:03:15.178, Speaker A: I'm not going to spend too much, too much time on that. But, you know, basically it's a new ecosystem. There's. There's gonna be growing pains and with the whole bridge hacks and whatnot. Right. Recently, BSc had the BNB exploit with the bridge hack. I just expect more tvo to flow back in the main net and also l two s.
00:03:15.178 - 00:03:38.518, Speaker A: And that's what you see here. I've been saying, I think arbitrum should be top five at end of year, assuming that Odyssey is gonna launch arbitrage. Modesty, but I'm not really sure what the timing is. But you can see that, you know, the one month change, sundown, polygon down, avalanche down, BSE. I mean. I mean, BSE in Tron. It's kind of weird because, you know, there's a bunch of rich people that can, you know, kind of obfuscate the real data.
00:03:38.518 - 00:04:00.900, Speaker A: But I would expect that the majority of retail activity is happening on Mainnet. L two is probably on avalanche, right? And Solana, I guess. And BSU, too. Yeah, BSU, too. And I talked about, you know, the risks of using bridges and all tail ones a couple months ago on this channel. So if you're. If you want to learn more about bridge risks, I'm not going to spend too much, too much time on it, because, you know, I don't want to waste your time.
00:04:00.900 - 00:05:05.910, Speaker A: If you want to educate yourself, watch this video. So, yeah, I expect ethan l two Tvl dominance to go up, and I also expect defi to outperform in terms of TVL, as in, in this bear market, as people go more and more risk off, I think people will be less, or the risk appetite to deploy capital on newer protocols are going to be lower. So I expect curve uniswap aave right, those protocols to gain in TVO dominance. And if you're launching, it's like a new project launches, it's just really, really hard to get people to want to deploy capital in size, unless there's like VC backing docs, teams and whatnot. But even then, what's the point at this? Because those projects generally get dumped to the ground in terms of price. And I'll expand more on the Defi outperformance, and we've already kind of seen that recently. But I'll share some charts to, you know, in case you're like a visual learner, 2021, I guess, like my channel blew up because I identified the l one trade, you know, like earlier than other people.
00:05:05.910 - 00:05:36.686, Speaker A: But that's because Eth main net gas fees were very high and there was a lot of demand for block space. And all that demand for block space had to go somewhere, right? And I went to alto at once. But when no one really cares about crypto anymore, right, defi nft is nothing. There's less demand for block space. And when that's the case, there's less demand to use alt l one s just because mainnet l one, right, EtH is pretty cheap now. I mean, it's not that cheap in the grand scheme of things, but it's cheaper. And l two s, they didn't really exist in 2021.
00:05:36.686 - 00:06:15.306, Speaker A: I mean, they did, but the ecosystem was kind of trash. But now a lot of the developers are building on arbitrum optimism and maintenance. So I just expect more and more developer mineshare to flow into these ecosystems. And if that's where the devs are going, then that's where money is going to flow, too. And when it comes to auto ones, we still don't know what's going to happen to those three ac tokens, right? Has it been already sold? Is it like still liquid? Right? Is it like locked? Because I know they raised a bunch of, I mean, they bought a bunch of these l one tokens, and from my understanding, they were locked for at least like a year. So I'm not really sure what the hell is happening there. Maybe they sold OTC at a discount, but who knows, right? There's a lot of uncertainty there.
00:06:15.306 - 00:06:55.150, Speaker A: And with these alta ones, the inflation rate is still pretty high. You know, the proof of stake, right? I mean you can get paid 8% staking avalanche sol and whatnot. And most of those validator rewards are going to VC's teams and you know, they're going to be selling tokens. Like I know for a fact that, you know, I mean I'm not going to mention names, but you know, these alto one foundations, they're trying to, you know, raise more money, right, by selling their alto one tokens to raise more cash. And it's not a bad thing, right, because these teams need funding. But if you're looking at it from just like putting a bunch of money, there's like headwinds, right? There's a bunch of supply overhang for these ulta ol tokens. So I'll share a bunch.
00:06:55.150 - 00:07:17.534, Speaker A: I mean I've been publicly bearish Avax for a long time, so I'll share here. But this is an Avax eth chart. Maybe this isn't the best chart because this doesn't have that much price history and you know, but you know, Avax eth, right? This is Avalanche relative to ETh. It's going down. Solana relative to ETH, also going down. I just expect this trend to continue. Can I have pumps in the short term, of course.
00:07:17.534 - 00:07:58.820, Speaker A: Am I bearish these projects longer term? I don't really have a strong opinion, but I'm just saying in the short term, just a bunch of headwinds there. The thing with Defi tokens is that, you know, these governance tokens, obviously in a bull market there's not that much value accrual. The narrative is weak and you know, they didn't really do that well. However, like I mentioned earlier, the benefit that these projects have is that they move slow. And that's a good thing, right? Because in a bear market, like I don't mind putting a bunch of money on Aave curve because I trust these protocols, right, Uniswap included. So. And if you also think about the token distribution of these tokens, a lot of these projects, they've had tokens emitting since like 20 17, 20 18, 20 19.
00:07:58.820 - 00:08:36.988, Speaker A: So the distribution is a lot, is a lot more fair. I mean fairer is a, you know, it's a subjective term, but I think it's more fair than, you know, some of these alt l one tokens. And I feel like in the, in a bear market, I think money will flow back into these tokens because things like Aave, right? It's like Aave is the de facto number one bank in crypto, right? Like, that has to have value, even if. Even though in the short term it's just a pure governance token. Same for Uniswap. At some point, Uniswap, it just has to be a good buy because they are the leaders in the amm, like the Dex space, and they have the strongest team in crypto, in my opinion. Right, at least in the exchange space or, you know, just tokens with more transparency.
00:08:36.988 - 00:09:17.970, Speaker A: So I'll share some ETH relative charts. So this is the price of Aave divided by the price of ether, right? I mean, it used to be down only in 2021. I mean, that was brutal, but now it looks like it's basing out, right. If you compare this to evac seeth Solana Eth, I think this looks more constructive because, I mean, it looks like it's spacing out, right? I mean, yeah, this is uniswap relative to eat, right? And all these tokens in 2021 was pure trash, right? I mean, it was literally trash. But now you see that in 2022, after the May crash, you know, these tokens are gaining relative to eat, or at least maintaining value. And I think this is constructive because when the markets do go risk on at some point, right? Because at some point, right, there's. It's getting.
00:09:17.970 - 00:09:33.302, Speaker A: The markets will go risk on. I think these tokens might just outpour. And that's a good thing. This is sushi relative to ether. I know they hired a new CEO. They raised some money from Golden Tree, right? Avi Feldman, I really respect him. I have problems with sushi.
00:09:33.302 - 00:09:54.256, Speaker A: I don't think they're a tokenomics model is that great. And they suffered a lot from a lack of structure. So maybe the new CEO can turn the ship around. But, you know, it's something good to see here. This is Chainlink relative ether, right? Also, I mean, down only, but maybe it's facing out. I mean, Chainlink right there. I feel like Chainlink is a bet on blockchains in general.
00:09:54.256 - 00:10:25.820, Speaker A: Just blockchains existing. Yes. There's a lack of token value accrual, but they recently introduced staking. And, you know, hopefully over time, the chainlink token can actually have some level of correlation with the amount of value that is secures via their oracle network. This is convex, right? I mean, like some of these charts, it's kind of hard to, like, really gauge because, you know, like, some of them are new one up, but CVX, like, most of the tokens are already emitted. You can argue that, you know, it's a farm token. But I feel like CVX is a patent curve.
00:10:25.820 - 00:10:39.312, Speaker A: Obviously I token disclose like you know, I own some. I bought the diphthere. Um, but you know, I just have it locked. And hopefully I'm right on the thesis that you know, curve is here to stay. Stablecoins are here to stay. And I view convex as a bet on um. I guess.
00:10:39.312 - 00:11:04.112, Speaker A: I guess stable coins growing and the demand for stable coins growing. This is GMX relatively to, relative to ether. We saw a spike in early October because they were listed on like five different exchanges like all in the span of a couple of days. That was all the news. But um. And maybe if you do like this regular ta, this looks pretty bearish. But you know, the trend is your friend and this thing has been putting in higher highs and higher lows since basically like Q two of 2022.
00:11:04.112 - 00:11:33.276, Speaker A: And I don't expect this trend to break. Maybe it goes sideways, maybe it just chops. But it's one of the few protocols actually making money, you know, great protocol. I mean obviously I made a video on this like three, four months ago. So you know, feel free to check that out if you're interested. And also Exmon ether, right? Relative ether, it's about to, you know, I guess there's like resistance at the 25, you know, Xmon divided by ether ratio. But you know, it's looking pretty good, right? So all these defi tokens with more fairer distribution.
00:11:33.276 - 00:11:50.100, Speaker A: Right. I think the. I think. I think these tokens will upcorm relative to all to l one s and everything that I've been buying, right. Has been Defi tokens, right? It's not l one tokens aside from ether, you know, just like Defi tokens. And that's my specialty, right? That's. I feel like that's where my edges.
00:11:50.100 - 00:12:47.090, Speaker A: So I'm going to focus my channel on defi. So you know, hopefully, you know, if you're sticking around and watching this video, hopefully, you know, we'll, we'll get through this together, right? So you know, app tokens, likely app from l one tokens. You know, hopefully this is like, I mean this is like what you want to see, right? And I know there's like regulation fears and whatnot, but, and you know that those are valid. But I can argue that regulation is actually bullish for DeFi because things like Uniswap and Aave, they don't have value accrual because these teams are afraid of these tokens being securities and the lack of regulatory direction. So if there is regulatory certainty for any of these tokens what kind of token models are legal? Maybe at that point there can actually be real value cruel for things like Uniswap. Because one day if Uniswap staking is enabled where you can earn a percent share in protocol fees, that's going to be an amazing token. Not yet, not yet.
00:12:47.090 - 00:13:13.160, Speaker A: Maybe people are accumulating, anticipating that, right? With like a twelve to 24 month time horizon. And you know, obviously just use this video as a tool for you to, you know, view the entire space holistically. You can make your own decisions. But you know, I feel like the bid is returning to alt. So not, sorry, not alt ones. But you know, these defi tokens. And that's a trend that I think is worth monitoring.
00:13:13.160 - 00:14:10.634, Speaker A: Another trend I think is worth monitoring is under collateralized lending. I have a hard time saying this for some reason, so I'll just say ul from now, right? So when I say ul, it stands for under collateralized lending. I know ul has a bad rep just because that's how kind of three AC went down. They basically borrowed from a bunch of different institutions using the same assets as collateral. And the lack of transparency, you know, with these other lenders just made it so that when three AC defaulted or, you know, when three AC lost a bunch of money, they defaulted on their debt. And you can argue that, yes, under collateralized ul is risky, right? Because it's under collateralized. However, maybe on a blockchain it makes more sense for UL to be a thing on blockchains because even when, you know, Celsius and three AC were going under, if you were on Twitter, there were people sharing these maker down positions where people were saying, oh, like Celsius, this is Celsius, this is BTC vault.
00:14:10.634 - 00:14:55.420, Speaker A: They're going to get liquidated if bitcoin goes below 17k, right? And people were monitoring it and people were like, oh my God, it has to go to that price. And then over time we saw sales just pay down their debt, right? Like, you know, just bridging DaI across like other applications or whatever and you know, they were able to pay down their debt. So, you know, part of the reason ul just sounds risky and has a bad rep is because of the lack of transparency. But if everything is happening on a public ledger, then maybe Ul can actually be a good source for institutions to borrow and for lenders to earn a decent yield on stable coins, ether and alt altcoins. And this. So if you go to DeFi llama, this is all the under collateralized lending protocols we see. Maple truefi etcetera.
00:14:55.420 - 00:15:20.752, Speaker A: You know, you can see that it's pretty capital efficient, right? I mean, you know, for example, Maple, there's almost $330 million supplied and $325 million is borrowed. Right. I mean, I love Aave, right. And, you know, it's great, right. Being able to be your own bank, I think that's great. But it's capital inefficient. And I think the trend towards Defi is trending towards better capital efficiency.
00:15:20.752 - 00:16:01.132, Speaker A: And I feel like, you know, if you think about the percent share of ul as, you know, like ul as percent share of total lending should only grow over time. Right now, I'm sure it's, you know, single digits. But I feel like over time, as there's more trust, as these protocols get more battle tested, you know, more and more tv overflow into this because, you know, over time it builds Lundy. There's trust. And when there's trust, maybe more people deposit and then, you know, as lenders, and then more people, more institutions borrow against the collateral. And, you know, you can actually earn decent yield in your stable coins. So, for example, ribbon finance, you can earn eleven to 13% just depositing stable coins.
00:16:01.132 - 00:16:47.130, Speaker A: And, you know, you're essentially lending out your assets to market makers like wintermute. Wintermute is generally delta neutral. So. And, you know, you can obviously audit, maybe not audit, but you can actually like check their wallet to see how much stable coins that they hold. So, you know, if they look kind of risky, you know, you can pull out whenever. And on the left hand, left hand side here, you can earn 7% on staples and 5% in ribbon rewards. And I'll talk about riven a little bit later in the video as one of the few protocols that I think is interesting and maybe I'll get into it here, right? But, you know, if amms are trending towards better capital efficiency, right, from univ two to univ three, it's natural for money markets and, you know, just other markets in general, like nfts, money markets, options, anything to just trend towards more capital efficiency.
00:16:47.130 - 00:17:37.462, Speaker A: Because in order for products to find product market fit to gain, you know, capital, sorry, I guess competitive advantages, things just have to be capital efficient, right? Because blockchain defi, not really capital efficient, but that's definitely where the trend is going. And Maple, I mean, I talked about these protocols, right? And all these under collateralized lending protocols, they use this thing called cradora as like this on chain credit score type of thing. So I guess there's like central risk here, right? Because if Credor gets things wrong, then, you know, people aren't really risky. Sorry, people aren't really pricing risk efficiently. But you know, I'm not really a fan of like Maple token or truefi token or clear pull token, just because I made a video in the past. Right. And why I'm like generally bearish money market tokens.
00:17:37.462 - 00:18:11.514, Speaker A: Aside from like Aave, right? Like I'm building bearish Aave forks and like just general money market tokens because they don't really make that much money. Sure they can lock up a bunch of TBL, but you know, it doesn't really mean there's value. Cool. Because first of all, the governance tokens and also how much money they make, they capture the spread between the lending rate and the borrower rate, right? So if they're, there's a billion dollars locked, the lending rate is 1% and borrow rate is 3%, then they capture, you know, that 2% basically, you know, just, just to simplify things. And you know, 2% on a billion, that's $20 million, which is okay. Right. But it's not that much in the grand scheme of things.
00:18:11.514 - 00:18:30.910, Speaker A: Of course, if the space grows more, then yeah, like there's gonna be a lot of value. Cool. For things like Aave. But you know, not a huge fan of these tokens. You know, this has $3 million, Clearpool has $150 million, and Rivenland has roughly $20 million. And let's talk more about ribbon. I think it's an interesting protocol.
00:18:30.910 - 00:19:20.608, Speaker A: I don't own any, but maybe I should. So ribbon is this defi options vault product where they essentially allow people to deposit capital into ribbon and then they'll run various options strategies for you in order for you to generate yield. And they also introduced ribbon lend because they work with market makers and they're also introducing this product. However, what's more interesting is that there's working on this new options central limit order book Dex, called Evo, that's going to be built as a roll up on Ethereum as a L2. And I think this is interesting because I think GMX and gains network show that there's definitely demand to trade, I guess, crypto coins on leverage. I mean, of course. However, there's not that much product market fit when it comes to the option space.
00:19:20.608 - 00:19:59.070, Speaker A: And I'll talk about more options protocol. So ribbon and premium, I'll talk about later. You know, that's because it's really difficult to make these things on chain. It's my opinion that I think an options Amm makes sense but, you know, ribbon, I mean, this team thinks otherwise. They think a central limit Weber makes sense. And I think at the end of the day, I think both models will end up working and, you know, both the types of products, protocol designs will have their pros and cons. But let's spend more time on Evo because I actually think it has potential to be the most liquid exchange for people to trade options on chain.
00:19:59.070 - 00:20:52.166, Speaker A: And I think that's very, really valuable. So this account, Mister Zero X Boccaccio listened to this AMA took some notes, so, you know, credits to this person. And I'll be going over various screenshots from, you know, this, these, these notes to provide some commentary. So Ava is going to be, you know, like, like I said, this roll up on l two, it's gonna offer 100 plus markets, right? Not just like 100 different coins, but on chain defi, there's only like weekly calls, right? As in, you know, if you wanted to buy options on chain, you can only buy weekly calls or puts. But Evo is trying to, you know, have more options. Like daily, daily call, daily options, weekly options, monthly options, yearly options, right? All these different markets. And, you know, I think there's demand for people to buy options, but there's a problem on the supply side, right, because it's really difficult to create options on chain.
00:20:52.166 - 00:21:19.860, Speaker A: So what they're planning to do is to just onboard market makers. So it's not really decentralized, it's more centralized because they're, you know, they're relying on large market makers to essentially, you know, sell options to retail institutions. But I guess the difference here is that it's on chain, right? So you don't have to Kyc. I mean, I could be wrong on that. Maybe it's going to be a Kyc l two, but basically it's not. It's. There's just onboarding market makers to market make options, basically.
00:21:19.860 - 00:22:05.572, Speaker A: And I think, you know, if you fix the supply side, the demand side will follow, right? That's what we saw uniswap v two, where people were like, you know, back in a couple years ago, people were saying, like, why would anyone want to buy coins on chain, right? Like when Coinbase exists, when binance exists. That's what people were saying. But uniswap v two allowed anyone to pair whatever token with another token and be like, anyone can be their own market maker. And this found product market fit amongst, like the right tail, like the long tail assets, right? Because Coinbase, binance, they're not going to list some like $5 million market cap token. I mean, maybe Coinbase would, right? Because they're listing through processes like so bad. But you know, just generally they're not going to list long tail assets. But on uniswap you can trade anything, right? As long as someone's there to provide liquidity.
00:22:05.572 - 00:22:58.540, Speaker A: So I think that's a good analog to what's going to happen with options where, you know, there just has to be someone that just offers the supply side, right? Someone to take on that risk. And if someone does that and there's a liquid market to trade options, just billions will of fallout, right? Maybe not billions, but like billions will be traded. And I guess like how ribbon benefits from Evo is. Ribbon already has their structured product where, you know, you can deposit, let's say USDC. And you know, they advertise like a 20% to 30% yield on stable coins by having like a covered call option or like whatever it is. However, like, you know, the problem with ribbon is that some of these strategies, it's not like a safe 20% to 30% rate because they're buying options. And if some of these options strategies don't work, then you can lose money.
00:22:58.540 - 00:23:37.676, Speaker A: I think one of the put selling strategies for USDC that they have on their channel, they advertise like a 30% APY. But in reality, people, anyone that deposited into that vault lost like 30% of their capital because the market keeps going down. And if you're selling puts, you get wrecked if the market keeps going down. But basically, if Evo has a liquid options market, then that's going to allow ribbon to make more products on top of Evo. So it's kind of like this mutual ecosystem, right? And they're made by the same team. So, you know, and they have a bunch of funding. They actually are funded by paradigm.
00:23:37.676 - 00:23:54.064, Speaker A: And paradigm helps design units of v three. So, you know, maybe they know what they're doing. The evo team. They think that orderworks makes more sense than ammse. I mean, of course they're building an order book. So they're going to say this. I'll make an argument on why I think amms could make more sense.
00:23:54.064 - 00:24:34.878, Speaker A: I know it's really difficult to design amms for options because, you know, for things like nfts and coins, it's easy to just make an amm because all you have to do is if people buy, price goes up. If people sell, price goes down. But with options, I know there's like the greeks, right, the gamma, the data, all that and how do you incorporate that into an aim? I have no idea, but I think anyone that is able to do that is going to easily have their product be a multi billion dollar protocol. I'll skip this. And, you know, like related to the ribbon token, this AMa mentioned that there's no direct value. Cool. So I was hoping that maybe ribbon can be like a staking token for l two s.
00:24:34.878 - 00:25:02.278, Speaker A: But they said that doesn't make any sense. They said for like the first 612 months, I think. Yeah, first the 612 months, they're not really gonna have like direct value accrual. They're gonna just like operate it, like monitor performance or whatnot. But, you know, if you have a longer term time horizon, you know, maybe like just add it to your watch list and say that, hey, like, maybe in 2024, right, Avo is going to be a top three options, Dex and ribbon might have some value. Cool. So it's something to keep in mind.
00:25:02.278 - 00:25:26.370, Speaker A: And also with the trend towards under collateralized lending. Right. Ribbon also gives you exposure to that in a sense. So, no, I think ribbon is decent token. I don't own any, of course. And you know, Evo is going to launch in Q four, right? So they're not just announcing this and saying, you know, it's launching soon. I mean, I guess they are saying that, but, you know, they're going to launch this in Q four.
00:25:26.370 - 00:25:44.444, Speaker A: Well funded. Might drive more tv on the ribbon finance, so that could be some value. Cool. So riven takes a 10% performance fee and 2% management fee. 50% of the protocol revenue gets sent to the treasury and 50%, uh, the other 50% gets converted into eat. And this distributed to ve ribbon holders. Right? So, uh.
00:25:44.444 - 00:26:07.220, Speaker A: So the ribbon lockers, right? Um, tv all. I mean, not great. I mean, yeah, it's like nothing is that great, right? And this is like the amount. Those are like the various aprs you can earn by locking ribbon. Maybe this is interesting, um, but you know, just sharing it with you. Maybe it's weird that they're launching Evo. They've announced Evo, right, when, you know, the team and investor tokens are starting to unlock.
00:26:07.220 - 00:26:42.736, Speaker A: But, you know, it's hard to, I guess avoid, like token unlocks, right? I mean, it's just a part of cryptos. You know, they're all inflation, right? Even ether is inflationary. Now, even bitcoin is inflationary. But, you know, it's all about the fundamentals. If the fundamentals are strong enough, it should be able to overcome, like these token vesting schedules, right? And hopefully the team and investors are bullish enough where you know they're not going to sell. Like right now, apparently the ribbon seed price was 30 million ftv, so use that. To your knowledge, I don't know how many tokens were sold there.
00:26:42.736 - 00:27:18.068, Speaker A: I also know that they raised a series A and series B. I don't know what valuation they raised there, but I know this information. So I was going to share with you. So obviously no options. Central order makes sense, right? You just onboard market makers and they'll like sell it to you and whatnot. But I think with DeFi, you know, I feel like if you wanted to decentralize ethos, it should allow anyone to be like a market maker, right? I mean, that's kind of the point. That's kind of what GMX did well, right? You can buy GLP and you can become a market maker essentially, and you collect trader freeze and that's a great model.
00:27:18.068 - 00:27:51.058, Speaker A: And GMX outperforming. And similarly, I feel like options, right? Maybe. I feel like anyone that can create like this, like GLP, right? It's like a basket of assets. If anyone could create like a basket of like assets, maybe call it like options liquidity, providing like token, whatever, right? Olp. If I can like buy a basket of like the majors and the protocol itself will automatically, you know, charge like, you know, like do every, like, do all the pressing. For me, I feel like that protocol is going to be just amazing. It doesn't exist yet, of course, right? And I'm just like, you know, sharing.
00:27:51.058 - 00:28:34.460, Speaker A: You like what? My thesis is like option amms and generally, like, it's really difficult to price things on chain. So for example, dopex the option protocol, how they, I guess sell options is you have to have individuals like write options themselves. And that's not really a scalable model because how do you expect me to write options and price them correctly? It makes no sense. So I think amms are just the best way to price things on chain. But obviously builders have to figure out how to price things correctly. Obviously options are more nuanced, so maybe it's not possible, right? Maybe I'm just incorrect and like Evo takes all the market share, but I'm looking to see who can figure it out. And I'll share a premia low market cap token.
00:28:34.460 - 00:29:11.652, Speaker A: I don't own any. I'll share why. But this is a pretty promising token project in my opinion. I guess a little backstory. I think they launched a token in 2021, early 2021, and I was part of. So back then I was like playing poker professionally and I was in this poker discord and everyone was like hyping it up, right? It's like all my poker friends were like, oh yeah, like premiere to the moon, right? It's like, and they're like aping into this token and I was like what the hell is going on? Right? And then it's just like nuked. It's just like nuked to like whatever, like ridiculous price and now it's like going sideways.
00:29:11.652 - 00:30:03.892, Speaker A: But the thing is, they've been around since early 2021 and if you listen to the founder interviews, you know, the team looks, I mean the team sounds competent, right? I mean they're anal. I mean, obviously like what the hell do I know? All I know about their team is their voice, right? And like they're relatively inactive discord channel. But they dropped this premium b three white paper and they even tasting that this is gonna drop q four. Now they're saying it might be in Q one as I have no idea. But basically, you know, TLDr they're trying to build an options ammdeh and implementing concentrated liquidity. Also another thesis is that I think all amms are trending towards concentrated liquidity. We saw with uniswap v two and trending toward when uniswap v three launched, right? I mean they introduced concentrated liquidity and every other Dex in other blockchains, they're creating concentrated liquidity.
00:30:03.892 - 00:30:45.990, Speaker A: So we see, we see, we see ref finance on near trader Joe, on avalanche, um, sushi swap, even interested in trading, right? Everyone has to be concentrated liquidity. Um, so maybe, I mean, also for NFTs, I think it makes sense, right? I think NFTs should be priced or, you know, traded on an Amm level. Um, I mean, both models, right? Amm and central motorbike. And I think, you know, makes sense for options too. I'm not going to spend too much time on this. You can subscribe to their YouTube channel, they have a bunch of videos, but you know, they're going to have an options amm. They're going to be vaults, native vaults, products on top of it, whatever.
00:30:45.990 - 00:31:10.116, Speaker A: You know, they're running in depth simulations with their bit data for the past two years to make sure everything works correctly. So I mean, I have no idea if the product is going to work, right? I have no idea. However, on paper it hits all the checkboxes for protocol design that I think it makes sense for an options amm. So I think it's worth monitoring. That's kind of the point I've been making the mark, yup. Is ten mil. Treasury value is 15 million.
00:31:10.116 - 00:31:36.346, Speaker A: And the treasury isn't just like premium tokens, it's mostly an ether USDC. So they do have Runway. I have no idea how they're spending this money, but you know, they have money. The one problem that I have with premia is that I believe the circulating supply is 10 million. And there's one whale account with 800,000 premia tokens. They used to have a million. And they've been like market selling premia into the then liquidity for the past couple of weeks.
00:31:36.346 - 00:32:18.684, Speaker A: And I mean, I have no idea who this person is, what their intentions are, but I mean, they've been selling and they seem to be pretty price insensitive about it. The thing is, like, this is not like a team token, because if you track this wallet and the history, they've been buying premium off the market since like April and like May and June. So I mean, this person has to be bullish premium. But they've been selling for whatever reason. So there's a bunch of supply overhanging from this account because, you know, like, who wants to buy a bunch when 8% of the supply is held by one wallet that's been dumping, right? Maybe they've stopped dumping, but who knows, right? I mean, I feel like this is something to monitor. It's troubling. Timeline keeps getting delayed, but just added to the watch list, I guess.
00:32:18.684 - 00:32:40.766, Speaker A: And this, if you want to, I guess, hear whether the team is competent or nothing, just listen. This one defix, good channel. I mean, maybe, I think they only have two videos, maybe not a good channel yet, but this video interview was really good. Ray has three interviews, but I think it should have more froggy. Sounds like a good dev. Keyword. Sounds like a good dev.
00:32:40.766 - 00:33:02.470, Speaker A: So now let's pivot. Talk about non neat plays, I guess. Adam 2.0. I know this was hyped up in this interview on blockworks. Zaki Mania and Jack Zamblin were just really hyping up Adam 2.0. And this was before the conference, this was before the white paper dropped. And Zaki is one of the most well respected devs in the space.
00:33:02.470 - 00:33:36.620, Speaker A: And really, truly, I'm pretty sure he's like a top ten dev in the space in terms of his capabilities and his credibility. And in this video, he mentioned that Adam 2.0 is gonna make a EIP 1559. Looked like a joke. So when I heard this, I was like, hey, like, ooh, deflation burn like, what is it? What is it? What is it going to be? Right? And it was pretty hyped up and Adam just like pumped into the conference, but when the conference dropped, it kind of was a letdown. And I mean, it's obviously a better model. Like the new tokenomic model is better than the old one because the old ones, it sucks.
00:33:36.620 - 00:34:05.394, Speaker A: But let me just go over what it's actually going to be and then get my thoughts on it. Three big changes. They're going to have this interchange scheduler allocator and there's going to be an emissions change. So the scheduler says that, you know, IBC is a network of different blockchains. It connects these blockchains and when there's all these blockchains, there's going to be meV. Not going to spend too much time on it. But essentially what they're saying is that Adam is going to be able to collect revenues from interchange economic activity by creating a block space market and charging a matching fee.
00:34:05.394 - 00:34:40.531, Speaker A: So, you know, part of this can go towards direct value accrual for the atom token. And the allocator basically says that, you know, atom is a basket. I mean, sorry, I'm at Adam is connect to all these blockchains, right? It's the cosmo sub. And historically it's been better to just invest in like atom ecosystem tokens. Maybe not like, maybe not now, but, you know, like in the past. And they're trying to make Adam the reserve currency of the cosmos ecosystem. And, you know, use atom as a funding tool to fund new projects and also use atom in order to accumulate these ecosystem tokens so atom can be backed by itself.
00:34:40.531 - 00:35:24.138, Speaker A: And also, you know, the tokens within the cosmos hub. And, you know, it kind of looks like this. But the problem is that the atom token, sorry, the community treasury for Adam is like very tiny. I think there's only like eight figures, like low eight figures in the community treasury because, you know, it's no, it's like less vc backed, I guess. So to mitigate that, they're proposing to increase the amount of emissions for Adam in the short term. So most of these emissions are going to go to the treasury, which will be used for the interchange allocator. So, you know, so the dotted line is the old assurance model, right? It's like a flat line.
00:35:24.138 - 00:36:06.250, Speaker A: And now they're proposing this, a new issuance model where lots of inflation in the short term but decaying emissions. So maybe in the short term these are headwinds for the atom token. But I think I don't have the exact numbers, but most of these emissions are going to the treasury. So it's not really like entering circulating supply. But no, just know that this is happening and. Yeah, so higher inflation rate short term, less longer term. So, you know, I mentioned with my videos, a video a couple weeks ago that, you know, I expected the merge to be sell the news because from my experience, 90% of crypto events are just sell the news.
00:36:06.250 - 00:36:33.026, Speaker A: I don't know what it is about crypto people, but they just like hype things up beforehand and when it actually happens, there's like no buyers afterwards. Right. They just like buy in anticipation. So I don't think it meets these expectations. So I think that's why it's been underperforming and Zaki has been hyping up the indoor scheduler as a way to monetize. But if you look at the scheduler here from the white paper, the revenue share, it doesn't even go to the stakers, the delegators and the validators. It goes to the treasury.
00:36:33.026 - 00:36:57.410, Speaker A: So you kind of have to bet that the treasury is going to allocate Adam tokens to public goods and growth. But there's a lot of uncertainty there. Like I said, much better than Adam 1.01. Sorry, 1.0. Because I mean, that was like bad, but not really sure in the short term whether it's gonna be good or not. However, I am pretty bullish. Adam.
00:36:57.410 - 00:37:42.150, Speaker A: I don't own any, but it's definitely something I do want to pick up sometime in this bear market. Right now I'm focusing my accumulation on Ethereum Defi plays because I think, you know, for the reasons I mentioned at the beginning of the video, that's where the opportunity is. But I definitely want to look into atom as something to accumulate. They also introduced USDC, right, the USDC chain. And I heard that this is going to create more mev. So maybe you can stake atom, earn more USDC. I don't really know the details, but, you know, if circle has their own chain and, you know, circle is, you know, distributing USDC to all these different chains, maybe that's going to create some MeV and that's going to create more, you know, just demand for this, I guess.
00:37:42.150 - 00:38:08.990, Speaker A: I don't know, like the matching fee that, that they've been talking about. So enough about Adam, right? Great ecosystem, love their community. They spend less time on marketing, more time building, which I'm a fan of. But let's talk about the other things that I want. The coins I hold I guess so. Like I said, I hold these tokens, so I'm biased, I guess. But I hold these tokens for a reason, right? Because I'm excited.
00:38:08.990 - 00:38:43.740, Speaker A: I'm holding them for a longer term. And, you know, everything that I've talked about, all the other projects that I talked about on my channel, I haven't sold any, right. I have a longer term time horizon on this one. And generally when, you know, if I think about my channel and where I want to be, I'm definitely in this space for longer term. And I feel like this crypto influencer has a bad rap, right? Because typically these people show tokens and then they dump it, right? Or they get paid to talk about tokens. Most of you know that I don't run ads on this channel. I don't accept promotions.
00:38:43.740 - 00:39:16.472, Speaker A: So. And, you know, I don't do seed investing because I feel like, you know, that gives me like an unfair advantage. So everything I buy is in the open market, right? So, you know, and everything I bought, I haven't sold any. And, you know, I don't think I'll sell these tokens and, yeah, I'm not gonna sell these tokens basically. And if I do, so I'll probably like, you know, foreshadow it ahead of time just so people are aware. And I'm trying to like, be more transparent, I guess. But, you know, you know, let's get going.
00:39:16.472 - 00:39:41.596, Speaker A: So let's talk about GMX and games network. I've already made this. Yeah, I made this video in June. So if you care about GMX, like watch it, right? It's been one of the outperformers, right? It's all time high, which is really, really rare to see in a bear market. But I mean, for good reason, right? They're making a bunch of money and their TVL is up only. And generally TVL isn't like a great indicator for token value. Cruel generally.
00:39:41.596 - 00:40:35.762, Speaker A: But I think for trading platforms I think it is a good indicator because this means that there is more people putting money to be a market maker, right? Buying GOP. And if GOP is more liquid, then it's going to allow for people to trade more in size and, you know, or more fees. The problem with like various farming tokens is that, you know, if TVL doubles from 1 million to 2 million, then the farming rewards gets cut in half, right. Because, you know, I mean, there's emitting tokens and it doesn't really matter like what, how many revenue this protocol is making. But with GMX, you know, more fees means more like, you know, revenue for GOP holders, staker and GMX stakers. So I think this is good to see. And even though the volume, trading volume has been kind of flat to down recently, it was able to put in all time highs in volume, I believe in early September ish and like also parts of summer.
00:40:35.762 - 00:41:10.650, Speaker A: So, you know, people are using the platform and there's always demand for Djens to trade on leverage on chain. So this is good to see. So, you know, I'm not going to spend too much time on GMX because I've been talking about GMX for like so many months, right. I mean, if you're following this channel and you don't know about GMX, then, like, what are you doing? But let's spend more time on gains network. I've gotten a lot of requests to cover gains on this channel. I wasn't a huge fan because I wasn't like a, like the biggest fan of how they designed a protocol with the whole Oracle system. And they've had problems in may because they listed Luna as a trading pair.
00:41:10.650 - 00:41:45.620, Speaker A: And when Luna went to zero, it allowed a bunch of people to short Luna and extract a bunch of value from the dive vault. And, you know, that happened. But ever since that happened, it didn't stop the team from shipping. As you can see, the purple line, right, the divault, so that the dive vault is similar to GLP where, you know, you stake, die, and you become the house, right. You come, you get to trade against, I mean, you don't, you don't trade against it, but, you know, you traders get to use your funds to, you know, trade essentially, right. You become the house. And as you can see, this is gains and this is a link if you want, if you care, right.
00:41:45.620 - 00:42:18.772, Speaker A: But trading volume for gains hit at its all time high a couple days ago, which is really interesting, right? I mean, you know, we saw all time high in volume in March and then it kind of went to zero. And then we see this orange line playing higher highs and higher lows and we hit like, I think there's like almost $400 million in trading volume in a single day. And if you go to the right hand side, the purple line, right, the number of daily users, it's putting in higher highs and higher lows. And hey, this is good to see, right. If you're investing in a protocol. So it's really similar to GMX. You can beat a house by staking dai, right.
00:42:18.772 - 00:42:41.580, Speaker A: It's not GLP, right. They just have the single dai vault and how it works is traders are trading synthetic assets. So as long as an asset has a chain link, Oracle, anyone can trade it. So you're not really trading physical bitcoin, physical ether. You're just literally trading numbers on the screen. Screen and fees go towards the die vault essentially. So they have these APIs, they take the median chain link price.
00:42:41.580 - 00:43:09.328, Speaker A: Oracle. And that's what people trade. And yeah, I mean, obviously if you take, if you're sticking Dai, you're taking on the risk in case, you know, because if traders win a bunch of money, then your die vault gets drained. And that's what happened in May. I made this, I made these slides some time ago. So I think the gains price is like almost $3 at this point, depending on when you're watching it. But you know, not focusing on the price, just focusing more on the dai vault, right? You can stake dai, earn 12% paid and die.
00:43:09.328 - 00:43:33.586, Speaker A: And you get paid to trade all the fees generated by the platforms, right. So it's real yo stake dai to be the house. Yeah. But the problem is like 10% APY for dive vault. Like is that enough to incentivize people to deposit and open themselves up to be the house? I'm not really sure. At least with GMX and GoP, I can buy GoP. And I view it as like adding risk to the market, like, like, you know, adding like I guess market exposure to the markets, right.
00:43:33.586 - 00:44:18.068, Speaker A: Because I am a fan of just buying hold like buying whole GOP. Or I can like short avalanche, right, by borrowing avalanche from Aave and then buying GLP with the borrowed Avax. Because if I expect avalanche to underperform, right, I can buy other tokens and then short Avax and I forget to farm more GMX, right? So GLP offers more optionality because of the asset, the various assets in the basket. With Dai, there's less optionality. I mean, I'm sure that in the future people are going to make like, I don't know, like leveraged G die, like Gdai vaults, right? Where you, like, you stake Dai, you borrow a stable coin, you deposit more dai, and maybe you can boost your rewards. But I'm not really sure how healthy that is. If you're in the telegram, Seb, who is the main dev, mentioned that they're gonna have bitcoin and ether vaults.
00:44:18.068 - 00:44:54.400, Speaker A: So maybe you can stake bitcoin or ether and earn 10% or whatever. Maybe that's gonna be worth the risk. But I'm not really sure whether they're gonna launch. And they also updated the tokenomics. So like I mentioned earlier, when Luna detect, or say, when USD pegged, the system got wrecked because everyone should, right? And now they're changing their token mic model where, because they had this similar model where, you know, if the vault gets under collateralized, then they're going to mint more gns to, you know, supply it. But that creates a negative feedback loop, as we saw in Luna. And they are shifting the tokenomic model where they're no longer.
00:44:54.400 - 00:45:45.398, Speaker A: They're no longer going to like, you know, mint gns in perpetuity to like, refund the die vault. And if this over collateralization ratio gets at least 130, then anything in excess of that is going to be used to buy back gns and burn it. So it could be deflationary. And I mean, they also mentioned that after the whole Luna incident, they're going to do better fundamental analysis on the tokens that they list. And you know, the problem with GNS and the risk that gains has is that it lists all these tail assets, right? Like synthetix, like Wifi, like, you know, those altcoins. So, you know, they're going to be more susceptible to, I guess, price manipulation on a central, central exchanges. The other thing is like price manipulation on centralized exchanges is technically illegal, so people shouldn't be doing it, given that these people are doxxed.
00:45:45.398 - 00:46:09.384, Speaker A: But, you know, we saw some minor price manipulation in the price of Avax, which drained some money from GOP. So, you know, it's still a risk, right. And I'm sure it could be an attack vector. So even though the metrics look strong for Gnsitive, there are risks. Right. And that's why it has a lower market cap and the die vault is 108 roughly right now. So it's not like GNS isn't going to be deflationary by any means.
00:46:09.384 - 00:46:49.242, Speaker A: But the fundamentals look pretty strong. And, you know, they also introduce GNS staking where, you know, you can stake GNS, and roughly 33% of the fees go towards GNS stakers. So it looks like they're copying, they're mimicking the GMX model, right? Because if you stake GMX, you earn 30% of the protocol fees. So GNS only becomes deflationary when the collateralization ratio hits 130. It's not even close. So it's not going to be deflationary anytime soon, but it should get there slowly. And one thing I want to talk about with the gains network, right, as you see the volume here, if you go here, we see that the majority of the volume in the past seven days is forex.
00:46:49.242 - 00:47:50.164, Speaker A: So I feel like gains is a bet on foreign to forex volatility, right? And we've seen a bunch of forex volatility, right? The japanese yen getting wrecked, the british pound getting wrecked, euro getting wrecked. I mean, anything relative to the dollar getting wrecked, right? So top, top coins, I guess traded number one, british pound number two, ether number three, New Zealand dollar number four, euro number five, the swiss franc Aussie doll. I mean, like look at this, right? I mean, people aren't even trading crypto, right? I mean like what the hell, like who the hell is trading, what is this Nvidia? Okay, I guess they also have basically like no one's trading Ada, right? Like who the hell is training Ada? So could be bet on, I guess forex volatility could be interesting. Let's talk about FXS. I also made a video on this in July. I spend spend over an hour on this. I don't even know how long this, this video is going to be, but it might be longer than this one.
00:47:50.164 - 00:48:29.210, Speaker A: But you know, I'm not going to spend too much time on this because watch this damn video. If you're interested. I'm going to cover a few things that I didn't cover in this video. So maybe that's interesting. But, you know, there's been regulatory FUD rate, especially with Luna USD imploding. You know, that's going to create, you know, uncertainty with the regulators, right? Like with stable coins and, you know, but I also argued that I feel like this was already priced into FXS when Luna collapsed in the first place. Right? I mean, I feel like people just capitulated fxs at like $4 or whatever, saying, oh my God, like FXS is dead.
00:48:29.210 - 00:49:17.048, Speaker A: The regulators will never allow this. Im going to capitulate my FXS at $4 because stablecoin regulation, right? And recently when this FUD dropped, I think FXS went to like $7 ish and then dropped to like 420 or whatever. And then now it's retraced its entire stablecoin FUD and now it's trading above $6 because, you know, I feel like it's already priced in, right? I mean, this fud is already priced in and I guess people all capitulated in addition to that. But I feel like it's building at a pretty strong floor in terms of price because if you're buying FXS, then you have to be longer term warranted, right? Like no one's buying FXS to sell in like two weeks. I mean, I'm sure people are, but, like, I'm not, like, doing that, right? Like, I bought this, like, whether it's, like, in July, and I've staked it on convex. Like, whatever. I don't.
00:49:17.048 - 00:49:56.480, Speaker A: I don't care, right? It's up, like, whatever since I bought it, earning CRV, CBX, FXs. It's like, cool, right? Like, I'll check it. I'll check in 2023, right? And see, like, what I want to do with it. So, since I made a video, they stripped this product called Frax lend, which, you know, is a money market where anyone can deposit collateral and borrow fracs against it. So it's not that, I guess, innovative in that sense, right? It's just a money market. I mean, it just looks like this. But I guess the main differentiator for Fraxland is that Sam from Frax mentioned that there's overwhelming demand by daos to use Fraxland.
00:49:56.480 - 00:50:41.756, Speaker A: I mean, there's been no daos that's used Fraxlin yet. So I don't know what that means. And the value proposition for these daos is that Frax lending will allow these teams to create custom term sheets. And what I mean by that is if you're, like, borrowing assets, like on Aave, right? It's like a variable rate, and the rate fluctuates day by day depending on the amount of lenders and the amount of borrowers. And maybe daos don't like that. But what daos can do with Frax is that because fracs is the stablecoin issuer, they can say, hey, if you're lido, instead of dumping your lido tokens and dumping your ether, maybe you can use your assets as a collateral, and we'll let you borrow fracs at a fixed rate of 1.5% or whatever, right? Custom term sheets.
00:50:41.756 - 00:51:25.450, Speaker A: And that could be more attractive from a Dow perspective, from an institutional perspective, because, you know, you can actually. I mean, it's not really decentralized, but, you know, you can, like, essentially set your own borrow rate. And what that could do is if you create more fracs, debt in the system, maybe that, you know, because with the whole Dixie thing, right, in the dollar milkshake theory, the dollar is going up. Because, I mean, you know, part of the reason dollar is going up is because a lot of foreign debt is denominated in dollars. And, you know, there's a lot of demand for dollars right now. So what if there's a lot of dow and institution institutional denominated that denominated in fracs, right? Fracs milkshake theory, probably not, right. Hopium, definitely wrong.
00:51:25.450 - 00:51:42.470, Speaker A: Frax milkshake theory, definitely not a thing. Right. I put, like, a four, 2.5% probability of that happening. But who knows? That could be interesting. Also, there's this liquid sticking derivative called frax eat, where, you know, you can stake your fracs. Sorry, you can stake your ether with fracts and.
00:51:42.470 - 00:52:12.062, Speaker A: No, you can. I mean, it's like staked eat, right? And the value prop here is that, you know, Lido. If you stake your et with Lido, they take a 10% fee on those validated rewards. But with fracs, you know, like, their main business model isn't this liquid staking derivative. So maybe they can offer maybe 5% fees. So it could be more attractive, if you trust the protocol to stake your eth with fracs instead of things like lido rocket pool, because they charge less in fees. And given the amount of influence convex.
00:52:12.062 - 00:52:43.648, Speaker A: Sorry, Frax has with convex and the curve wars, I can definitely see them frax building like a baseball for staked frac seed. And, you know, if you don't understand that, then watch my fracs video, right? I'm not going to spend too much time on this. And there's also been a lot of drama around steak, deed, and, like, oFAc sanctions. Right. And I'm not sure what Sam's going to do, but maybe there's going to be a better way to decentralize. Have less censorship resistance or, like, sorry, more censorship resistance with staked track seed. I have no idea.
00:52:43.648 - 00:53:13.898, Speaker A: They haven't shipped it yet, but they mentioned that they're going to ship it soon, right? They keep saying soon. So I have no idea what this means. And Orobor's capital has a good thread on Frax, and I took these screenshots from his thread just to give credits. And, you know, Frax BPD is at $820 million locked. And three pool is at 837 million. Right? So FRacs BP is about to flip three pool. I mean, it kind of flipped it already in the past, but now it's, like, kind of competing.
00:53:13.898 - 00:54:19.472, Speaker A: And FRacs BP can be the number one baseball on all of curve. And if curve maintains, you know, their competitive advantages, you know, for place to people to trade stable points, I feel like this is something that's good to see, right? And fracspace pool on the left hand side here, you see the tv over fax vp up, going up, or I guess going sideways, not going down. And then three pool on the right hand side here going down. So, you know, maybe if people want less reliance on Dai and tether, maybe Frax BP is a place for people to, you know, park their stable coins and earn decent yield. And this is screenshots leaked by some fellow named Curvy on, on Twitter, chatting with Michael Igoroth, who's the founder of Curve. And, you know, curve USD, right? This curve stablecoin has been rumored for, like, I don't know, like, the longest time. And basically they're saying that it's going to come soon and, you know, you'll be able to borrow curve USD very close to 100% LTV.
00:54:19.472 - 00:54:59.616, Speaker A: They can charge a 2% fee to borrow without risk of liquidation. I mean, I have no idea what this is going to be, but basically, curve fracs, convex, I feel like, you know, that part of the flywheel, they're like this positive sum flywheel where if one token benefits, where if one token goes up, then everything else benefits, right? Because they're all interconnected. So anything that's bullish for curve is bullish for fracs. Anything that's bullish for fracs, bullish convex, anything that's a bullish, convex, bullish curve, right? That's kind of how you bethe. And, you know, it's something to monitor. Lastly, touching on the flywheel, there's this new protocol called Conic Finance. I don't own any, right, but they're trying to be a new part of the flywheel.
00:54:59.616 - 00:55:32.840, Speaker A: I'm not sure if they're going to make it, but they're trying to create these things called omnipools, where you can deposit USDC on the conic and they will automatically deploy USDce to whatever into the highest yielding pool on convex, right? So it's kind of like this auto rebalancer built on top of convex, essentially. Their website's kind of cute. And, you know, they're probably going to get way more CRV CVX, to be honest. Right. Kind of makes sense. And maybe they're going to bribe CBX holders. So maybe, you know, the bribe market can go from like six cents per round to 7.5
00:55:32.840 - 00:56:04.796, Speaker A: cents per round. The token is, like, doing holding up pretty well, which is kind of surprising. And it was. It was funny because a million tokens were airdropped to VL CBX holders and only 36% were claimed. So 64% of people, or, you know, 64% were sent back to the treasury. So I guess it's a true bear market where, you know, people locked their CVX and they're just like, they left the markets and they left free money on the table, right. People that claimed it like got like one ETH for free if they dumped it.
00:56:04.796 - 00:56:19.884, Speaker A: But, you know, like, such is life. So, you know, six point six point four percent of the supply goes to the treasury. Now market is that. I mean, current price is a little bit lower. So I mean. Yeah, I mean, check, check. Coin gecko, right? FTV, 40 million, whatever.
00:56:19.884 - 00:56:34.596, Speaker A: And if they're part of high wheel, then maybe it has some upside. Token supply is 10 million. No, 10% of the CBX holders, right? Only 36% were claimed. Community raise went to 30%. 44% for liquidity mining. Treasury, I guess 12%. Right.
00:56:34.596 - 00:56:54.502, Speaker A: After all the people didn't claim. So it's a pretty fair distribution. I guess the downside is that the. The community raise, they sold 30% of the supply for 400k. So that's. That's like really cheap, right? And these tokens don't have a vesting schedule. So I'm not sure who these people are.
00:56:54.502 - 00:57:16.152, Speaker A: I'm not sure what they're planning to do with it. So that could be an overhang, right. But. And also the product isn't out yet, but, you know, the curve and callbacks, devs, some of them are on the multisig, so it could be part of it could be promising. Just continue to keep an eye on it. Yeah, I don't know any, obviously. So last, let's talk about pseudo swap.
00:57:16.152 - 00:58:04.332, Speaker A: So ever since I made a video, they released the Sudo distribution and, you know, if you do the math, depending on whatever the price of Exmon is, this is the circulating market of Sudo and the FTV of pseudoswap, right? And, you know, I'm bullish this protocol. Longer term, I think NFT, amms makes sense. I just feel like, you know, I mean, I've been like buying nfts very like on like various ecosystems and, you know, these things are still really liquid, right. And it's just natural to assume that NFTs will also be traded on an amm. I think 101s can be traded on like central limit order book. Like Opensea, right? I feel like one on ones. And like, you know, those collector items should be on Opensea, right, with like 5%, 10% royalties.
00:58:04.332 - 00:58:51.386, Speaker A: But like these ten K PfE projects. Just put it on an amm, right? This is more liquid, trades better, and it kind of aligns the incentive between the team and the community, in my opinion. But, you know, as a bias stack holder, they also introduced new pools with ERC 20s. So in the past, you can only pair nfts with either, but now you can pair your NFT with, like, other ERC 20s, right? So for whatever this bong bear thing is, right, they're pairing it with ohm. And on the right hand side, right, these other side, the other. These lands, right, they're paid, they're paired with the ape token. And I'm sure that in the future, if I ever become like this NFT officially on auto, maybe you'll own a bunch of nfts and I'll pair with USDC.
00:58:51.386 - 00:59:37.220, Speaker A: And that way I get paid yield in USDC. And that can be a better way to price nfts, right? Like, you don't have to price nfts in eth, right? You can price it in USDC, for example. And anyone that's been providing liquidity, they're making bank. So, you know, that's something good to see. And collection XYZ, they recently raised $5 million by Defiance capital, and they're essentially building infrastructure for that. Allows teams to better incentivize LP's on sudo. So if you're in an FDA project and you want better liquidity for your NFT collection, you can say, hey, like, we're gonna give out $100,000 worth of ether for anyone that provides liquidity on pseudoswap and stakes their LB tokens on collection XYZ, right.
00:59:37.220 - 00:59:58.714, Speaker A: They're basically this liquidity mining tool. So, you know, the infrastructure is being built. I think that's where the trend is going. And I just want to do this little quick wallet tracking that I think was interesting. So let's see here. So, interestingly, I found this wallet, right? And let's look at the history here. How long is video? Okay.
00:59:58.714 - 01:00:14.720, Speaker A: It's an hour. Okay. So that's why. So it's gonna scroll down. So, obviously, this thing, this wallet, no one knows who this is, but they've kind of been, like, t whopping right into exmon for the longest time. Right. I mean, I'm not going to spend too much time on it, but you can kind of see it here.
01:00:14.720 - 01:00:41.822, Speaker A: You can see the trend where, you know, every, every few minutes, they convert USDC ether into exmon, etcetera. And I was, like, doing research on, like, who the hell is this person? On Nansen, this wallet was tagged as Amber OTC. But, you know, generally, Amber doesn't. They don't own these tokens. They generally just, like, market make and charge fees and whatnot. Let me get to the bottom. Yeah, so there you go.
01:00:41.822 - 01:01:18.176, Speaker A: So this wallet got funded, I believe, 130k in USDC from this wallet. And it, like, bought a bunch of synapse, right? And, you know, t whomp into synapse, and then it sent all the synapse into this wallet. Right into this wallet. So let's actually figure out who this wallet is. So let's go here, this wallet, and, you know, let's check the history of this wallet. And was it October 4? I believe, yeah. So it got it received a bunch of synapse, and then they sent it to another address, this address.
01:01:18.176 - 01:01:34.748, Speaker A: Right. So, as you can see, like, big players, like, they don't want people to track their wallets, so they're gonna try to, like, you know, just do whatever they can to try to, you know, hide their tracks. And let's see. Let's kind of go here. Where's October 4? Let's find October. Actually, let's filter by the synapse token. It's a lot easier.
01:01:34.748 - 01:01:49.760, Speaker A: What am I doing? Snaps token. Yeah. So it received synapse and then sent it to. Wait, this is. Yeah, sorry, it's this one. Receive this and sent it to this address. Okay, so let's go to this address.
01:01:49.760 - 01:02:19.746, Speaker A: And I guess another entity was buying a synapse, too. What the hell? Hold up. This is not. This is a real wallet. There you go. There you go. Okay, so we sell this wallet, and this thing has $83 million, and they have a bunch of these assets, right? They have curve graph, lido, chainlink, synapse, uni eat, and a bunch of USDC.
01:02:19.746 - 01:02:54.318, Speaker A: So you can argue that, hey, this is probably an institution, right? And as you just saw from my wallet, tracking this wallet that's been, you know, t whopping and Exmon basically is tied to this institution. And interestingly, I actually know this wallet. I like to track some wallets. And as you can see, I tagged this wallet on August 23 as parafy, potentially. I'm not quite sure, right? But I'm pretty sure it's some fund. I'm not sure if it's verify. That's why I have the question marks.
01:02:54.318 - 01:03:21.540, Speaker A: But two months ago, I typed it as terrify. And now this parafy wallet is related to this wallet that's been t whopping the x one. So, like, okay, that's pretty interesting, right? And, like, you can see, like, it's just, like, time weighted average price buying twap. And as soon as I started, like, sharing this, literally, they sent it to this wallet. I mean, they sent 900k into an exchange. So I was like, oh, my God. Like, they have Nairk left.
01:03:21.540 - 01:04:11.070, Speaker A: Are they gonna, are they gonna buy my bags? But maybe when I found out, I don't know, people found out that I found out or something, and they're trying to cover their tracks. So this doesn't mean that they've stopped buying. It could mean that they've stopped buying. I mean, I have no idea. Right? I mean, these are anonymous wallets and they hold a bunch of Exmon. But I would interpret this wallet related to an OTC desk or like an amber that helps institutions average into new positions, right? We saw this wallet tewap into synapse and now they're twapping into examine, and maybe it's not parafy, maybe it's some other fund. And I was, like, studying this trend, and what I saw was that they were buying $800 every 15 minutes if the price was under twenty five k.
01:04:11.070 - 01:04:55.460, Speaker A: And whenever someone sells a big chunk of Exmon, they sell. Sorry, they buy in bigger chunks, right? So I think there was like a $50,000 sell order on like 05:11 p.m. and then immediately following it, this thing will bot five k. So it's probably a bot that has, like, a set amount of rules. And this bot, I mean, it did not do a good job covering its tracks because, I mean, it kept buying in the same amount. So maybe they're gonna relocate this funds into a new wallet and they're gonna buy things about buy Exmon or other tokens in a less predictable manner. But one of my bulkies for Exmon is, I think this is an asset that I think institutions will love to gain exposure to.
01:04:55.460 - 01:05:18.300, Speaker A: And it seems like it's happening. So, you know, like I said, biased bag holder, but definitely interesting to see. Let's talk about Algorand. Algorand, Tvo going up. Only maybe not only. I mean, the majority of these is stable coin. So it's, I mean, yeah, TVL going up in like, not that crazy bullish, but I mean, you know, it's going up, right? It's going up.
01:05:18.300 - 01:05:52.874, Speaker A: FIFA plus the World cup is happening next year, sorry, next month. And, you know, they're gonna release these nfts. And who knows? Maybe if the World cup become, is like the best World cup in the history of mankind, then maybe these nfts will have value. And maybe, you know, Algorand can benefit from that. I also saw that the Ballon Dor is also being, like, turned into NFT on tezos. So I feel like the FIFA or like the soccer community, the soccer organizations, they're trying to get into nfts. So like, right, so like, maybe that's a positive tailwind for, I guess, these nfts.
01:05:52.874 - 01:06:35.760, Speaker A: I also mentioned that, hey, I've been putting a bunch of money into algofi for the majority of the year because I expect all these protocols to have airdrops. And it was just announced on the 17th that you can claim this token called bank and you can participate in governance. This is going to be a money market token, I mean, devotex, but I don't think this token is going to do that well, so congratulations to anyone that got a bunch. Like I said, I think the longer you've had it deposited, the more tokens you received. So I actually got a bunch, but it's probably not gonna be worth that much. So it's like, whatever. I'm not really sure what I'm gonna do with it because I have no idea how to read the algorithm.
01:06:35.760 - 01:07:20.580, Speaker A: Who knows? But, you know, you can vote on governance. And I mean, the point is, I'm not like trying to promote this coin because I have no idea. But the thing is, I'm promoting the farm because maybe promoting is not a good word. I'm sharing this good form because you can vote on where the bank emissions go towards, and as you can see, the majority of emissions are going to go towards, I guess, stablecoin yields, right? And right now, the stable coin yields are already pretty good, right? You can stake USDC earn 7%, stake tether earn 11%. And there can be more bank emissions, which could be interesting if you care to bridge overdose. I also have funds in folks finance, Pacifi and Tinyman. Smart contract risk is there, so, you know, don't spend too much money on there if you care.
01:07:20.580 - 01:08:07.632, Speaker A: But, you know, similarly, I've had my funds there in case they do a token. I don't really expect these tokens to do well, but hey, it's free money. I love to be, you know, receive all these, these governance responsibilities, right? I love having all these responsibilities just so I can dump them at a later point, maybe dump them at a later point. And I'm very, very grateful that the SEC did not protect me from these airdrops. I was, I was a little worried, right? I was kind of scared of receiving these airdrops because, you know, the SEC wants to protect us investors from free money, but unfortunately, Mister Gary Gensler did not protect me from free, free money. But anyways, let's keep going, folks, finance here, right? I mean, these rates are less good than they were, because they got diluted. But, I mean, you know, not.
01:08:07.632 - 01:08:31.128, Speaker A: Not bad, right? Not bad. And I was saying, hey, folks, finance, like, when can I. When are you going to airdrop me some responsibilities? And I'm like, the responsibility to govern the future of protocol in a decentralized manner. And they're like, v two first, then we'll get to that. So they're gonna have a token. I don't know when, but, you know, maybe I'll get rugged by then. Maybe not rugged, but exploited.
01:08:31.128 - 01:08:51.900, Speaker A: Who knows? Some cool farms I want to share. Right. Since we're on the topic of farms, lido is emitting 300k lido per month for L2s to increase adoption for their staked ether derivative. And some of these screenshots are a little outdated because I made this like, a week ago. I think it's a little. Yeah. So this is on beta oven on optimism.
01:08:51.900 - 01:09:12.426, Speaker A: You can stake. The lido shuffle is you pair your eth with staked ether, and you're in some APR might be lower. And this is the yellow submarine is like tricrypto, 33% stablecoins, 33% bitcoin, 33% state theater. And I mean, yeah, it was 35%, but it's probably lower by then. Velodrome has this. It's probably lower. Okay, all these.
01:09:12.426 - 01:09:31.663, Speaker A: It's probably lower by now. But now you can actually farm Lido by staking ether, basically on Kyber network. On the left hand side here, I think it's optimism. Right hand side architecture. I know for a fact it's a lot. It's a lot lower, but there's that on balancer, I think the APR is 9%. You know, these are getting diluted over time.
01:09:31.663 - 01:10:18.322, Speaker A: So, you know, it's a thing. But I think Lido is an interesting token because they're obviously the monopoly in the liquid staking derivative space. And after beacon chain, which always are alive on either, they're gonna have, like, they won't be able, like, they don't have to emit lido, right, to incentivize liquidity because you can actually redeem your stake ether for either. Right now they're emitting some lido to curve. And, you know, these lP's because they want, you know, more liquidity, but over time, they're going to be able to emit less tokens, which I think is going to be, you know, pretty good. And like I said, they take a 10% fee on staked eth, right? So they're accumulating a fat chunk of eth, and you know, I'm sure at some point it's going to have a bunch of value. So very strategy.
01:10:18.322 - 01:10:57.640, Speaker A: I mean, you can stick your ether in here, right, if you want. That's also easy. But, you know, if you want to be less risk tolerant, you can put stable coins as collateral on aave, borrow ether and enter farms, right? So you can technically farm Lido with stables and on optimism. There's like, still optimism incentives. If you want to take care of that, take advantage of that. And, you know, you can maybe if you want to, you know, like, I mean, like, what I've been doing for the past couple of months is, like, whenever I buy something, I usually short avax along with it just because I don't really expect a vaccine. So maybe you can, like, long ether, staked ether, right? And then, you know, farm Lido and then short the equivalent amount of Avax.
01:10:57.640 - 01:11:46.104, Speaker A: And let's just briefly talk about that, right? I mentioned this in my video a couple weeks ago. I basically said that, you know, why do we hold stable coins? Well, we hold stable coins because we want to create optionality in our portfolio. We want to reduce downside risk. And, you know, we just, like, want to, like, we just feel uncertainty around the markets, right? That's kind of like why we hold stable coins. Well, if that's the case, if that's the reason we hold stable coins, then what you can do is, like, what if you buy something that you're fundamentally bullish on, right? Maybe you put, like, ten k into some coin, and then to hedge your portfolio exposure, maybe you borrow ten k worth of apex and buy GlP with it, right? I mean, that's not really delta neutral. If you want to be delta neutral yet, like, buy, like, borrow like, 19k worth of evacuation. I mean, it's more an art than a science, right? Like, you have to figure out what makes sense for you.
01:11:46.104 - 01:12:10.380, Speaker A: I don't really have this magic equation to make your portfolio become like this tank, right? I have no idea. Right? So, like, what I've done in the past, like, hey, GNS metrics, good. I bought GNS. Then I'm like, hey, I bought GNS, and I'm like, hey, macro scary, man. Like, oh, you know, I've been listening to all these macro podcasts. Ooh. You know, so I can buy GNS and I can short avax.
01:12:10.380 - 01:12:47.310, Speaker A: And fortunately, GNS up a lot Avax down. So I've actually made a profit on both the long and the short side. And obviously, the more GNS goes up, the less attractive it is the lower Avax goes down, the less attractive it is to shorten. But just generally, just this concept is pretty interesting just because it's like these hedged farming, long trade, I don't really know. And, like, GoP is great because whatever Avax, I farm from GLP, I can use that to pay back my debt. And also I get to farm more GMX. Right.
01:12:47.310 - 01:12:57.172, Speaker A: So I'm bullish GNS. I'm bullish GMX. Let's buy GNS. Let's farm GMX. But I'm scared of macro, so let's shorten back. Right. That's kind of the concept I want to share.
01:12:57.172 - 01:13:27.840, Speaker A: So that's the end of the video. Yeah. Hopefully this video was somewhat useful. I'm gonna try to make these types of content. You know, I try doing live streams, but, you know, in a bear market, live streams aren't that fun because, you know, I spend time creating live stream content, and then I check the chat, and then everyone's, like, shitting on me. So it's like, I'm not enjoying this at all. And also, I don't think I'm the personality type to, like, be good at live streams.
01:13:27.840 - 01:14:23.970, Speaker A: I just. I'll just, like, pre record things. So live streams probably no more, unless it's like the raging bull market where I'm, like, gonna, I don't know, like, dance in, like, a gorilla suit. I'll, like, focus more on, you know, like these overview videos, I guess the state of Defi video reports where maybe I'll make a video every couple of weeks, depending on what's happening in the space. And it can be a one stop shop for you to figure out, okay, what's important, what matters, what doesn't matter, and try to filter through all the noise because, yes, it's a bear market, but there's still a lot of building happening. And there's a saying like, bull markets make you money, bear markets make you rich. There's a bunch of people that said that in the next bear market, I'm gonna buy everything, right? But I'm sure that the majority of those people are gone, right? Because, you know, crypto's dead.
01:14:23.970 - 01:14:55.124, Speaker A: Maybe it is dead. Who knows? Maybe I'm just, like, wasting my time. But I will continue to dedicate my life towards this space, continue to share good research, hopefully, hopefully help people navigate the space. You know, I'm not, like, a good trader by any means. I mean, I think I'm okay, but I focus more on the fundamentals, and I don't want people to copy. Trade me. I don't want people to, you know, just blindly follow me because I do not know what the hell I'm doing.
01:14:55.124 - 01:15:21.348, Speaker A: I just want my tools, my videos. A tool for you to navigate the markets better. And if you want more, like, more frequent updates, you can check out the discord. But thank you guys for watching, like, 75 minutes very long video. But hopefully this 150 slide deck provides some value. So see you guys in the next video. And what are your thoughts on this beard? Yeah, I know.
01:15:21.348 - 01:15:21.780, Speaker A: Bye.
