00:00:25.010 - 00:00:59.566, Speaker A: For Ethereum tonight, we have three special guests. We have Shine Jones, who can talk about regulatory working for Coinsolt. We have ibjack Nicholson, who's going to talk about Merkle Tree project and regulation. He's a head legal researcher at Merkletree IO, and Chris Jing, who's a senior it lawyer. So before we go into that, a couple of new things which I think will be quite excited about when it comes to Ethereum branding for Swarm. Swarm is our decentralized storage layer. I'm sure you're all familiar with it, you've probably heard about it.
00:00:59.566 - 00:01:29.302, Speaker A: We've got whisper, the decentralized messaging platform, and we have Swarm, the decentralized storage platform, as well as the EVM, which is the consensus engine for the Ethereum technology stack. So this is going to be the logo for Swarm. I think you're the first one to see if it's the first time we present it and it's doing quite well. We run a few tests on Swarm recently. We distribute our own chain across Swarm. It won't be part of Frontier, but it's well under development. Another announcement is around mist.
00:01:29.302 - 00:02:01.566, Speaker A: You might have not caught that myth is actually dead and was realized. So mist is our browser. It was initially written in QML and integrating chromium, and now we've moved it to a single page application written in Nikir and encapsulated in an electron container from GitHub. It looks like this and it looks really nice. Obviously the advantage of using electron is cross platform. It's what the slack guys use for their application. It's very user friendly.
00:02:01.566 - 00:02:33.642, Speaker A: It comes with installers for Windows, OSX and other platforms. And I think people can be quite excited about this. Again, not something that's going to be part of the frontier launch, but you can already play with it, you can download it, and of course we welcome you to contribute, if you're a developer, to the code base. Another new logo solidity is on logo. Now it's on brand. A couple of things about solidity that are going to be in the language, but not at launch, but we're actively working on invariant. Invariants are really cool.
00:02:33.642 - 00:03:20.370, Speaker A: If you create a metacoin, you can say there can be no more than say, a million metacoins issued on the smart contract. And if you write code that somehow could let someone create more than a million metacoins, it will refuse to compile. So it's really useful as a developer as part of the mixed id to go and use those hints, so to speak, from the language itself. To go and decode your app, we're also building something called natspec. Natspec is a way to document your app and your function in the english language, using parameters in line with the documentation. So when it's produced and the contract is called and the function is executed, the user can see in plain English what this is about to do. So it will say, are you sure you want to send, say, ten meter coins to account XYZ with a big yes no side choice.
00:03:20.370 - 00:04:09.030, Speaker A: And because it's in plain English, it's fairly trivial to then convert back to any other language. So internationalization will be for efforts in making the platform more accessible to WOOC. Because that's the big question, isn't it? When does this thing actually launch? When are you going to launch, by the way, defined by Vitalik as a period of time alternating between one week and infinity. So two weeks is what we're actually gunning for right now. But you really are wondering, when are we going to announce this? And the good news is we're actually pretty damn close. We went in code freeze two days ago. That's the logo for the release.
00:04:09.030 - 00:04:37.506, Speaker A: And that means that in the coming weeks, what we're going to do is we're not going to add a single feature to this thing. All we're going to do is we're going to look at the bugs that people are raising on GitHub, we're going to look at the bug bounty, and we're going to fix that and only that. And when there's no more bugs, then we're going to launch. So we're really close to launch now. This is also the last meetup, quite the last meetup until November, actually. We're sorry. Until October, which is quite a long way down.
00:04:37.506 - 00:04:58.054, Speaker A: That's because we got Defcon one coming up, which is a developer symposium, and that will take place in London. But that's good news. You guys won't have to travel. It's in October, the date we haven't confirmed yet, but we're looking probably the week of the fifth, if we can secure the venue. If we can't secure the venue, I'll have to move to another date. But right now we're looking at very early October. It's going to be really exciting.
00:04:58.054 - 00:05:37.606, Speaker A: We're going to have keynotes from Vitarik, Gab, Jeff, of course. We're going to have presentations from guys building apps on our platform. We're going to have how to's, how to write code in solidity, how to build contracts how to build front end, how to build backend for Ethereum. It's going to be a good one, you don't want to miss it. If you go on the website, which really should be on screen, I'll pass it on at the end of the presentation, you guys can register your interest to go and attend this thing also if you want. Media path, if you're part of the media, we're already issuing these, as well as issuing call for speakers. So if you want to speak there, if you have something you want to present, send us your papers and we'll look into it.
00:05:37.606 - 00:06:10.882, Speaker A: And there's quite a lot of competition. So if you want to speak or if you want to attend, register as soon as possible. So what we're here to talk about tonight is legal system. Now, what's interesting is ethereum philosophy, spawned from a term that gaff calls illegal systems. Systems that machines that do not care, they don't care about your creed, your gender, your color. They're machines, they're robots, they don't care. They don't care if it's legal or illegal, because for them, there is no such thing.
00:06:10.882 - 00:07:09.606, Speaker A: After all, what's legal in Iran might not be legal in the UK and vice versa. So legality is a bit of a fluffy ground if you're thinking of it from an international point of view, especially when you take into account autonomous contracts that they want to be built. So what I wanted to do before we get into the presentation, and then the little panel is wanted to highlight the philosophy of Ethereum, which is that the existence of one system doesn't preclude the existence of another. Historically, back in the days, at the very beginning, we got very angry phone calls from the guys that occupy. They were furious. They were building this libertarian system, and we were like the worst thing on earth ever because they couldn't really wrap their head around the fact that it could be used for many other things. We also got calls from libertarian accusing us to be communist because they couldn't wrap their head that you could have a platform where you'd have two systems working in parallel and even interchanging information without one sort of taking over the other.
00:07:09.606 - 00:07:34.446, Speaker A: But Ethereum allows you to do all this. And in a sense, the great arbitrator, you got this machine, this contract that you can read, you know, it will always execute the same way. No one can change it. It's immutable. You can see its state at all times. If you're a coder or if you use auditing systems or mechanism or companies, you can be sure that it will always run the code that it says it will. So that's why you don't need third party, and that's what makes it special.
00:07:34.446 - 00:08:35.262, Speaker A: So I wanted you to keep that in mind during the conversation. Another note here, which is, for me really, the idea of Ethernet is you're not going to fight the existing system or voice the person's exit voice being where you voice your disapproval, maybe because of the presence of a massive supermarket in your area, and you prefer small shops, so you stop putting bricks to it. That doesn't usually work. And exit consists of leaving the country, for example. So Ethereum offers really that third way we can say, well, actually, I'd rather operate under these rules with this group of people, and we're going to self organize as a group. And it works quite well, because when I was in Toronto, as far as last year, I saw people self organizing with just something as simple as bitcoin, which is not getting a bit long in the tooth of the technology. But even already they were able to sort of off the grid, and they would go and buy food with bitcoin, and they would work for bitcoin, they would actually set for bitcoin, but they were sort of human at and completely off the grid.
00:08:35.262 - 00:09:16.254, Speaker A: With ethereum, these guys can actually self organize, build company and issue shares completely without really caring what the system thinks of and what the law thinks about what they're doing. So it's apolitical in nature. And again, these are systems that do not care. So I compare Ethereum to sort of the bittorrent of finance and of contracts, smart contracts in particular. The idea is really to bring this infrastructure that today forms public services, identity, reputation, contracts. That stuff is stuff we use every day. It's like gather electricity and water, bring it back as a public good on a machine, a virtual machine, where you pay for only for what you use.
00:09:16.254 - 00:10:05.470, Speaker A: So the cloud is the true meaning of its initial sense, and it enables permissionless entrepreneurship and innovation. People asked me the other day, well, how do you help young entrepreneurs to get started? I think it was in France, because all the bureaucracy over there, and the answer is, get out of their way, let them build what they want to build, and we'll see where it takes us. And if they fail, they fail. If they succeed, wonderful. Another thing that we need to talk about tonight, for being rpos, for those autonomous organizations that can employ humans to accomplish certain tasks that they themselves are incapable of accomplishing because they don't have hands. I'd much rather work for a robot, because if I work for a robot I know owns the shares, I know where the money is going, I can ask all the questions that if I was to ask at an interview, I would never get the job. So at least I have clarity as to what I'm doing.
00:10:05.470 - 00:10:27.650, Speaker A: And I don't enter into a very lengthy contract. I enter maybe into an ad hoc contract. I can work for one company one day, another company the next, and really switch jobs that way in a complete ad hoc economy. So that's another thing we need to touch on. So without further ado, introduce Eve Jacques, who's going to talk about project repulsion and regulation.
