00:00:00.400 - 00:00:33.062, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Way refuel, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Cesano, and today's the 23 June 2021. All right, everyone, let's get right into it. So I put out this tweet today while kind of, I guess, thinking about what the Ethereum ecosystem is going to look like in say, twelve to 18 months time now. I think it's going to look very different, right? Very, very different to what it looks like today. And there's a few reasons here. And I outlined four of the main reasons where I said that we're going to have EIP 1559 deployed and, and that's going to be burning ETH, whether it's a bull or a bear market.
00:00:33.062 - 00:01:07.340, Speaker A: Right. I've spoken about this a lot on the refuel, how, how I said that even though that gas prices are kind of cheaper right now because the market's kind of quiet, it's not going to be that way forever. And we already see it spiking up. I mean, I talked about it yesterday how there was volatility in the market and we already see, saw gas prices spike back up to like 60, 70. Now, to see sustained gas prices over 100 way again, that's going to definitely require either, you know, market volatility or a lot of these L2s coming online. Fill up that block space. And on that note, the l two rollout is going to be much, much further along in twelve to 18 months time.
00:01:07.340 - 00:01:28.888, Speaker A: Can you even imagine what it's going to be like then? I mean, I'm talking about within the next like three months. We have, I mean, I've been talking about, like, we've had, we're going to have these like major kind of L2s going online. Like arbitrary optimism. Zksync polygon is going to come out with their, with their roll ups. I think. I don't actually know the timeline here, but I think it should be soon. And, you know, it just like Stark.
00:01:28.888 - 00:01:54.980, Speaker A: I mean, there's, there's so many teams, I could go on forever about them, but just think about like how much this space can evolve in twelve to 18 months time. Like, think back to just a year ago. I mean, I was just, I was talking about this the other day, just a year ago. Like DeFi was still like pretty small, like even in June of last year. And, you know, then we had obviously the, the compound liquidity mining launch and that kind of Kickstarter Defi summer, which really got Defi going. But up until then, Defi was still pretty small. It was still considered a toy.
00:01:54.980 - 00:02:35.144, Speaker A: So can you imagine what one year from now is going to be like in the Ethereum ecosystem? I can't honestly imagine, like, how explosive the growth is going to be. Obviously, I'm extremely excited for an, extremely optimistic about it, but, like, I don't think anyone can tell. And there could something, something could happen that just catches everyone off guard. Sort of like what happened with the NFT kind of ecosystem where pretty much like, everyone that I know was caught completely off guard by that. No one saw it coming in that way, not even, I guess, like even the biggest NFT fans didn't, didn't expect it to happen that fast. But anyway, next up, we have the ETH one to eat two merge are hopefully done in this time timeline. I mean, it should be, if I'm talking 18 months, like from now, this would be end of 2022.
00:02:35.144 - 00:03:06.904, Speaker A: I expect the merge, as I've said before, to happen in Q 120 22. So definitely don't think we're going to have to wait till the end of 2022. But if we do, then that still kind of, like, falls into what I'm saying here. And then I said something that was a little bit, I guess, maybe controversial. I had a couple of comments about this where I said there's going to be institutional adoption of ETH and DeFi. Now, we've been seeing a bit of institutional adoption of ETH in general. And with DeFi, we've been seeing things like, are they creating, I guess, institutional liquidity pools and things like that that have, like, certain requirements for these institutions.
00:03:06.904 - 00:03:50.854, Speaker A: But generally, I think that institutions like, I guess that term paints a very broad brush. You know, institutions can include basically any organizational company, if you really think about it, and you can even include centralized exchanges in that. So for me, I feel like centralized exchanges are just going to keep adding more and more DeFi features or whether that means that they're going to be offering DeFi services as a proxy where users can get yields and then that the funds that they're getting yield on is basically deposited into different things by the centralized exchange. Essentially basic, like, essentially very similar to what a bank would do. And then, you know, them adopting ETH as an asset, I believe is going to happen as well. They'll keep putting it on their balance sheets and things like that. I mean, I still think that's going to happen regardless of what's happened to the price lately.
00:03:50.854 - 00:04:35.044, Speaker A: You know, these institutional allocators in terms of where they allocate capital and how they could kind of put money into things. They're just going to put money into it if they think it's a good buy. And there's so many catalysts coming for Ethereum, I just named a few of them that I think ETH is, you know, definitely the best best buy right now. In terms of like, I guess between like the larger assets, like maybe there's small assets that outperform it or whatever, but in terms of like, the risk reward, I think ETH is, is a very good, very good buy generally. Now, I don't know, you know, if it's going to go down from here, obviously that's not me saying go buy all the ETH you can right now. But like, over the long term, obviously I consider ETH to be an extremely good investment. I mean, I'm sure that's obvious, but on top of all of this, we're also going to have, I think, you know, coupled with the L2 rollout we're going to have.
00:04:35.044 - 00:05:14.620, Speaker A: Defi apps just get much, much bigger than what they are now because they'll be able to, right, they'll be able to service more users, they'll be able to do new things that they couldn't do on layer one, and there'll be projects launching natively on L2 that I've spoken about before. I mean, I spoke about the project yesterday, but which one was it? I think it was. Oh, man, I've already forgotten, but I spoke about a project yesterday that's launching natively on L2. Oh, future swap V three is launching natively on V two. It might have been yesterday, the day before, not launching natively on Arbitrum. There's also Lyra, a new options protocol that spanned out of synthetix that's going to launch natively onto optimism. And there's a bunch of others, I'm sure coming as well.
00:05:14.620 - 00:06:24.238, Speaker A: So if you kind of like take all that, put it together and project out the next twelve to 18 months in the defi ecosystem, that's going to be pretty insane. And then on top of that, the NFT ecosystem I reckon is going to catch everyone off guard again because there seems to be a bit of a disconnect between, I guess, like the main Ethereum community and the NFT ecosystem because I kind of fell down a little bit of a Twitter rabbit hole today and going through all these different artists issuing nfts and things like that, and they're doing it on Ethereum, but they don't intend to talk about Ethereum or Defi or anything like that. What they talk about is just like the NFT stuff. So I think that for them, it's a very different kind of world than for someone like me or people listening to the refuel, whatever. I'm sure there's a, there's overlap there, but there are definitely a huge chunk of artists and communities that are forming in the NFT ecosystem that you may miss if you're not paying attention to that ecosystem. So just a little bit of alpha there, I guess. You know, I personally, I mean, I obviously see the value in nfts and really like the ecosystem there, but I just cannot keep up with it if I, you know, I've tried and I just, it's just something that I'm going to be able to keep up with.
00:06:24.238 - 00:07:03.356, Speaker A: So for me, I'm just going to be like keeping an eye on the big things that are happening, the shifts in the industry there and everything like that. But there's just zero chance that I will be able to do day to day stuff there. I think it requires like a whole, like full time, you know, dedication to actually kind of go through what's going on the NFT ecosystem and trying to keep up with it. And I think Defi does as well. But for me, like, personally, I'm more interested in Defi and just like the financial services on ethereum, and I'm much more interested in Ethereum's protocols and L2s. Like, I think the NFT stuff, as I said, falls a little bit outside of that. It's very, very heavy application layer, whereas Defi, I think, can blend between application layer and protocol layer as well.
00:07:03.356 - 00:07:43.240, Speaker A: Because a lot of the Defi stuff feeds into the protocol, such as 1559. Right. Then a lot of the ETH being burned is actually going to come from Defi. So they're kind of like feed off each other a bit more than, than, I guess, nfts would. And then of course, there's like the DAO ecosystem. I mean, I wrote a little bit about this in the Daily Wear newsletter today, and I basically finished the newsletter by saying that I think in a couple of decades time, we're going to look back on these massive centralized, you know, financial organizations and scoff at them and say, you know, because we're going to have daos that are powering everything. Maybe, maybe I'm too optimistic on the timeline, but I think a couple of decades is pretty long time because if you think about 20 years ago, the Internet was like super small and now the Internet is basically everything.
00:07:43.240 - 00:08:22.030, Speaker A: So if you think about 20 years in the future, from, from here, we could have a world where, like, most of the financial services, or pretty much, I would say, like, pretty much all of them would be living on Ethereum, you know, within defi, within crypto, whatever. And, you know, I think it's pretty safe to say that just, just based on past trends of other technologies as well. But anyway, I'm going to leave it at that for now. I think that, you know, even if we go, as I've been saying, even if we go into, like, a prolonged sideways bear market, whatever you want to call it, in ethereum, you just cannot be bored. You cannot be, like, sitting there and thinking, oh, when's the price gonna go back up so I can get some excitement in my life. That's. That's not the way it is.
00:08:22.030 - 00:08:55.456, Speaker A: There are so many exciting things happening. And Ethereum builds for both bull and bear markets. It doesn't build just for one, one or the other. And, you know, as I said, like, during bear markets, it's much easier to pay attention to things, much easier to focus, so definitely use the time wisely while the market's quiet. So an interesting tweet from San Diego Santiago today, who said, when the dust settles a bit, Ethereum will emerge as the market leader. Crypto moves away from sound money narrative and toward a pure tech investment. I really do believe this to be true, and obviously I do, because I've spoken about it a lot on the refuel.
00:08:55.456 - 00:09:45.046, Speaker A: But, you know, Santiago has a really great way of putting my thoughts down into, like, a couple of sentences here. But, I mean, I've mentioned this, you know, plenty of times where I've always said that I think that the sound money narrative, the digital gold narrative, whatever, appeals to a very, very small set of people. It is a niche, essentially. It is not something that I can see appealing to the majority of the world, whereas I think tech investments and tech in general, and, like, utility and applications, that appeals to pretty much, like, everyone. You can look at Ethereum as just like a new platform to build applications on, exactly. Like, I guess, like what, what the Apple App Store is and the Google Play stories and what Windows is and Linux and all this sort of stuff. Like, it's basically a new platform, like, obviously decentralized platform that you can build apps on.
00:09:45.046 - 00:10:26.644, Speaker A: And these apps aren't, you know, the traditional apps that we're used to, like social media apps or like, ride sharing, whatever. These are apps that are financial services, which I was actually listening to a podcast today with Jim Bianco on bankless, and he was saying that, um, in 150 years, the financial system really hasn't evolved very much. And he was using the example that in, I think it was 18, the 1870s, or something like that, the cost of a wire transfer was 3% of the amount that you were transferring. And it took two to four days because the. The wire transfer wasn't done electronically, of course. It was literally done on horseback. Or I guess, like, um, if you were rich enough, it would be done, uh, with a car or something like that.
00:10:26.644 - 00:11:14.764, Speaker A: But essentially what ended up happening was that someone would take them physical cash, drive it across or ride across to wherever you needed it to go, and they charge a 3% commission for the service, and it would take two to four days. Now, in the banking system today, if you want to do a wire transfer, it still takes two days or even longer than that to do it, and they still charge ridiculous commissions on top of that. Whereas with Ethereum and crypto generally, moving money, just like the simple app, simple application of moving money across the world is insane. I mean, it's insanely fast. It takes, if you pay the right fee, it takes one Ethereum block. You could move $10 billion if you wanted to, in one transaction, in one Ethereum block. So in 14 seconds, your transaction can be confirmed and you have moved $10 billion to literally anyone, anywhere in the world.
00:11:14.764 - 00:11:37.830, Speaker A: That alone is the biggest revolution in finance in history. Like that. Just that alone. And obviously, Bitcoin PI needed that. But I think Ethereum makes it programmable. It makes it. It applies this concept to literally every financial application that you can think of and ones that you can't even think of, ones that are coming down the pipeline, ones that we haven't even thought of yet, as I said.
00:11:37.830 - 00:12:26.194, Speaker A: So that's why I've always believed that, you know, while the payments use case is revolutionary and everything like that, and it's a really great thing, I think bitcoin obviously moved away from payments and moved towards the digital gold thesis and stuff like that, which is fine, but that, I think, kind of puts them in a corner. Whereas Ethereum hasn't bogged itself down with these singular narratives. Ethereum is going to do everything, I think, like, ethereum can do payments, and we can do payments even better than bitcoin can do it, because we can do it with any asset you want to do it with. And obviously, many people want to do it with stable coins. They don't want to, you know, they don't want to do payments in volatile currencies. They don't want to denominate payments that they need to be stable in volatile currencies. And yes, I've said ETH is money before, but, like, I never said it was like, good money, right? Money is obviously stable.
00:12:26.194 - 00:13:04.468, Speaker A: So from, from that kind of perspective, I think Ethereum just takes it so much further and obviously it gives, like, every token on a theorem programmable capabilities. So if you wanted to, you can do anything with any asset you want and any of the apps that you want that support that asset. So, yeah, just, I mean, going forward, I just can see, I consider, like, I think bitcoin dominance is going to keep dropping. I don't see that ever going back to kind of like where it was maybe, you know. You know what's funny? Bitcoin dominance as just short of a few months ago was like 75% or something like that. Now it's like 45%. And usually it goes up during bearish periods.
00:13:04.468 - 00:13:54.304, Speaker A: But I think, as Santiago says here, when the dust settles, you know, I think the space is very, very different now and people actually will go into, you know, during the bearish times, people go into cash, you know, BTC or ETH. And I think that just more and more people are going into ETH now rather than all into BTC. So it's very different to, I think, 2018 and 2019, which were very brutal years for, for ETH as an asset, of course. But this time, I mean, without kind of like bringing on the curse of the bear gods, I would say this time is different in terms of just where we are in the ecosystem, where we are in the adoption cycle. And this time, Ethereum has well defined use cases with well defined roadmaps. Whereas in 2018 and 2019, and even 2017, to an extent, Ethereum was kind of like, still searching for that killer use case. It didn't have a very defined roadmap.
00:13:54.304 - 00:14:19.480, Speaker A: No one knew when proof of stake and sharding was going to come along. You know, no one knew where Defi was going to be as big as it was. And now in 2021, people can look back and in hindsight say, oh, yeah, that was always going to happen. No. Like, if for any of, any of the people listening and watching that have been around since 820 18 and 2019, you'll definitely know what I'm talking about. But the 2020 ETH babies, I think you guys have it really good. Like, very, very good.
00:14:19.480 - 00:15:05.542, Speaker A: But. But generally, and that's how conviction is made. I mean, people often ask me, like, how have you not sold any ETH. When you, when you bought ETH, like $10 and you've held it like this whole time, it's like, well, I mean, it's easy to have conviction when you've been through that. And, you know, this doesn't just apply to ETH, it applies to, like, just anything in general in this ecosystem. When you've been through literal kind of like depths of the bear market, when you've been through things where, you know, all hope was basically lost except for the most hardcore believers, and then you come out of that at the other side and you get back to a point where Ethereum is literally considered, you know, the future of finance, essentially, that you basically go from like, as low as you can get, like rock, literally rock bottom to top of the world. And I think that's the journey a lot of early ethereums have gone through.
00:15:05.542 - 00:15:59.602, Speaker A: And that's why they have such conviction on Ethereum. And I think that's actually what is incredibly important for Ethereum going forward, and why it actually can, can beat out its competitors is that its competitors have not gone through this. Ethereum has gone through so much battle testing over the years, starting all the way back in, you know, 2016 with the Dow, the Shanghai dos attacks, obviously the boom and bust of the ICO cycle, the amount of fud that's been slinged at Ethereum, the delays of proof of stake, I mean, just so much over the years that you now have an extremely battle hardened community that is not going to give up on it, because if they haven't given up by now, there's zero chance in hell that they're giving up on Ethereum, you know, going forward. So, yeah, anyway, I'm gonna leave it at that. I got, I got ahead of myself again. But just, it's really funny when I just think back and I get a little bit nostalgic about those days and think, wow, like, I was having a lot of fun back then. Cause I had like a lot of good friends and I was traveling to conferences and things like that.
00:15:59.602 - 00:16:25.724, Speaker A: But when I just think about how bad the sentiment was generally online, it was just absolutely horrible. But at the conferences, it was good. Like, everyone was really excited about stuff. Everyone kind of was really excited about the future of Ethereum. But if you were just sitting on Twitter or just like on Reddit, whatever, you wouldn't have seen that. You would have just seen a lot of bitcoin maximalist shooting all over Ethereum, which is very bad for your mental health if you say that every day. But anyway, I'll leave it at that for now.
00:16:25.724 - 00:16:52.756, Speaker A: So Arjun is teasing something. They put out a tweet here which, which says this summer anyone will get access to low gas, high speeds defi, all with Ethereum's finality and security bye bye banks. Now I guess that they're saying that they're going to be supporting the L2s that are coming online. Like optimism and arbitrary. I mean, I'm not going to go through the list again. I go through it every, every refill. It feels like at this point, but this is key to adoption.
00:16:52.756 - 00:17:37.196, Speaker A: I mean, Arjun is, in my opinion, one of, if not the best mobile wallet apps. I mean, there's a few out there right now like Rainbow and Coinbase wallet and there's so many of them. But in terms of ones that are on the edge of Defi, there's only, I think, Arjun and, and, and Rainbow really. And in terms of like supporting all the different protocols and different things like nfts, they're up there and I believe Rainbow is going to be supporting L2 as well. So, and Coinbase, while it actually supports L2 optimism right now, but you know, that's obviously not live for a public main net just yet, but still really cool to see that. You know, Argent's obviously keep, keep signaling, signaling their support for L2. I think going forward it's going to be an incredibly exciting time in the Ethereum ecosystem.
00:17:37.196 - 00:18:12.924, Speaker A: Because of that, I think, I think people are still underestimating the L2 rollout and what it's going to do for Ethereum. So Ali here put together a 1559 explainer graphic. Now obviously you won't really be able to see this on the video too well because it is quite a big graphic. But I just wanted to talk about it briefly because I wanted to you guys to go check it out because I think it's really great. You can find the link to it in the YouTube description. But basically this just gives you a kind of like visual rundown of how 1559 works and what the benefits are. I mean, I've talked about 1559 like ad nauseam at this point on the, on the refill.
00:18:12.924 - 00:19:00.892, Speaker A: So I'm not going to go over it now, but I think that these sorts of things I want to see more of. If you're, this is actually something, if you're an artist in this ecosystem and you, or you're like a visual thinker, these are the things that you can be doing and adding this is how you add value to the ecosystem. You don't have to do any, you don't have to do it for money, you don't have to do it, you know, fraud, you know, and expect a lot of attention or whatever, but just like doing these sorts of sorts of things and adding value on the education front to people is kind of like, I think, like a fast way to getting your name out there. I've had a few people ask me like, how do I get attention on my new project or how do I get my name out there? Well, one for one, it, you know, you have to grind. Like, you have to really grind. I had to grind for a very long time to get where I am today. But also, if you're grinding on the wrong things, then you're not going to really get anywhere.
00:19:00.892 - 00:19:42.950, Speaker A: And I think the wrong things are things like maybe trying to, I guess, commentate on like the price or like trading or whatever and just trying to be one of those, I guess, YouTube shills or whatever. Not, not me, but like one of those ones that, the stupid, like thumbnails and clickbait things. But if you're adding a lot of value to, you know, an ecosystem through education, that gets you a lot of attention very quickly, from my experience, because people love to learn, they love to be educated, and you're going to get followers who are actually in it for more than kind of like just the fleeting bull market or whatever, they're going to be in it through the bear market, too. And that's kind of what I optimized for. I mean, I never did anything around trading or whatever. Like Ethub was focused on educating the deli. Gwei's obviously focused on educating.
00:19:42.950 - 00:20:30.694, Speaker A: All my Twitter stuff that I posted, or at least most of it was focused on educating. I used to actually do a lot of threads during the bear market on, on early defi stuff. I stopped doing that when I started doing the newsletter because I just, um, couldn't do, couldn't come up with doing both. But generally that sort of stuff is how you grow an audience. But anyway, I'll link this in the YouTube description and you can go check out the graphic for yourself. So Banteg put out this, I guess, like tweeted out this picture of an excerpt from the Defiance recent newsletter, which basically compares yearn to three other wealth management companies here and basically compares their revenue, the number of teams, number of team members and their revenue per employee. Now, I wrote a bit more about this in the deliquary newsletter, but essentially what this is showing is that yearn has 21 team members.
00:20:30.694 - 00:21:00.568, Speaker A: It does $123 million worth of revenue a year right now, which means its revenue point per employee is $5.86 million. So each employee, if you, if you look at it like this in just simplistic terms, is generating $5.86 million of revenue for the protocol. Now, if you look at the other kind of companies here, betterment, wealthfront and Blackrock, well, betterment and Wealthfront have anywhere between two to 300 employees. The betterment does $50 million revenue. Wealthfront does 30 million.
00:21:00.568 - 00:21:31.874, Speaker A: The revenue per employee is $0.17. Sorry, not seventeen cents. One hundred seventy thousand for betterment and 130,000 for wealthfront. So obviously, a lot less than yearn, and they're paying a lot more people to do a lot less than yearn is. And Blackrock's even worse. Likerock has a lot more revenue, mind you. Its revenue is $16 billion, but it has 16,500 employees, which means that its revenue per employee is still only around a million dollars compared to yearns, 5.86
00:21:31.874 - 00:22:10.132, Speaker A: million. Now, there are lots and lots of different reasons as to why this is the case. I think the number one reason as to kind of like why this is the case is because within defi, you have, you know, a lowering of, um, of costs for deploying these things, whereas in centralized finance, you have one big cost you have is actually compliance. And kind of like having a legal team having, having to have employees for all of that, and customer support as well, is a huge cost. So those three things don't really exist within, you know, these DeFi teams. They might have like one or two maybe, you know, of a legal team, but not really. They might have like one lawyer on retainer or something like that.
00:22:10.132 - 00:22:47.558, Speaker A: They definitely don't have a compliance department because they're not, they're non custodial. And they definitely don't have a customer support department. They just have a discord channel where the community is essentially the customer support department. So, but this is just measuring, I guess, like the core team members of yearn, it is not measuring the Dow team members. So, I mean, I guess like the Dow community members, the ones that aren't paid by yearn but still add value to it, or the ones that are paid, but on like a once off basis. So someone who creates like a, I don't know, the statistics tracking website for yearn, they obviously are adding value, but, like, that's transient. It's only something that's happened once.
00:22:47.558 - 00:23:21.092, Speaker A: You know, they're not, probably not getting paid for that every month. So kind of stuff like that is exactly why I think that the costs are lower here. But again, this is just showing, this just shows like how I guess ripe for disruption this traditional finance world is if we can do this and yearn isn't like the only example here. Uniswap is also a huge example of this. They do more, you know, sometimes do more volume than centralized exchanges. I remember the camp, the comparison being made that Uniswap had less than 20 employees and was doing, and Uniswap was doing more volume than Coinbase. And Coinbase has over a thousand employees.
00:23:21.092 - 00:23:57.344, Speaker A: Again, a lot of those employees are in the compliance, customer support and legal departments. But on top of that as well, the funny thing is, is that with Uniswap, once the code is deployed, the core team is not actually doing anything to steward it along or kind of, I guess like maintaining or whatever. You know, v two is just like existing as itself, v three is existing as itself, and v one as well. I mean, for uniswap they're all existing and they're all growing on their own. And then obviously uniswap is a Dow now. So they have their own community and things like that. But still the costs are way, way, way lower than they are in traditional finance, which is just another reason why we're going to beat them.
00:23:57.344 - 00:24:46.218, Speaker A: But anyway, I'm going to leave it at that for now. So George Os from paradigm put out a tweet about this blog post from my crypto describing EIP 3704, which I've spoken about before, is an EIP to basically greatly improve the user experience for ethereum transactions. So essentially what this does is it introduces two new EVM instructions called auth and auth call. Now what that does in practice is it basically allows for a bunch of different things. So it allows for sponsored transactions which are also known as meta transactions, which means that the gas of a transaction for your account or your transaction can be paid from another account, which means that you can send tokens without having to have ETH in your wallet. So say you want to send USDC from your Ethereum address, but you have no ETH. Well, you can pay the fee in USDC, but in the background it's still being paid in ETH.
00:24:46.218 - 00:25:37.126, Speaker A: It's just that it's using this kind of like meta transaction functionality to make it so that the end user doesn't have to kind of like go and get ETH here. Then you also have batch transactions, which means that you can send multiple transactions in a single call here. This guarantees that two or more transactions are executed in the same block and can also reduce the transaction fee. And then the improved user experience mainly comes from the fact that you can, you can call, approve and transfer from functions in a single transaction, as an example, which means that, for example, when you go to Uniswap and you have to approve a transaction for trading, there's two transactions you have to do, you have to approve the token for trading, then you have to do another transaction to swap the token. Whereas with 3074, it would enable protocols to essentially introduce a way to do these in one transaction where you, you click prove and swap. And it would do that with just one transaction needing to be signed. So this is huge.
00:25:37.126 - 00:26:08.208, Speaker A: I recommend going and reading the full blog post here. It's a bit technical, but it gives a good overview of 3074. So, as I was saying the other day, optimism is catching up. Back up with the infrastructure rollout for their L2 ecosystem here. I mentioned that they, in March, I think they delayed themselves because they didn't have all this infrastructure, but now they do. And another partner just announced themselves today, Alchemy, which is an infrastructure provider similar to Infuria. They're already supporting arbitrum, of course, but now they're supporting optimism, which was obviously a no brainer for them.
00:26:08.208 - 00:26:45.514, Speaker A: And I'm sure they're going to be supporting all the other L2 in, and probably other layer one ecosystems as well, going forward. So really cool to see optimism getting all this infrastructure. And it gives me hope that the July mainnet date is still on for them. They haven't given a date yet, but I hope it still kind of like launches in July here, rather than leading to another delay. I think they, they're pretty close at this point in time, time, which is really, really cool. So I mentioned Jim Bianco before when I was talking about, I guess, what was I talking about? The financial system not changing in 150 years. But he tweeted out this chart today that says that ETH adoption is far outpacing BTC because of DeFi and smart contracts.
00:26:45.514 - 00:27:34.654, Speaker A: You can see here that these kind of, this chart shows the number of addresses with non zero balances. Now, Ethan, ETH is like far ahead of bitcoin here. And I think this, this is definitely because of what he said defined smart contracts because, you know, to do transactions on Ethereum, you need ETH. So if you want to do anything on defi, you need Ethan, your wallet. So anyone that's kind of like coming to a theorem to use uniswap or curve or compound or Ava, whatever, whatever app it is, they have to have a theorem, even though, even if they're not going to be using Ethereum, maybe they want to trade some stable coins for, you know, some dog token on uniswap, they still have to have 8th. So I think that's what this chart is showing here, which I think is really, really cool. It shows that, you know, there's a lot more active, I guess, like users of Ethereum than there are of bitcoin, at least the network in terms of like, I guess, people holding bitcoin.
00:27:34.654 - 00:28:10.982, Speaker A: Maybe there's more holding people holding bitcoin than ETH. But I think that gap has been closing over time and I think that it's just going to continue closing because of the fact that there's just so much to do, more to do with your ETH and there's so much more to do on Ethereum here. So Tim Bicar put together an update, sorry, a recap of the old core devs recent call. So you can see, sorry, recent happenings in the all core devs ecosystem. So the TRDR is that London, the next network upgrade is of course getting activated on testnets. Robson is actually happening today. The merge now has a proper spec on the ETH two side, and the ETH one side will have that soon.
00:28:10.982 - 00:28:41.190, Speaker A: And while nothing has been decided yet, there's been progress on two candidate ERP for the next ethereum network upgrade called Shanghai, which is 3074, as I just spoke about. And three, five, four. Now, Shanghai can happen either before or after the merge. It just depends on kind of like where the. Where the developers are at, where the core devs and researchers are at. But that will be the network upgrade that comes, you know, following the merge if we do the merge first, or it will happen in December if we don't do the merge by then. So definitely keep a lookout for that.
00:28:41.190 - 00:29:35.832, Speaker A: I'll link this in the YouTube description you can read the whole update here gives a pretty good overview of what's going on in the core devs world. So Seb from Zappify put tweeted out some metrics today from Zappa. They currently have more than 2.2 million unique addresses that have earned EXp on Zappa using that gamification, gamification feature that I spoke about, I think a couple of weeks ago on the refuel last week, their protocol did $164 million of volume in just one day. They surpassed $5 million in all time transaction volume and they currently have 220,000 monthly active users, which is the most exciting number to me, because I think that these kind of metrics and something like what Metamask puts out about their monthly active users are the best ones to go off because they're kind of, like, harder to fake than, I guess, like, harder to game than having, like, you know, someone having multiple ethereum addresses. For example. You know, I regularly use five or more ethereum addresses pretty much, like every week.
00:29:35.832 - 00:29:59.764, Speaker A: So for me, like, obviously, I'm not five people, so. But if you just look at raw addresses, you would see me as five people. Whereas with Zappa, I'm just accessing it basically from my desktop pc pretty much all the time. And that's just like me as one monthly active user here. So 220,000 is insane. So congrats to Zappa on this. I mean, I should disclose that I'm an investor in Zappa here, but, like, I invested for a reason.
00:29:59.764 - 00:30:28.000, Speaker A: It's one of the best products out there. So if you're not on Zappa yet, definitely get on there. You can become one of the 220,000 monthly active users. So finally, here we have the Aave grants Dao that announced a new kind of initiative or a new newsletter called Aave News. And so this is at Aave news dot substack.com. You can go here and basically see that everything that's happening within the Aave ecosystem. And of course, you can also subscribe to the newsletter, if you haven't yet, to get updates on this.
00:30:28.000 - 00:30:51.454, Speaker A: I think they're going to do this weekly. There's a lot happening. I mean, look at all this kind of updates here on, in the other ecosystem alone. And this is what I was saying before about this space being, like, basically impossible to keep up with. This is just one protocol, and this is all the stuff that happened. And there's links to, like, read about it and kind of, like, dive deeper into it. And, you know, there's a lot of other kind of, I guess, like protocols and teams out there that have more.
00:30:51.454 - 00:31:06.610, Speaker A: Sorry, have. Have weekly newsletters and things like that as well. So, I mean, yearn has one. Like, I think maker has an update. I mean, pretty much like, most of them have. Have this kind of stuff now. So, you know, keeping up with this, with this ecosystem is more than a full time job.
00:31:06.610 - 00:31:35.494, Speaker A: It is getting much, much harder as time goes on. But I'm glad people are kind of collecting this information together, because to find this information yourself would probably take you, like, hours and hours. But this has just been put together by someone whose job it is to do this and then you get to read through it in, like five minutes and you get to essentially kind of like, get all that alpha for free, which is really, really cool at the end of the day. So, yeah, go subscribe to this. If you haven't yet, it'll be linked in the YouTube description. But that's it for today, everyone. So thank you again for listening and watching.
00:31:35.494 - 00:31:43.414, Speaker A: Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone. Bye.
