00:00:01.520 - 00:00:13.798, Speaker A: Welcome to the Blockcrunch podcast, the show for crypto natives. Every week we do short but in depth conversations with the most important builders and investors in crypto so you can filter through what's noise and stay ahead of the markets. I'm your host, Jason Choi.
00:00:13.926 - 00:00:15.286, Speaker B: Nothing on this show should be construed.
00:00:15.310 - 00:00:20.742, Speaker A: As financial advice, and my guests, myself and my employer may hold positions and assets discussed on the show.
00:00:20.878 - 00:01:31.722, Speaker B: This episode is brought to you by our sponsors, Radix and Nexo. Stick around to learn more now, with tighter regulations around derivatives exchanges, investors are beginning to take note of decentralized exchanges, one of the exchanges thats been around the longest. DYDX recently launched their trustless perpetual swap products and they are already doing $5 million daily in volume. So im very excited to invite founder of DyDX, Antonio Giuliano on the show once again, since his first appearance more than two years ago now, I do think the futures trading space will be one of the largest in DeFi, so investors who want to be well informed should not miss out on what Antonio has to say. We discussed the future of futures trading, no pun intended, what perpetual swaps actually are and why DYDx is replicating them on chain, and how DYDx fits in a new DeFi order where there is a whole lot more competition compared to two years ago from so called automated market makers or amms, or even non Ethereum based competition that promise faster speed like serum. Now, im incredibly excited for this episode, and as a disclaimer, my employer Spartan is a proud investor in DYDX. And before we get started, here is a message from our sponsor.
00:01:31.818 - 00:01:51.618, Speaker A: Today's episode is brought to you by the good folks from Nexo. In this crisis, many investors aim to keep and grow their digital assets. Others seek to maximize the yield on their cash. Nexo allows you to achieve exactly these two goals. The company offers instant crypto credit lines against all major cryptocurrencies. With interest rates starting from only 5.9% APR.
00:01:51.618 - 00:02:04.346, Speaker A: Nexo also lets you earn up to 8% annually on your fiat and digital assets. What's more, interest is paid out daily. That means you can add or withdraw your funds at any time. So get started today at Nexo IO.
00:02:04.450 - 00:02:18.330, Speaker B: So hey everybody, I'm super excited once again to have Antonio Giuliano, the founder of one of the first decentralized derivatives trading platforms, DYDX, and one of the OG projects in DeFi before it was called DeFi on the show. So welcome back to the show, Antonio.
00:02:18.522 - 00:02:20.294, Speaker C: Yeah thanks so much for having me.
00:02:21.154 - 00:02:34.054, Speaker B: So, first of all, as I was saying, before we started recording, it's been two years since you came on, and now we're in the midst of a pandemic with an election going on at the time of the recording. So just to kick us off, how are you doing, man?
00:02:34.714 - 00:02:42.854, Speaker C: I'm doing pretty well. Yeah. There's certainly a lot going on, both in the world and at DYDX, but excited to at least tackle the DyDX part today?
00:02:43.794 - 00:03:00.774, Speaker B: Yeah, absolutely, and I'm excited to dive into that as well. So a lot has happened with DiDX since we last chatted two years ago. So can you give us a sense of, you know, what the adoption looks like today? You know, how much volume is on DYDX, how that compares with some other protocols or maybe even with centralized exchanges?
00:03:01.434 - 00:03:51.044, Speaker C: Yeah, absolutely. So, obviously, DYDX has changed quite a lot since we last talked about two years ago, and I think the main change in the product since then has been that we're focusing on a more sophisticated type of clients on the exchange. So, specifically, we're offering now perpetual contracts, which is the thing we've been focusing on recently. Perpetual contracts are a type of derivative product on cryptocurrencies that has become really popular in the crypto space within the past year or so. Financially, it's really similar to the product that's offered and was popularized by Bitmex, but that has proliferated to a bunch of other exchanges and most recently into defi through DYDX. So that's what we're focused on now. And happy to dive into that or anything else that you're curious about.
00:03:51.984 - 00:03:58.310, Speaker B: Yeah. So I guess in terms of the adoption for, I guess, the trading volume for the perpetual contracts, what does that look like right now?
00:03:58.472 - 00:04:36.774, Speaker C: Yeah, for the perpetual contracts, it's about three or $4 million a day on average. It varies quite a lot, but I'd say that's about the kind of moving average. We have two main products on the platform right now. So obviously, the perpetuals, like I talked about, and then also margin trading, I'd say it's about 50 50 in terms of volume on DYDX between the perpetuals and the margin product. So it's about, like five to $6 million a day total for volume across all DYDX products. And that's up from about $500,000 or so of volume as of January this year. So growing quite fast alongside just defi as a whole.
00:04:37.794 - 00:04:49.214, Speaker B: That's amazing. And for those of us who are less traders. So what can you describe for us? What's the difference between trading on margin and trading on perpetuals? Are there different types of users that you're targeting with the two products?
00:04:49.714 - 00:05:43.908, Speaker C: Yeah, great question. They're kind of targeted at similar types of users. And the main use case for both of the different types of products is to get leverage on cryptocurrency. Leverage, if you're not familiar with it, it's just a way to magnify your gains or losses and also go short on cryptocurrencies, which means that you make money when the price goes down, as opposed to when the price goes up. Then the difference you asked about between margin and perpetuals, margin trading, all it is is just borrowing crypto to trade on leverage. For example, if you came to DYDX with 100 USDC and you wanted to buy, say, 200 USDC worth of Ethereum, you could just borrow automatically 100 USDC extra to get more exposure to cryptocurrency. Perpetuals, on the other hand, are what's known as a synthetic.
00:05:43.908 - 00:06:19.654, Speaker C: So that means that when you're trading perpetual, say you're trading a bitcoin perpetual on DyDX. There's no actual bitcoin in the system anywhere that's being traded through this synthetic construction, which I can dive into more in just a second. We can basically create a product that tracks the price of some other asset. It could be a cryptocurrency, it could be something else entirely. But basically the only thing in the system is the collateral asset, which on DyDX is USDC, and then we can create synthetically any asset that our users may want to trade based off of just that collateral.
00:06:20.814 - 00:06:38.514, Speaker B: So currently, in the centralized arena, the most liquid pair, if I'm correct, is on bitmax, the bitcoin perpetual. So do you see the same situation happening in DeFi, where the spot volumes right now are eclipsed by the rise of perpetuals for most of these kind of, I guess, fat tail assets?
00:06:39.214 - 00:07:27.872, Speaker C: Yeah, I definitely do at some point. And I think kind of the evolution of DeFi is really mirroring what we saw for the evolution of centralized exchanges, but it's just a couple of years behind. Obviously, this year we saw a really big explosion in DeFi with the rise of Uniswap. But I think margin trading and then perpetuals are soon to come in terms of having their day in terms of exploding in volume, I think certainly they'll eclipse just the entire spot market in terms of volume at some point. That's just what you see in pretty much all financial markets, or a lot of them, at least in terms of just the derivatives trading volume being higher than just the regular old spot trading volume. So that's why we're focused on perpetuals. I think there's still a little bit more work to do in terms of somebody building basically a product that's really high quality for trading perpetuals.
00:07:27.872 - 00:07:43.284, Speaker C: We think we're onto that with some of the L2 work that we're doing with starkware, which I'm sure we'll dive into a lot in a little bit. But definitely I see perpetuals and more broadly, derivatives eclipsing the spot trading volume for defi at some point.
00:07:44.234 - 00:08:10.694, Speaker B: Yeah, and id love to dive into the L2 stockware developments later, but just to kind of continue on this thread about perpetual. So in the traditional markets outside of crypto, these perpetual products are not as popular. So can you explain kind of why they became so popular in crypto in the first place? And what are the implications for this? Does it affect price discovery? Does it increase risk for the entire kind of crypto market as a whole? What are some of the important implications that people might be overlooking?
00:08:11.114 - 00:09:10.214, Speaker C: Yeah, so perpetuals are not popular. Well, they're basically not allowed in the US markets for any types of products, crypto or non crypto perpetuals are actually kind of similar to cfds or contracts for difference, which are really popular in the european market. And then kind of they were brought into crypto in a really big way, like I mentioned by BitMex. I'd say, in my opinion, the reason why they're so popular in cryptocurrency is because cryptocurrency is a much more retail dominated industry in terms of the weighting of trade volume as compared to the traditional financial markets. And these perpetual products, one really nice thing about them is you can conceptualize them as just trading the underlying product itself. So, for example, if you're trading a bitcoin perpetual, it feels like you're just trading bitcoin on leverage. Obviously, there's some more advanced mechanisms that you need to know about in terms of the funding rate, which is the critical piece which drives a perpetual.
00:09:10.214 - 00:10:00.564, Speaker C: But I'd say, just to answer your question, it's just that they cater more towards the retail customers that are really popular and drive a lot of volume in the crypto markets. In terms of risk, I would say it kind of runs a spectrum. So obviously on perpetuals, these are where you'll see the hundred xs of the world on Bitmax and binance and things like that. Obviously, trading on 100 x leverage is really risky, and I wouldn't really recommend it, to be honest. But certainly there's a lot of use cases for perpetuals beyond just taking on ridiculous amounts of risk. Just leverage in general is really useful for just increasing capital efficiency across the space. So this is really useful for more sophisticated retail traders or also trading firms, which really know how to use and kind of hedge and responsibly manage leverage.
00:10:00.564 - 00:10:07.274, Speaker C: And just increased capital efficiency basically just means that people can trade with more capital than they otherwise would have had.
00:10:08.654 - 00:10:22.354, Speaker B: And do you foresee perpetuals being a new primitive in Defi? Can it interact maybe with other protocols? Can it be composable with other protocols? Or is this going to be very kind of very specific in its use case in that it's only used for trading?
00:10:23.254 - 00:11:21.746, Speaker C: Yeah, it's a great question. So I think to start at least, we have to focus on just trading and making the trading experience on perpetuals really top class and certainly competitive, if not much better than the experience that people already have for trading perpetuals on centralized exchanges. So that's really what we're focused on is step one, not quite as focused on right now, composability, which maybe is a little bit counterculture for DeFi in general. But like I said, I just think it's important for us to have, especially for perpetuals, just a really robust trading market before we branch out to composability. That said, I think there are and kind of will be a lot of interesting use cases for composability with perpetuals over time. I think there are really interesting possibilities when you get to kind of tokenizing different perpetual positions, potentially using them as like collateral on other assets, enabling them to be traded beyond just DYDX? Kind of. The possibilities are endless.
00:11:21.746 - 00:11:26.390, Speaker C: But like I said, just starting with trading as the first use case and.
00:11:26.422 - 00:12:12.124, Speaker B: Zooming out a little bit from perpetuals. I think a lot of people make this argument that ethereum based decentralized exchanges are slow and expensive, and the only reason why you want to use them is because you don't want to use centralized exchanges now. The space has obviously evolved a ton since 2018. Space is maturing, and more exchanges are now becoming regulated. I think yesterday in Hong Kong, there was a new policy that was circulated for feedback that actually requires strict KYC and only accredited investors to be on these exchanges. So say, exchanges become much more regulated and much safer to use. Do you think that diminishes the significance of decentralized exchanges? Or how do you think DyDX fits in that future where you have more trusted, centralized exchanges.
00:12:12.944 - 00:13:08.046, Speaker C: Yeah, that's a good question. I think obviously, like you said, one of the main things that's bringing people to DeFi is just the ethos of cryptocurrency in general, just wanting to control your own keys and not being beholden to any other centralized exchange or custody provider to custody your keys. I'd say this is especially important when you're trading more advanced financial products, things like derivatives or anything that's collateralized, especially because for just spot trading with, using centralized exchanges, it's still not that risky. Even if you really don't trust centralized exchanges for some reason, you can just deposit your funds to coinbase or wherever you make your trade. Then you can withdraw back to your cold storage wallet or whatever you're using. But with derivatives, it's really different. You have to kind of keep collateral, keep a lot of assets on whatever exchange you're trading on to be able to kind of collateralize that position for the entire time that you have it open.
00:13:08.046 - 00:14:35.198, Speaker C: So you may be needing to leave collateral for months or years at a time on different centralized exchanges. And this is just a reasonably risky venture, as we've seen with a lot of this stuff that's happened with Bitmex, with some of the things that are happening more recently with Okex, with Huobi, there's a lot of uncertainty there. And I think this is one of the main things that's driving people to Defi. Then answer your question, like how does DeFi play into the larger crypto ecosystem long term, assuming that we have, say, more either regulated and or trusted centralized exchanges? I think that Defi, I think the main blocker for people using DeFi right now is more from a product perspective, kind of alluded to this in your question as well, where just right now on layer one, Ethereum, it's really slow, it's really expensive to use these products, and it really feels like you're making a big trade off to get the benefits of DeFi or get the benefits of a decentralized exchange. But I think that that's going to go away in the next year in a really big way. So I see just once DyDX and other decentralized exchanges are able to get to, say, feature parity with centralized exchanges, a lot of the second order benefits will really start to shine through in terms of just the non custodial trading. And one of the other really important things is because of the non custodial trading and because of the transparency offered by a decentralized exchange, we're just able to bootstrap trust way more effectively than any centralized exchange would be able to.
00:14:35.198 - 00:15:02.054, Speaker C: Because again, it's the whole ethos of DeFi. Don't take our word for it. Take our third party audits, take our source code. This ethos of transparency just prevalent in DydX, in the broader defi space. So I just think that in the long term, DyDx, hopefully, and if not, at least decentralized exchanges will be able to kind of out compete centralized exchanges. Because I think a lot of the product limitations are going to be solved soon.
00:15:03.274 - 00:15:54.670, Speaker B: Yeah, and I got to admit, I think back in back two years ago, I was still quite skeptical of DeFi, especially after using a few of the protocols. It felt like I was giving up a lot in terms of user experience for the minimal gain in kind of not having to trust exchanges, which I saw as relatively trustworthy given that they have their responsibility to their users to not screw over their users. For someone like binance, for instance, they always commit to keeping their customer funds safe. But then, in the past few years, as I saw more developments, I start to realize that once they reach feature parity, if the experience is completely the same, I actually don't have any reason to use a centralized exchange. And I think that that's incredibly powerful. And you brought up the point about kind of regulators cracking down on CFI exchanges lately. We got news about OkeX and maybe Huawei as well.
00:15:54.670 - 00:16:02.074, Speaker B: So theoretically, if someone were to try to take down DYDX today, is that possible, and how would they go around doing that?
00:16:02.494 - 00:16:46.088, Speaker C: Yeah, it's a good theoretical question. I guess if I were a regulator and I, or, you know, anybody, and I wanted to take down DYDX right now, what I would focus on is, right now, what DYDX is, is we're kind of what's known as a hybrid exchange. So that means we have some decentralized components and then some centralized components as well. So the decentralized components are obviously the smart contracts which run on the blockchain. And this is where you get all of the great benefits in terms of transparency and non custodial trading. But the centralized components that we still continue to operate are the order book and then the matching engine as well. We do this to just get the performance of the exchange to be vastly superior than it would be if we weren't doing these things.
00:16:46.088 - 00:17:09.224, Speaker C: At least right now, we do have some thoughts and plans to decentralize these aspects as well. But at least for now, these two aspects of DyDx are centralized. Because they're centralized, they're potentially censorable, potentially shutdownable. That would be what I would focus on if, for whatever reason, somebody wanted to shut Doidx down.
00:17:09.644 - 00:17:53.548, Speaker A: And this 32nd intermission is brought to you by our sponsor Nexo. Depending on what type of company you're operating, Nexo can help you in different ways. As an exchange, they can be a strategic partner. As a miner, they will offer you OTC credit lines to help cover expenses, and as a crypto fund or any type of institutional counterparties, they can offer you a portfolio of structured financial products and up to 8% annual interest on your idle stablecoins, as well as asset swap agreements or direct borrowing off crypto. Individuals can also park their cash and stablecoins at Nexo's interest earning account to get an annual rate of 8%. And what's more is that you can actually claim this interest every single day, and you can add or withdraw funds at any time as well. So if this sounds interesting to you, get started at Nexo IO.
00:17:53.636 - 00:18:24.754, Speaker B: I'd like to take a moment to thank our sponsor radix for making this show possible. If you're interested in defi and you want to explore the latest developments in crypto, you Radix is a layer one protocol built specifically for DeFi. Radix focuses on speed, security, and scalability, and previous iterations have delivered 1 million transactions per second. They recently raised $13 million in their token sale and have launched the liquidity incentive program as well. So head on over to radixdlt.com to learn more. That's r dashdlt.com,
00:18:24.754 - 00:19:05.474, Speaker B: and that actually brings me really well to my next question, which focuses more on the project specific for DyDx and some of the competition that we've been seeing. So one of the more exciting developments in defi that I've seen lately was the launch of serum, which we just had on the show before. And for listeners who are not aware, this is a decentralized exchange whose order book, I think matching engine as well, is on chain because they are actually not built on Ethereum, but built on a fast chain called Solana. So I'm curious about what are your thoughts there? Have you explored kind of building implementations of Duidx on other chains for scalability purposes as well, and how in general you think about kind of building performant Dexs?
00:19:06.214 - 00:20:04.158, Speaker C: Yeah, absolutely. This is a really good segue into some of the work that we're doing right now on the scalability side. So I guess kind of, to answer your question, right now we're building an integration with starkware, which is a L2 provider, which specializes and is one of the leaders in what's called zero knowledge, or stark based rollups. Basically uses zero knowledge proofs to condense a lot of data, like an arbitrary sized amount of data, into a constant size object, which is where all of the scalability comes from. And then it rolls back up to layer one, Ethereum. So you still get kind of all the really nice parts of Ethereum in terms of the really good ecosystem of wallets, other projects, ERC 20 tokens, all of that, and then the security and decentralization that Ethereum offers. So kind of, to answer your question and take a step back, like why did we choose starkware as compared to a lot of the other potential scalability solutions that were out there? I'll kind of go through each in turn.
00:20:04.158 - 00:20:46.050, Speaker C: Obviously, we ended up with the stark based rollups. We considered a number of different options as well. So one of the other options we considered was optimistic rollups. So people may be familiar with this, but this is another type of rollup. All rollup means is that it's a L2 solution which kind of rolls back up to a base level blockchain, usually ethereum, but with optimistic rollups. Basically how they work is there's one coordinator, or a group of coordinators which can put out updates to the state of the protocol and they can put out whatever update they want. But then they kind of rely on a decentralized network of fraud provers to be able to prove fraud on the network if it happens.
00:20:46.050 - 00:21:23.666, Speaker C: We decided not to go with optimistic rollups in particular for a couple of reasons. First of all, they're a general purpose optimistic roll up system. So this would be something like an optimism or similar. They're not quite production ready yet. They're still just getting to the point where they're going to be live in production soon. So that was kind of a really big problem for us. We just really needed a solution that was production ready, like right now, today, because it's really important that we're able to scale DYDX, the company and our users more broadly are spending hundreds of thousands of dollars, if not millions of dollars, on gas fees.
00:21:23.666 - 00:22:16.162, Speaker C: And it's really important that we make just more scalable product and a better product, but with optimistic roll ups. So like I said, they're not quite production ready. And then the other issue with them is they have really long withdrawal times, which kind of means that if you want to exit the system, your funds are kind of locked in it for kind of a week or a couple days at least. There are ways to get around this with kind of, you can use liquidity providers to make withdrawals faster, but the amount of capital that you'd have to have for such a withdrawal provider is really, really high, such that it was prohibitive for us. Then, touching on what you mentioned before with some of the other layer one blockchains that are out there. Solana is a really good example of this polkadot near we considered as well. I say those are probably the top three in my mind right now in terms of more scalable layer one smart contracting blockchains.
00:22:16.162 - 00:22:57.438, Speaker C: I'd say the general thinking was, first of all that none of them are quite production ready yet, in my opinion, which was again the biggest blocker for us, especially on the Polkadot near side. I think salon is a little bit further along, but still we haven't really seen any. Just like big applications that are processing millions or billions of dollars in volume be really successful on the network yet. I guess with Solana in particular. Not just Solana, but any new blockchain, it's really tough to build out an ecosystem around the product that you're building. One of the really nice things about Ethereum is lots of other people are building on Ethereum. There are lots of great wallets that people already use.
00:22:57.438 - 00:23:29.440, Speaker C: It's a great distribution channel for different applications to just plug directly into people's wallets. On some of these new blockchains, even just basic wallets don't really exist, or they're really primitive. So that's a really big blocker. Or thinking about oracle solutions, those don't necessarily exist on the chain yet. Or thinking about just different tokens that you might want to trade. Maybe those don't exist. So just in terms of some of these new blockchains, I just say it's a little bit early right now, in my opinion, to be moving to them.
00:23:29.440 - 00:23:34.284, Speaker C: And that's why we partnered with Starkware to build this more Ethereum centric, roll up based approach.
00:23:35.704 - 00:24:08.822, Speaker B: Got it. And that's in line with a lot of the feedback that I've heard from developers as well. It's almost like a chicken and egg thing, where there's not enough tooling or not enough other projects to be composable with on these other chains. So we're not going to build on that just yet. So I do think it requires some level of bootstrapping and I'm excited to see where that goes and bringing it back to Ethereum. Right. In the past two years, we've also seen the rise of other competition that's trying to get a piece of this kind of perpetual swap on chain PI and other types of derivatives on chain.
00:24:08.822 - 00:24:29.774, Speaker B: And some of these projects are based on an Amm model. In fact, I think most of the competition out there is based on an AMM model. So projects like perpetual finance and also McDeX and to a certain extent synthetix as well. So how do you think about these amm based exchanges versus the order book exchange that DydX is?
00:24:30.634 - 00:25:48.104, Speaker C: Yeah, absolutely. A good question. My opinion on automated market makers, and this isn't really a novel opinion by any means, but my thoughts are that they're really useful for the long tail of assets that people might want to trade, and I think that carries over into perpetual markets as well. So I think automated market makers are more likely to be successful for, call it like the 200 plus by volume markets out there, but I think order book based models are just more likely to build a lot of liquidity on kind of the more top markets and not even like just the very top markets. But I think on centralized exchanges, we've seen order books be really successful in supporting like at least like 50 to 100 to maybe 200 markets or so. So the question in my mind is like, if you believe that that's true, which is more of an opinion, it's certainly not a fact. But if you believe that's true, then kind of the question is where is the volume going to be? Like, is it going to continue to be in these top like 100 or 200 markets that say, we believe are going to be more or better served by kind of the order book based approach? Or instead are there going to be just like hundreds and hundreds of tokens or thousands or millions of tokens that people want to trade, in which case we'll think that the automated market maker approach will be more successful.
00:25:48.104 - 00:26:41.046, Speaker C: I guess my opinion, and just empirically what we've seen in cryptocurrency over a number of years now, is that while there are a lot of interesting long tail assets that can be traded, the real volume is in the top assets. So the real volume is in bitcoin to a certain extent ETH like a couple of other tokens. I don't know the exact stats on this off the top of my head, but I would imagine probably just the top ten or 20 pairs on cryptocurrencies just across all exchanges in general, or at least 50%, if not like a lot more. So that, to answer your question is why? We're focused on order book based models, very, very high level, like 1000ft. Our goal for DYDX is just to become one of the biggest exchanges in cryptocurrency, period. Not necessarily just decentralized or centralized. We want to become one of the biggest cryptocurrency exchanges, but more on the three to five year time horizon.
00:26:41.046 - 00:27:09.464, Speaker C: Obviously there's a long way to go until that, but I think we have a real shot to do it in terms of obviously we've seen derivatives are really big on crypto perpetuals alone, are just bigger than the rest of the cryptocurrency market combined. And then just the big bet that we're making, that a lot of other people are making, obviously, is that DeFi will really start to eat centralized exchanges in a big way. But we're optimistic about being able to become one of the biggest cryptocurrency exchanges by just tackling this combination of DeFi plus derivatives.
00:27:11.004 - 00:27:52.594, Speaker B: That's really interesting. And that's actually in line with kind of my own personal thesis around amms as well. I do think they are incredibly well suited for long tail assets. But empirically, when I look at Uniswap, I think some of the most liquidly traded assets with over $50 million in 24 hours traded, these are still kind of the fat tail assets. So like Tether, USDC, DAi, to certain extent wrapped bitcoin as well, and obviously Ethereum too. So do you think that this will change where a lot of the trading demand for these kind of stable coins, bitcoin, ethereum, large cap pairs will move to order book based dexs? Or do you see Uniswap and DyDX kind of serving fundamentally different purposes?
00:27:53.654 - 00:28:52.566, Speaker C: Yeah, I think we'll move to order books over time. Also, in addition to the long tail of assets, I will mention that I think automated market makers are really good for stable coin to stablecoin swaps. Like, I think curve is great actually, and just like automated market makers just make a lot of sense for that because it's not really rocket science. It's like these things are mostly equal and you can just trade them against each other and not take on too much loss. But in terms of answering your question as to whether I think or what's going on with Uniswap right now, and will that kind of translate to more order book based models over time? I think one of the interesting things that's happening with Uniswap right now is really the main use case there, in my opinion, is still just trading the long tail of assets. One of the really cool things that the Uniswap product offers is the ability to do multi hop exchanges between different assets. You could say go from random token a to Ethereum and then Ethereum to tether and then tether to random token b or something like that.
00:28:52.566 - 00:29:30.254, Speaker C: That's what's driving, in my opinion, a lot of the volume towards some of the top markets on Uniswap that, and it's really just having the on chain composability that in contract fillable liquidity just enables there to be a lot of arbitrage opportunities, which drives a lot of volume as well. And I think order book based models are a little bit harder to get right on Defi and we haven't really seen it done well. I like to think that DyDX is kind of at the forefront of pushing forward like order book based dexs, but especially with some of the product improvements that we're going to be making with starkware, I'm pretty optimistic that we'll be able to capture a lot of the volume, especially for the biggest markets.
00:29:31.754 - 00:29:49.054, Speaker B: That's definitely exciting. And I think another corollary to the theme of scalability is obviously ETH 2.0. The phase zero contract just got deployed, I think last night, Hong Kong time. So now with sharding on its way to Ethereum, how do you think that would affect DYDX?
00:29:50.234 - 00:30:57.056, Speaker C: Yeah, question so first of all, I don't know, maybe I'm a little bit pessimistic on this, given kind of what I've seen over the past couple of years, but I really don't think that charting is on Ethereum is going to be completed for at least like a couple years. My understanding is that they're still kind of deploying like phase zero, basically of like, I don't even know if they know how many, but of like seven or eight phases. So I guess to answer your question, yeah, I think it will be really interesting kind of what happens in a more sharded based ecosystem, but I think it's pretty far away on Ethereum in particular. That being said, I think sharding is a pretty core component of some of the new blockchains that are out there component of near and also to a certain extent polkadot. And I think in that world it's going to be pretty interesting, maybe even just zooming out a little bit more. One of the things that I think is really interesting right now is obviously that some of the big deFi products are starting to move to L2, but also that not everybody is moving to the same layer, too. We're moving to Stark, where I think synthetix is moving to optimism.
00:30:57.056 - 00:31:24.674, Speaker C: Obviously there's serum on Solana, all these different things. I don't really know the answer of what the final state is going to be, but I think it's at least interesting to watch what's going to happen with the stratification of all of these different products onto different scalability solutions. Right now, I think we're in happy lands for composability, where, like, everybody's on layer one, but I'm interested to see how that changes once everybody's not on the same chain anymore.
00:31:26.094 - 00:31:49.494, Speaker B: Absolutely. And pivoting a little bit away from the tech side and more to the business and strategy side, this is something that I'm personally very, very curious about. So in terms of bootstrapping, the volumes that you have today, what types of tactics or what types of users did you guys target initially to bootstrap the current critical mass of users, and what are your plans to grow that?
00:31:50.354 - 00:32:42.838, Speaker C: Yeah, absolutely. Especially well with any decentralized or any exchange in general, the first thing you really have to start with is liquidity. There has to be somebody sitting there willing to sell you the assets that you want to buy or sell. So with liquidity, we've had a couple of really good, just market making partners that we've been working with over the past year or two, and continuously just expanding the number of market maker and quality of market makers that we're working with to provide liquidity to users that want to trade it. So that's kind of on the more like fund based side or institutional side, and then more on the taker side. It's really been something where we've been pretty, just laser focused on the product for pretty much the entire history of DYDx. Up until about three or four months ago, the team was basically 80% to 90% engineers.
00:32:42.838 - 00:33:43.996, Speaker C: If you count me as an engineer, too. I still do get to do some coding, but then I guess a little bit more recently, within the past few months, we've hired a really good growth team to start thinking more intentionally about how do we grow DYDx. But to answer your question about what type of users are we going after? It's not really rocket science. We're just going after more sophisticated types of traders that want access to these more advanced types of financial products that really aren't offered by many other DeFi products that are out there. So I'd say it's kind of the intersection of those more sophisticated kind of individual traders that want access to these products and at least to start, like we're mostly going after traders that are already in the Defi space. I think that's really going to change in a big way again, like once we have the starkware integration. Yeah, I'd love to get more deeply into this, but I think after we have the starkware integration, like the product experience on DyDX is going to feel every bit as good, if not better, than what traders are used to on a centralized exchange.
00:33:43.996 - 00:34:12.544, Speaker C: Kind of like all the great things about a centralized exchange, but you can still walk up with your wallet, like start immediately trading without signing up or kind of any of this other nonsense. So I think we're kind of getting there with a product that's able to serve kind of the wider array of cryptocurrency traders that maybe care less or potentially not at all about trading on the non custodial exchange. But I think we're going to get to a product experience where the product is compelling even for those types of users very soon.
00:34:14.284 - 00:34:36.664, Speaker B: When you look at the growth tactics of the biggest exchanges today in the c five world, such as Binance, Huawei, Okex, when you look at the early growth tactics that they use, do you draw any inspiration from what they've done? Do you think it's directly applicable to DyDx as well? Or is it fundamentally different to scale the user base for DyDx versus a centralized exchange?
00:34:37.194 - 00:35:11.746, Speaker C: Yeah, that's a great question. So I think it's pretty similar actually, just in terms of growing an exchange. Fundamentally, it's a very similar use case for a product. People just want to trade, they want to speculate on cryptocurrency. Maybe they'll do that on a centralized exchange. Maybe they'll do that on a decentralized exchange for different reasons. But absolutely the first place we start is just with different tactics that we've seen work really well on the growth side for centralized exchanges, and specifically some of the biggest ones like binance, I think have been really effective in terms of just intentionally growing their user base.
00:35:11.746 - 00:36:06.324, Speaker C: It's not rocket science, but it's just things like working with different affiliate programs, like potentially doing different paid marketing, working with different partners on the business development side, say like different wallets or even other exchanges to kind of get DyDx either integrated or kind of featured in those applications, and kind of using their distribution channels to get more users on DyDX, but that's what we're starting with. At least I will say the main growth and distribution tactic that we've seen work really well within DeFi, obviously has been just the rise of tokens and especially the rise of liquidity mining. We don't have any firm plans on this yet, but it's something that we're tracking very closely, something that we're thinking about pretty critically, and something that I'm personally excited about. The intersection of what we may be able to see on DyDX with some sort of token and liquidity mining scheme combined with really high quality growth efforts that we've seen work well on other exchanges.
00:36:07.984 - 00:36:32.194, Speaker B: Yeah, I'm definitely excited for that as well. I think that opens a new vector for user acquisition that we haven't seen outside of crypto yet. In terms of the liquidity point you mentioned initially that the trick in the neck question is really whether you can get liquidity, you can get people to sell people tokens on different exchanges in order to bootstrap the user base. So are there current market makers in Dydx, or are there even market makers in Defi?
00:36:34.014 - 00:38:02.704, Speaker C: Absolutely, especially on DyDx. Again, because DyDx has this more hybrid architecture where we're running the central order book and central matching engine. One of the other things that's really important to us, in addition to making the web based product really high quality and really approachable to users that maybe aren't even as familiar with Defi, we also spend a lot of time and effort on making the more API based or programmatic trading experience on DYDX just a lot more similar to what traders and specifically market makers are used to on centralized exchanges. So a lot of different market makers will use DyDX as their jumping off point to get into deFi, because it's a lot more approachable than say just market making on a totally open, decentralized exchange where they may have to deal with, say running an Ethereum node or different stuff like that, whereas on DyDX it's just mostly interacting with our API. But yeah, we have, I don't know, like three to five like market makers that are active on the platform right now across a variety of different pairs, talking with a bunch of new market makers as well. But there's quite a lot of interest in the market making space in terms of getting involved in Defi. Obviously everybody's looking at what's going on in defi and seeing how it could potentially grow a lot in the long term and from a market maker's perspective or even a trader's perspective, it's useful to get in on the ground early and not miss the boat in terms of a lot of the volume that's going to be coming to, hopefully DYDx and more broadly defi over the next couple of years.
00:38:03.964 - 00:38:20.754, Speaker B: Now, obviously there's a lot of new developments for DYDX, including the launch of the Starkware integration. For people who want to keep up to date with what's next or if they want to test out the DyDx product, what are the best channels for them to visit? What are the best people for them to reach out to?
00:38:21.494 - 00:39:03.374, Speaker C: Yeah, absolutely. The first place to start would just be our website, which is DyDx exchange, and that'll have links to our discord where you can join, you can ask us different questions, things that you're curious about DyDX. And then I think just probably the best way to get a good sense of DyDX is just to try the product and see what you think about it. We'd love if you leave us any feedback on the product, we're always trying to make it the best possible for you. And then just stay tuned for more announcements with starkware, more announcements potentially around some of the token things that we're thinking about around different distributions. But definitely keep in touch and let us know if you have any feedback.
00:39:04.394 - 00:39:08.434, Speaker B: Yeah, absolutely. Well, thank you so much for taking the time to do this. This has been incredibly fun.
