00:00:05.290 - 00:00:44.390, Speaker A: Hello and welcome to the panel on central bank Digital Currencies and Blockchain, organized by the Smart Contract Research Forum, or Scurf, as part of the Smart Contract summit. I'm Eugene Leventhal, the operations lead here at Scurf, and I have the pleasure of moderating today's panel. You'll be able to learn more about the panelists through smartcontractresearch.org t six, two, three. We'll also add the specific link at the end, in case you didn't catch that. With that, I'll pass it off to Andrew Miller to kick us off with introductions before we get into the moderated discussion.
00:00:44.550 - 00:01:15.166, Speaker B: Thanks Eugene. Very happy to get started. So, I'm Andrew Miller. I'm an assistant professor in computer engineering at the University of Illinois. There I lead the decentralized Systems lab, and my research mainly focuses on cryptography, programming languages, and blockchain designs, a lot of smart contract programming. And so the very technical side of cryptocurrencies, I've been in the blockchain space for about nine years. I was in, I think, the first cohort of folks who did phd dissertations focused on cryptocurrencies.
00:01:15.166 - 00:02:19.534, Speaker B: All that is to say, I think I have a good grasp on the technical side of blockchains and maybe on the cryptocurrency ecosystem's view of narratives and how finance works. But I'm very new to basically learning anything about how mainstream finance or central banks or real world banks work. I think that I'm on this panel because I co authored with some other folks at the initiative for Cryptocurrencies and Contracts, a paper on design choices for CBDCs. I mostly have some perspective on what kinds of programming interfaces CBDCs might have and what kinds of privacy issues and techniques that they would have and interested in learning. And some much weaker perspectives, I would say, on the kind of institutional and organizational and policy issues of CBDCs. I think you asked to give an explanation of what is a CBDC as a short one in this first pass. So to me, the developer's perspective, or the blockchain perspective, I think, has to be pretty loose.
00:02:19.534 - 00:03:18.940, Speaker B: So I would call it a CBDC, whether it has just as really centrally operated and directly retail customers to a central bank or something that's more hierarchical with member banks and commercial banks involved in either way. To me, what makes it a CBDC is if it incorporates any kind of blockchain technology, whether it's cryptography to provide privacy, smart contract programming to provide extensibility and what I kind of expect is likely to emerge as the real promising pattern is the idea of the central bank providing an API platform for programming with some kinds of rules or regulations or constraints built in at the platform level, but then a very high amount of flexibility for commercial banks and member banks to be able to customize their own applications through this programming interface and then compete on the kind of functionality that they could offer. So it's really the CBDC as a platform kind of view. So I'll yield there.
00:03:19.630 - 00:03:22.880, Speaker A: Thank you, Andrew. Ariel, do you mind going next?
00:03:23.490 - 00:04:01.930, Speaker C: Sure. Thanks, Eugene. My name is Ariel Zetlin Jones. I'm an economist at the Tepper School of Business at Carnegie Mellon University. My research focuses on how information and technology shape financial markets and the implications of financial markets and financial market regulation for the broader macro economy. Lately, I've been studying the role of blockchain in disrupting financial markets and thinking about what economics can shed light on for kind of blockchain and the computer science aspects. So thinking about how to harness economic incentives to improve consensus on distributed ledgers, or how to use economic incentives to improve, in theory, to improve, say, the design of stable coins.
00:04:01.930 - 00:04:57.702, Speaker C: With a training in macroeconomics and monetary economics, I've thought a lot about the role of government and private payment systems in the macroeconomy. And so the perspective I'll try to add is kind of the interaction between what monetary policy and central bank digital currency may or may not achieve in changing our payment system. I guess I have a very similar perspective to Andrew in terms of what a central bank digital currency may be. I think the critical distinction is whether we think a central bank digital currency is going to be only accessible by financial institutions or accessible to retail customers. And I think the most interesting aspects, as Andrew suggested, is that what's new about CBDC is offering access to, say, a savings account at the central bank for retail customers. And whether that's an account based system or a token based system are interesting questions. But I think that's the newest aspect of a central bank digital currency.
00:04:57.702 - 00:05:10.640, Speaker C: And then the question is, how will this impact our payment system? How will this impact the traditional banking system in good ways or bad? And what does it imply for monetary policy? So those are, I think, all interesting questions to start thinking about.
00:05:12.210 - 00:05:15.520, Speaker A: Great. Thank you, Ariel. And Philip, do you mind jumping in next?
00:05:16.210 - 00:05:36.646, Speaker D: Thanks. Yes, my name is Philip Zandner. I'm working at the Frankfurt School of Finance and Management, which is a small university in Germany. Not everybody might know this university. As I said, it's a small one. We have 400 business faculties over here in Germany, and the Frankfurt school belongs to the top ten over there. So people over here know it, but it's a tiny one.
00:05:36.646 - 00:06:14.946, Speaker D: Therefore not everybody out there might know our university. I myself am into blockchain now since 2013 when I discovered bitcoin, which became some kind of hobby in the beginning. And five years ago, we have set up the blockchain center at the Frankfurt school. And since then we are doing with our team of ten people, full time blockchain, crypto, DLT. But we also moved away from enterprise solutions towards decentral systems, cryptocurrencies. That's where my heart lies nowadays with the onchain, analytics and so on. And an interesting topic we are currently investigating is what kind of tokens are out there.
00:06:14.946 - 00:07:13.318, Speaker D: You have utility tokens, payment tokens, investment tokens, this, tokens that, tokens and bringing some kind of structure. There is one of our mission in our research and historically I studied a mixture between business and computer science. And from a research perspective, I did a lot of work in the area of entrepreneurship and also venture capital, always with empirical data. And now concerning CBDC, I think I would follow your explanation and your definition, definitely. I would try to define CBDC as some kind of, let's call it digital modern ledger, where a central bank tries to re establish the direct relation to a customer. It can be mediated through financial intermediaries such as banks or payment providers, but not necessarily and absolutely right. CBDCs can be DLT based, but they do not have to be DLT based.
00:07:13.318 - 00:07:51.086, Speaker D: They can have smart contracts, but they do not have to have a smart contract functionality. And therefore there are good reasons why blockchain technology makes sense. But central banks around the world are also experimenting with non blockchain cbdcs. And therefore, I think my perspective is that CBDC is only one sort of digital money of the future. There will be other sorts of money. Some of them will be fiat based, some of money will be not fiat based. And for example, in Germany, we discuss it a lot, how, for example, to leverage blockchain and the euro in smart contracts.
00:07:51.086 - 00:08:34.080, Speaker D: How to leverage the euro in smart contracts as soon as possible. Because the ECB, yes, tries to build a CBDC, but the ECB is lacking quite strongly behind when you compare it to China. And the CBDC produced by the European Central bank might be with us by 2026 or 2028. And this is opposed by the european industry companies like Daimler, Bosch, Siemens, who are urgently demanding a digital currency. So there needs to be other forms of the digital euro for these years because the CBDC is a big project and apparently the ECB is not the fastest organization out there.
00:08:36.530 - 00:08:45.380, Speaker A: Great, thank you for the three of you introducing yourselves. And we also have Richard Brown joining us, who's the founder of Scurf as well. Rich, if you want to just give a quick intro too.
00:08:46.010 - 00:09:18.750, Speaker E: Sure, I'll make this super brief. Richard Brown, co founder of Scurf, most recently head of community at Makerdao. If I have any experience that's relevant to this conversation, it is that we produced a stablecoin. And there's some obvious similarities between that and some of the proposals for CBdcs. I'll be co moderating with Eugene and as I'm an EO fight in the space, I'm looking forward to the conversation, but I don't think I'll have much to add. But looking forward to it. Thank you, Eugene.
00:09:19.090 - 00:10:11.470, Speaker A: And so to get us started, I kind of want to follow up on the kind of definitions that you all laid out and zooming in on that idea for a moment because I think trying to create a baseline of sort of what is a CBDC in relation to. Does it need to be using a DLT or smart contracts or some of these other blockchain technical components or not? And really thinking. I know, Philip, you also mentioned the idea of hybrid cbdcs when we were getting off, when we were getting started at the beginning of this. So I guess as an immediate question, Philip, do you mind just mentioning what you mean by hybrid cbdcs, what those are, and then we'll kind of springboard into what we see as the minimum design requirements for something to be a CBDC versus another type of tool that central banks might be able to have at their disposal.
00:10:11.810 - 00:10:50.234, Speaker D: Yeah, exactly. So there are multiple design options out there for cbdcs. Typically you call it direct CBDC if we as citizens have direct access to the central bank. But this would require the central bank to really do it. It also would require the central bank potentially to run an online app, like a smartphone app to give me access to the euro or the US dollar. And I think central banks are not the right organizations to supply such it. Therefore, the topic of hybrid cbdcs popped up.
00:10:50.234 - 00:12:10.742, Speaker D: This means that the central bank is supplying the money originally, but it also relies on existing banks and payment providers to process these payments to also onboard customers to do KYC processes and AML checks. So this way you have a multi tier system with the central bank in the background and some banks and payment processes in between. And the most important point here is that the central bank is supplying the money originally with inflation. Without inflation, it doesn't matter, but it's supplying the money. And the money can then be taken up by banks and be forwarded to us as citizens, but also to companies and so on. And most important on this point is that there are also payment processors, such as credit cards, and banks, who are then themselves supplying citizens and who are also supplying companies like Bosch, Daimler, Siemens, all these companies, they also need cash for their payments. And here I think it's very important that a central bank is not necessarily always bridging the entire line from a central bank to the citizens, but that it supplies money which can also then be used by other payment processors who then themselves make money available to the capital market, to the industry, to the upcoming economy of things, and so on.
00:12:10.742 - 00:12:58.550, Speaker D: And that's why the topic of hybrid cbdcs could potentially make sense. And the last point I would like to make, in Germany, we have this discussion going up on what we can do to supply companies with some kind of digital currency, with a digital euro. And here, for example, banks are developing so payment adapters, which are sitting in between their legacy payment systems and smart contract systems, and they are reconciling this blockchain. They are trying to reconcile the blockchain system and the balances there with the money in legacy payment infrastructures in the bank accounts. And these payment adapters are then trying to synchronize the legacy world with the modern blockchain based payment infrastructures.
00:13:01.290 - 00:13:03.302, Speaker A: Ariel, did you want to jump in?
00:13:03.436 - 00:13:04.134, Speaker B: I do.
00:13:04.252 - 00:14:16.314, Speaker C: I just really appreciate Philip's perspective about this possibility of a hybrid system. And I think it's important to recognize we sort of live in that system already, at least in most advanced economies, right, where central banks provide physical currency that are used directly by retail customers, but they also provide reserves indirectly to the commercial banking system, who then supply their own form of private money supported by those reserves to private customers. I think what Philip's describing is that the role of these banks may look very different when the central bank issues its own digital medium of exchange that is in principle accessible by customers, that maybe they're platform providers of some way to give a better it experience, better access to central bank currency, than just creating their own private monies. And I think that tension is an interesting one. And I think the big challenge from a central banking perspective of thinking about creating a digital currency is exactly the fact that right now the intermediaries play two different roles. They're payment processors, but they're also the people who extend credit, the institutions responsible for extending credit. And so the big debate in the economics literature right now about CBDC has really been focusing on disintermediation.
00:14:16.314 - 00:14:48.390, Speaker C: The idea that if you give retail customers direct access to the central bank to store their savings, will they no longer save in the commercial banking system? I think that's why in advanced economies, you're seeing a push for some kind of hybrid approach to make sure that we can leave resources in the banking sector to keep extending credit, because I don't think central banks are interested in using these deposit reserves to extend credit themselves. And so that's why I think Philip's perspective is a very interesting and useful one. The question is just, will the role of these intermediaries change if we create this new kind of digital medium?
00:14:50.890 - 00:14:54.218, Speaker A: Yeah, of course. And Andrew, did you want to jump in here as well?
00:14:54.384 - 00:14:54.666, Speaker C: Yeah.
00:14:54.688 - 00:17:00.020, Speaker B: So I like the kind of framing of your question as what would be a minimum viable CBDC? Or what's the minimum amount of blockchain technology that could be added to it and still call it something blockchain based or a digital currency. And so, I mean, one thing that I would mention is that I think it's unlikely that you would have cbdcs built on top of a public blockchain, for example, or built on top of proof of work, anonymous consensus systems, for example. It's quite more plausible that it would be some sort of consortium, consensus protocol, or even something that doesn't even resemble a consensus protocol and is essentially centrally operated and looks a lot like an ordinary database system, I could give some examples of potential technical crypto benefits that you might get even in an essentially centrally administered database that I think still are very much kind of responsive to the things that are desirable about cryptocurrencies and blockchain. So the example that I will give is the idea of auditability and transparency for records. So to the extent that people are interested in being able to audit from a public viewpoint, otherwise opaque systems of how much money is being printed or how it's going around, some of the kind of technical toolkits in blockchains, like hash based data structures and commitments, for example, could be used to essentially make a public account record of all of the main movements, or changes to parameters, or changes to interest rates, or other kinds of things that might change over time. And some of the technology that blockchains use today in the cryptocurrency world, like zero knowledge proofs, could be a really good fit for that as well, you might be able to provide a very good open transparency record that's essentially a proof that a certain policy has been abided by the central bank or by the member banks. You'd get some cryptographic proof that the rules that were set were followed to a t.
00:17:00.020 - 00:17:30.490, Speaker B: And that's something that's new, I think right now, in an opaque central database system, all you can do is take the administrator's word for it. Cryptocurrencies show that there are some alternative approaches that could be better than that. So even in a world where it's low, to say nothing of the programmability frameworks like smart contracts, or of the distributed trust like consensus protocols, even if nothing else, I could imagine cbdcs incorporate some of the cryptography components that blockchains use for better auditability.
00:17:33.410 - 00:18:04.760, Speaker A: Yeah, and I appreciate what was mentioned so far, especially in terms of many of the conversations from pure DeFi protocols or anyone that's purely in the blockchain space is just disintermediating the existing financial system. But then if a central bank deploys this technology, there's the added tension of, well, how do we actually keep the stakeholders in the loop in as part of this new future and not disintermediate them away? So that was just an interesting thread that was mentioned there. But rich, did you want to jump in and mention something?
00:18:05.130 - 00:19:00.120, Speaker E: Sure, there's some interesting things to unpack. So the blockchain space sort of disintermediates, and then the banks, or central banks issue cbdcs and then they reintermediate themselves. But the distinction that DLT is not a given. It's more of the paradigm and the assumptions that come along with this new sort of blockchain world that we live in, that the banks are now competing against the private sector, which is offering programmability and greater audit trails and perhaps more responsiveness to transactions. So it's the banks waking up to this new world that there's expectations that they will provide platforms. And so does that turn traditional banking into more of a fintech model, where the banks are the settlement layers or the token minters and normal banks that we're familiar with become fintech platforms? Is that the new world that we're looking at?
00:19:02.490 - 00:19:07.930, Speaker A: Philip, I know you had your hand raised. I don't know if you want to respond to that one or follow up on a previous thread.
00:19:08.750 - 00:20:01.390, Speaker D: Well, I think that's a very interesting thought, like doing a finance platform and basically providing access to money could also be other monies. It doesn't need to be one currency. It can also be foreign currencies and so on. Makes extremely much sense for a bank. And I think the governments around the world, they will always want to have organizations in place such as banks who are doing identification of customers, who are doing AML checks and so on. And I think if you are seeing a world where governments are requiring this, somebody has to do it. And I think this is a task which is basically, as in the past, also loaded onto existing financial intermediaries, even if potentially in the future, you are taking the possibility of providing loans away from banks.
00:20:01.390 - 00:20:53.310, Speaker D: But I would like to add one more point to what Andrew has said. I think one of the very interesting point of blockchain technology, which very often is not really understood, is that you have one ledger and you have multiple assets on top of the ledger. You see this very nicely happening in the ethereum world with Defi. Right? But in case we are talking about money and central banks of the past, then the ECB and the Fed and other central banks around, they are simply operating their silo and they don't really care what's happening with the euro or to the euro or with the US dollar. So they are simply supplying the euro, the dollar, and that's their silo. Right. But if you are doing transactions, security transactions in the capital market, in case you're purchasing a product or a service from an industrial corporation, then you are giving money and you're taking something.
00:20:53.310 - 00:21:46.398, Speaker D: So there is a give and take taking place. And this give and take in the capital market is operated by clearing houses. Right? And once you have a blockchain system, which is token based, and you can have the euro, the dollar securities and other forms of assets on top of one and the same platform, then you can get rid of clearinghouses because the clearinghouse function is then done and executed by smart contracts. That's exactly why DeFi works so extremely well. Because you don't have clearinghouses in forms of organizations doing this, but you simply have smart contracts. And this is an angle in my mind where blockchain technology for cbdcs really, really makes sense. But central banks around the world have to accept that they in the future, not simply operate their silo of money, but they are deploying some kind of currency on one ledger where potentially there could be other assets as well.
00:21:46.398 - 00:22:10.950, Speaker D: Because only if you have a multi asset platform, then you can leverage smart contracts, settlement by smart contracts, and then you can get rid of clearinghouses with all the efficiencies and costs and time and insurances and risks and so on, which you then do not have anymore once clearing houses are not needed anymore. I think that's a very important point, which is very often not fully understood.
00:22:11.290 - 00:22:31.120, Speaker A: Yeah. And that also generally makes me wonder about the importance of how much pre planning and standardization needs to be done to enable interoperability on a global scale versus how much. As with many crypto projects, we'll build first and figure out the details later around some of these things. But Ariel, I know you wanted to jump in.
00:22:31.650 - 00:23:45.662, Speaker C: Well, I just wanted to raise. There are risks of interoperability across currencies, and making currencies very easily tradable on the exact same platform, jointly with, say, goods or services, capital being traded creates risks for independent control of monetary policy. And so we could see resistance to this usage, as phillips describing, of a central bank digital currency, where you're creating a single platform. And there's some academic research already showing this of what do global digital currencies imply for risk of independent monetary policy? I did want to follow up on one of Andrew's points, though, about using the underlying technology features of blockchain in a CBDC, perhaps in a centralized ledger way. And what I thought was fascinating of Andrew's perspective is that CBDC could be used as a way to gain transparency into monetary policy. The flip side perspective is the ability of a central bank to gain more transparency into the use of its money by its retail customers. And that creates an interesting tension of where is the real value in additional information? Is the additional information getting transparency in what the central bank is doing in terms of monetary policy, or gaining information into how users use currency.
00:23:45.662 - 00:24:53.062, Speaker C: And we've seen this in private institutions already. We've seen innovations in the private payment space, say, venmo, trying to gain more information, more data about its users transaction records, thinking that data is valuable. So I wonder if CBDC could also offer some value in terms of generating more data about how customers use a given currency and whether that would improve monetary policy or not. The tension there, of course, is perhaps consumers, retail customers don't want to give all that data away to their government, certainly in the private digital currency space, that's one of the big concerns of why we want cryptocurrencies, perhaps as opposed to central bank currencies. So I think that creates an interesting tension about how do we design central bank digital currencies in a useful way that will actually be adopted privately? I view it as we usually think more information is a good thing in today's world, especially in the US. We're seeing this advanced opening of the macro economy, and we're seeing lots of choke points in different consumer goods. And that's leading to very confusing perspectives on what's happening to overall prices, which is the key objective of the central bank.
00:24:53.062 - 00:25:31.160, Speaker C: One of their two key objectives is to manage overall prices. Would having big data on a CBDC improve that in some meaningful way or not? I think that's the perspective I was trying to question. Perhaps a CBDC gives them more information. Does it come with other costs? And one of the know, there's a very old debate about kind of discretion versus commitment in monetary policy. And Andrew is saying, perhaps we want to tie the central bank's hands, tie them to the mass to pursue their policy, but maybe that's costly because it doesn't let them react in the ways where discretion could be valuable. So I don't have concrete answers, Richard, for you, but I think that's sort of the tension I was trying to get.
00:25:33.450 - 00:26:23.462, Speaker B: So I think there's a very big risk of privacy falling to the. So I want to try to give a perspective here that really comes from, we worked through some of this in that CBDZ design choices paper. And really the insight is just to recognize how open ended the design space is, the scope of what you can do in terms of defining monetary policy and defining your disclosure or privacy rules. Nothing is baked in from scratch. Like with a clean slate design, you aren't constrained really in any way. What you can do with the blockchain technology is quite flexible. I think that a lot of privacy mechanisms that we have, even checks and balances in privacy today aren't the result of design.
00:26:23.462 - 00:27:04.270, Speaker B: They're kind of happen by happenstance or come from the legacy institutional separate silos. You see this not only in finance, but in things like fingerprint databases. Just by having evolved separately. Different government agencies, for example, don't have compatible database formats. And that translates into a sort of firewalling privacy mechanism. Even though it wasn't designed that way on purpose, it just kind of happened that way. And so I think that there's a risk of assuming that privacy will work well in the future in a CBDC, even if it's not designed for it, in the same way that some of today's institutions provide privacy by accident.
00:27:04.270 - 00:27:56.530, Speaker B: And I think that that's not the case at all. I think that if there's not a policy choice that says that privacy is a first class requirement, our human rights require it, our statutes or whatever requirement. And so that must be built in. I think that there's a risk of, by default, all the data will be available for ease of visibility, which has great benefits of efficiency, but also potentially bigger risk of data breach and all of that. So my hope with CBDCs is that they do incorporate privacy as a first class design goal and then select from all of the appropriate technologies from zero knowledge proofs and other cryptography that might be employed to ensure that kind of privacy. But it's not something that should be taken for granted. It's not something that's like built into blockchains, for example.
00:27:56.530 - 00:28:06.230, Speaker B: Quite the opposite. If you use an off the shelf blockchain, it's probably going to involve a replication of all of the data, which is worse for confidentiality or risk of data breaches.
00:28:08.090 - 00:28:57.510, Speaker A: And so I wanted to follow a thread that started getting alluded to in the last couple of comments. And part of that is exploring the question of what problem are CBDs looking to solve? Because also to think about, Andrew, as you're alluding to the important design considerations, and I personally very much agree with the privacy one. And I know maybe if we have time, Philip can maybe give us some color on the EU based projects with the ECB and how they're thinking about some things. But I guess to start off, what do you think is the core problem that something like cbdcs are solving? And on the back of that, what are the important things to keep in mind to make sure missteps aren't taken with a new technology experimented for those use cases?
00:29:01.420 - 00:29:05.036, Speaker E: Aria well, I can speak to what.
00:29:05.058 - 00:29:58.300, Speaker C: People are proposing, and I do think there is a tension that our current payment system does not work perfectly. International remittances are very expensive. There are lots of unbanked individuals and households, say, even in advanced economies like the US. And so I think there's a perspective that somehow CBDC might be a solution to that. There's a slightly more cynical take, which is that there's a role to preserve monetary sovereignty, that if a Facebook creates a digital currency, that could pose a risk to, say, the Federal Reserve and the US's ability to manage prices and employment in the economy. Which of those is the right perspective? I'm less clear about. I do think there's a fundamental kind of challenge in answering your question, Eugene, which is if we believe there's this demand for private digital currencies, that's one thing a central bank can't compete with.
00:29:58.300 - 00:30:32.840, Speaker C: If the goal is I want a currency that's not issued by a central bank, then creating a central bank, digital currency is not going to resolve that problem. The way to resolve that problem is through traditional regulation, basically ban owning these currencies. And so I think we need to get at a core source of what is the demand for digital currency, private or central. And Philip alluded to in the EU case, especially on the business side, why there's demand for new types of central bank digital currency. That is not just, we want something not issued by the central bank. So I think you have to resolve that issue in some way. So I'm curious to hear what Philip thinks.
00:30:34.780 - 00:31:00.256, Speaker D: Yeah, interesting perspective. And I also agree, I would like to add two more points here. I think there is some kind of international contest going on between regions, between countries. And I think there is some kind of contest or competition going on between potential other forms of monies, potentially also including bitcoin. Right. We see this happening in El Salvador. Right.
00:31:00.256 - 00:31:50.704, Speaker D: So there is some kind of competitive pressure. And I think central banks have had the monopoly for issuing money and controlling monetary policy for quite some decades. And this is now being contested, I would say so by Facebook's project Lipo, by chinese central bank, which is really pushing these topics now, since here they're basically launching next year. Apparently then we have potential competition coming from decentral currencies. That's the case of El Salvador with bitcoin. And therefore, I think central banks now find suddenly in a space where they feel maybe they don't know it yet, maybe we all don't know it yet, but there is a feeling out there that in the future, payment might be different. Because at the end of the day, we as citizens would like to somehow keep our purchasing power.
00:31:50.704 - 00:32:33.092, Speaker D: I can store gold, I can store euro, I can store dollars with francs or bitcoin. At the end of the day, I don't really mind, but I would like to be able to purchase my daily food and my rent, and I would like to keep my purchasing power for the future. And in case central banks cannot deliver this in the future, then I think there is, let's call it threat. But it could also be a chance that citizens are turning away from this. And I think we should keep this kind of competition or contest in mind, which is in my mind now starting. And this contest could go on for the next years or maybe even decades. And another point I would like to make is the following.
00:32:33.092 - 00:33:58.820, Speaker D: With cbdcs and now I'm referencing the chinese version, they are now trying to build a solution where you can transfer the money across cities, persons, even across countries within a couple of milliseconds. Right? So given the speed of the transaction is some kind of competitive relevant metric, then suddenly, for example, take an international corporation such as Siemens, maybe Siemens chooses to onboard to the Siemens as a german company chooses to onboard to the chinese system, because then they can transact money around the world within a couple of milliseconds, whereas they cannot do it in Europe, for example. So the competitive pressure of the performance of payment infrastructures can also drive central banks to move towards cbdcs. Another facet here would be programmability. In case one central bank or one currency is providing programmability for financial constructs in capital markets or for devices in the economy of things. In case companies are demanding this programmability, then they would like to have it. And in case, for example, the ECB is not providing this, then they turn towards programmable stablecoins, or towards the programmable US dollar or to whatever currency out there, because they might want to have the programmability.
00:33:58.820 - 00:34:28.348, Speaker D: Because suddenly the programmability becomes one performance criteria where a currency and a central bank has to perform and deliver. And therefore, I think this could be a new area of competition which is going on. And we see this with Facebook's project Lipar or DM. Actually, nothing happened here. Right. They have a technical infrastructure in place. They have done a hell of pr and work white papers.
00:34:28.348 - 00:34:46.890, Speaker D: But at the end of the day, up until now, in the last 2.5 years, not much happened in terms of real action and real solutions. Right. But still, central banks are really kind of upset. They are now really investigating this topic. And that, in my mind, has been driven by Facebook's project 2.5 years ago.
00:34:49.100 - 00:35:01.710, Speaker A: Yeah, it's really interesting to think how those competitive pressures might be getting more groups to be thinking of this than directly them having a problem to solve, that this is the best solution for.
00:35:02.880 - 00:35:37.444, Speaker B: I think I have an answer to that. I want to build on the comment about where programmability fits into cbdcs. I think that the structure of central banks is quite interesting. When I was getting into how cryptocurrencies work and then learned about finance just by some low quality YouTube videos, it was very simplistic. Like, central banks are just central, but there's really a lot more to it. I mean, they actually are kind of closer to dowels the way they're organized. Like there is a central bank organization, but member banks and commercial banks as part of them have a lot of sway.
00:35:37.444 - 00:37:05.110, Speaker B: So it's a lot more nuanced and complicated than that. And what I think this fits into is I think that there is room for a really nice design of what I think would be called a hybrid CBDC, where this is kind of just expanding on this notion of CBDC as a platform. I can imagine that the central bank would essentially act as a platform and set some bare operating rules. Maybe some system invariance, like no programming error for an application, will be able to inflate in an unbounded way the base currency that the central bank is supposed to be managing, but in much the same way, like in an Ethereum blockchain, the rules of not printing more Ethereum are no EVM smart contract you could write can inflate the amount of ethereum currency that is an invariant built and maintained at the platform level. So I could imagine that the central bank would define some base rules like that, possibly for safety, possibly for regulation, possibly for base monetary policy. But then what a programming smart contract interface could do is leave it up to the member banks to be really flexible in terms of what kinds of extra functionality they define, or monetary policy for their own tokens that are backed in some way by the central bank's base layer money. There's really quite a lot of flexibility that's available there.
00:37:05.110 - 00:37:33.230, Speaker B: So I kind of imagine that that may shape out into the role that this plays, where the member banks are responsible for the innovating, and that takes place in a programming layer of the infrastructure. The central bank is responsible for setting safety rules or regulatability rules, or even just fair play rules, and that those would be enforced at the protocol level. That seems to me to be the most. I don't want to say I can guess that's the most likely, but somehow that structure just appeals to me and kind of makes sense.
00:37:34.480 - 00:37:41.810, Speaker A: Yeah. And I know we're getting close to time, so I'm going to let Ariel respond and then just ask a final question before we wrap up.
00:37:44.020 - 00:38:37.270, Speaker C: So I also want to follow up on Richard's question, which is, if we look at experience in monetary policy. So where a digital currency has been extremely successful, say, in an emerging market like Kenya with M Pesa, was. It was a digital currency filling a role where there was a lack of institutions and infrastructure for doing payment services, especially not within a village, but across villages or across the country. There we saw a lot of success. And I think it was natural it came out of a private company, the cell phone providers, because they had established the technology to allow for these transfers. So it didn't quite make sense for the government to take on this new role of creating a whole new infrastructure to allow people to do better payment services. I think it's a very different question when we look at financial inclusion, say, in an advanced economy like the right, we have to really have a deeper understanding of why we have.
00:38:39.320 - 00:38:39.844, Speaker A: A large.
00:38:39.882 - 00:39:37.812, Speaker C: Group of unbanked people in the US, right? If they're unbanked because they don't want any records of themselves, then we have to ask, and this goes back to Andrew's earlier point, right? What are the right design choices of a CBDC? And is that consistent with the US government's willingness to create totally private currency? You hear a lot of this. Treasury Secretary Yellen said this early on in her tenure recently that I don't like cryptocurrency because it seems only used for nefarious purposes. And he's paraphrasing. You sort of ask, well, how do you feel about cash then? Because that seems to be the predominant use of physical currency these days also. So I wonder about this tension. What is the US willing to do in terms of a regulatory anti money laundering, know your customer protocol for a central bank digital currency? And will that provide the privacy and security that the unbanked may want? If that's the reason they're unbanked? So without a real, again, in emerging economies, I understand why folks are unbanked, right. The infrastructure and institutions are not there.
00:39:37.812 - 00:39:51.050, Speaker C: In advanced economies, I think it's much less clear. And so when you ask why is the eurozone or the US creating CBDC for financial inclusion, I think it's a much harder case to make. So I'll stop there to leave us time for our last question.
00:39:52.380 - 00:40:40.330, Speaker A: And I just wanted to follow up with, I mean, just building on a number of statements that all of you have made, given kind of some of the current pressures that are in existence for a variety of reasons. But there's a bit of this race to roll out a CBDC. Some might be, from a certain perspective, potentially vying for establishing the digital future reserve currency. We don't need to speculate on the specific impetus. But given all that that has been mentioned in this panel so far, from a citizens perspective, what should we be most worried about as central banks rush to figure out these new technologies and potentially deploy them? Do you have any specific concerns that are top of mind in your minds as these get rolled out?
00:40:45.040 - 00:41:35.404, Speaker D: Well, I think privacy is the number one. Privacy, privacy, privacy. We should, as citizens, try to force the institutions to keep privacy that might not necessarily be for all kinds of transactions, but at least, like transactions below a specific threshold, should be private the same way as we have paper based money, which is also private. And the second point is, monetary policy can become dangerous because, for example, in Europe, we have negative interest rates, right? So you are putting money on the bank account, and one year later you have less money on the bank account because we have negative interest rate. So negative interest rate can be pushed through much easier with digital infrastructure. And there is also a threat of money, which can expire at some point of time. So you have to spend it.
00:41:35.404 - 00:41:53.410, Speaker D: Otherwise, it's, for whatever reason, gone like a voucher. And there are a couple of design choices where I think we have citizens, but also the political parties and those people who are, let's call it building or driving or governing the systems should really be warned that we should not have technology which would allow this.
00:41:56.180 - 00:41:56.972, Speaker A: Andrew?
00:41:57.116 - 00:42:42.896, Speaker B: Yeah, I agree with the way that you put that. I just think that there will be. My concern is that there may be a tendency to think that because the design includes blockchain in some way that know solves the problem of providing privacy for the individuals and accountability for the people running the system. But that's not a built in guarantee at all. It's entirely possible to design a system that includes blockchain technology, but gets it backward, providing opacity and the ability to delete data or freeze accounts, roughly, unaccountably, for the administrators. And that provides no privacy for the individual users. So you can't just rely on technical destiny to assume that that's going to carry out the right way.
00:42:42.896 - 00:42:52.580, Speaker B: I think it's really important to ensure that the designs that we have from the beginning reflect what we should be asking for in terms of rights to the citizens.
00:42:56.300 - 00:43:01.210, Speaker A: Thank you. And Ariel, any final words before we wrap up?
00:43:01.580 - 00:43:29.952, Speaker C: Not to sound like the nerdy macroeconomist here, but just to point out, everything Philip said academic economists might say are exactly a good thing. In theory, there's nothing wrong with negative nominal interest rates. A zero lower bound is a constraint on monetary policy. Alleviating that constraint is good. The experience in the eurozone has not been great. So I appreciate Philip's perspective. A hot money where you get vouchers that expire can be a very valuable tool, precisely, say, in the midst of a pandemic.
00:43:29.952 - 00:43:59.100, Speaker C: Overall, will that be used correctly by policymakers? We should be worried. So just to be a little concerned that it might enable the policy space in good ways, could it be used in the wrong way? Absolutely. And I agree broadly with the point that we need to deeply understand what is the desirable level of privacy in developing these digital currencies and our consumers, our retail, our citizens, getting the appropriate mix of privacy and security from governments if they're issuing.
00:44:02.080 - 00:44:45.980, Speaker A: Great well, we really just want to thank you all for taking the time to share your thoughts, opinions and work today. For those who want to continue the conversation beyond this single recording, please feel free to check out the smart contract research website, smartcontractresearch.org, where we're going to have a dedicated post to this panel. That post will include more work, links to the work of all of our panelists, how to get in touch, and also some broad information on this topic as a whole. I mean, there's so much we unfortunately did not have a chance to dig deeper on or bring up. So I definitely hope this is the first of many dialogues we'll be having around this topic. And I just want to thank you all again and hope all the listeners have a chance to enjoy the rest of the summit.
00:44:46.480 - 00:44:48.508, Speaker B: It's been a blast. Thanks for having us on.
00:44:48.674 - 00:44:49.324, Speaker C: Thanks a lot.
00:44:49.362 - 00:44:51.050, Speaker E: Thanks for your time, everybody. Really appreciate it.
