00:00:05.680 - 00:01:00.044, Speaker A: Yeah, all good. So hello everyone, I'm Matteo, I work at Pragma. Basically we're working on decentralized oracles, and especially we built the first provable oracle, leveraging validity proofs to basically, basically prove the aggregation of all the data. And so today I'm going to talk to you a little bit about crypto options, basically around the different. So the landscape today of options in crypto and what we can do better to attract more liquidity and to make the user experience better. And so. Yeah, may I ask just before everyone is familiar with options? Yeah, maybe you can raise your hand if you're familiar with options.
00:01:00.044 - 00:01:37.494, Speaker A: It would be easier. Okay, great. So most of the audience is familiar, but anyway, just a quick reminder. Basic options give the right to a buyer, but not the obligation to buy or sell a specific asset at a specific expiry and a specific price. So we call it the strike price. There's a precise expiry, there's a few types of options, but we are mainly going to talk about european options. So you have the right to buy the option just at the expiry.
00:01:37.494 - 00:02:17.514, Speaker A: And that's basically the most liquid options today in crypto. So we are going to quickly just cover the landscape today. And it's composed of mainly three parts. I'm going to start with structured products. So it's mainly defi option vault. Basically it allows users to provide liquidity, and the DeFi option vault protocol is going to sell options to sophisticated actors. And so it was started mainly with ribbon finance.
00:02:17.514 - 00:03:15.562, Speaker A: And there's this whole wave of protocol that took advantage of this. Basically the main problem with those products is that they try all to sell the options at the same time. So there was an article of paradigm, so the liquidity layer that specifically studied the fact that those option protocols are selling all the options on Fridays. Because deribit, which is like the most liquid market for options, most of the liquidity is on expiries on Fridays. And so it's easier for market makers to hedge on Fridays. And so all those options protocols are selling their options on Friday. And so actors of the ecosystem just took advantage of this.
00:03:15.562 - 00:04:04.814, Speaker A: And so you're losing a lot of yield from this fact. So that's why it's not really optimized. Then there's amms, which is basically the same principle as Uniswap, but for options, the main problem is the fact that you can always price options in a more efficient way off chain than on chain. And so you have a lot of inefficiencies by pricing options on chain with amms. And so there's a lot of arbitrage, which leads to the fact that LP's and liquidity providers are losing money because of those inefficiencies. And so pro cores are forced to have higher fees. So that's definitely not like the best way to build on chain options.
00:04:04.814 - 00:04:48.434, Speaker A: The last way is to have a classic order book, but the main problem was with the limitations of blockchains. So it's really hard to have a scalable order book on chain. But we are going to see that we're starting to have the technology that enables us to put order books fully on chain. And so that is going to enable us to have more efficient options. So I'm going to go through how we can price options in an efficient and decentralized way so that we can power those order books which are decentralized. I'm just going to go through quickly the state of options today. So this is the volume.
00:04:48.434 - 00:05:48.478, Speaker A: We're seeing a lot of volume on bitcoin, but Ethereum is quickly gaining volume. There's mainly those two assets, because you need to have a very liquid future market if you want to have options. So that's why most of the liquidity is on bitcoin and Ethereum today in crypto. Let's talk now about the differences in terms of maturities we have between crypto and traditional markets. So we can see that there's a lot more maturities for the SNP, and it's a good thing, actually, because having less maturities just concentrates the liquidity in those maturities. But we are still not at the same point as traditional markets in terms of let's compare now the look forward moneyness. And basically we can see that options are not used in the same way in traditional markets than in crypto.
00:05:48.478 - 00:06:41.084, Speaker A: Basically what you can see here to the left is the log for one money ness for traditional markets for the S and P. And so the difference is not really in the range of look forward money ness. So you have pretty much the same range, but it's biased to the left because in traditional markets, hedge funds use this to hedge and to limit their exposure. So that's why it's biased to the left. But in crypto market, we have seen more volatility. And so people tend to buy options that are more out of the money or way, like in the wings, really out of the money or in the money. And so that's the main difference we have in terms of log for one money ness.
00:06:41.084 - 00:07:30.316, Speaker A: And now I'm going to talk like the main difference and why we need a specific framework to price options in crypto. And it's about basically the spread we have and so the low liquidity we have in crypto today. So basically what we can see is that the tick size for options in crypto is, is like way larger than in traditional markets. And this leads to a spread. So bid a spread that is from like two to 50 times more than in traditional markets. So you have, which is up to 50 times more in crypto markets. So that's the main differences we have.
00:07:30.316 - 00:08:25.674, Speaker A: And so it leads to a lot of problems in how we price options in crypto. So I'm going to go through quickly how to do we price options in crypto and how do we price european options. So we are using, of course, black skulls, and mainly black skulls takes and inputs a few parameters. So the asset price, the strike price, the risk free interest rate, but all those parameters are parameters that are known by the actors. But when you want to price on options, what you don't know and you need to evaluate is the implied volatility. So that's mainly the parameter that we're trying to evaluate in order to price crypto options. And so how to evaluate implied volatility.
00:08:25.674 - 00:09:36.004, Speaker A: Basically what we do is we look at the prices of options in the market and from here we derive the implied volatility from the option price. And so here is a volatility smile. Basically, for one expiry you have different strikes and you can plot basically with all the points, the different implied volatilities depending on the strike at the same expiry. And so once you have all those points, you have to parameterize the, you have to do a parameterization. So there's different type of parameterization, but basically parameterization is you have a curve and you need to minimize the error between the points. And so the implied volatility points and the curve. So you define an error here it's a mean square error, and you have to minimize.
00:09:36.004 - 00:10:21.328, Speaker A: To the left it's like the points of the curve, and to the right it's like the points you observe on the market. And you need to minimize this error in order to have this parameterization. We're going to see that in traditional markets, how you evaluate the efficient price of the market is by using meat prices. But you do that because you have spreads that are really tight. But as I said before, spreads are way larger, so up to 50 times larger in crypto. And so we need to find a way to compute the efficient price in order to make the parameterization. So here is an example of a parameterization.
00:10:21.328 - 00:11:44.684, Speaker A: So you have observed volatilities, and you try to have the curve fitting those different points that you observe in the market so that you can after that use it for different strikes at the same expiry. Now let's take a look at how we can remove and how we can compute the efficient price in crypto markets. And so the first thing to know is that there's a difference when you try to evaluate those efficient price if you're out of the money or in the money. And basically if you're in the money, as you can see, like for instance on the left, the sensitivity is way larger when you're in the money than when you're out of the money. And so this introduces basically noise when you're in the money. And so what we need to do is remove all the prices that are in the money in order to have something really robust. So the first step to compute efficient implied volatilities is to remove all the in the money options and prices.
00:11:44.684 - 00:13:01.788, Speaker A: The second step, and as you may see here, so we have in red plots. So this is a simulation to try to see the bias there is between when we use the mid price and when we use the real price of the real implied volatility. And we can see that basically when you use mid price, we have an underestimation of the implied volatility, especially in the wings. And so how to remove this problem? So there's mainly a big contribution that was made by Kaiko, which introduced two main techniques to remove the noise we might have in the wings. The first one is to introduce an anchor price, which is basically derived from the implied volatility we have and which removes the bias we have in the wings. So in blue you have the mid prices and in yellow you have the anchor price. And you can see that especially in the wings.
00:13:01.788 - 00:14:07.754, Speaker A: We removed all the underestimation we had. And there's also beta augmentation, which is a data augmentation techniques. Basically, there's also, because the market is not liquid, you have in the wings a lot of problems because sometimes you use, you miss some ask or bid prices. And so you can't construct a mid price. And so you can use better augmentation to construct the spread and to have the data that is missing. So that's the main contributions here. And that's basically how we compute from market data all the volatility smiles and all the volatility points so now that we have all those algorithms, what we need to do is to provide, basically to provide, here we go.
00:14:07.754 - 00:15:23.122, Speaker A: To provide the different DeFi protocols with this data. But as you might have seen, there's problems because the algorithm, it's like heavily, there's a lot of computation that you just cannot do on chain. And also there's many one data sources right now, which is derribit, because like 80% of the market is on derribit. And so you need to diversify the data sources if you want to have something that is really decentralized for DeFi. And so how do we, from this centralized computation and decentralized implied volatilities, how do we provide those feeds to DeFi protocols? And so our answer is to like, have multiple data sources. So we source from different exchanges, but also we have different market makers that are providing their own proprietary data so that we have something really resilient in terms of data. And then how to have this trustless computation, because you want to make sure that all the computation that happens on raw data is trustless.
00:15:23.122 - 00:16:17.954, Speaker A: And so we now have wonderful technologies with validity proofs and zero knowledge proofs. And basically you can leverage our oracle, which is built on Stocknet, to have this trustless computation and to make sure that those algorithms are not introducing any more trust assumptions. So that's basically how to efficiently compute and price options, and that's our answer to how we can make DeFi more efficient for the option market. So if you have any questions, feel free to ask. You'll have a lot more documentation on the website, Twitter and everything, but happy to take questions if you have right now.
00:16:22.894 - 00:16:46.230, Speaker B: Hello. On one of the slides, you showed that in 2025 onwards there'll be no bitcoin options, won't have expiry. Is that like, so there won't be any expiries for bitcoin options? Is that like maybe going down the route of perpetual options with like the likes of panoptic or what was that slide kind of implying?
00:16:46.382 - 00:17:45.693, Speaker A: So, yeah, the fact is, in crypto we don't have a lot of liquidity for options. And so what exchanges did is they just removed a lot of expiries. So you only have like, I think, twelve expiries because you need to concentrate liquidity on those expiries. And the market just don't want to buy options for 2025 because like the options that just expire, even in 2024, there's a lot of volatility. And so just the market participants don't have appetite for options that end later. But that's for BTC, for ETH, it's just like, that was like the options and expiries you had on derribit. But yeah, that just translates that the market just don't have appetite for expiries that are in 2025.
00:17:55.094 - 00:18:35.706, Speaker C: I have a couple of questions. The first is, you know, you mentioned Darabit has 80% market share, so the approach is to take other market makers data, et cetera, to make, to aggregate data. But isn't there, I mean, possibility, unless that price is tradable, market makers can just provide wrong data. Right or incorrect data? That's my first question. And then the second question, is this protocol actually, is this a protocol that's actually live today, providing prices? And if so, can you talk a little bit about the cost? Is that borne by you guys or people who consume the prices and stuff like that? Thank you.
00:18:35.730 - 00:18:49.664, Speaker A: Sure. Yeah. So on the first question. Yeah, of course. So there's two parts. First, derivate can manipulate data because like 80% of the market is there. And so we wait by volume.
00:18:49.664 - 00:19:19.794, Speaker A: And so most of the implied volatility comes from derivit, because all the market is there. So they can also maybe manipulate the price. But for the market makers, we have contracts with them. So for now, it's a trusted service. But at some point, the goal is to have some kind of proof of stake. Basically, market makers have value at stakeholders. We compute a final parameterization and then we slash based on the final parameterization.
00:19:19.794 - 00:19:44.774, Speaker A: So that's the goal. But for now, it's permissioned, and so the product is not live yet. So we are working with options protocol right now to integrate. But in terms of timeline, most of the order books are coming later this summer and end of the year. So that's the target.
00:19:51.594 - 00:20:29.726, Speaker B: Sorry, just kind of related to that. So like we saw with futures, futures used to have expiries before kind of bitmex came out with a perpetual innovation, you could say. And then now on chain options have faced the problem of kind of relying on, like you said, there's lots of expiries, and it's hard to provide liquidity for all of them. Do you think on chain options will go down the route of being perpetual as well? So not have an expiry, but pay a constant funding rate similar to how futures work? You showed on the slide there was like panoptic there. So they're kind of going down that route. I'm not sure if you've maybe looked.
00:20:29.750 - 00:20:51.894, Speaker A: Into them, to be honest, I don't have an answer. Like. Yeah, like right now I don't have an answer. I'm sorry, but that's an interesting question. No problem. Okay. Yeah.
00:20:51.894 - 00:20:53.154, Speaker A: Thanks, everyone.
