00:00:00.570 - 00:00:36.118, Speaker A: Thanks for having me here, Grace. And thanks for guys listening to me drone on about mev. This is really going to be a talk about how the sausage is made, how blocks are made. So we all know that every 12 seconds there's a new block, but what actually goes into it and how do we construct it. So the first thing is blocks don't automatically just build themselves. The transactions don't just fall down a gravity well and make their way into a well ordered block. They have to be built by somebody, but validators don't want to do it.
00:00:36.118 - 00:00:54.202, Speaker A: Why? Because they're not good at it. They're not good at building blocks. They're not good at extracting value. If you think about this system, building a block is actually pretty valuable. You get to put whichever transactions you want first, you get to put transactions last, you get to include transactions. You get to keep them out. That's a lot of power.
00:00:54.202 - 00:01:43.520, Speaker A: If you went to somebody on the street and you said, hey, would you like to order the New York Stock Exchange for 12 seconds, which is the Ethereum block time? They might be like, yes. And then they would realize that they don't really know enough to actually use that. So it's a really powerful thing, but you really have to have some knowledge and some other resources in order to do that well. So if you continue with this thought experiment, the guy that you just came up to and said, would you like to order the New York Stock Exchange? Says yes. And then he goes around and sells it to Citadel, and Citadel makes a lot of money off it. So that's exactly what happens on chain. Right now we have an auction called the PBS Auction, or Mev Boost, which is just this first price English auction that happens every 12 seconds in 95% of blocks on Ethereum, which auctions off the right to build it.
00:01:43.520 - 00:02:41.514, Speaker A: But the problem is that within 12 seconds, which is actually a relatively long time in terms of finance, prices can move a lot. So here I have a real time GIF of prices for a single block, and on the right you can see bids coming in. And as you can see, the price moves about $40, which is almost over 1%. And what that does is now the right to build a block becomes super valuable because the first few slots in the block are going to be able to capture arbitrage between Uniswap and the other on chain exchanges and finance, so they can make a lot of money if they win the block. And of course, what do you know? We look at the block and the first 36 transactions of the block are arbitrage transactions. This is not uncommon. These bots are very active.
00:02:41.514 - 00:03:16.010, Speaker A: They trade in a lot of blocks, and they're much more likely to trade when the blocks are more volatile. So let's just take a look at the first transaction, the bot that was also the party that won this block, they placed their own bots transaction first. And you can see they traded in massive size, $4.3 million worth of ETH bought. So if we go back to the slide, you can remember that the price went up. So it makes sense to buy ETH at a $40 discount, basically. So they made quite a bit of money on this trade.
00:03:16.010 - 00:03:51.960, Speaker A: And you can see, based on their builder payment, they paid 15 ETH to the builder. But that's kind of a transfer to themselves. So one of the things we're going to be interested in in this talk is, does that make sense as the actual value that they made from that transaction? And I will argue that that's a pretty reasonable value. And so they paid themselves about 15 ETH, which means this was worth about 15 ETH basically. And they paid about 16 ETH for the block. So this was just the first of 36 transactions. So you can imagine they're making quite a bit of money here.
00:03:51.960 - 00:05:00.186, Speaker A: But there's another person who also likes to make a lot of money and that's the proposer. Going back to our example of the guy on the street who's selling it, he's selling it to the highest bidder. And so Citadel might be biding on the right to order the New York Stock Exchange and Jump might be biding on the right to order the New York Stock Exchange. And so they are competing against each other and driving all these rents to the proposer, who really does control the ordering, but it's just auctioning it off to the highest bidder. And the question is whether the proposer really is getting the lion's share of the profits or whether this auction is not really competitive enough to drive those profits to the proposer. So there was another piece that kind of inspired me to work on this by Frontier Research that tried to answer this question and they tried to ask what is the share of these sext profits that actually go to the proposer? So the number that they came up with was 33% to 77%, which as far as I'm concerned, they might have said 2% to 99% because that's a way too high confidence interval for me as a researcher. But I kind of wanted to understand what they were doing, so I went and asked them.
00:05:00.186 - 00:06:04.180, Speaker A: It turns out this was some joint work between Frontier Research and Jump. And the Jump researchers, who are not the Jump traders, did this work, as far as I can tell. And what they did is they looked at a bunch of trades, they marked them out, so they tried to figure out how profitable they were and then they just, regardless of size, they just kind of ordered them by what profit proportion went to the proposer and then they computed the interquartile range. So what you're looking at is the 25th percentile to the 75th percentile of how much profit the proposer made. But this is kind of unsatisfactory to me in a number of ways because IQR is like the wrong thing to do because what we're really concerned about is what the average profit or what the total share of the pie that the proposers are getting. It might be vastly different than what the IQR looks like. Really we want to be dealing with averages and expectations here.
00:06:04.180 - 00:06:44.090, Speaker A: The other thing is profit share may systematically vary depending on size. You might expect larger transactions to be more profit or smaller transactions to be more profit. It's actually going to be larger. The larger the move is, the less profit the proposer is going to take because there's going to be less competition. You might expect it to be different depending on the pair, right? So you really have to go pair by pair. There's going to be a lot more competition on ETH USDC pair where everybody can trade, everybody can hedge on binance than there is going to be on, I don't know, Shiba USDC or something like that. So competition is going to depend on the pair, profit is going to depend on the pair.
00:06:44.090 - 00:07:33.354, Speaker A: And finally the profit share may be different depending on whether the searcher is integrated with their own builder, meaning they're submitting the bids to the PBS auction themselves or whether they're independent, which means that they have to submit their transactions to another builder who's not them. And the independent searchers are going to be worse off. So what did we do? We said let's just do a quick check on that. Let's do our own version of this. So we gathered all the trades, we gathered all the Markouts, which are the prices. The Markouts are basically prices, 5 seconds, 10 seconds, 30 seconds a minute afterwards. And we decided to calculate trade profit based on those Markouts and then subtract the gas costs and build arrives which we're going to call the share that the proposer and the network gets.
00:07:33.354 - 00:08:19.450, Speaker A: And so we did a quick sanity check. Remember that this was the Jump researchers who did this. So we said let's go take a look at the Jump trading wallet that we have tagged on chain and unsurprisingly to me at least the number falls within their range. But of course their range was 37% to 77%. But I think the actual number as you can see based on this, is more like the 77% than the 37% as you can see. So this was kind of good for me to see because this is what my priors were basically on how profitable they were. And I think just from talking to people it seemed like this was quite well known that it was about 80%, about 75%.
00:08:19.450 - 00:08:59.334, Speaker A: So then we just said, okay, well it may be different depending on who is the trader because Jump is like pretty good trader. So we just went to another random address that does a lot of this sex decks, Arbitrage. And as you can see, they actually had a lower portion. It depends on the markout, but they had a lower portion that they kept for themselves and the Proposer actually made a higher portion on theirs. So both of these that I showed you so far are from independent searchers. So remember I said it could differ depending on whether you're independent or not. So we're going to try and take a look at that.
00:08:59.334 - 00:09:29.554, Speaker A: But first, let me say some caveats about what we did. I said it depends on pair. This is only the ETH USDC five bit pair, which is the most competitive pair. So you might expect on other pairs that the competitiveness would be lower and the Proposer profits would be lower. So it's a shorter time frame. We're going to publish a paper soon and you can see a longer time frame and more robust analysis with more addresses. And they're independent searchers, like I said.
00:09:29.554 - 00:10:32.626, Speaker A: So the question is, does this extend to the integrated builders? So what is different about integrated builders? Integrated builders are they are bidders. They're builders in the PBS auction and they're searchers as well. So integrated builders, they take their profit in the PBS auction whereas a non integrated or neutral searcher would take their profit when they submit the bundle to the builder. So they have to decide their profit share at the end, which gives them an advantage. Whereas the non integrated searchers can do that, they have to do that earlier. So the integrated builders are often going to bid truthfully in the first stage. Remember the integrated builder I showed you at the start who had bid had paid themselves 15 E in the bundle share stage, okay? And so that means we need to go block by block, basically, and we need to score the entire block, mark out the entire block, add up all the other stuff that went on in the block.
00:10:32.626 - 00:11:18.198, Speaker A: And then whereas before we could go transaction by transaction, we have to do a whole block at a time. So this is going to be trickier. Super high volatility blocks are even more tricky because there's so many trades and the more the price moves, the more you can trade, right? Because now that the price has moved $40, I can trade a lot more than if the price only moved $10 profitably. And that's just based on slippage on the AMM, right? So when the price moves a lot, you need a huge amount of funds to compete. If you don't have enough, you can't take the size of trade that you need to compete. And some searchers don't have enough. So let's take a look at that.
00:11:18.198 - 00:11:58.740, Speaker A: Here's a few addresses, hopefully everybody can see. But on the left I have the addresses of some of the integrated searchers. The one on top is the holdings of the searcher that did the block that I just showed you at the start of the talk, the one on the bottom is another one. So you can see 50 million, almost 20 million. And then on the right is one of the addresses that I showed you that was not integrated. And you can see $2 million. But if I went back to the first slide or the first few slides, you would see that the trade size, even on the first trade alone, was $4 million.
00:11:58.740 - 00:12:39.280, Speaker A: So of course, the guy on the right is never going to be able to compete, or I guess it's your left or my left up here. But the guy who has $2 million can never take a $4 million trade on chain when he doesn't have the money. So that's one of the other tricky things here. And a final thing I want to talk about here is that there's unobserved costs here that we don't see. And so we can say, hey, these guys are making 20%, they're making a lot of money. They're making $50,000 every two weeks or something like that, which is quite a bit of money for one pair. But we're not looking at their capital opportunity cost.
00:12:39.280 - 00:13:25.774, Speaker A: So if you're like putting $50 million on chain and parking it there and not putting it in any yield generating thing, your opportunity cost is the risk free rate of capital. So you have like 50 million times whatever the risk free rate is. Now $2.5 million a year that we don't observe necessarily. Another thing that we really don't observe is trader attention or trader salaries or trader costs, right? So these traders like to get paid, right? A lot of them are kind of X HFT in TradFi. They know what they're doing. They have a lot of other opportunities, and so they're demanding a lot of money.
00:13:25.774 - 00:14:07.626, Speaker A: So we definitely don't observe that either. And that eats into their profit margin as well. And the final thing is risk and hedging costs. And you might think these are different, but they're actually the same thing because you either take on the risk or you pay to hedge the risk away. And these are quite large, so I'm going to go back to all the way to this thing. So they made this trade, and if you go and look at the depth on Binance, there's no way they could possibly be hedging this in real time, or if they did, they would be taking a huge haircut. So these guys are just kind of making a huge directional trade, hoping it goes their way.
00:14:07.626 - 00:15:04.090, Speaker A: They have some models that show it does more often than not, but they're making a huge trade and they're hanging a lot of money on the table. Okay? So we have to be careful when we talk about this. When we look on chain, it looks like they're making a lot of money, but we have to make sure that we're looking at the hidden costs and making sure that we understand that these guys are not getting risk free trading on the centralized exchange. So we're going to have a new paper coming out that goes into more detail on the integrated builder side. Thank you all for listening. Go check out some full research on this question and who's winning these blocks, who these guys are, what they're doing at our website mechanism.org. And also follow us on Twitter at specialmech, where we tweet out a bunch of gifs and informational content that you can kind of see the dark forest illuminated.
