00:00:00.200 - 00:00:28.006, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Delegway refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Cisano, and today's the 23 May 2022. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So I'm sure you've all seen this already, but I broke the trend, or I guess my rule of not having guests on the Daily Grey YouTube channel. I spoke with Coby and everyone knows who Coby is. I don't think I need to explain who he is, but we had a pretty great conversation. For those of you who watched it already, you don't really need me to tell you that.
00:00:28.006 - 00:01:02.236, Speaker A: And this new series is called the Deli Gwei drive thru. I came up with that name in the shower. Actually, I was kind of brainstorming the name in the Discord channel of what I would call these series, and drive thru came to me. I'm sure it's self explanatory, but I guess, like, what I wanted to just quickly say was, I don't think, you know, Kobe will be the last person I have on. You know, I'm not going to do guest kind of like episodes like what you see on bankless or anything like that, where it's got like a structured agenda. It's kind of like interviewing someone, maybe because they've got like a product release coming out soon or something like that. For me, I will only be doing the guest episodes where I feel like I can have a really interesting unscripted conversation with someone.
00:01:02.236 - 00:01:26.658, Speaker A: Otherwise, I don't really feel the need to do it or see the point in doing it. I want it to be kind of like insightful and entertaining as well for you guys. So I don't know who I'm going to have on next. I think I mentioned maybe someone like Hal Press I would love to have on because we had a call the other day and we vibe really well and it would just be an interesting conversation, I think. But I don't want to. I don't think it's going to be like, kind of like a regular reoccurring thing. It's like, it's not going to be like a once a week thing.
00:01:26.658 - 00:01:50.954, Speaker A: It's just going to be whenever I feel like I can have a good conversation with someone. So, yeah, that's kind of like what the guest episodes are going to be. So I, as I said, like, still kind of like, um, you know, I guess maybe not sticking to my rule of not having guests on, but like more. More. So I had that rule because I just didn't want it to turn into kind of like I didn't want the deli gray to just basically become a bankless is because we already have bankless. You don't, you know, and then there's other platform where they're kind of like media too, but we don't need another one of those. Right.
00:01:50.954 - 00:02:31.954, Speaker A: So. And also on that front, I'm actually going to be bringing back the AMA's. Um, I think from now on, instead of doing a live AMA, I'm just going to kind of like gather the questions in the Discord channel and then I'm going to pre record it and upload it to YouTube as normal. Doing the live AMA's was quite tiring, especially because I was doing them and like late at night, like 11:00 my, my time and they'd usually go for 2 hours and I wouldn't really be able to take like a break in in between kind of like those, those couple of hours there. So yeah, I'll still answer the questions and everything and still bring back the AMA series, but I want to do it pre recorded now instead of live. And I live didn't really add anything because no, many people actually ask questions live. They more so kind of like just listened in and they had their own questions that they had asked in the discord channel itself.
00:02:31.954 - 00:02:48.334, Speaker A: So if you have questions, go ask them there. I think I'm going to do one on this Saturday or I'll just record one with the questions that are already in there. So if you do have questions you would like to ask, please put them in there and you get there. It'll get answered on Saturday. But that's it on. On the daily gray updates. I guess I'm going to move on to the rest of the updates that we saw over the weekend.
00:02:48.334 - 00:03:13.818, Speaker A: Alright, so you guys know about the protocol guild? I've talked about it a bunch on the refuel before. Well, over the weekend. 2 million light. Oh, 2 million LDO tokens has been contributed to the protocol protocol guild pilots from the Lido. Kind of like treasury here, which is really awesome to see now at current dollar amount. If I check the LDO price here just to get the current worth of these tokens. 1.28.
00:03:13.818 - 00:03:24.500, Speaker A: So you know it's about two point something million. 1.28 times two. I'm going to do quick math here for you. $2.56 million. Kind of like contributed I think, you know.
00:03:24.500 - 00:03:33.464, Speaker A: Yeah, that is. Yeah, it's in. It's an LDO token. So it was worth 2.7. Now it's 2.56 because the price went down a bit, I guess contributed to the protocol guild. So really awesome to see this.
00:03:33.464 - 00:04:14.900, Speaker A: This is the first, but won't be the last, that's for sure. That's going into the protocol guild. And you guys know what? The protocol guild is basically the initiative to fund more public goods within Ethereum, led by Trent van EPs and Tim Bicar. So very awesome to see that Lido has contributed this, especially because lighter is such a major player in Ethereum right now. And I've given my thoughts on Lido in the past about how I don't think it's kind of like constructive for us as an ecosystem to be attacking Lido just because they're a big part of the Ethereum staking ecosystem and you know, they're giving back to Ethereum with this, which is really cool. But on top of that, kind of like, let's just build better tools, you know, if we don't want Lido to be, you know, as dominant as they are, we have to build better tools. And I know there's a few kind of like moving parts happening with rocket pool.
00:04:14.900 - 00:04:37.556, Speaker A: They're kind of like discussing lowering that minimum ETH requirement to get more people. Kind of like spinning up nodes and things like that. And, and yeah, there's a lot of stuff happening behind the scenes there. I think today or the past few days they're voting on doing ads in bankless as well. Just like I've said before that I thought that rocket pool should be doing more marketing. Well, I think they're going to be doing that as well, which is, which is awesome to see, too. So, yeah, anyway, great to see lighter contribute here.
00:04:37.556 - 00:05:06.972, Speaker A: Hopefully we see some other kind of like protocols follow suit. All right, so a massive announcement just kind of like announced a couple of hours ago from GameStop that they now have a wallet. So if you go to wallet dot GameStop.com, you can see here that it is running on Ethereum layer one and is also supports looping L2, which is obviously, you know, in line with their kind of like integrations with loopring in the past. I'm sure they're going to be supporting immutable x as well in the near future. So you can store your crypto and NFTs using this wallet. You can download it here.
00:05:06.972 - 00:05:36.140, Speaker A: I believe it's a kind of like extension wallet and a kind of like mobile wallet, as you can see from the images here. I haven't downloaded it yet because I have a feeling it's going to conflict with metamask, so maybe I'll just download it on my phone. But this is self custodial. This is not a custodial wallet. So this is very, very, you know, awesome to be self custodial. It allows you to interact with, you know, all your favorite dapps on Ethereum, of course, both on layer one and loopering L2. And it's just really awesome to see such a big company make such a push into crypto.
00:05:36.140 - 00:06:02.718, Speaker A: Right? Like releasing their own wallet is awesome. And I've said before that I think the wallet opportunity is still huge, and I think it's very, very underexplored. Like, there was some talk over the last couple days about metamask and their swap feature, and I've mentioned before, the metamask swap feature, they take a, .8 around a 0.8% fee on every swap. They're printing cash from this guys, like, absolutely printing cash and making a shit ton of revenue off really just matching. They're not even kind of like doing the matching right there.
00:06:02.718 - 00:06:36.316, Speaker A: They're kind of like they've got a service that looks at the other decentralized exchanges and decentralized exchange aggregators, returns the best price for the user and then slaps a 0.8% fee on top of it. Now, I've discussed before how I think that that fee kind of like is not really, it's, I mean, it's not really that meaningful, right? Because if you're buying any crypto token, like, it's going to swing either way, more than 0.8% every single day. So it's kind of like meaningless for the end user. Like, I mean, and people are obviously farming the, to the, you know, the possible metamask token as well. But I think that the other wallets are seeing this and I'm like, okay, wow, you know, we need to own the front door.
00:06:36.316 - 00:07:07.602, Speaker A: And that's why Coinbase has a wallet and stuff like that as well, because you want to own the front door. You want to own where people kind of like, you know, store their crypto, even if it's a self custodial way. Because then you can make fees on things like swaps and like, you know, defi interactions, and then you can kind of like have your brand as well attached to it and kind of like do on sales from there. So it makes total sense to me that GameStop would do this. I think this is just the start of kind of like these big companies releasing these sorts of things. I think GameStop's obviously going to put more focus on the NFT integrations than the DeFi integrations just because of what they are. But I think that's, that's okay.
00:07:07.602 - 00:07:53.258, Speaker A: Like the thing is, is that just because something focuses on one thing or another doesn't mean you can't actually use it for whatever you want to use it for. If it's a proper soft custodial Ethereum wallet, you can use it for literally anything, like, and just because they have native integration with loop ring doesn't mean you couldn't potentially onboard to something else. Another layer too, if it has a Dapp browser inbuilt, right. You can do basically anything. So I think from that perspective, like a wallet, I mean there's not going to be that many like super successful wallets in the world, but there's going to be a handful of them that really, really, you know, do everything and people will kind of like just pick and choose what they like based on I guess, brand and kind of like network effect and kind of like, you know, maybe they just started with it and they kind of like locked in, sort of like how there's a lot of lock in in kind of like different platforms. Right. Like when you use something, you're used to using it.
00:07:53.258 - 00:08:42.730, Speaker A: You don't, you know, switching costs may be low, but it's kind of like, you know, the, this, for you to switch would take something kind of like to be much better on the other side. Right. So I can't wait to see how the wallet ecosystem shapes up. Obviously there's a bunch of crypto native wallets, you know, not just metamask, there's Argent Rainbow, a few others that I've mentioned in the past. The battle is on. The battle is on for the front door of crypto in the kind of like, I guess on chain ecosystem, obviously the off chain ecosystem, the front doors, centralized exchanges, which there's already plenty of those, right? I don't think we need any more centralized exchanges at this point, except I think what's going to happen is that we probably won't get any more like crypto native centralized exchanges spinning up. It'll be more the traditional kind of like exchanges getting involved with crypto or bank some brokerages and institutions kind of like doing crypto support rather than them setting up their own centralized exchange or something like that.
00:08:42.730 - 00:09:20.346, Speaker A: But cool to see this from GameStop. Definitely go give it a download and play around with it if you, if you'd like to. So Etherscan has released, I missed this last week actually, this happened a few days ago, has released a Testnet explorer for Sepolia, which is Ethereum's new Testnet. So this is one of the testnets that will actually be running through the merge transition. So we obviously have Ropsten on June 8, and then after that, I don't. There hasn't been a decision on what Testnet will run through the merge, but there'll be a second one run through could be super polio or girly and then the third one will be the one that didn't run through on the second there. And yeah, so polio is just basically replacing the rinkeby Testnet, which I believe is getting deprecated for a bunch of different reasons.
00:09:20.346 - 00:09:57.388, Speaker A: And there is now a block explorer from Etherscan for this, which is really, really cool. So I can't wait. Honestly, guys, like, speaking of test nets, like, I am just, ah, man, I'm so excited for June 8. Like, I'm so excited for ops them to go through this merge transition because that's when we'll know with like 99% certainty when the merge is going to happen. Like right now, I think it's like a 90% chance of August. And look, I put a really high percent chance on that and it could still obviously push to September. But I think that if Robston goes really well, if there are no major client bugs or any kind of like bugs that the Debs feel like they need to fix and they need to get done and that if it happened on main, that would be a big deal.
00:09:57.388 - 00:10:13.446, Speaker A: Right. Then I think that August becomes like a 99% chance from there and I leave that, you know, 1% obviously for kind of like just because anything can happen. But like, yeah, I believe that becomes that. So I'm just like, I'm. Yeah, I'm just like waiting like a, you know, a cute. Waiting for Christmas. Right.
00:10:13.446 - 00:10:34.846, Speaker A: Just waiting for this kind of like date to come around so we can see this run through. There was shadow, the shutter, the fifth shadow fork last week that I spoke about. I think there's gonna be a 6th one. I heard something about it, but I haven't really kept up with it. And the shadow folks are going through just fine. So I think just based on the shadow folks, which are actually done on main net on the testnet, that the Rops and testnet should go through just fine. So very, very excited for that.
00:10:34.846 - 00:11:42.196, Speaker A: But anyway, a little bit off topic there, but if you want to check out the sepolia Explorer, you can go to Sepolia, etherscan, IO alright, so Opensea did something very interesting over the weekend that I think was unexpected by a lot of people. They introduced something called C port, which they're calling a brand new web3 marketplace protocol for safely and efficiently buying and selling nfts. So this is basically their answer to looks rare, I think, or their answer to kind of people saying, hey, you know, Opensea is like totally centralized, it should be a protocol, it should be community governed, blah, blah, blah. So given that they're releasing something like this, which they're actually calling the C port protocol, which is open source and going to be built out in the open there, there's probably going to be something of a token, I would assume, right, because, and no, people talk about this. It was weird. I'm speculating here, but Opensea itself will probably go the IPo route, right, where it's kind of like the IPO. They're a traditional company, they have opensea or well and good, but then you're gonna have C port, which is kind of like their decentralized open source public protocol, which will probably have a token attached to it.
00:11:42.196 - 00:12:10.660, Speaker A: Right. So they can have the best of both worlds. And the way this would work in terms of like making sense of it, Opensea would be one of the vendors, so to speak, on, on their marketplace as well. Right, on Seaport. Because people will trust opensea. They'll kind of like trust them as kind of like, like to kind of like route the orders through, you know, c port probably be like a, kind of like a zero x thing where it kind of like just like routes orders to different marketplaces, like sits on top or something like that. And you could have opensea sitting in the background.
00:12:10.660 - 00:12:38.138, Speaker A: So, yeah, I mean, there's, there's a bunch of different ways that this can go through. But I'm really, really surprised I didn't see more people talking about this because immediately when I saw that they're building a protocol, I immediately thought of a token. And everyone had been speculating about Opensea having a token for a long time. Um, and you know, they haven't really spoken about it when it comes to this, so really, really weird. But you know, there was a few comments that I thought were pretty interesting. Some people saying that they didn't understand what it would kind of like, uh, what, what this is going to be. Right.
00:12:38.138 - 00:13:20.224, Speaker A: I think this is because a lot of the Opensea users are basically people who I guess are newer to crypto and don't understand what protocols are, don't understand how that kind of like all works together. They just kind of, like, go on open. See, they buy and sell nfts and blah, blah, blah. Right? But I. I'm looking below the surface here, I'm definitely seeing something more here from Open C, and they seem to be signaling something more here. So, I mean, whether they do a token or not, like, I still think seaport is really cool just because of the fact that they're actually building a protocol, not just staying at, like, the 100% centralized kind of website that they are with Opensea. They're actually trying to build an open source, decentralized, permissionless kind of protocol that is a challenger, I guess, to something like, looks rare, which is taking a bit of market share away from OpenSea.
00:13:20.224 - 00:13:50.720, Speaker A: But, yeah, I mean, Opensea just has a such a strong moat and network effect and brand. I know people have different feelings towards Opensea and kind of, like, especially around their moderation, but guys, like, opensea is a totally centralized platform, right? And their moderation is usually done to prevent scams or prevent, like, you know, illegal content or anything like that. Right. But if you want, like, a truly open source protocol, well, c port might be, you know, in decentralized protocol, c port might be the one for you. Right? Like, maybe you can use. Looks rare as well. Like, don't get me wrong, but c port is, I think, opensea's answer to this.
00:13:50.720 - 00:14:09.220, Speaker A: So I'm going to keep a close eye on this. Even though you guys know I'm not, like, big into nfts, I just still think. I thought it was very weird that people kind of, like, weren't really talking about this over the weekend. Maybe it just went under the radar. There wasn't anything else happening. It's not like we had another terror blow up over the weekend, right? The weekend was actually quite slow. And the reason I know it was slow is because I had time to listen to podcasts.
00:14:09.220 - 00:14:49.852, Speaker A: I'm usually, like, on Twitter, like, oh, God, what's going on? So, yeah, I'm not sure what people didn't pay attention to this, but anyway, definitely go check this out for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description. All right, so superfuse highlighted Project Sunshine again over the weekend, which is adding new metrics to better visualize decentralized on the Ethereum beacon chain. So this is a project that I've spoken about before on the refuel, but basically they're adding more metrics all the time here. They've added. I think last time I looked at it, they didn't have metrics around these other kind of like metrics that are here. So you can see here they have metrics around, you know, client diversity on the consensus and execution layers, number of hosted, validated market share, non hosted, validated market share, geolocation diversity.
00:14:49.852 - 00:15:13.330, Speaker A: So obviously, where are kind of like the validators in the world and the ex, and the execution layer, clients in the world, staking pool diversity, you know, staking entity diversity, all that sorts of stuff. And, and as superfizz says, yeah, don't be disheartened by the current metrics. Seeing a path forward is valuable for change. Watch us get stronger. So some of these metrics obviously look bad, but at the end of the day, so did the client diversity on the consensus layer. Right. It looked, it looked very bad.
00:15:13.330 - 00:15:40.672, Speaker A: Kind of like it was in the red danger zone at like what, 67% or something like that. And I think maybe this is old data, because, um, we're now at like 56 or 57%, not 61%. So, yeah, I mean, just because these things are kind of like red, don't, don't be disheartened by that. It'll get better over time. We'll improve those over time. But just wanted to kind of highlight this from super fears. And there's also another tweet, just a reminder here that there is still a little bit of time left to donate to all of these staking related projects on QF ETH staker cc.
00:15:40.672 - 00:16:30.016, Speaker A: So just wanted to remind you guys that that's still ongoing, and it's similar to a git coin grants matching round where your donations will be matched. So definitely go check that one out. All right, so m stable, detailed, or shared? Kind of like a primer on ERC 4626 today. Not today, I guess like a few days ago here, which is basically the vault standard. So the yield kind of like vault standard, which I believe I have talked about before, but this is basically, as I described here, helping to clean up the mess in yield bearing tokens. So basically creating a standard for yield bearing tokens here. And the reason I wanted to highlight it is not so much kind of like the standard itself, because I've talked about it before, but more so around kind of like DeFi is still innovating, guys, like, and it's innovating in small but impactful ways and maybe boring ways to some people because I know that we had the whole DeFi 2.0
00:16:30.016 - 00:16:46.116, Speaker A: thing. And this is something that I spoke about on the kind of like video I did with Kobe. DeFi 2.0, for the most part, was just Ponzi's right. There wasn't much innovation going on there. Whereas, quote unquote defi 1.0 or the old boring boomer defi, there's plenty of innovation going on there.
00:16:46.116 - 00:17:13.711, Speaker A: It's slow and steady because it needs to be, because this is people's money at the end of the day, and there's plenty of stuff going on there. So I think I would encourage you all to kind of like, just go back and look at these older defi protocols and see what they're doing. There's a lot of them are still building. A lot of them are building out their v two s and v three s, you know, maybe even v four s. Right. And a lot of them are innovating in ways in which, like, it's gonna be very impactful, but it's just slower than, I guess, like you would like to see. And especially, obviously, because the tokens aren't doing much in terms of like, price action and.
00:17:13.711 - 00:18:01.960, Speaker A: But guys, like, I mean, if you're watching the refill, you care more about prices at the end of the day. So if you do care more about prices, then you should definitely check out all the innovation happening across, especially the older defi protocols because there's a lot there and it's very, very encouraging to see. So, yeah, check out this one from Mstable, but then go check out the other ones as well. All right, so we have an update on, I guess, rocket pool here today from Jasper, who says that the risk risk assessment team from Makerdao has published its report on Rockerpool staking token Reth. So basically this happens when Maker is kind of like wanting to onboard a new form of collateral. So they do kind of like a risk report on it. So you can see here that it was posted on the maker forum and kind of like putting forward a bunch of risk parameters that would go in if our ETH was onboarded onto the maker platform as a form of collateral.
00:18:01.960 - 00:18:27.096, Speaker A: So this is basically one of the final steps. This is definitely needs to be done to kind of like track things like supply volatility, liquidity, all that sorts of stuff. Um, and kind of like how the. How Maker would, would, um, would fare in kind of like liquidating positions with an ari, an R 8th position and stuff like that, or, sorry, a position that uses our 8th collateral. So. So this is exciting. I mean, the, the thing that's benefit benefited Steth a lot.
00:18:27.096 - 00:19:05.864, Speaker A: I think on top of it, you know, obviously not being as capital constrained as Rocketpool is for staking is the fact that Steth is on money markets, right? Like from memory, it's on maker, it's on Aave, it's on a bunch of the other ones where you can essentially do this recursive kind of staking, right where you put ETH into light or you get Ste. You put that ste into like a money market, you borrow more ETH and you repeat this process to getting kind of leverage stake, right. Which is obviously risky, but a lot of people are doing it because it boosts your yield. So you know that this could be potentially possible on maker with, with kind of like our 8th sooner rather than later. So just wanted to kind of highlight that for you guys. I think it's super exciting. I mean, I like this sort of stuff.
00:19:05.864 - 00:19:19.632, Speaker A: Obviously, if you aware. If you're aware of the risk, it's. It's cool. But I think if you're not aware of the risks, don't, don't attempt this. Like you're. You're definitely at risk of being liquidated. Especially so you're not just at risk of being liquidated because like the ETH price goes down.
00:19:19.632 - 00:19:49.754, Speaker A: You're also at risk of being liquidated because of the peg going under. So there was discussion last week, I think, on the refuel, I discussed that around the St ETH peg kind of like, you know, it becoming deep pegged there. And if it reached a certain kind of like price, I think it was 0.958 positions would start getting liquidated. So you are basically at a higher risk than a normal leverage position. So just keep that in mind, of course. But I think that, you know, lighter responded to this actually pretty, pretty, pretty aggressively.
00:19:49.754 - 00:20:16.754, Speaker A: They put a bunch of LDO token incentives on a new kind of like pool to encourage more sten and ETH liquidity in order to get the steth peg back. But I mean it's not a. Okay, sorry, it's not technically a peg because it's not kind of. It's not a peg. Like people call it a peg, but it's not really a peg. It's more just like you want to keep the values in line so that you can always kind of like redeem for, you know, redeem kind of like one for one, right. Or like for like assets there.
00:20:16.754 - 00:20:39.470, Speaker A: But you know, as I said, like if it drops below it, below a certain threshold, then positions like getting liquidated like that. Or if the ETH price drops it, you know, it would start getting liquidated too as a normal kind of like I guess, leverage position there. I think. I think I'm thinking that through correctly. I'm just thinking through the implications off the top of my head right now because you're borrowing ETH and then kind of like got ether's collateral. Right. So, yeah, yeah, that should, that should make sense.
00:20:39.470 - 00:21:04.606, Speaker A: Someone correct me if I'm wrong. Maybe I'm, maybe I'm having a brain kind of like fart. I don't know. But yeah. Anyway, cool to see this from, from maker. Definitely go check out the blog post for more detailed blog posts, I guess, like foreign posts for more details if you'd like. All right, so Nick Johnson from the ENS team put together a kind of like tweet with a, with, I guess like a screenshot of a spreadsheet maybe saying May is now an all time high for every single ens metric we track.
00:21:04.606 - 00:21:28.762, Speaker A: Registrations, renewals, revenue, both in Ethan USD and income and EthanUsd as well. And there's still a week left of May left. So you can see here, basically it's just been growing over time. Right? The trend is growing. This is 2021 at the top and year to date, 2022 at the bottom. It's just been consistent growth on the revenue side, on the income side, and in both Ethan USD, obviously, registrations and renewals as well. This is awesome.
00:21:28.762 - 00:22:04.432, Speaker A: I mean, you guys saw that Coinbase basically integrated with ENS last week, so that's going to drive more adoption here as well. And as Nick says here, there's still a week left of May, which should save more growth. Now, will June be as big? Who knows? Hopefully it is. Right? But the general growth trend for EnS has been basically up only. And, you know, you can kind of like, I guess, see where they introduce the token, right, because like, it spikes up from October to November, like pretty, pretty heavily, but it's still, it's still continued that. And there's been no promise or talk or guarantee or anything of there being another airdrop. So it's not like people are trying to farm an airdrop with, with registering ens names.
00:22:04.432 - 00:22:22.404, Speaker A: And if they are, they're just wasting money because like, there's not going to be another airdrop to Ens names unless the Dow votes on it. But I don't think that they would ever vote for something like that. So. So, yeah. Anyway, cool to see Ens continuing to grow here. One of my favorite projects in the Ethereum ecosystem, obviously. And I wish them, you know, even even more success in the coming months.
00:22:22.404 - 00:23:02.714, Speaker A: All right, so Aztec, the privacy kind of like roll up on Ethereum, announced a $2 million bug bounty apprises for disclosure of critical vulnerabilities in their code base. So this is pretty big. I think this is one of the biggest in the ecosystem right now. You know, I was actually looking at kind of, like the biggest bug bounties before because I came across wormhole, the cross chain bridge, and they paid out a $10 million bug bounty to someone who found a critical bug in Wormhole back in February. So I believe back in February was before that, the hack that happened, the other bug that was in their code. But, yeah, they paid out $10 million back then to one person for finding this bug. That's a crazy payday.
00:23:02.714 - 00:23:28.076, Speaker A: Like, I don't know if this person was already wealthy or not, but even if they were, you know, imagine if they weren't. Imagine if, like, they were just some kind of, like, person who was interested. Interested in kind of, like, finding bugs and, you know, maybe just a dev or something like that, and they're sending funny bugs, and they were really, really good at it, and they did it, and they just got a $10 million payday. That's. That's just. Well, like, I can't even think through the implications of that for someone. Like, even, as I said, even if they're already wealthy, that would be huge amount of money for them.
00:23:28.076 - 00:23:37.916, Speaker A: And if they weren't that, it'd be life changing. Literally life changing for them. It would have. It would set them up for life just. Just from finding that one bug. So you have so many of these opportunities to find bugs. Like, if you're.
00:23:37.916 - 00:23:52.876, Speaker A: If you're into that sort of stuff, if you think you can teach yourself to get to that level, there's so much money to be made, guys. Like, here's a $2 million kind of like, bug bounty. Prizes for. For critical vulnerabilities. Optimism also has a million dollar bug bounty. I think Polygon does as well. Now, there's so many of these things.
00:23:52.876 - 00:24:27.946, Speaker A: So if you find those critical bugs, you know, instead of exploiting them yourself and not being able to cash out the money pretty much ever, like, because it's just gonna get traced and tagged and whatever, just be a white hat, report the bug, collect the bug bounty money, and away you go. Right. So, yeah, I mean, there's just so many of these things now. I like, literally, if you found a couple of bugs, like, critical bugs across these things, which, to be fair, aren't easy to find, especially because a lot of these things have already gone through multiple audits and. And things like that, but they do exist obviously, right? We've seen plenty of exploits. They do exist. There's big money to be made if you're into that sort of stuff.
00:24:27.946 - 00:25:07.932, Speaker A: If you want to teach yourself and then go and do it, you can probably set yourself up for life potentially. Right. All right, last thing to talk about here was optimism sharing a tweet thread over the weekend called this governance will self destruct. And the TLDR of the tweet thread is basically that optimism's approach to governance is that they want it to be a continuous kind of like iterative process where they destroy the governance and then rebirth a new governance from that. So they basically like a take up, like a Phoenix rebirth approach to governance. And I think this is really cool because what's typically happened before is that protocols get stuck on, like, one governance design and then don't change. And there's no kind of, like, framework in place to change it.
00:25:07.932 - 00:25:17.212, Speaker A: There's no leadership to change it. There's just kind of like, here's our governance. If you like it, you like it. If you don't, you don't. If it works, it works. If it doesn't, you know, if it doesn't work, it doesn't work. Whereas ultimism is like, nah, screw that.
00:25:17.212 - 00:25:46.234, Speaker A: We're going to actually do it so that we constantly iterating, constantly self destructing and rebirthing as a new governance with the learnings from the old governance that we had. And I think this is going to be, again, a goal. I've said this before, but, like, I feel like optimism is just kind of like, leading the charge here and becoming the gold standard for both governance and token models. And I can't wait to see how this plays out. This is a grand experiment playing out that will influence a lot of different governance designs as time goes on. And it's not just optimism element. Finance has been doing a lot of great stuff around governance as well.
00:25:46.234 - 00:26:27.096, Speaker A: Uh, Gitcoin is experimenting with a bunch of things. Like, there are a lot of really cool Ethereum protocols that are doing really cool governance things right now. But I think optimism's approach here of, like, consistently not just iterating on their governance, but literally destroying their governance and starting again with learnings from their previous governance kind of like, framework is something that I haven't seen before and something that I'm really, really excited and bullish on. So give this thread a read. I'll link it in the YouTube description, but I think that just kind of like, generally, I haven't seen this from, from any other protocol let alone L2 teams. And, you know, I'm kind of like wondering how long it's gonna be before another L2 team reveals their governance and token plans, because obviously we know some of them are like, for sure gonna have a token. I mean, we are, let's be honest, guys.
00:26:27.096 - 00:27:13.624, Speaker A: Like, we all, we know they're all gonna have a token, but, like, you know, ZK sync has announced that whereas arbitrary hasn't announced and it's thought we haven't announced it. Right? So I'm curious to see kind of like, what they come up with if theirs is gonna be similar to what optimism is doing and if they're going to take from optimisms kind of like playbook and apply it to their own. There's so many different ways to do it. I think just generally, maybe some of them will avoid just outright copying optimism, even if it is kind of like a really good design, because they want to kind of differentiate themselves. But, you know, I kind of like, think that that doesn't need to happen. I feel like just differentiating for the sake of differentiation is kind of like pointless. If there is a model that that works really well, then you can still do experiments with your own model, but, like, you should go if it's already working really well, there's no point reinventing the wheel just for the sake of it.
00:27:13.624 - 00:27:42.412, Speaker A: So I hope that these other kind of like L2s don't try and just like, change things just to be different to their competitors, for example. I hope that they work together. I hope they come up with better governance and token distribution kind of like frameworks together. And I hope that as a community, we can collaborate on all this sorts of stuff. Because as I've said plenty of times before, we haven't figured out how to do good token distributions yet. We haven't figured out how to do good on chain governance yet. We're probably not going to figure it out for a long time, but it's going to take even longer if we don't work together.
00:27:42.412 - 00:28:20.528, Speaker A: So I feel like we should all just work together regardless of what ecosystem you're a part of. Maybe you only hold op tokens and not arbitrarium tokens in the future. It doesn't matter, guys. Like, I feel like if we all kind of like, are in the Ethereum ecosystem and these projects are all Ethereum aligned, then we should be supporting as many of them as possible. And obviously there are competitors across every kind of like, category, defi nfts, whatever. But if they're adding value to the Ethereum ecosystem, then we should just support them, right? And like I, that's what I try to do. I don't support projects that are kind of like extractive and purely kind of like don't want to add any value to Ethereum, actually want to take value away from Ethereum and signal that.
00:28:20.528 - 00:28:38.652, Speaker A: But I do support all the projects that will add value to Ethereum, especially those that donate to public goods. Like I those are like the perfect projects in my mind. Well, not perfect, but they're like the best projects in my mind. Anyway, go check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description, but I think that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel.
00:28:38.652 - 00:28:44.084, Speaker A: If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
