00:00:00.320 - 00:01:04.574, Speaker A: We envision it's possible for this move stack to be integrated with arbitrum orbit, with the op stack, with the Polygon CDK with ZK stacks as well. We're essentially making the move language as flexible as possible, as portable as possible, and fully modularizing it. So additionally, what this will enable is for the movement network itself to be the pinnacle of modularism in which we can have move execution. We can use Snoman for consensus, which is the fastest. It's the most scalable consensus mechanism. We're able to use any choice of data availability partners with this, then settling on top of Ethereum. What's really cool here is that we can additionally use the Ethereum environment, which folks will be interacting with, to not just use data availability to post on Ethereum, use data availability to post from Ethereum onto other blockchain networks.
00:01:04.574 - 00:01:14.246, Speaker A: So we really envision move becoming the rails that are going to be the foundations for this next generation of web3 GM.
00:01:14.270 - 00:01:42.070, Speaker B: So just a quick one before we get started. So still early is podcasts for educational and informational purposes only and should not be considered as financial advice. Any investment decision you should make should be based on your own research and your own understanding of the risks involved. So, yeah, that's it for me. Let's get on with the show. All right, welcome back. Another episode of still early, and today's guest is Cooper from movement Labs.
00:01:42.070 - 00:02:05.254, Speaker B: I was just saying to Cooper off, I was like, usually have about one page of notes to ask questions, but this thing, I'm going to use this as a full selfish alpha hour where I absolutely just pick your brain, learn everything I need to know about this because I think it's going to be huge. And Cooper's here to tell us all about the whole thesis behind it and what these guys are building. But yeah, Cooper, how are you doing? I need this hoodie.
00:02:05.594 - 00:02:21.464, Speaker A: Yeah. It's truly an honor to be here. Doing pretty well. It's getting quite cold out here. I'm also in a climate that is traditionally pretty warm, but woke up and it's like 50 degrees. So I'm out here. I'm out here snug.
00:02:22.604 - 00:02:55.326, Speaker B: You got the winter clubber on. Um, what, what I like, what I like to do is just kind of get a bit of background of how you got to where you currently are now with, with movement, like as much in as little detail as you want to get into. But I always find it quite interesting to see kind of the. Because it's a very non well trodden path in this industry. So when people get into the building space, I'd love to kind of just pick your brain on how did you come to be where you're at now with movement?
00:02:55.470 - 00:03:53.786, Speaker A: So, in terms of how I got here, it had a pretty interesting pathway, not only into movement, but actually into web3 itself. So, growing up, that was pretty tough. And so that made me a very finance oriented person. I was helping my dad pay bills, kind of like taking care of myself in that respect. So I was always really interested in finance as this vehicle for your money to make money, where I was bleeding out a lot. And so to be able to bolster my reserves and do things with my money to make more, it was very interesting to me, but I never really had the amount of capital to be able to safely invest. And so when I came to college and Covid happened, we all got kicked off campus.
00:03:53.786 - 00:04:13.294, Speaker A: They were trying to. They were trying to push us out. And so I actually didn't even care to live off campus, but I end up, like, in the housing lottery, getting one of the trash. Not a not great house. So I was like, screw you guys. I am going off campus. I am leaving.
00:04:13.294 - 00:04:42.554, Speaker A: Right? So my friends and I did that, and then I came to learn, when you live off campus, the aid that you get, it doesn't change. And so I wasn't paying for. For housing. I wasn't paying for a meal plan. I'm still getting the same aid. And so I was getting literally more money than I'd ever seen in my life. Direct deposit into my bank account every semester.
00:04:42.554 - 00:05:20.984, Speaker A: And so, naturally, like, I went and I invested every penny. So I was degenering in the stock market. I was going crazy on lithium. I was looking for the things that were immediately undervalued, that in the next, like, three or so months, had potential to grow significantly. So, like, lithium, there's a lot of excitement around, and it was going ahead of battery day, so made some plays, had some fun there. And after that was said and done, it's like, what now? Like, lithium. That was my baby.
00:05:20.984 - 00:06:22.748, Speaker A: I was obsessed with it for a solid, like, two months. I was looking into, like, other rare earth medals as well, but none of them had that same, you know, that same flair, right? Like, you could compare it to meme coins. There are certain ones that just have this zing to them and adoption, that even when there might be some interesting plays that come, it just doesn't have that same lust or same excitement that, you know, can carry you. And so I was somewhat distraught. I was like, what? Am I going to do? Like, I'm about to get so much money from the school. Like, what am I going to invest it in? I don't want to miss out. And it's really funny, like, I found cryptocurrency like, pretty early, early on around then, like, I'd seen it before because I like to, like, explore, you know, so learned about, like, crypto, learned about some of the OG use cases that were going on but was never really partaking.
00:06:22.748 - 00:06:26.748, Speaker A: And that also didn't really, like, I was a child, I didn't have, I.
00:06:26.756 - 00:06:28.144, Speaker B: Didn'T even have a bank account.
00:06:29.644 - 00:07:00.914, Speaker A: And even when I did, I didn't have money to do that. But yeah, when I first saw cryptocurrency, with having capital to be able to invest, like, I saw Dogecoin and it was so early, so I put some money in it and I was seeing it like, fluctuate a ton. So I was like, oh, this is crazy. I'm not, I can't do this. I'm out, you know? And that was when it was still like below a penny. And then over the next month, it goes crazy. So it's like, man.
00:07:00.914 - 00:08:37.870, Speaker A: And started looking at other tokens around that time. It was very early. What was really interesting about the early days of Coinbase was that you had such a small basket, assets that people could buy into from the exchange, that it truly was shooting fish in a barrel in terms of investing at that point in time. And so we're seeing very significant price action going into that bull market at the time. It was really interesting and figured I should probably learn a bit about this, probably learn what's going on here. And ended up becoming pretty enamored by this concept of technology and really this intersection of finance and technology where with finance, it's always been very interesting to me, something I was very passionate about as a means of snowballing, as a means of compounding and being able to do things with numbers and then technology as a vehicle to go from zero to one without requiring significant capital to get started, without requiring 1020 years of industry experience to be able to know what's going on, but rather be something that you have access to processing power and you have access to intellect far greater, far, many times greater than your own. And so to have an intersection of the two, it's really easy to fall in love with.
00:08:37.870 - 00:09:36.484, Speaker A: And so I continued my investing sprees. Would have all of my net worth being crypto, just full exposure. Learned a lot of lessons doing that. One of the biggest was when I was trying to invest in this random BnB token, couldn't figure out how to get money on the network and so just put my money in this eth coin instead. The ETH one went -95% in like a month. And then the token I missed out on, I didn't realize until I got an email from Coinbase about it being listed. So I was so distraught for a couple of days there, but then also kind of realized that where I wanted to be was on the ground floor building that investing, I enjoy investing, I like it.
00:09:36.484 - 00:10:33.752, Speaker A: But that if I could invest in myself, if I could invest in building a company, then I would be able to get those disproportionate returns without being exposed to the same level of risk or being, you know, having those experiences. Because I know that I can build a rocket ship, I know that I can build something that's going to be exciting and see the kind of traction in that camp that I missed out on. And I know that like, I trust myself to do that more than I would to invest in something that could do that. And so started building, right? And what's really interesting, when I started building, I kind of got my priorities mixed up. So during that bull market, I started building infrastructure. And so I was creating a spacdao vehicle with this fund of funds. So what's cool about that is that you have all of these funds in their network.
00:10:33.752 - 00:10:49.100, Speaker A: They're raising capital, they're deploying capital. It's a real lengthy process. It's pretty cumbersome. There's so much paperwork involved. And then you're also like trapped. You're stuck in it. It's very liquid, like traditional energy sector VC.
00:10:49.100 - 00:11:44.598, Speaker A: And so if we could not only make it easier to raise and deploy capital, but then also this KYC AML private blockchain environment enabled the trading of these assets between different parties. And that was something that we thought was really cool. Ran into some pain points there around building with solidity, where it's not really intuitive at all. It's not really oriented towards these sort of models in which ownership is really important. Who owns the assets in which you really want to have objects be defined like this, like something you can hold in your hand that passes one party to another, whereas in solidity it's more like you have an object on this side and then it kind of just like appears and you don't really know where it came from, you don't know if it exists in another location as well. And your protocol is about to get drained. Right.
00:11:44.598 - 00:12:19.994, Speaker A: And so that the sort of vulnerabilities just weren't really acceptable in that use case there. And so it was around then that I came across this new language called move, built by Facebook, their best engineers. So they had this project called Libra Diem. It was for their payments blockchain. And what they developed this language to do was stand on the shoulders of solidity, of rust. Solidity was a huge leap forward. It was the first smart contract development language ever.
00:12:19.994 - 00:13:51.634, Speaker A: But imagine I'm asking you to hit a bullseye that's thousands of miles away. How close are you realistically going to get to that? Especially when as markets and metasploit and as adoption changes that bullseye, it's not staying in the same place. It's gonna move somewhere in that next, like ten years since it launched. And so taking that into account, they solved for reentrancy attacks on the virtual machine level itself solves for a lot of other attack vectors within the solidity space as well. In addition to just being more intuitive, making more sense to the builder, it's easier to learn, really. Like the key aspect here is objects being more like physical objects than abstract lines of code in some ethereal plane that phase in and phase out, you know. So move, it has so much potential not only to change the game of how we're developing with smart contracts and web3 proper how protocols are securing themselves, how they are leveraging scaled performance with move having native parallel processing, being able to pretty easily hit over 100,000 tps because of the way in which transactions are handled native to how we're interpreting objects and doing things with them.
00:13:51.634 - 00:15:02.494, Speaker A: But in addition to these benefits for everyone who exists in web3, it's also a great way to get the foot in the door of the institutions. When Facebook built this, it was designed to be something that their big tech, their big finance friends would feel comfortable putting hundreds of millions of dollars gigabytes of very sensitive data on chain using this language. It has so much potential. And that inspired me to, in the midst of the bear market, after all of these crashes had happened, go and build a Defi product. So my co founder and I, we were building two of the first applications within the move ecosystem. And it was really exciting to use something that was truly at the cutting edge. We believed that as builders on that ground level, that we would be having exposure to the adoption of move as a language, and as move got more eyes on it, more mind share, that we would be there waiting, ready for adoption, with protocols built, ready to support that next wave.
00:15:02.494 - 00:16:04.524, Speaker A: So in building, I learned a lot about how blockchains come to market. We were there before the testnets were happening. In the early days, when move tech support was like a telegram chat, and everyone was just posting their questions, trying to debug with each other. It's something that you truly only see in these very early stages, and it was an honor to be a part of. And as these networks came to market, something that became apparent is this. L1 meta having been played out and not as effective, particularly within the context of shifting markets from a bull to a bear, where in a bull you have a lot of new participants entering the system, and so newer often can be better. And when you have a lot of new capital, new participants coming in, it's reasonable to launch something fully new and have them land in your space.
00:16:04.524 - 00:17:10.814, Speaker A: But in this bear market, especially at the point in which these moved blockchains were coming to market, we were seeing rapid contractions of the market. And so those folks who were on the edge, which originally might have been able to attract people directly to them by being on the edge, by having that luster of edginess within exciting markets and kind of cutting through, loses its sharpness when capital is pulled out of the system. And when you see folks increasingly concentrating to Ethereum aligned environments, even today, the effects of this that we saw is over. That, let's say, twelve months of going from the bull to the bear. We saw, for example, cello becoming an Ethereum. L two, we see eclipse pivoting from rollups as a service to being SVM. On top of Ethereum, we see a lot of applications starting to focus their environments as close to the exit, like the tranches of users and liquidity that we see as possible.
00:17:10.814 - 00:18:13.280, Speaker A: It's like a winter. Everyone's congregating into this little survival hub of where all of the rations are. The rations, they're not really flowing outward, they're flowing inward to be more concentrated, just because of how these markets are working. And so as a builder, launching on one of those chains that was kind of on the fringe here because of the way that it came to market, was competing head to head with Ethereum, with Solana, with every l two right, in which that would have been a very strong narrative had it launched a year ago or even a few months ago at the time that it did launch, it made it really difficult to onboard users, to onboard liquidity because it was a bit inaccessible in terms of adoption. Users, theyd have to bridge their assets, theyd have to leave the ecosystems that are established to go to ones that are new. In a bull market, thats so exciting. That is so bullish.
00:18:13.280 - 00:19:53.268, Speaker A: But in a bear market, its really difficult. Its like asking someone to leave their job in New York City to go out to the farmlands. You can make the case that although it's underdeveloped, that is why it's exciting, because you can get in at good price, you can stake your claim and build something up, but unless you have a market that is contributing to that, say that there's about to be some government grants or something going to that, but in a bear market, they're not really getting too much. So the effects of that end up cascading down from the layer one level all the way down to my applications, in which there wasn't a lot of assets listed to do things with. There was significant exposure to the price of the layer one tokens themselves, which of course launching in this sort of market and launching at pretty high, fully diluted values did not contribute well to the price action there. So we saw just an array of factors that were compounding, making it really difficult to bring applications to market, as well as really difficult for the folks who were participating in the network, whether that be the builders or whether that be the consumers using the applications to get good exposure and get positive exposure to different tokens within the ecosystems. So what I'm describing here is this cold start problem of launching a blockchain, which is essentially your users, it's your protocols and it's your liquidity.
00:19:53.268 - 00:21:26.554, Speaker A: And if you're lacking in any of these things, it ends up becoming a pretty vicious circle, leading to compounding negative effects for the rest of them. And so what inspired movement was this pain point that we faced as builders getting wiped as protocol builders, but realizing that move was this golden technology. And if we were able to democratize it and bring it to market in a web3 native way, then we believe that we truly could change the game of smart contract development, change the game of what builders are securing and safeguarding their assets with, and usher in a new golden age of development, really catalyzing that great leap forward from solidity in a way that aligned incentives that wasn't competing head to head with any network, but actually being something more of a public good, that is upgrading existing networks so that we can break free of the stalwart of EVM that we've gotten pretty entrenched in, as that being the user base, the liquidity base. We've seen a lot of folks take EVM from Ethereum and bring it to the alt blockchains. But we haven't seen too much of taking the alt vms, which people are excited for the performance of, and combining that with Ethereum where people just don't want to leave. So we're accepting that and bringing move to their front door.
00:21:27.454 - 00:22:19.524, Speaker B: What a great intro. Felt like I was listening to a story like a full on novel. It was a great backstory. And as you say from someone who's in the weeds of this stuff all day, I'm kind of slowly becoming to the opinion of shit needs to change with the EVM and scaling past the point of where we're at now. And yeah, you can settle back and be like, yeah, it might just be large settlement layer for large payments or some shit like that, but I'm really, really not convinced of that as like a staying power in the industry and probably get blasted by the maxis for saying stuff like that. But honestly, like stuff like eclipse like as you mentioned, like SVM on top of a l two. I think they're using Celestia for data availability as well.
00:22:19.524 - 00:23:01.014, Speaker B: That's interesting to me at least. We're pushing what's possible, but now it's like, well, what kind of potentially comes after that? And I think you guys are in such poor position to kind of capitalize on that and push that aspect of the industry forward again. It's just you feel like you've just caught up with the space and then there's this whole new kind of posture that you guys are kind of pushing into. But can you, can you give us, for someone who's non technical like myself, like really high level pros of move at the programming language level over kind of facility? And obviously you're going to be biased, but I think a lot of people are going to generally come to the general consensus of this.
00:23:01.874 - 00:23:54.994, Speaker A: Yeah, I think that there's really good consensus. That move is the best smart contract language because you've got the over 140,000 tps in a parallelized environment. So instead of waiting your turn in line, it's like having five different people that can check tickets. You have safeguarding against reentrancy attacks, which is the most common attack vector. It feels like every other week a large protocol is getting hacked for millions of dollars. And it's not just a problem of protocols and people losing money, which is a huge problem in itself, but you also have large protocols such as Kyber being hacked in which within solidity environments you have so many forks, a lot of protocols are forked from one another. And so a bug in one is going to be replicable in so many other protocols.
00:23:54.994 - 00:25:09.662, Speaker A: And so it's not just an issue of single points of failure trust, but those single points of failure have replicated so much within Ethereum, so it just becomes quite a problem there. Additionally, from the side of move being easier to learn and easier to build with, it's going to be really difficult to onboard the next generation of builders. If the language which you build with is a huge pain to learn, even more of a pain to develop with, and then cumbersome to scale. So as you're building applications, there's this concept of velocity of production, the speed and rate at which you're able to ship. And with solidity, as applications scale, they become very complex. And the surface area of attack vectors, it scales kind of like the surface area of a sphere scales with the growing radius in which it's a bit exponential there. Whereas with move, because contracts are broken down into what's called modules, and within each of those, you're defining who has access, you're defining where assets can flow to and from.
00:25:09.662 - 00:26:03.122, Speaker A: You're essentially creating these pipelines with hard coded guardrails. As applications become more complex, the surface area of attack vectors, it scales a bit more logarithmically, if you will. When you're building with move, so not only are you able to learn the language faster, you're able to build faster because it makes more sense when you code. Then as you're building complex applications, it's much easier to build with the use of modules, it's also much safer to build. So you're not spending as many hours just testing and trying to break all of the various entry points do you have with solidity. Whereas with move, it's much more intuitive, it makes a lot more sense. It's also going to be easier to audit from those perspectives, especially as we're thinking of first time builders.
00:26:03.122 - 00:27:14.656, Speaker A: Auditing is really expensive and especially with solidity protocols. If you've got, let's say, 1000 different attack points, that's going to be a more expensive audit than something with 100, let's say 50. Right? So move really is this next wave that we're seeing. And the only reason that it hasn't made more of a splash is, like you mentioned, maximalism is really strong. You know, one of our teammates likes to say that he doesn't know an ETH Maxi, that's not an ETH millionaire, but we still need to accept that and we need to play ball by that, in which creating a solution that Ethereum folks can get behind with this decoupling of the virtual machine layer from the settlement layer, modularizing the move language and making it portable to be plugged into chains like Ethereum. For the first time, Ethereum folks can pump their ETH bags by sharing about how exciting and powerful the move language is. We're seeing this for the first time as well on Twitter and in crypto spaces in which we've kind of had this understanding.
00:27:14.656 - 00:27:49.610, Speaker A: It's been the elephant in the room that there's huge problems with solidity, huge problems with EVM in terms of scalability. Like, that's not to say anything. It was an incredible technology that came to market. It's completely changed the game. The reason move exists is because solidity and EVM exists. It's just this next step forward and the way that we're bringing this technology to market and what other folks are catching on to as well. So we align incentives here and so youth folks, it's something that they can get behind.
00:27:49.610 - 00:27:55.534, Speaker A: And I think we're going to see a lot more adoption of alt vms through this sort of structure.
00:27:56.194 - 00:28:20.134, Speaker B: 100%. Let's hope so. Movement labs, what is the kind of, what's the kind of, to put it into like real cringe terms? What, like what's the kind of mission of movement labs and like what's kind of, what angles are you guys going for? What kind of stuff are you building? Like, people will be asking how they can get their hands on whatever you guys are building. So I just want to try and give people a high level on that.
00:28:21.034 - 00:29:18.636, Speaker A: Yeah, I think at a super high level. So we'll talk a little abstract and then we'll get into the exact products and things that we're building. The two ways that I think about this are like an Amazon for move and move execution environments, as well as being sort of like a Bloomberg play. What I really like about the Bloomberg story is just creating a product that brought software to market in a more efficient way and something that the big players of existing ecosystems were able to adopt, get behind. And as they adopted and got behind it, the network effects of this information technology would scale. And that's essentially what we're doing here with move, enabling its portability such that it can be plugged into the commerce hubs of web3 that folks can use it there. And in terms of being like an Amazon for move, well, we deliver it to their front door.
00:29:18.636 - 00:30:06.948, Speaker A: We make it so that you don't have to use bridges, you don't have to download a new wallet. You can even use the same assets that you're using on your native chain. So from a user experience, the goal here is that you don't even need to know that you're using move. You don't have to take any steps on your side. It can have that native to dive a little into what we're building here. We envision this being the fastest and most secure Ethereum L2 environment, and we envision being the flagship next generation virtual machine environment, bringing the move language to market to Ethereum. We envision a lot of other EVM aligned folks, maybe even some other alt VM chains, adopting move language via this move stack that we're building.
00:30:06.948 - 00:31:36.946, Speaker A: So it's essentially an execution as a service environment that's able to be adopted and partner with every ras, every data availability layer, every sequencer, and really carve out a new category which we will exist in. So this is something where we envision folks not just building and launching move applications, but additionally building networks based in move. So what we would previously consider to be app chains and additionally frameworks such as our own, which make it easier, say they could be toolkits for someone building games with move to make it easier to bring their products to market. It's likely that the folks building frameworks are going to build networks of their own for applications that are being built with their frameworks to be more plugged in to one another with the composability that provides. We envision it's possible for this move stack to be integrated with arbitrum orbit, with the op stack, with the Polygon CDK with ZK stacks as well. We're essentially making the move language as flexible as possible, as portable as possible, and fully modularizing it. So additionally, what this will enable is for the movement network itself to be the pinnacle of modularism in which we can have move execution.
00:31:36.946 - 00:32:20.172, Speaker A: We can use Snoman for consensus, which is the fastest. It's the most scalable consensus mechanism. We're able to use any choice of data availability partners with this, then settling on top of Ethereum. What's really cool here is that we can additionally use the Ethereum environment which folks will be interacting with, to not just use data availability to post on Ethereum, use data availability to post from Ethereum onto other blockchain networks. So we really envision move becoming the rails that are going to be the foundations for this next generation of web3.
00:32:20.348 - 00:33:03.242, Speaker B: That's so sick. If you're going to go big, go for it. I love stuff like this going out the bear market. I know it's cliche to say all the best stuff's built in a bear, but when you see stuff like this come to the forest, just refreshing, you know, like someone who's really, really, really active. I've been enjoying Solana an awful lot recently, and it's just a bit of an antidote or a kind of hedge against what we've kind of come to know from the Ethereum network. And it's adjacent l two s and the plethora of l two s. I keep popping up, but are you guys gonna launch your own network as a bit of a showcase? Is this what m one is? Or like, what's, what's, um.
00:33:03.242 - 00:33:04.810, Speaker B: Can you fill us in on that?
00:33:04.962 - 00:34:17.982, Speaker A: Yeah, for sure. So, coming sometime early next year, we're going to be announcing the plan surrounding our testnet and the various networks which we're going to be bringing to market. So what's important to know about these networks is that we're combining both variants of the move language, the AppDAs diem style of move, as well as the Moveon suite style in one environment being interoperable with each other, being interoperable with the EVM environments, as well as having a product called fractal, which enables the transpiling of solidity code to move. So that as we're preaching and evangelizing these benefits of the move language, you don't have to drop everything and learn move to benefit from it. We've had a lot of really exciting teams, such as Gogopool, such as Lexer, such as Benshi, use this transpiler to upgrade their code bases to move without having to write a single line of move code. So these products are going to be ready for the testnet out of the box there.
00:34:18.158 - 00:34:30.963, Speaker B: I love how fractal is just kind of one of your products, and some people have built a whole EVM to SVM company. It's just kind of one of your product offerings. No names mentioned.
00:34:31.263 - 00:34:33.163, Speaker A: One piece of stack.
00:34:35.863 - 00:35:11.724, Speaker B: Yeah, no, that's seriously impressive. I'd love to kind of, I'd love to see some of the apps ported over and see how they act. What does, does this open up, like the design space for applications? Is there anything interesting that you could kind of foresee happening there? As you say, you've, you mentioned that there's kind of like a different way to pitch an asset transfer and ownership. Like, obviously checks and balances basically on a uniswap ERC 20 kind of tokens don't exactly move from hand to hand, as you quite rightly mentioned. But is there anything interesting that you can kind of foresee happening in the design space, say, of tokens or of apps?
00:35:12.744 - 00:36:17.990, Speaker A: Oh, certainly so many. So on the financial side, you have central limit order books, which are leveraging the parallel processing and just the raw TPS that the move is able to provide in order to scale and bring a customer experience to something that is only possible with these really high throughput environments. So we see some of them on Solana move. What's really cool, there's lots of parallels to Solana in terms of narratives, in terms of being fast, in terms of just being a better, like a better building experience there. And so it's really exciting to get to chat with Solana folks where move, I mean, moves of rust based language as well here. So lots of synergies over there. But from the consumer side, we're also seeing a lot of consumer applications being built with move because you have this security, that's this point, the selling point for applications, but being able to safeguard user assets and have them feel more comfortable coming on chain.
00:36:17.990 - 00:37:30.568, Speaker A: Particularly looking at things like social fi applications, which then you also have this wild card called dynamic nfTs, which is being able to natively upgrade or swap attributes of an NFT can be based on, on chain events. It can be done at any point by the user. And I think that we're going to see this used for a lot of social fi use cases. There's a really cool team called Guilder that's essentially building a tender for gaming in which you're able to find a squad, you're able to find a fire team, raid team of folks. And with this, you can take a reputation, tokenize it into an NFT, and then put it on chain. So what I would really love to see one day is something verifying speedruns in an NFT tokenized form, right? Or maybe you're tokenizing no hit run on Dark Souls, and then you can take that NFT. Imagine being able to then go onto Reddit or onto a different social forum, and you can put that badge right next to your name wherever you go.
00:37:30.568 - 00:39:02.724, Speaker A: You can verifiably prove that you have done this, that you are that guy without having to. Every time you get in an argument with someone about something, you know, proving your credentials, linking to a stream or like, linking to like a YouTube video or some website, being like, trust me, like, watch this, like hour long video, and you can prove that, like, I am him, right? That should just be a token. And then thinking of how it would relate to the gilder platform. For example, imagine being able to set a bar where you want to work with folks who have beaten the game in less than a certain amount of hits. You can set that criteria and then on their backend within this NFT, representing the metadata of who you are as a player, it can just pull all of that, be able to even create derivatives of that information in terms of ranking and assessing overall skill as it relates to where you stand within that player base. There's so many cool applications that are really oriented towards consumers, which I think we're seeing as this next meta, the infrastructure wave people are less interested in. DeFi is always going to have a place, but what's really emerging, what people are really asking right now, how are we going to bring on that next billion users? And I think this is where a lot of the conversations about taking a true reflective look at EVM and at solidity, it's not scalable, it's not going to be able to do that.
00:39:02.724 - 00:39:41.984, Speaker A: Gas prices are already unbearable. I cannot imagine what it would look like with anything else there. And so move is really oriented towards these use cases, both from the new folks and developers and college students learning the language from the folks, putting their assets on chain and feeling like it's secure and that they're not going to get hacked and lose everything. As well as from the consumer standpoint, being able to build these novel applications with novel technologies that are really going to support, I think is really exciting. About move.
00:39:42.524 - 00:40:16.238, Speaker B: Yeah. And even down to kind of a user experience kind of level, like in a kind of mood based environment, there's still just kind of stuff that we just put up with like on Ethereum or the EVM token approvals, signing free swap. And like if you're trying to explain that to someone coming on chain for the first time, it's just like, I mean, I know they put little disclaimers and stuff like that on now that try and walk you through it, but like the barrier to entry and the friction, it's just, it's just not good enough.
00:40:16.286 - 00:40:29.214, Speaker A: Like in my opinion, even I get scared if I'm trying to send a transaction from one place to another. It's like I copy and paste the wallet five times. I'm like, right, I put it in the text, compare. Like, is this the same?
00:40:29.334 - 00:41:07.606, Speaker B: You know, I'm terrible for it, honestly. My address book. And then it's like, check, double check, check, double check. And then because of gas being so high, sometimes tracks transactions. Don't come through, honestly, like, it's a pain in the ass. What I've been actually seeing recently is, I think with, there's quite a lot of games getting built on avalanche that are really, really impressive with off the grid and shrapnel and stuff like that. But these guys have definitely focused a lot more on the onboarding experience and to, they just know that they use the base of, like, gamers just, I'm gonna put up with that shit, and they're just not gonna put up with having to interact with, like, metamask and download and metamask and stuff.
00:41:07.606 - 00:41:34.964, Speaker B: So it's completely abstracted away. And I think they can kind of show the rest of the industry, like, look, people just want this. I know there's, like, security trade offs and stuff like that with that, but, like, it's just, it's kind of refreshing to see. And I'm kind of. I'm really kind of optimistic about everything that you guys are building now. I think it's. I'm gonna try and focus as much time, time and attention on it, try and cover it as much as possible because, you know, it's a hedge against the current system.
00:41:36.344 - 00:42:07.144, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah, no, and it really says something that as an industry, we're maturing to the point in which we're moving away from this idea of being a full wild west and full anything it could happen. Actually starting to build more of the rails that we'd see exist in traditional industries, but in a more decentralized, in a more user friendly, and in a more democratic way, which is incredibly exciting. I think that there's going to be a lot of opportunity there for builders.
00:42:10.404 - 00:42:47.314, Speaker B: What would kind of composability across different move chains look like? Is there any kind of preemptive thoughts about that? Because you mentioned aptos and sweat. They both use a move, but using it in a different way. Like, what's, what's the kind of dynamic there and what does it look like going forward for? Because all we're seeing at the minute is fragmentation on fragmentation on fragmentation, whether it's liquidity, different wrapped assets, different bridges, different liquidity pools, and then concentrate liquidity and traditional Mm. So it's liquidity is just spread out all over. Everyone wants to be the king, but everyone's just creating a mess. Like, what does that look like in a mood based world?
00:42:48.094 - 00:43:33.442, Speaker A: Yeah. You know, united we stand, divided we fall. So in terms of moves, it's actually a misnomer in the move becoming the move language because what we might refer to as move on Apdas move on Sui are two very different languages. They're stemming from the same source. But Apdas move is more in line with, with the original diem move and then sui move on Sui made a few adjustments there. And so, yeah, even within move, we see fragmentation and, you know, kind of which is not conducive to adoption, especially when there's a bigger fish to fry. Not like which move variation is better.
00:43:33.442 - 00:44:55.904, Speaker A: Should be priorities should be getting folks using move instead of solidity instead of other contracts, in my opinion. But that's something else that as we build this movement SDK, which is essentially the way that developers are building with our move stack, the way that they're using toolkits such as fractal, the way that they're deploying onto networks. Our vision here is that applications, they're not integrating directly with a blockchain. They're actually plugging into this movement SDK, which then handles the blockchain integration for them and that deployment. So what that also means is that if you're a builder, you can just click rather type movement, deploy whatever chain that you want to. You can deploy to multiple chains if you would like to. And what's really interesting about this is that as we're launching move based environments across different L2s, across different blockchains, that it can become possible to really easily send assets and messages from different blockchain environments that are supporting the move stack through communication structures that are native to the move stack.
00:44:55.904 - 00:46:25.844, Speaker A: So we have a lot of really awesome folks that we're currently workshopping ideas and possibilities with that are the next generation of bridging technology, where what's really cool is that because our networks are deployed natively to blockchains, we're plugging into their consensus mechanism. We don't need a bridge in order to send assets from one virtual machine to another. We're actually building out and doing a lot of research around this concept of atomic swaps, being able to do cross virtual machine token swaps and making that experience additionally as frictionless as possible. So it's not just passing messages, but being able to do so in a minimized block space as well. You could have a move application that's aggregating yield on EVM or solidity applications in that move based environment. So you've, you've got the security, you've got the best of both worlds there. But yeah, then the future of what this might look like in this execution as a service environment is for these different move environments on different blockchains to be able to communicate and as similar a mechanism as possible as what it looks like for them to communicate to applications on the same blockchain.
00:46:25.844 - 00:47:50.894, Speaker A: So we're taking this one step at a time, starting with the launching of M one, M two, creating the movement network. And as this product expands and as the applications that are deployed to our movement SDK are able to deploy to more blockchain environments, we're going to have very revolutionary rails of communication between these environments. So I want to highlight that point a little bit as well, that as we're integrating with blockchains, they're not just getting access to the performance and security of move without having to sacrifice any of their applications or developers or users, but then they're additionally getting access to this diverse array of applications, from the games, to the social fi to the consumer, to these revolutionary Defi products that are deployed to us. So gaining access to a significant biodiversity of net new applications written in different languages that aren't forks of, you know, the same uniswap, right? So I think that there's a lot of different ways in which every party is going to be benefiting from this stack. So we're trying to bring it to market as openly and permissionlessly as possible here.
00:47:52.434 - 00:48:06.402, Speaker B: You've kind of given me a lot to think about though, and I can't believe we've banned for an hour already, but I feel like we should do another episode soon. I've still got a million and one questions, but I think this lays a.
00:48:06.418 - 00:48:29.682, Speaker A: Really strong groundwork for diving in there. There's also so much that I wanted to say but couldn't say, but I think it works out because just the context of how this came to be. You need to catch up on years of blockchain history and what's happening in the meta. So it's absolutely been a pleasure, man.
00:48:29.778 - 00:48:48.960, Speaker B: We're going to run it back in the new year when you guys want to show some stuff off and yeah, I just look forward to seeing it, man. If there's anything we can help out with, please just let us know. And thanks so much for joining us. Could have talked before I was there. I could have picked your brain for an awful lot longer. Appreciate you jumping on. I hope it isn't too cold where you are.
00:48:48.960 - 00:49:00.104, Speaker B: I love the hoodie and open invite if you ever want to come back on, but thanks again, really appreciate it. Alright, thanks for listening. If you enjoyed the show, please give us a like subscribe and turn the notification bell on for next time. See ya.
